The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 62 | THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
State senator examines labor policies 
Notre Dame alumnus critiques recent bills in the Indiana state senate regarding labor practices 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer 
For believers in the power and need for collective bar­gaining, indiana state sen. John broden says now is an incredibly frustrating and troubling time. 
“in the last five to six years, a lot of our labor laws have fallen to the wayside. if you believe that labor organiza­tions have the right to collec­tive bargaining, indiana has certainly taken a number of steps back,” broden said. 
Tuesday night, the higgins labor studies program Friends and alumni network sponsored a discussion with broden, who graduated from the university in 1987, in which he focused on fight­ing for laborers rights in the indiana state senate. 
“i’ve loved working in the general assembly, but it’s definitely gotten more chal­lenging. i’m a democrat, and we’ve always been the mi­nority but we’re even more severely the minority now,” broden said. “indiana has traditionally sort of been a swing state, it’s not 
see senaTor PAGE 3 




Chorale to perform ‘Messiah’ 

By CATHERINE OWERS 
associate news editor 
The notre dame chorale’s annual performance of handel’s “messiah” will take place at leighton hall in the debartolo performing arts center on Friday and saturday evenings at 8 p.m. 
Tickets are $3 for students, $2 if they are bought from chorale members. 
“one of the reasons i de­cided to try out for chorale is because i saw we were sing­ing handel’s ‘messiah.’ and
 just love the ‘hallelujah chorus,’ and i’ve really fallen in love with all of ‘messiah,’” senior and chorale president erin bishop said. 
“messiah” is an oratorio that contains three move­ments, bishop said. The chorale will be singing most of the first two movements, for a performance that will be around two and a half hours. 
“it depends on how many solos we do,” she said. “we don’t do the entire piece, we kind of pick and choose.” 
This year’s performance is unique in that the chorale 
see chorale PAGE 4 


saint mary’s club advocates for girls’ education 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
associate saint mary’s editor 

during its first year on cam­pus, the college’s chapter she’s the First, which supports wom­en’s education in low-income countries, has 80 members and is still attracting interest, senior club member christine germann said. 
“college chapters of she’s the First are vocal advocates for girls’ education who ed­ucate their peers through documentary screenings, panel discussions and innova­tive campus events that raise awareness about the cause,” germann said. “They raise funds through creative and unique events to support girls in developing nations and make sure they receive opportunities for empowerment.” 
The club’s first meeting was with a peace corps represen­tative about joining together with “let girls learn,” an ini­tiative that combines efforts by the white house, usaid and peace corps to promote female education across the globe, she said. 
germann said the club plays an important role on saint mary’s campus because it re­minds people that education for girls is important, no matter the circumstances or location in the world. 
“one factor that inhibits girls from completing a secondary 
see club PAGE 4 


Knott Hall, service group host blanket-making event 
By ANDREA VALE 
news writer 

Knott hall, along with circle K, will hold their an­nual aidan project sunday, and event that invites stu­dents to help make blankets for cancer patients because, according to the college of science event description, “cancer is cold.” 
sophomore nathan Kriha, the Knott hall service com­missioner, said the aidan project started in 2006 when a member of Knott hall dis­covered he had cancer. 
“The aidan project is ba­sically an opportunity that we do every year with circle K,” Kriha said. “years ago there was a student named aidan [Fitzgerald] who had cancer and he recovered, but something he really wanted was to have a ser­vice event for those who are in the hospital dealing with cancer. 
“so ever since then there’s been the aidan project, which is an opportunity to make blankets in south dining hall for kids who are in the hospital with cancer,” Kriha said. “it’s a really nice thing.” 
Junior patrick sheehan, Knott hall co-president, said various members of the dorm have contributed to the work necessary to 
see blanKeTs PAGE 3 


news PAGE 2 scene PAGE 5 viewpoinT PAGE 7 FooTball PAGE 12 women’s basKeTball PAGE 12 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                   Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green 
Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 

News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 


News Sports 

margaret davis alex carson rachel o’grady manny de Jesus Kathryn marshall 
Graphics Scene 

lucy du Kelly mcgarry 
Photo Viewpoint 
chris collins scott olehnik 
Corrections 

The observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. we do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. if we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
What is your favorite Christmas song? 

Alex Tatarian 
freshman 
breen-phillips hall 

“‘all i want for christmas is you’ by Justin beiber.” 
Julia Szromba 
sophomore 
breen-phillips hall 

“‘have yourself a merry little christmas’ by michael buble.” 
Sophie Brahos 
sophomore 
breen-phillips hall 
“‘8 days of christmas’ by destiny’s child.” 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 


Chris Bowers 
freshman 
Zahm house 
“santa claus is coming to Town.” 
Harry Federspiel 
freshman 
Zahm house 
“rockin’ around the christmas Tree.” 
Emily Salerno 
freshman 
Farley hall 
“carol of the bells.” 
Want your event included here? Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Thursday 
Silent Auction 
LaFortune Student Center 6 p.m.-9 p.m. Fundraiser for Hannah’s House. 
Father Ted Talk 
Reckers 8:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Lecture by Ed Hums on a life of faith. 
Friday 
Laudato Lunch 
Geddes Hall 12:30 p.m.-1:30 p.m. Discussion about Notre Dame at Paris Climate Conference. 
Hockey vs. Massachusetts 
Compton Ice Arena 7:35 p.m.-9:35 p.m. ND takes on Minutemen. 

Saturday  Sunday  Monday  
Shakespeare Festival  Violin Performance  Advent Vespers  
DeBartolo Performing  Snite Museum of Art  Regina Chapel  
Arts Center  2 p.m.-3 p.m.  6:45 p.m.-7:15 p.m.  
10 a.m.-6 p.m.  Faculty member Tricia  Join the community  
Auditions for “Pericles”  Park and guest Taylor  in prayer during the  
and “The Tempest.”  Morris will perform.  Christmas season.  
“Anchored in Hope”  Créche Pilgrimage  Piano Masterclass  
Keenan Hall  Eck Visitors Center  Snite Museum of Art  
7 p.m.-8:30 p.m.  2:30 p.m.-4 p.m.  3:30 p.m.-5 p.m.  
The Voices of Faith  Visit nativity exhibits  Learn from pianist  
Gospel Choir Concert.  around campus.  Svetlana Belsky.  

STUDENT SENATE 

Group examines core curriculum 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news wrtier 
student senators discussed the recently released core curriculum review draft re­port and listened to a presentation on li­brary renovation updates at their weekly meeting wednesday night. 
monday, undergraduate students re­ceived an email with information about the proposed changes to the core cur­riculum, including a link to the review committee’s report. senators discussed their concerns about the changes, espe­cially regarding the proposed policies for receiving advanced placement (ap) credit, transparency and how the new requirements limit options for sTem (sci­ence, technology, engineering and math) students. 
Judicial council president Zach waterson said the proposed requirements would make things harder on science and engineering students, who already have heavy, largely predetermined course loads. 
“one of the interesting things they’ve done in the draft is they’ve actually re­duced the amount of courses required you have to take by one,” he said. “They’ve done that by taking away one of the math or science requirements and there’s now no way to test out of a writing course. so that’s kind of a double whammy for sci­ence and engineering students who won’t already be taking writing classes for their major, but will have plenty of math and science courses. These requirements are actually more restrictive.” 

pasquerilla west hall senator ariana Zlioba said ap credit allowed students more room to explore and the new guide­lines could be too ambiguous for students to plan what they want to do. 
“if you’re able to get those entry level classes out of the way, you’re able to ex­plore as many things as possible,” she said. “The one thing i really hope, if they decide to limit ap credit, is that they are really transparent about what you’re able to test out of and what you’re not able to. From personal experience, i was told i would be able to test out of certain things and when i got here that wasn’t the case.” 
marisa Thompson, president of club coordination council (ccc), said she understood the intent of the suggested changes as a shift in focus from taking core courses to “get them out of the way” to embracing them as part of a holistic education. 
“one of the reasons they’re thinking of removing that [ap credit] is that they want people to take those classes or core requirements in a university setting,” she said. “i think they want to limit the amount of credit you can get that way so you are building the liberal arts education for every student who enters the door.” 
in addition to the discussion of the pro­posed changes, members of the hesburgh library renovation steering committee gave a presentation to update student senators about construction progress. 
university librarians Jessica Kayongo and diane walker, as well as senior John wetzel, described the renovations that been completed on the first and second floors. They also showed artist render­ings of what the current renovations of the tenth floor and future renovations of the first floor entrance, including the ad­dition of a scholar’s lounge. 
Kayongo said “phase 1,” which included the gallery entrance and the tenth floor should be completed very soon. 
“The first and second floors on the south end should be done in march,” she said. “The tenth floor may be done even sooner than that.” 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 

ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2015 | The observer 

Senator 
conTinued From page 1 
monolithically republican. but right now, at the state legislative level, it is. 
Though 32 members of the indiana general assembly were republicans when broaden was sworn in, there are currently 40 republicans, making up a more significant majority. 
“The 32 members that are republicans were much this were non-union con­tractors, who did very little public work, and then there were very right wing people that were just ideologically opposed to this,” he said. “... and that’s what was so frus­trating about this, because we then ended up repealing the common construction wage.” 

broden talked about his growing frustration with the republican majority in the general assembly, particu­larly in regards to workers 
“It’s extremely frustrating if you believe in labor rights, because things like minimum wage right now are being challenged and that’s something that we’re really fighting for but you know, we just can’t get it passed.” 
John Broden Indiana state senator 
more moderate strain when i was sworn in than the 40 members that are there now. now, you know, we’re seeing more and more conserva­tive members beating those more moderate members in elections, and we’re losing that middle, more moderate group,” he said. 
broden said his most dif­ficult fight came over the common construction wage, which the republicans wanted to repeal. 
“it appeared that logic was thrown out the window. The only people who were for rights. 

“running against teachers unions became very popular for republicans. They were calling them out for protect­ing bad teachers, and then those bills passed, and then you know, right to work was next to go,” he said. 
regarding indiana’s re­cent status a right to work state, broden said he was discontent with the way that legislation had been passed. in right to work states, la­bor unions are allowed, but workers in unionized pro­fessions cannot be forced to join unions. 
“indiana is now what they call a right to work state. For a while, we avoided kind of taking up this fight, but you know you look around and there were a lot of members who wanted that. recently, though, we’ve lost some members who were against right to work, so they were able to get that bill passed,” broden said. 
looking to the future, broden said he is working on policies regarding the mini­mum wage in indiana. 
“it’s extremely frustrating if you believe in labor rights, because things like mini­mum wage right now are being challenged and that’s something that we’re really fighting for but you know, we just can’t get it passed,” he said. 
broden said his passion for politics and labor rights came primarily from his time at notre dame. 
“i really enjoyed my cur­riculum at notre dame, it confirmed everything i thought about politics, which i was interested from the very early days,” he said. “Two of my favorite cours­es were in labor studies, and there’s labor and labor history but then more im­portantly there’s labor eco­nomics, which sparked an interest in me that remains today.” 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 
Blankets 
conTinued From page 1 
prepare for the event. 
“we organized an event … the week before [Thanksgiving] … where we actually took all of the rolls 
“There will be stations for people to come in. All the blankets are already cut, actually, we did that ahead of time, so its jsut going to be actually making them into blankets.” 
Patrick Sheehan 
co-president 
Knott Hall 
of fleece and cut them into blanket size,” sheehan said. “we cut them and put them into bags and got all of that ready to get carried over [to south dining hall]. another thing we do is make baby blankets too, so we cut some smaller pieces too.” 
Kriha said that along with members of Knott hall, members of the campus ser­vice organization circle K have also helped prepare for the aidan project event. 
“buying felt was a big thing too, finding places to buy it, and that was actually all circle K,” Kriha said. “[circle 
K] is a club that focuses on service in the area, so for in­stance … at the beginning of november, they went out into south bend and raked leaves for people who can’t actually rake themselves. 
“They’re very oriented in service, so if anyone wants a good opportunity to be involved in the community with service then circle K is a good club for that.” 
This year’s aidan project will take place sunday in the east wing of south dining hall, from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. during that time, all stu­dents are invited to come and help make blankets for local cancer patients. 

“There will be stations for people to come in,” sheehan said, “all the blankets are already cut, actually, we did that ahead of time, so it’s just going to be actually making them into blankets. you just knot the ends of them and make them look good on the corners.” 
Kriha said the goal of the event is not only the quantity of blankets made, but to en­gage the student community. 
“The goal is just to get through all of the stuff we have and not have extras,” Kriha said. “we just want to see a variety of kids from campus come … because last year it was pretty much only Knott and circle K, there weren’t a ton of outsiders, so this year we’ve tried to make it a little bit more known to 
“We just want to see a variety of kids from campus to come ... because last year it was pretty much only Knott and Circle K, there weren’t a ton of outsiders, so this year we’ve tried to make it a little bit more known to the  campus.” 
Nathan Kriha 
service comissioner 
Knott Hall 

the campus. 
“so hopefully, our goal is just to have as many people come as possible,” he said. “everyone’s welcome.” 
Contact Andrea Vale at  avale@nd.edu 


The observer | THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Chorale 
conTinued From page 1 
will be accompanied by a baroque orchestra, bishop said. The orchestra is com­prised of notre dame stu­dents and other musicians. 
“a lot of the people play with us for ‘messiah‘ every year,” she said. “The string instruments have a differ­ent feel. we still sing with a harpsichord, but it’s really cool because it’s more his­torically accurate.” 
director alexander blachly said in an email the baroque instruments have a several advantages as ac­companiment for works like “messiah.” 
“most notably, they make the phrases easier to play and easier to shape. modern strings don’t let in enough lightness and air, and as a result the phrases tend to sound heavy and labored, even when played softly,” he said. “certain effects, like sudden strong notes, also project better with baroque instruments. The older in­struments are not as loud as modern ones, and this has one advantage and one dis­advantage: the advantage is that the sound is gentler, more voice-like.” 
The downside is that the baroque instruments do not project as easily in a large hall, blachly said, “and the players therefore have to take that into account and play with a little more projection than would be necessary on modern instruments.” 
“perhaps the greatest ad­vantage is that the baroque instruments are pitched a half-step lower than modern instruments, with the result that the highest notes for the sopranos are easier to sing,” he said. 
‘messiah’ is intended to retell the history of early christianity, blachly said, from the prophecies of Jesus’ birth, through the host of angels singing of his glory to the shepherds, then his passion and suffer­ing, and finally, the arrival of christianity, with the anticipation of the day of Judgment. 
“The chorale sings vir­tually all of part one, the prophecies and birth, most of part two, Jesus’ passion, and several numbers from part three, which looks forward to a future day in heaven when the souls will be united with christ,” he said.  “The chorale ends its performance with the fi­nal number of part two, the ‘hallelujah’ chorus, which, with its trumpets, foretells the day of Judgment.” 
bishop said the piece is performed a lot at easter time, as well, because parts of the second and third movements deal with the death of Jesus. 
“one of my favorite songs is a passage from the bible that is commonly read at christmas time, where an­gel comes down from heaven and there’s the shepherds watching over the flock and she announces the birth of Jesus,” bishop said. “so there are a lot of those clas­sic christmas messages in it.” 
The chorale has been rehearsing for the perfor­mances since november, she said. 
“because we sing it every year, we normally learn it pretty fast,” she said. “The old members help carry the new members. … and it gen­erally requires some outside time, especially for the new people.” 
bishop said chorale has a large number of new mem­bers this year. 
“it was really exciting to see them on monday for the first time, get to hear us perform our choruses with the orchestra, and seeing it all start to come together,” she said. “This is my favor­ite thing we perform. i love it, i smile through the whole thing. i’m not normally a huge classical music person, but handel’s ‘messiah’ is something else.” 
bishop said it has been “ex­tra special” to sing ‘messiah’ for the last time, especially as president of a group she loves. 
“i’ll probably tear up dur­ing my last ‘hallelujah’ chorus,” bishop said. “it’s a special group, full of my best friends. ... we’re a really dif­ferent group of people that are all brought together by our love of music, and i think that brings a lot of unique aspects to our group. … it’s one of those places where i always feel so comfortable, and welcomed and loved.” 
in addition to perform­ing handel’s “messiah,” the official concert choir of the university has fall and spring concerts, bishop said. on the last week of winter break, chorale will tour the midwest. 
“we’ll sing the ‘hallelujah’ chorus at all our stops. i wish we got to sing more, but it’s not quite the same with just the piano. it’s when you add in the orchestra is when it really becomes something else.” 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 


about the importance of ed-
Club 

ucation for girls, germann 
conTinued From page 1 

said. “The very opportunities 
education is plain and that education provides simple, funding,” she said. lead to global socioeconom­“she’s the First attempts ic benefits,” germann said. to alleviate this financial “in this club, work is done to barrier and provides a way be a part of the solution to for us, here in the united a problem girls face all over states, to play a part in the the world, the lack of access solution.” to quality education.” 
The club gives students an on Thursday, “she’s the opportunity to address the First” is collaborating with issue, club vice president the college’s department 
“The very opportunities that education provides lead to global socioeconomic benefits. In this club, work is done to be a part of the solution to a problem girls face all over the world, the lack of access to quality education.” 
Christine Germann member of She’s the First 

junior elizabeth murray said. 
“The club is important at saint mary’s to help us to understand how fortunate we are to receive an amaz­ing education, but also to put our leadership skills to practice and empower girls internationally through education as well,” murray said. 
members of the saint mary’s chapter inform the community and collaborate with other organizations and departments on cam­pus to spread the message of justice education to show the documentary “To educate a girl” and raise money for the she’s the First organization through cupcake sales. “To educate a girl” was produced by the united nations, and is a credible, accessible re­source to share the mes­sage, germann said. 
she said money raised during the event will be sent to “she’s the First” and then redirected to the chap­ter’s sponsored scholar. 
“supported by the ungei [united nations girls education initiative] this film promotes equity in ed­ucation and global gender justice,” she said. “it pro­vides three narratives that bring the issue home in a personal way. sometimes it is very hard to imagine, living here, in the united states, that we have so many privileges that others do not, such as basic educa­tion rights.” 
murray said she hopes attendees leave the event with a greater understand­ing of the value of women’s education. 
“we would like them to recognize their own educa­tion as a blessing, but also help us in the attempt to bring this same education to others,” she said. 
along with a sense of purpose, the film will help people understand why it is important to care about girl’s education and the barriers they face, germann said. 
“ultimately, i hope at­tendees are reminded of what a blessing it is to be educated and, in turn, will help to impart that bless­ing on others who only want the same opportunity,” she said. 
The documentary show­ing is free, and will take place on Thursday at 7:30 
p.m. in the vander vennett Theatre. 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT The observer | THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 



By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
scene writer 

Joni mitchell’s “river” isn’t a christmas song per se, but it’s a song i inevitably find myself listening to constantly come december. “river” originally appeared on mitchell’s 1971 album “blue,” her masterful meditation on heartbreak. “The ‘blue’ al­bum, there’s hardly a dishonest note in the vocals,” mitchell told cameron crowe in a 1979 interview for rolling stone. “i felt like i had absolutely no secrets from the world and i couldn’t pretend in my life to be strong. or to be happy.” 
“river” is one of the album’s loneliest mo­ments, with mitchell using christmas as a backdrop against which to paint a narrative of loss and longing. christmas is approach­ing—“They’re cutting down trees / They’re putting up reindeer / and singing songs of joy and peace,” she sings—but the song’s narrator is not in the holiday spirit at all, still reeling from a painful breakup. The cli­mate of southern california, where it “stays pretty green” even in december, is also not particularly conducive to holiday spirit. “i 
By ERIN McAULIFFE 
senior scene writer 

cue flute music and pan to the women and women First storefront. 
*action* 

“we have a new batch of books. we should go through and make sure it’s what we want in the store.” 
“okay, great.” 

*pulls out “hunger makes me a modern girl” by carrie brownstein* 
“This has quotes by miranda July and Kim gordon on the back cover!” 
“oh grea—wait, that’s a best-seller. do we want that in here?” 
“no, we only want bottom-selling authors.” 
Toni and candice, the feminist book­store owners created by carrie brownstein and Fred armisen on “portlandia,” are the ultimate critics. as supreme tastemakers, or taste deprecators, they work to (some­times) sell tangible goods and extend the purchasing process as far as it can go, per­haps best represented in Toni’s statement to a customer upon his wish to purchase a novel: “we can order that for you. it will be ready for pickup in one year — it has to be written.” 
although the women and women First characters are caricatures and they host (decidedly non-sexy) car washes to make rent, the in-store curation and recom­mendation model is one brownstein her­self reminisces about in her new memoir and discussed during her book tour stop at the rough Trade record store in london on november 11. 
brownstein’s point aligned with the vi­nyls on rotation, cd players spinning the store’s monthly “best of” selections and lists of employee recommendations. 
“seeking was tactile … record stores were wish i had a river i could skate away on,” she laments. The music is equally melancholic, recasting the “Jingle bells” as a plaintive minor-key piano melody. 
what i find so powerful about “river” is how expertly mitchell juxtaposes depres­sion with the expectation of cheer around christmastime. it’s a song that acknowledg­es it is perfectly normal to be sad around the holidays, even when you’re constantly bom­barded by festive images everywhere you go. “laughing and crying, you know it’s the same release,” mitchell sings on “people’s parties,” off 1974’s “court and spark,” and “river” allows for a similar cathartic release. 
most of my other favorite christmas songs have melancholic strains. perhaps the closest analogue to the sentiment of “river” is bing crosby’s classic “white christmas,” the best-selling single in the history of recorded music. like mitchell’s song, “white christmas” is all about long­ing: “i’m dreaming of a white christmas / Just like the ones i used to know,” crosby wistfully sings. on one level, it’s also about someone in a warm climate pining for a pic­turesque snow-covered christmas tableau. 
a place to cohere,” brownstein reminisced amidst posters advertising in-store events, making the statement seem less wistful and more concrete amongst today’s vinyl revival. she mentioned her appreciation for word-of-mouth buzz, which was crucial to her band sleater-Kinney’s success. 
although sleater-Kinney is largely suc­cessful, if more so critically than commer­cially, i wrongly assumed that this enabled a life of luxury. in an especially striking scene, sleater-Kinney is named the best band in america by Time magazine as they continue to tour in an old van. 
“best band in america and my back is about to go out again because i’m carrying a sixty-pound amp into a practice space the size of a pantry in which Janet’s aged mar­malade cat had sprayed multiple times,” brownstein writes. “it smells like piss and dryer sheets. This is us having ‘made it!’ we never stopped working. most bands don’t.” 
The idea of recognition as a source of validation, or even acceptance through rec­ognition, is explored throughout the book. brownstein reflects on her failed “brat pack” pen-pal attempts and her success in writing soap opera stars. 
“The venture soon became less about competing with my peers and more about my own sense of invisibility and need for validation,” she writes. 
brownstein would open up in emotional recounts of her mother’s illness or bullies at school — tales she candidly shared in her letters to daytime stars. it is this hunger for validation, for listeners, that drives the book forward. however, the hunger doesn’t veer towards desperation, as brownstein even­tually came to her own through perfor­mance. as a girl who wore cream-colored elasticized waist shorts to a young woman in a backwards J crew cap at a band audi­tion, she was always striving towards staged The arizona biltmore, the iconic art deco resort in phoenix, ariz. that was a frequent retreat for hollywood stars, claims that irving berlin composed the song lounging by the resort’s cantina pool in January 1939. as a phoenix native myself, its origin story is part of why the song resonates so deeply with me. 

yet, the sadness of “white christmas” seems to run deeper than mere climate-related reasons. berlin himself, even as a russian Jewish immigrant, had reason to find the holiday sad: his 3-week-old son died on christmas day in 1928, and every year after he and his wife would visit his son’s grave. This nostalgia for better, hap­pier times runs through “white christmas,” even as it ends in a more hopeful place than “river”—“may all your christmases be white,” crosby sings in its final line. 
my favorite modern christmas song, “christmas (baby please come home),” performed by the incomparable darlene love, is equally plaintive at its core. as in “river,” its narrator finds herself lonely and alienated from the yuletide cheer surround­ing them. “They’re singing, ‘deck The halls’ 
success. “i had very little desire to be pres­ent, only to be presentational or to pretend,” she writes. 
“To court fame, money and press felt dirty, sweaty,” brownstein writes. “it im­plied you wanted to be accepted and loved by the mainstream, the same people who had rejected, taunted, and diminished you in high school. Jocks. cheerleaders. preppies. yuppies.” 
while not regularly courted by the main­stream media at their onset, they did re­ceive attention from eugene-based zines. cultural zines acted as yesterday’s equiva­lent to the online regulatory pc police, calling out artists who misconstrued base values and applauding the alternative or politically-inclined. brownstein admittedly was turned off from music journalism after spin magazine outed her to her family. 
women and women First is not how brownstein wanted her music critiqued: sound first, female-based critique sec­ond. as part of the iconic and momentous olympia, wash.-based “riot grrrl” move­ment, sleater-Kinney took on the gender-pushing and glorifying rock scene. even the word “grrrl” takes on a gritty, interpretative persona, by leaving out the definitive “i” and stretching out its rough syllabic power. 
brownstein wanted her music to be read as and listened to simply as music, not girl music. The same mentality plays into femi­nist critiques that blow over the actual con­tents and quality of the music to focus on muck-raking or cultural comparisons. in the days of “femvertising” and the double feminist stigma, brownstein’s cautions around the marketed girl power of acts like the spice girls ring true. 
it’s fitting that in one women and women First skit, brownstein’s character states that she has been writing throughout all her past lives: a statement that could provide the / but it’s not like christmas at all,” love cries out on the chorus. it’s incredibly affecting because of her soulful vocal performance, which wrings every ounce of emotion from the song, which was penned by phil spector, Jeff barry and ellie greenwich. 
yet, love is able to find hope in a song about feeling isolated and alone during the holidays. as she explained in a new york Times interview last year, “when i’m sing­ing it, i’m telling everybody to come home to their loved ones. i’m inviting families to get back together again.” 
what i love about “river,” “white christmas” and “christmas (baby please come home)” is that they all recognize how melancholic the holidays can be for so many people. These songs acknowledge how easy it is to feel sad, even in the face of the unrelenting cheer of the christmas season; perhaps more importantly, when i’m feel­ing particularly wistful each december, these songs remind me just how common that feeling is. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at                mmunhall@nd.edu 
solution as to how one person can achieve such enticing creative work in such an ar­ray of fields. brownstein’s writing accessibly arcs through insecurities, family problems and the progression of olympia rock in an understated, relatable way. 
she perfectly summed up her humble approach during the discussion at rough Trade: “my inarticulate self has light shone on it by other people’s writing, other peo­ple’s lyrics.” 
brownstein’s internalization of other bands, experiences and situations as a self-proclaimed “observer” is integral to her writing on “portlandia” and the reflections in her memoir on olympia and the riot grrrl movement. at the rough Trade dis­cussion, brownstein mentioned her role as an observer and articulator of the ineffable. “modern girl” serves as her own memoir, separate from the sleater-Kinney collective. 
This structuring leaves corin Tucker’s life, beyond her relationship with brownstein, largely unraked. Janet weiss remains a mys­tery past descriptions of her drumming. 
The book left me satisfied, but not un­comfortably stuffed with opinions and forced take-aways. brownstein’s minimal­istic structure and personal elaborations left me at that wonderfully elusive point where you could comfortably indulge in dessert or leave the restaurant satiated. in my case, a thorough listen and further ingestion of sleater-Kinney’s semi-sweet record “no cities To love” was the perfect finish. 
p.s.a. brownstein is currently binge-watching “master of none,” aziz anzari’s brilliant new netflix series which scene fully endorses. you should follow her lead in doing the same. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at                        emcaulif@nd.edu 

LUCY DU | The Observer 


The observer | THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

a message from the past 

Miko Malabute 
scene editor 

in a scene story wednesday, i touched on the warmth of nostalgia — in that particular case, the warmth of nostalgia from the perfect holiday drink. 
however, in writing up that article i fell deep into the rabbit hole of seemingly every other bit and piece of nostalgia that i could bring to the forefront of my memory and relive on my computer screen. i found myself watching old wwe videos (although, at that time they were still known as “wwF”), listening to blink-182’s “enema of the state” and probably most interest­ingly, reading an article that revisited one of the most time-consuming applications of our teen­age years: aol instant messenger. 
“aim,” as it was popularly referred to, was arguably one of the greatest ways to commu­nicate without actually communicating pre­smartphone era, similar to how text messaging has been used for the past decade or so now. and similar to the flip phones and slider cell phones of our pubescent years, a part of me almost wish­es that aim was still alive and well amongst my generation. 
The experience of aim was like none other at the time. you would be signed in on the family computer pretty much all day, and you would set your status to “away” during school hours to let your aim buddies (yes, before Facebook friends and Twitter followers, there were aim buddies) know that you, just like them, were away from the computer screen. 
however, everyone who was anyone knew not to simply write an away message like, “i am cur­rently away.” no, if you were a proper angsty teen, you had to have the perfect song lyrics in there that captured your wise, emotionally in­telligent soul. as soon as you came home, you would plop down in front of that computer and do a quick scan of your buddies list to see who was “available.” a quick double-click and you instantly brought up a line of communication with someone you saw quite literally just a few hours ago. conversations usually were very shal­low — after all, you did just see them a few hours ago — but for some reason, you and your friends just had to know what each of you were up to that evening. 
but that wasn’t even the best part. no, the best was the cringeworthy screen names that, if you pressed your current self now, you could prob­ably remember — right down to the downright weird use of letters and numbers in “b4ll1n­forev4.” every person’s screen name had a story, albeit not the most meaningful of stories, but a story nonetheless. sure, in the real world we were just normal boys and girls at school; online, how­ever, we were the budding athlete, the dancer, the crazy skater or (my personal favorite) the guy who swore he was a rap superstar at the age of 13. 
The price of a Prince of Peace 
Jennifer Vosters 
belleview 

it’s a strange time for christmas. of course, it’s happened every december for a while now, but looking around at our country and our world, it’s a strange time for “the most won­derful time of the year.” we’ve gotten our fill of Thanksgiving delights, but somehow we’re more ravenous than ever, with secret santas and stockings and christmas lists and coupons calling us into malls or online to stock up for the season — all the demands of a good old american yuletide. 
but there’s more than the usual carnage: vio­lence exploding across east and west, pepper­ing our homeland with gunshots and our own campuses with hate speech on whiteboards and yik yak. political disagreements degenerating into darkly amusing chaos. ideologies clawing at each other’s throats. prejudice and privi­lege brooding dark and unexamined, fear and anger crippling even the most generous and good-hearted. 
it’s a strange time for christmas, but perhaps the best possible time for it. 
The intense commerciality of christmas has certainly — and understandably — given it a bit of a bad rap among christians and members of other faiths alike. a holiday that touts “joy” and “peace on earth” while simultaneously en­couraging greed to the point of senselessness (remember the wal-mart employee who was trampled to death by rabid black Friday shop­pers in 2008) is hypocritical, shallow and grossly degraded at best. 
but whether or not you’re a christian, there’s something attractive about giving and receiv­ing, putting up lights and decorations, singing songs that all your neighbors know, making your favorite meals and spending special time with family and friends. and there’s something beautiful about the point of christmas that ev­eryone can share. whether it’s scripture for you or just a story, the simple message of christmas is desperately, hauntingly lovely. it’s about hope. hope, and the coming of the prince of peace. 
The world sorely needs a prince of peace. you can argue that we’ve always needed one, but right now, well, we actually want one. we want someone who’s going to stop the gun violence. someone who will end sexual assault on cam­pus. someone who will take care of the refugees. 
someone who will keep so many people from hurting so badly. 
we need as many princes of peace as we can count. so who’s going to show up? who’s going to come into the world this winter and say, “yes, i’m with you”? 
who else but us? 
it takes a lot of courage to be born. it’s a pas­sive thing. it happens to you. you must let yourself be changed. it takes trust and hope and refusing to fight (something babies are naturally good at). it is so hard to even think in those terms when we have so much to be afraid of across oceans or across the street. but if what we want is peace, we must – like any christmas present – pay a price. and the price is our own fear. 
maybe this christmas we can reconnect with our desire for peace. it’s a good thing to want. not just for christians or americans or holiday-lovers, but for everyone. getting in touch with what we want shows us who we are, and who we must become (there’s some logic behind the christmas list after all). and if we look at what we want for ourselves, our families and our fu­tures, we’ll find some fruit there. we’ll see what we need to do. we’ll discover how, in our indi­vidual ways, to be the prince of peace. 
if we want to feel safer in our neighborhoods, let’s look out for our neighbors. if we want an end to the refugee crisis, let’s be generous with our money and our advocacy to provide the hope we crave to the people who need it most. if we want a christmas without greed and con­sumerism, let’s focus our time and energy on sustaining our relationships, our planet and the poor in our communities. 
if we want something, let’s write it on our christmas lists and be willing to pay for it by letting go of what makes us fear each other, mis­trust each other and misunderstand each other. it will feel a bit like “dying to self.” but it’s really about being born. and that’s what christmas is about. For everyone. 
choose peace and hope this holiday. choose to be born. merry christmas. 
Jennifer Vosters is a senior living in Le Mans Hall. She is an English major with minors in theatre and Italian. She can be reached at                                 jvoste01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“Every tax, however, is to the person who pays it a badge, not of slavery but of liberty.” 
— Adam Smith      Economist and philosopher 

and no one really judged you for it (back then, at least), because everyone’s name was equally awkward and comedic. 
not to sound too much like the old man yelling at kids to get off my lawn, but i do feel sorry a bit for the kids growing up today, because they will never get to live through an experience quite like aim. but that’s enough of that, i’ll set my status to “away” now. 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
dare to live 
April Feng 
story Time 

on the days of the isis attacks in paris, beirut and baghdad, i was in new york, safe from all the bombings and shootings. in the dark subway station in new york city, time went back to sept. 11, 2001. 
my mom woke me up from sleep. on the evening news, i saw a plane crashing into an extremely tall building. orange flames and dark grey smoke filled the television screen. 
“This pilot literally cannot drive…” i muttered sleepily. 
“no, dan. i think he can.” 

i turned around and looked at my mom. she was pale. Ten seconds of silence. 
“mom — the pilot — did he die?” 
“i think so.” 

“so he drove the plane into that building…to die?” 
i could not understand the pilot. To me, there were so many beautiful things about life, and chief among them were the soy-stewed perch cooked by my grandma, the 8 a.m. Tai chi performance of my grandpa and the moments when i could finally see my parents everyday after school. i had very little idea about what death was, but i was of the firmest conviction that nobody would want to die, at least not me. 
“why did he choose to die?” 

“because dan, this is a terrorist attack.” 
That was the first time i heard the word. i was six. 
Fourteen years later, there are 4,000 active and 10,144 total nuclear warheads, 10 international and civil wars and more than 70 additional terrorist attacks in the world. From a student in a local chinese high school to a member of the national political science honor society in the u.s., i have come to believe that the proliferation of nuclear weapons has made the security dilemma more acute than ever; that the world today is over­whelmed by an international environment of offense dominance and nationalism, and that the number of ci­vilian casualties of modern wars has quadrupled since 2000. sometimes, it seems like we are making the same choice of the pilot who hit the Twin Towers 14 years ago. The reality gave me a fear, which at times even shakes my conviction that life is truly worth living for everybody. however, that fear never stayed in my heart; it does not deserve that precious space. what truly has stayed are the beautiful stories of normal people around me, stories that remind me how lovely life is. They made me firmly believe that though god may not have given us the ability to avoid being hurt, he definitely has given us the power to heal. i would like to dedicate the last “story Time” of this semester to two stories that do not belong to me. They have both empowered me in the most beautiful way. during my sophomore year, i start­ed listening to a story every day. on a sunny saturday morning, i came across a story that belongs to one of my friends’ grandparents. it took place inside a dark tunnel on the battlefield of the vietnam war fifty years ago. 
it was lonely in the tunnel, cold and dark. he was lying on his stomach, shot in the leg, surrounded by empty bullet shells. For more than three hours, he was floating in and out of consciousness, sweating and shaking uncontrollably. waking up with an excruciat­ing pain, he saw a shadow, long and thin, appear at the end of the tunnel. a young woman appeared. she was carrying only a box of medical gauze. it was nurse from the vietnamese army, an enemy. out of instinct, he crawled toward his machine gun, loaded with hateful bullets. still trying to adjust to the darkness inside the tunnel, she did not notice that there was an american soldier lying on the ground. she walked closer and closer to him. suddenly, a shriek of pain hit him. he screeched. she turned around and spotted him point­ing at her with the gun. covering her mouth with both hands, she fell to the ground in horror. They stared at each other for five seconds, and she started sobbing. he had not heard people crying for months. The sound of her helpless weeping, the sight of tears rolling off her long lashes and pale face and the smell of sorrow shat­tered something hard in his heart. suddenly, he felt the strong urge to hold her, to hold her tightly. The gun slipped out of his hand. For three days, they were the only two human beings in that tunnel, and they fell in love with each other, inevitably. “The moment when i dropped my gun and reached out for her lips,” my friend’s grandpa still says to people from time to time, “is the first moment in that entire war that i felt truly and fully alive. it is the best choice i have ever made.” They married after the war ended and have been living happily for fifty years, as two normal, but extraordinary, human beings. 
“my grandpa always says that maybe the easiest way to resolve conflicts is to let two human beings simply be with each other,” my friend concluded the story. 
That was not the last time i encountered stories about war. a week after the news of the isis attack in paris, my dad sent me the link to the Japanese movie “The eternal Zero.” it tells the story of Kyuzo miyabe, a Japanese fighter pilot during world war ii. in Japan during wwii, dying gloriously in battle was the dream of every solider. it was an honor to be a Kamikaze pilot, a fighter pilot who carries out suicidal attacks. Kamikaze planes were filled with fuel only enough for a single trip to the bombing target, not a round-trip back to the military base. in other words, once a Kamikaze pilot started his mission, death was the only possible outcome. miyabe tried very hard to avoid being enlisted as a Kamikaze pilot. he would rather accept beatings by outraged senior officer than to retract his opinion that to survive is worthwhile. during the entire war, despite his exceptional skills as a fighter pilot, miyabe was con­sidered a coward, because he “loves nothing more than his own life.” he was called a chicken, because he was “never brave enough to sacrifice his life.” he endured all of those insults every single day, just so that he could survive. 
after watching the movie, i could not stop myself from thinking about miyabe’s decision. his determina­tion to live touched my heart deeply. “what gives him such enormous motivation to survive?” i asked my dad. as soon as i spilled out the question, i realized how stu­pid it was. “what do you think?” my dad asked back. i whispered the answer, to my dad and to myself: “i guess because he is a human being, and he chose to act like one, even during the war.” 
miyabe’s story showed me that no matter if it is for one’s country or for one’s family, for the people one loves or the goals one still wants to achieve, the firm determination to live comes no easier than facing death without fear. it requires enormous courage to live, espe­cially in a time of war. “i hope the isis terrorists can be as courageous as miyabe. i hope they will never choose to sacrifice the lives of themselves and of others for any­thing,” my dad said. “i hope they can dare to live.” 
it may seem extremely naïve, even stupid, to have “story Time” when hundreds of lives are lost, but stories of human beings, like the two above, never cease to re­assure us that there are bright spots even in the darkest times. Jacqueline novogratz, the recipient of the notre dame award for international human development and solidarity in 2013, once said: “perhaps the most radical thing to do in this cynical world is to create hope.” i sincerely wish that my column “story Time” could be that naïve, radical and persistent source of hope, and that through the stories we share with one another, all of us could dare to cherish the value and appreciate the beauty of life. 
Author’s Note: A huge thank you to all my friends who generously share their stories with me and allow me to enter your lives. You all have transformed my world and made it much more beautiful than I could ever imagine. 
Dan (April) Feng is a junior Political Science and Economics double major. She is from Beijing, China and lives in Lyons Hall. April welcomes all comments (or complaints) and can be reached at dfeng@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

The 2016 election: What matters to you? 
if someone put a microphone in your hand, what would you tell the 2016 presidential candidates? we, the ndvotes ‘16 Task Force, asked a group of students this question two weeks ago. now, we put the question to you. 
students told us notre dame’s campus is uninvolved and unaware when it comes to political issues. young people appear disillusioned with the political process, with their elected officials and with the candidates who are promising change in 2016. They questioned where that apathy comes from. do young voters think their votes don’t matter? if so, why doesn’t that trouble us? where is the movement for political change among youth in america? 
maybe, as some students suggested, it is because americans have become complacent. They take their right to vote for granted, never having had to fight for it. There are difficulties in voting, particularly for col­lege students who do not live at home. often their first chance to vote comes while they are at school and they must request an absentee ballot. There is a lack of education about the “how” and “why” of voting, and an even greater lack of education about current events and issues that are at stake in elections. when young people do tune into news about election issues, they easily be­come discouraged by the overwhelming presence of “big money,” which seems to deprive them of any real say in the matter. 
but other students reminded us of reasons to be opti­mistic. millennials are more active in other forms of civic duty than previous generations have been. we engage in the political lives of our homes, schools and workplaces. we challenge ideas through demonstrations and social media movements. The question then becomes: how do we extend that passion to voting? To effecting change in local, state and national government? There is no doubt that young voters of this campus, this country and this generation have things to say. perhaps they need a re­minder that they truly do have a voice in government. 
ndvotes ‘16 intends to make the voice of young people at notre dame heard in the 2016 elections by writing an open letter to the presidential candidates. we will tell our prospective representatives what issues we want to hear about over the coming year and what kind of discourse we expect from them. Through this open letter, we will speak to the next president of the united states. 
some students have already shared with us issues that matter to them in the 2016 presidential election. These issues include foreign policy, health care, money in poli­tics, the environment and climate change, tax reform, veteran affairs, wealth inequality, wall street regula­tions, racial issues, police brutality and immigration. what matters to you? 
Sarah Tomas Morgan 
sophomore ndvotes ‘16 co-chair 
Prathm Juneja 
freshman ndvotes ‘16 co-chair 




HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: don’t let emotional matters interfere with what needs to be done. being proactive and productive should be your main concern in order to avoid setbacks. protect your reputation and status by maintaining your integrity and sticking to the truth. it won’t benefit you to ignore situations, so deal with problems first and then keep moving. love and peace will bring positive changes. your numbers are 9, 16, 20, 23, 31, 39, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): do your best to relate to others regardless of whether it involves business, romance or pleasure. your steadfast approach to getting things done will enhance your reputation and impress your colleagues. love is in the air. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): stop second-guessing what you want to do and just make it happen. don’t rely on others to make choices for you. you stand a better chance of getting what you want when you take charge. networking will pay off. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you’ll have trouble seeing situations clearly. before you take a stance or say something you will regret, focus inward and work on doing things that will make you smarter, wiser and more appealing. success lies within. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): check into events going on in your community, or make plans to get together with creative people who will spark your imagination and inspire you. don’t let personal situations lead to an unnecessary battle with someone you love. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t let the changes going on around you at work or at home get you down. embrace whatever is new and different and you will find a way to make things work in your favor. socializing will lead to interesting offers. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): practicality and reason will be required when dealing with someone who is demanding or withholding information you need in order to make a good decision. Time is on your side, so don’t feel pressured to make a move before you are ready. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): you can do anything you put your mind to, so stop waiting for others to make the first move. open up conversations and bring about changes that will improve your relationships with others. make personal improvements.        


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): stay out of the limelight until you are certain that what you have to offer is flawless. work toward bringing about unique changes that will improve your situation. professional gains can be made. believe in your abilities. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): listen and learn. now is not the time to share your thoughts or vision. Find out where everyone else stands and you will be able to tweak your own ideas to ensure you reach the success you are aiming for. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t try to bring about change. work with what you have instead of trying to pile too much on your plate. an investment, settlement or negotiation will turn in your favor if you let things unfold naturally. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): a child or loved one will inspire you to take on something you have wanted to do for a long time. change is heading your way, and the chance to utilize all your talents will put you in the spotlight. love is in the stars. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): be cautious when dealing with friends, colleagues or partners. someone will not be honest about his or her feelings, qualifications or motives. Travel and communication will present delays. mishaps will occur if you are emotionally manipulative. 

Birthday Baby: you are a perfectionist. you are unique, generous and dramatic. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
To
 receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable to and mail to: The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 
address 
city     state Zip 



ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2015 | The observer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Bowl games are overrated 

Michael Ivey 
sports writer 
This college football sea­son will end with a record 41 bowl games, including the games that make up the college Football playoff. 
That means at least two and as many as five teams with below-.500 records will play in bowl games this season. 
To become eligible to play in a bowl game is a relatively simple process, finish the regular season with at least a .500 record. 
but due to the abnormally high number of bowl teams needed to fill in the bowls 
— no pun intended — the ncaa has adopted an inter­esting way of determining which 5-7 teams will get to go bowling. The ncaa announced that the 5-7 teams who have the high­est academic progress rate (apr) will be the ones re­ceiving bowl invitations. The current teams with losing records that have the best apr are nebraska, missouri, Kanas state, minnesota, san Jose state, illinois and rice. 
missouri, however, has said it will decline any bowl invitation they get. it wants to focus their time on find­ing a new head coach after longtime coach gary pinkel stepped down after a tumul­tuous season on and off the field. 
The ncaa shouldn’t spend it’s time determining which 5-7 team should receive a bowl invitation. instead they need to ask themselves this: did we go way too far with the number of bowl games there are? 
The answer to that ques­tion is, “yes.” 
Forty-one bowl games is an unbelievably high amount of games. i love watching bowl games as much as the next guy, but this is ridiculous. The product on the field and on Tv becomes staler if you keep trotting out a number of bowl teams that feature mac teams against teams from either the mountain west or conference usa. what’s the point of even playing a game between two 6-6 teams from mid-major conferences? it’s not entertaining. but we continue to see a rise in the number of those type of bowl games every year. 
playing in a bowl game should be a privilege for a college football team, not a right. playing in a bowl game should be an accomplish­ment for a team. it shouldn’t be a handout. it should mean something. 
The rising number of bowl games every year is start­ing to make bowl games lose their prestige. where’s the excitement in playing in a game like the bitcoin bowl or the mobile bowl or the i can’t believe it’s not butter bowl? especially if a be­low-.500 team is playing in it. 
The reason why the ncaa keeps adding bowl games is simple: money. but some of these games look like they are losing money in­stead of gaining money. at last year’s abysmal heart of dallas bowl between illinois and louisiana Tech, the an­nounced attendance was 31,297 for a cotton bowl stadium that can seat 92,100 people. That’s not a good look for the games. it’s even worse when the game is played in a nFl stadium like Ford Field in detroit. The crowd at the little caesars bowl last year looked like it had about 800 people in attendance. 
another reason for the ris­ing number of games is the ncaa thinks people will watch no matter what. and to an extent, they’re right. a good number of people do watch those types of games, whether they are people who bet on the over/under of the scores or the fans of the teams themselves. They’re starting to seem like a made­for-Tv event. 
but that’s one of the things i have a problem with. bowl games shouldn’t be a made­for-Tv event just for people to bet on. They should be the culmination of a long, hard-fought season for two foot­ball teams and their seniors. 
Contact Michael Ivey at mivey@hcc-nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



Hockey 
conTinued From page 12 

zone, taking an offensive zone penalty. any penalty that puts us down two men on the penalty kill, a penalty on the power play and then bench penalties for whatever reason – emotional penal­ties, too many men on the ice, things like that.” 
when discussing how he deals with individual play­ers who commit such penal­ties, Jackson said that each penalty should be evaluated individually. 
“i like to review the pen­alty,” Jackson said. “The fact that it’s a game misconduct and not a game disqualifica­tion means it was not as se­vere because they’d miss the game regardless. i told our guys, i wouldn’t one of them being hit in the head or from behind. so that’s the way we have to approach it. 
“if it’s an accidental high hit, [senior defenseman] andy ryan’s one penalty was an accidental high hit. his second one probably could’ve been dealt with. The one on [freshman left wing] dylan malmquist and then on [sophomore center] Jake evans, those are the deci­sions you have to make at the last second when the guy’s in a prone position, whether he’s got his back turned to you or his head’s down and you hit him high. Those are ones that can be averted in my opinion, and those are the ones we have to try to eliminate.” 
sophomore left wing anders bjork echoed the sentiments of his coach, and said elimi­nating penalty minutes must come without sacrificing aggressive hockey. 
“you don’t want to think about taking penalties too much,” bjork said. “but i think we don’t want to elimi­nate any of our physicality or aggressiveness. so i think we just want to try to be smart and move our foot instead of hooking, things like that. if we just play the right way, our penalties will decrease, and i think that will happen if we just stay focused, which we’ve been working on a lot.” 
bjork and the irish will get a chance to cut down on the penalties that have been hurting them recently when they welcome the minutemen (6-5-4, 2-2-4) to compton Family ice arena for a pair of weekend games, starting on Friday. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL | buTler 78, cincinnaTi 76 
dunham rallies bulldogs past bearcats 
Associated Press 

cincinnaTi — Kellen dunham scored 24 points while leading a second-half comeback, and roosevelt Jones hit a bank shot with a tenth of a second left, rallying butler to a 78-76 victory over no. 17 cincinnati on wednesday night. 
The bulldogs (5-1) trailed for most of the second half 
— down by as many as eight points — before dunham hit consecutive 3s that set up a back-and-forth ending. his two free throws with 17.2 sec­onds left made it 76-73. 
cincinnati (7-1) had a chance when octavius ellis made a three-point play with 4.7 seconds left, but Jones drove through a crowd for the win­ning basket. he finished with 10 points as the bulldogs won the first game between the schools since the 1997 ncaa tournament. 
ellis had 16 points for cincinnati, which blocked a season-high 10 shots and held a lead for most of the second half with its defense. 
The bulldogs opened with an 11-3 run for their biggest lead. Freshman Jacob evans iii came off the bench and hit a pair of 3s that got the bearcats going, and cincinnati led by as many as six points before tak­ing a 33-28 lead into halftime. 
The bearcats’ defense had an effect, blocking eight shots and holding the bulldogs — one of the nation’s top offensive teams — to 33 percent shoot­ing from the field in the open­ing half. The bearcats rank fourth nationally in defense, holding four of their first eight opponents to 50 points or less. 
cincinnati got the ball inside to start the second half and converted three three-point plays while pulling ahead 50-42. Troy caupain had a 3-pointer and a three-point play during the spurt. 
Forward andrew chrabascz picked up his fourth foul with 13 minutes left, sending butler’s third-leading scorer to the bench for several minutes. he fouled out with 6:51 to go, having scored 11 points. 
dunham led butler’s come­back. his layup off a spin move cut it to 53-51 midway through the half, but evans hit another 3-pointer that blunted the rally. 
The bulldogs got the lead for the first time in the second half when dunham hit back-to-back 3s for a 67-66 advan­tage with 4:44 left. There were six lead changes and two ties down the stretch. 


The observer | THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

W Bball 
conTinued From page 12 
lead for notre dame at 72-70. 
“i was kind of open, and i knew that we needed to shoot it and at least try to get a rebound if it didn’t go it, and i thought i had a decent look, and luckily, it went in,” cable said of the late-game 3. 
“i think maddie’s playing with a ton of confidence right now,” ju­nior guard lindsay allen said. “her 3-point shot is working really well for her. she’s always played really, really hard for us, and so i think we’re really confident whenever maddie’s in the game, and she can give us any spark that we kinda need in the moment.” 
before cable made the 3-point­er, ohio state (4-3) had just gained a 70-69 lead off a free throw from sophomore guard Kelsey mitchell. mitchell, who led the country in scoring last season at 24.9 points per game, paced all players with 27 points, despite not making her first field goal until the beginning of the second quarter. 
however, she came on strong after that as the buckeyes took ad­vantage of poor notre dame play in the second half, when it made just 10 of its 35 attempts from the field (28.6 percent). 
“i thought we shot ourselves in the foot a little more in the sec­ond half,” irish head coach muffet mcgraw said. “i thought we just made some errors that we don’t usually make, turning the ball over, and just allowed a lot of 3s, but overall, i thought we got our composure when we needed to.” 
The irish led by as much as sev­en in the second half but saw ohio state cut into that before taking the lead with 2:11 left on mitchell’s free throw and then tying it back up at 72 on a layup by senior guard ameryst alston with 37 seconds on the clock. 
irish sophomore forward Kathryn westbeld was fouled on notre dame’s next possession and made the second of her two free throws to reclaim the irish lead at 73-72. cable grabbed the rebound off a missed jumper from mitchell, was fouled by the buckeyes to stop the clock with seven seconds left and converted on both her free-throw attempts to make the final score 75-72. 
with Turner and reimer sidelined, mcgraw played a four-guard, one-forward lineup for just about every bit of the 40 min­utes in wednesday’s dogfight, and westbeld was on the court for 35 of those minutes, collecting 14 points and six rebounds. 

despite the shortage of post players, the irish outrebounded the buckeyes, 45-34, though 19 of those 45 came on the offensive glass and several of the 19 during their second-half struggles. notre dame also struggled in contain­ing 6-foot-2 junior forward shayla cooper, who had picked up a dou­ble-double by halftime and totaled 18 points and 15 rebounds in her 36 minutes on the floor. 
“she was a warrior on the glass, and we needed it because they’re a great rebounding team,” buckeyes head coach Kevin mcguff said. “but overall, i thought this was probably her best game.” 
Junior lindsay allen added 20 points, five assists and six re­bounds for the irish. The point guard contributed on defense as well, taking charges on back-to-back possessions with notre dame ahead by just one point in the fourth quarter, taking away layups that would have given ohio state the lead. 
The win, part of the annual big Ten-acc challenge, gave the irish their 14th consecutive victory over current big Ten teams and their 21st consecutive victory in games decided by single digits or overtime. 
it also pitted mcgraw against mcguff, who coached as an assis­tant under mcgraw at notre dame from 1996 to 2002. additionally, irish associate coach niele ivey began her own coaching career as an intern under mcguff at Xavier from 2005 to 2007. 
“i hate it,” mcgraw said of fac­ing mcguff, who is also married to letitia bowen, one of mcgraw’s former players and coaches at notre dame. “i really hate it be­cause we spent so much time to­gether here; we have such a history, with the whole family, with letitia, with the team and our staff. 

“once the game starts, we com­pletely forget, and we’re compet­ing. i don’t think either one of us thinks anything — looking down the sideline, it just doesn’t enter my mind. but before the game was hard, and after the game is hard.” 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 

M Bball 
conTinued From page 12 
horrible job in transition defense. we probably were lucky we were down eight [at the end of the first half]. but second half, we played zone, we stopped the transition, we played great out of our zone, and then our offensive efficiency was fabulous for us.” 
illinois forced the irish to com­mit six turnovers early in the first half and limited them to just six assists in the first 20 minutes. late in the first half, the illini went on a 14-3 run as the irish struggled from the field, hitting on just two of their final 11 field goal attempts to end the half. 
senior guard Khalid lewis, ju­nior guard malcolm hill and junior guard Kendrick nunn all scored seven points to lead the illini to a 41-33 lead at the end of the first half. in the second half, the script was flipped as notre dame limited illinois to just 35.1 percent shooting from the field. brey attributed the improvement in the second half to the switch to a two-three zone. 
“i think playing zone defense helps us on offense,” brey said. “They missed some shots; we were able to get some transition and some easy buckets. i thought demetrius Jackson got comfort­able. There was a lot on him. he was recruited by this place, and i thought the first half he played a little nervous and a little fast. i thought he really bounced back and set the tone for us in the sec­ond half.” 
after scoring just four points in the first half, Jackson was per­fect from the field in the second half, converting on all five of his attempts, including two from be­hind the arc. vasturia, on the other hand, consistently provided the irish with offense, scoring 11 points in the first half and adding an­other 10 in the second. senior for­ward Zach auguste contributed 16 points along with a game-high 14 rebounds, which gave him his fifth double-double of the season. 
“i think Zach was great,” brey said. “i think everyone calmed down in the second half, but you know, when you look at both vasturia and Jackson, when your two guards are playing like that, you have a chance to beat any­body in the country. [sophomore guard] matt Farrell gave us great minutes off the bench. [Junior for­ward austin] Torres stole us some minutes. i thought [sophomore forward bonzie colson] reacted and rebounded well out of the zone well. Zach’s demeanor, his passes out of the post and his decisions to make power moves were fabulous.” 
despite being outscored by the illini 32-13 in bench points, brey praised sophomore guard matt Farrell’s ability to give the offense a change of pace whenever he takes the court. in 23 minutes, Farrell scored 10 points, six of which came from the free-throw line at the end of the game. 
“i think for matt Farrell, he’s been showing signs of really be­ing able to help us, and tonight he played fearlessly,” brey said. “he gave us another ball handler that could just take it off the dribble. he made a couple of plays, even in the first half when we were dying for a bucket, he just drove the ball. we know he can shoot it. he made big free throws at the end. i thought he was better defensively, and that’s an area we talked about him improving.” 
Through the first 9:45 of the sec­ond half, the illini struggled might­ily to find the bottom of the net, converting just two of their first 16 shots. notre dame took advantage of illinois’ offensive woes to take the lead, eventually stretching it to an 80-66 advantage with 32 sec­onds left. 
The illini stormed back in the final half-minute of the game and went on a 13-4 run to close the game. hill scored 10 of illinois’ final 13 to drop the deficit to five points, but there wasn’t enough time for illinois to rally back in the game as notre dame fended off the late comeback attempt to walk away with the win. 

The irish will return to purcell pavilion next Tuesday to host stony brook at 9 p.m. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2015 | The observer 


paid adverTisemenT 


Carson 
conTinued From page 12 
defense: a potential top-10 pick in Jaylon smith, surrounded by a wealth of experienced tal­ent. The idea was simple: led by smith and senior defen­sive lineman sheldon day, we would finally see notre dame run vangorder’s defense to perfection. 
on opening night at notre dame stadium, it looked like it could be the case, when the irish trounced Texas 38-3, racking up four sacks en route to a domi­nant performance. 
but just like the previous year, it was a false dawn for vangorder’s defense. 
a week later, a virginia team — one that got its head coach fired after a 4-8 finish — moved the ball all over the notre dame defense in a game that the irish probably should have lost. 
and in notre dame’s two losses this year, the defense con­sistently put the offense in tough situations. within the blink of an eye at clemson, the irish were down 14-0, and saturday, we saw what may have been the worst performance of the year from vangorder’s unit in the biggest game of the season. 
despite containing stanford’s heisman Trophy candidate, sophomore running back christian mccaffrey, the irish defense still struggled massively on the west coast. The de­fense got out of the gates slowly and couldn’t get off the field saturday, as stanford went 8-for­12 on third downs, including a perfect 5-for-5 performance to start the game. 
while mccaffrey didn’t do too much to hurt notre dame, it was devon cajuste who proved to be the problem. The irish second­ary routinely lost the senior re­ceiver, including on the defining moment of its season, a 27-yard completion between stanford senior quarterback Kevin hogan and cajuste on the final drive, when the cardinal picked up the chunk of yards required to set up the game-winning field goal. 

it was a perfect microcosm of notre dame’s season on de­fense, one filled with so much potential and occasional execu­tion but never finding that four quarters of consistency irish head coach brian Kelly so of­ten spoke of wanting from the defense. 
after Texas, we never really saw vangorder’s defense play his scheme well — the irish fin­ished outside the top 70 nation­ally in sacks, with just 23 on the season — and never saw it play any scheme particularly well. 
and if vangorder couldn’t get it to work with this unit, what are we supposed to expect out of it next year? 
graduate student linebacker Joe schmidt, senior safety elijah shumate, senior defensive line­man romeo okwara and day are all out of eligibility. if smith and russell declare for april’s nFl draft, like most of us think they will, notre dame’s defense will return just five starters from this year’s team when it opens its season in austin, Texas, in september. 
That doesn’t even count graduate student cornerback matthias Farley, whose loss will also likely be felt in a big way. 
vangorder couldn’t get his scheme to work particularly well with an incredibly experienced crew this year — to expect any­thing different next year would be irresponsible. 
i don’t want to explicitly call for vangorder’s head. after all, watching him on the sidelines is a particularly enjoyable part of watching irish football. 
but notre dame came up short of fulfilling its goal this year — and Kelly would be wise to at least evaluate vangorder’s merits prior to 2016. 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



The observer | THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 75, ohio sTaTe 72 
Cable, Allen lead Notre Dame in top-10 win 
By MARY GREEN 
assistant managing editor 
For their second game in a row, the no. 3 irish were tasked with putting away an opponent in a down-to-the-wire game. This time, it came against no. 10 ohio state on wednesday, with notre dame just barely pulling out the 75-72 victory at purcell pavilion. 
however, the challenge was greater wednesday than it was during last saturday’s over­time win against no. 24 ucla because the irish (7-0) were without their two leading post players, junior Taya reimer and sophomore brianna Turner, who are nursing achilles and shoul­der injuries, respectively. 

graduate student guard madison cable stepped in to lead the way by picking up her second double-double in an irish uni­form with a career-high 25 points and 11 rebounds. Fifteen of those points came on 5-of-9 shooting from behind the arc, including a 3-pointer she hit with 56 seconds left in the game to retake a late KAT ROBINSON | The Observer 
Irish graduate student guard Madison Cable searches for a see w bball PAGE 10 teammate during Notre Dame’s 74-39 win over Toledo on Nov. 18. 

FOOTBALL 

Kelly should mull defensive changes 

Alex Carson 
associate sports editor 
if you had to use one word to describe no. 8 notre dame’s defense coming into this year, it had to be “experienced,” right? 
when the irish walked off the team bus in culver, indiana, for training camp in august, they returned 10 starters from last year’s team. only senior cor­nerback Keivarae russell, who was a two-year starter before missing last season due to sus­pension, hadn’t started for notre dame in 2014. 
and with an inexperienced quarterback, who was supposed to be junior malik Zaire, the de­fense should have been an area of strength for notre dame this season, a pillar to lean on with one of the most talented groups in the country. 
but that never panned out. 
when former defensive co­ordinator bob diaco left to take the head coaching job at connecticut two years ago, irish head coach brian Kelly tagged brian vangorder to be his replacement. unlike diaco’s “bend, don’t break” system that worked so well in 2012, and earned him the uconn job, vangorder came in with a dif­ferent attitude: be aggressive. 

and at the start of his tenure, it seemed like vangorder had things figured out. in the first five games of 2014, his defense gave up just 12 points per game and routinely pressured oppos­ing quarterbacks, including the four sacks racked up by the irish against stanford in a key 17-14 win. 
Then everything changed. 

north carolina threw 43 points onto the notre dame stadium scoreboard the next week, everyone got hurt, and suddenly the irish defense that looked so good in september looked so bad in november. 
but this year, there was hope. everyone but cornerback cody riggs was back — and even after senior defensive lineman Jarron Jones went down, vangorder had everything he could have asked for in a 
see carson PAGE 11 
HOCKEY 

irish stress limiting penalties 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
as the no. 20 irish prepare for a weekend series with confer­ence opponent massachusetts, notre dame head coach Jeff Jackson has focused on limit­ing the amount of penalties his team takes, especially as penal­ties have led to more opponent goals in recent games. 
“my biggest thing right now is that we have to play with more discipline,” Jackson said. “There’s gonna be penalties in games regardless. you’re gonna take penalties for physical er­rors. you’re gonna take penal­ties that may be marginal calls. you’re gonna take penalties in different ways, but the ones you have to eliminate are the ones you have control over. as a coach, hindsight is 20/20. we’ve never had an issue with major penalties, but now we’ve had four. and we have to elimi­nate them. you have to call out guys to tell them the next time they’re going to have to miss a game. so it’s gotten to that point.” 
at the end of the second pe­riod in the 4-1 loss to harvard on Friday, the crimson took advantage of a 5-on-3 power play by scoring 5-on-3 and 5-on-4 goals less than a minute apart to turn a tie game into a two-goal lead heading into the third period. in the third peri­od, harvard scored on another power play to cement their three-goal victory over the irish (6-4-4, 3-1-2 hockey east). notre dame took nine penal­ties, all two-minute minors, in the loss to harvard. 
Then in its 3-1 victory over western michigan on saturday, notre dame again had to kill a number of penalties, commit­ting 23 minutes worth, and gave up its only goal on a broncos power play near the end of the second period. 
“it’s not just major penalties though, it’s some of the other penalties as well,” Jackson said. “we’ve considered bad penal­ties anything in the offensive 
see hocKey PAGE 9 

MEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 84, illinois 79 
ND overcomes halftime deficit to snag victory 

KAT ROBINSON | The Observer 

Irish junior guard Steve Vasturia dribbles the ball during Notre Dame’s 86-78 win over Milwaukee on Nov. 21 at Purcell Pavilion. 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
after a 12-year hiatus since the teams’ last meeting, notre dame gave its conference win in the big Ten-acc challenge after defeat­ing illinois, 84-79, at the state Farm center in champaign, illinois, on wednesday. 
The irish (5-2) spoiled the Fighting illini’s (3-5) celebration of the newly refurbished state Farm center as junior guard demetrius Jackson and junior forward steve vasturia each scored 21 points to lead notre dame to a strong second half. after shooting just 46.4 percent from the field in the first half, the irish caught fire in the second half, converting on 57.1 percent of their field goal attempts. 
“i thought we played a little fast in our first road atmosphere,” irish head coach mike brey said. “it was loud, it was electric, and they played great. They played to their crowd. we didn’t do a very good job defensively; we did a 
see m bball PAGE 10 




