The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 47 |  THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Students petition Saint Mary’s 
In wake of Planned Parenthood demonstration last week, students demand College affirm pro-life position 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL and ALEX WINEGAR 
associate saint mary’s editors 
wednesday afternoon, saint mary’s vice president for student affairs karen Johnson sent an email to students in response to events last week “that called into question the faithfulness to the saint mary’s college mission as a catholic, women’s, residential, un­dergraduate college in the liberal arts tradition.” 
last Thursday, the Feminists united club at the college hosted a display of 1,852 flags, each of which represented 10 services offered by planned parenthood not related to abortion. 
The next day, saint mary’s senior mary robin created a petition on the website change. org titled “no more celebration of planned parenthood at saint mary’s college.” as of midnight Thursday night, the petition had 595 signatures. 
robin said the goal of the peti­tion is to encourage the admin­istration to reaffirm the college’s identity as a pro-women, catholic institution, dedicated to educating the truth about the sanctity of life and planned parenthood. 
“This petition is simply asking the administration to stick to the mission and guidelines it is sup­posed to honor in the first place,” she said. “This petition is asking saint mary’s to reaffirm its loyalty to the catholic faith and 
see peTiTion PAGE 5 




Author speaks on fairy tales 
“interesting body of work and “how a mother weaned her 
By ALINE IRIHAMYE 
news writer their interesting approach to girl from Fairy Tales,” “The 
writing.” complete Tales of ketzia gold” 
The creative writing This week’s author was and other fairy tale novels and program welcomed fairy tale selected by professor steve short-story collections. author kate bernheimer on Tomasula, one of the direc-“i think of fairy tales as wednesday evening as this tors of the readings series a kind of language that we week’s guest author. the program sponsors. in his know before we know lan-
Joyelle mcsweeney, the pro-introduction of the author, guage,” bernheimer said. “i gram director of the creative he said kate bernheimer has was drawn to them for their writing program, said the been called “the master of the poetics. not so much as program’s faculty chooses modern fairy tale.” writers each week for their bernheimer is the author of see Fairy Tales PAGE 6 

students to perform ‘pericles’ 
has been a group effort from the 


By COURTNEY BECKER 
news writer beginning. “This semester we took appli-The not-so-royal shakespeare cations and then collaboratively company’s (nsr) performance decided as a group, with our new of “pericles, prince of Tyre” opens freshmen, as well, what play we Thursday night at 7 p.m. in the wanted to do,” she said. “we got a washington hall lab Theatre. lot of response from ‘pericles’ senior liz konicek, the club’s president, said the production see shakespeare PAGE 6 


Philosopher critiques politics of peace 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
associate saint mary’s editor 
philosopher, writer and editor martha nussbaum explored the role of anger in movements led by martin luther king Jr., ghandi, and nelson mandela in a lecture titled “anger and revolutionary Justice” on wednesday as part of the 10th christian culture lecture at saint mary’s. 
nussbaum began the lecture by reflecting on an ancient greek story in which athena persuades the Furies in a city to re-orient themselves and adopt attitudes of benevolence, thus liberating the city with justice because of the transition, she said. 
“political justice does not put a cage around resentment, it must ultimately transform it from something barely human, exces­sively bloodthirsty, to something human,” she said. “ ... anger with all its ugliness is a very popular emotion. many people think it is impossible to carry out justice without anger.” 
nussbaum said many people believe anger is a necessary com­ponent in supporting one’s beliefs and defending self-worth and of­ten involves the idea of ‘payback,’ or retribution. 
see nussbaum PAGE 6 



news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 9 scene PAGE 10 men’s baskeTball PAGE 20 women’s Tennis PAGE 16 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor Business Manager
 Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green 

Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 

Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college. editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What do you want to be after college? 

Dorinda Hackworth 
freshman 
mccandless hall 
“criminal justice lawyer.” 

Katie Quick 
senior 
lemans hall 
“audiologist.” 

Evy Anderson 
freshman 
regina hall 
“nephrology doctor.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Maria Escobedo 
freshman 
regina hall 
“chemical engineer.” 

Shameka Turner 
freshman 
regina hall 
“accountant.” 


Molly Diener 
sophomore 
regina hall 
“music teacher.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
margaret hynds Zach klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
rachel o’grady hunter mcdaniel martha reilly 

Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday
lucy du kelly mcgarry 
Photo Viewpoint 

“The Morality of Silent Retreat Service Event Volleyball vs. Workshop
chris collins scott olehnik 

Capitalism” Moreau Seminary Robinson Community Pittsburgh Brownson Hall Hesburgh Library 5:30 p.m. Learning Center Purcell Pavilion 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 
4:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. Retreat focused on 8:30 a.m.-11:30 a.m. 1 p.m.-3 p.m. Learn how to craft
Corrections 

Steve Forbes delivers silent prayer and Rake leaves for The Irish take on the a compelling grant 
The observer regards itself as a lecture. reflection. community members. Panthers. proposal. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Men’s Basketball vs Volleyball vs. Virginia “Pericles” Gesualdo Quartet Lecture 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

Caldwell Tech Washington Hall Joyce Center 141 DeBartolo Hall
however, recognize that we will make 

Joyce Center Joyce Center 4 p.m.-6 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 5:30 p.m.-6:30 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 

7 p.m.-9 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Production by the Not-Beethoven, performed Dr. Richard Jackson
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 

The Irish take on the Notre Dame squares So-Royal Shakepseare by Notre Dame’s will discuss healthy
we can correct our error. 

Cougars. off with the Hokies. company. Quartet-in-Residence. communities. 


SENATE 

Group discusses Honor Code, amendment 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
student senate met wednesday night to discuss the university’s honor code, last week’s “a Time to heal” dinner and vote on a resolu­tion regarding senate members also being directors in the execu­tive cabinet. 
First year of studies dean hugh page and senior abby davis, co-chairs of the university code of honor committee, gave a brief presentation on the university’s honor code, which is currently un­der review. 
“we’ve actually been working on this for a little over a year and think­ing about what our post-productive next steps would be,” hugh said. 
page said the code is verbose, which can lead to confusion for students. 

“it’s dense and it does not neces­sarily promote the kind of close and sustained reading that one would hope,” he said. “There are codes that are much shorter — codes, for example, like for the united states military academies that are about a sentence or two long. our’s is rather at the extreme opposite end of that spectrum.” 
ideally, the recommendations and changes will be available for the next school year, page said. 
“The best of all possible goals would be for us to recommend our changes before the end of the aca­demic year,” he said. “it may prove to be way too ambitious, but at the very least we’d like to collect all of the community sentiment by the middle of next semester.” 
The senators then discussed the oct. 28 “a Time to heal” dinner, sponsored by the gender relations center and the university counseling center. senators who attended described their experi­ence at the dinner and guided a discussion about the event. 
st. edward’s hall senator John kill said the dinner highlighted a facet of sexual assault that is often neglected in discussion. 
“i think healing is one of the as­pects of sexual violence that we never think about, because we al­ways get caught up in the who or when of the act and then the pro­cedures and prevention,” he said. “but the thing is, it still happens, so it’s important to continue that aspect of healing. There are always people who are going to be vic­tims of sexual violence and dating violence, and let people know this is something people are always struggling with.” 
rebecca blais, director of in­ternal affairs, along with other members of the internal affairs committee, presented a resolu­tion to amend the senate consti­tution. The issue in question was whether senators could also serve as directors to the executive cabi­net. Two senators, John kill of st. edward’s hall and michael Finan of dillon hall, currently serve as directors. directors are nonvoting members of senate, unless they’re also senators, and blais said hold­ing both positions is a potential conflict of interest. 
“by having someone serve as both a director in the executive cabinet and as a senator, that has the potential to give cabinet undue influence in senate,” she said. “Jack [kill] and michael [Finan] have remained unbiased in their votes and they’ve been polite in their voting and abstaining, but noth­ing required them to do that. in the future, if we were to get people who weren’t quite as ethical as them, it could give the cabinet influence that they shouldn’t necessarily have in senate.” 
The resolution passed. 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 
Panel explores impact of gender in the workplace 
By SELENA PONIO 
news writer 
senior kelly mcgee stated the obvious: notre dame students are dedicated to their professional futures. however, these futures could already be influenced by an uncontrollable factor — gender. 
The gender relations center (grc) hosted a dinner and con­versation Tuesday night to dis­cuss the relevance of gender in the workplace. eric love, director of staff diversity and inclusion in the office of human resources, began the conversation by talking about the slow progression of gen­der equality in the workplace. 
“unfortunately, our society’s not moved far enough along yet ... to make external changes outside of individuals,” love said. “it takes a lot of patience, it takes a tough, thick skin sometimes to transform a whole environment. ... i think the end goal is to create a better environment that’s conducive to everybody to do their best work in the workplace.” 
love talked about the impor­tance of diversity in order for creativity and innovation to take place. he talked about his own ex­perience being bi-racial, and how growing up, he was told he would have to work twice as hard to achieve half the credit of his white counterparts. 
“That’s almost the same for transgender [people] and wom­en in sciences. it’s not fair, it’s an unfair burden, but i think we’re making some movement in some areas,” love said. 
victoria goodrich, director of the first-year engineering pro­gram and advisor to the society of women engineers club, talked about the lack of women in sci­ence, technology, engineering and math (sTem) majors. 
“within the college of engineering there are about 30 percent women, which is actually double the national average. but if you go into actual engineering companies it’s about 11 percent women,” goodrich said. “i never had a woman sTem professor as a student until i went into graduate school.” 
maternity leave was another topic brought into the conver­sation. kevin J. burke, assistant professor at the department of language and literacy education at the university of georgia, said the united states is one of the few developed countries that does not mandate paid maternity leave, and even when maternity leave was offered, in many cases the expectation women would not to take it. 
“when i had my daughter, my friends told me they would un­derstand because it happens all the time,” goodrich said. “but i was actually only the second per­son who was in that engineering department that had a child ... so they actually never had this prob­lem. That was just something i had to know and i had to know how to negotiate that.” 
burke said that one of the ways to drive change is through policy and voting. he said change takes smart young people who are com­mitted and willing to do the hard work to make history. 
“history also matters,” he said. “The fact that education is pre­dominantly women has a lot to do with the fact that we’ve been pay­ing women a lot less money and there wasn’t a lot of money in the profession. some of this is about figuring out the history.” 
Contact Selena Ponio at  sponio@nd.edu 


The observer |  THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Panel examines education reform debate 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer 
panelists examined the grow­ing movement to allow families to choose their child’s school Tuesday night in a discussion on school choice titled “To choose or not to choose.” 
The panelists included direc­tor of teacher formation and education policy at the alliance for catholic education, John schoenig, who said he wanted to emphasize the importance of staying true to intentions. 
“i would imagine that the perspectives on what education reform means in the first place is as varied as the number of people in the room. i don’t like giving advice, but i do like con­tradicting myself, so i’ll tell you this: it’s very important that you find ways to decouple, divest, separate ... your purpose and the means to get to your purpose, to effect social change,” he said. 
schoenig said the focus of the movement should be to provide children with the best education possible. 
“we too often allow ourselves to get too tied to the methods to get our things done. what is the purpose you believe in? what you’ll find, if you’re really hon­est with yourself, you’ll say your purpose is making sure that every child has an equal oppor­tunity at education. but your means to get there may change,” schoenig said. 
The change came from a state level due to certain revelations, schoenig said. 
“in 1990, we came to a place where we realized that maybe the state doesn’t need to oper­ate all of the schools it regulates or funds, it’s not that far to say that it doesn’t have to have to operate any school it funds,” he said. “The entire landscape had changed into a choice-based marketplace. it’s probably here to stay, and now it’s about try­ing to figure out how to best deal with it.” 
notre dame mba student steven l’huereux spoke on his experience working in new orleans as an educator in one of the worst-performing areas of louisiana. 
“For the last four years, i’ve been working in charter schools down there. we had to enroll 550 brand new students, and at that point, there was no common ap­plication for all the schools. They would have to travel to a school, fill out the form and it was really difficult,” l’huereux said. 
To solve this problem, the re­covery school district centralized the process through the oneapp, a system designed to streamline the application process, he said. 
“now, you can rank the schools in terms of which ones you want­ed to attend. regardless of where these students lived, they could apply to any school that partici­pated in the oneapp,” l’huereux said. 
This influx of options has af­forded children with more op­tions than they were allowed 40 years ago, according to schoenig. 
“Take the inner city closest to your home and imagine being a marginalized child living there. in almost every one of those in­ner cities, those children have many, many more options to choose than they did 40 years ago,” schoenig said. 

schoenig said education is more than a policy or a social change issue. 
“if today’s conversation is about choice, it’s not really about any of that other stuff, it’s about human dignity,” he said.  “if you think about marginalized children and families in that city and the things they have to decide, the choices they have to make. all of the choices you make every day, to go across the way and get starbucks or to get coffee from elsewhere, these aren’t choices these families can make. The effect of educating by zip code is to deny people the access to choice that we used to have.” 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 




statement is made by the support catholic teach-organizations are granted belle,” baker said. “and since Petition school,” robin said. ings are appropriate and certain privileges such as this year’s core value is com­conTinued From page 1 in yesterday’s email, welcome.” the sponsoring of events; munity, it is important that 
Johnson said in the email the “it is inappropriate for those privileges are ac-we unite as a community to clearly declare its dedication college consistently upholds saint mary’s college student companied by responsibili-recognize, learn from, and to the pro-life, pro-women its catholic mission. clubs and organizations to ties. because saint mary’s respect the unique gifts, tal­movement that planned “as a catholic college, we advocate for or support orga-college is a catholic college, ents and opinions that every parenthood so obviously strive to foster a culture in nizations, agencies or groups among those responsibilities belle brings to the table.” works against.” which faith and reason are that act contrary to church is consistency with catholic robin said the purpose of 
all of the information on cultivated,” she said.  “The teachings. sponsorship of a the petition was not to de­the petition’s webpage was liberal arts tradition calls 
speaker, in and of itself, does grade saint mary’s, but rath­
“It is important 
obtained from students in us to investigate, study and 

not constitute advocacy or er to an attempt to improve the Feminists united club, ponder the very difficult cir-
for us as young support of ideas expressed it. students who witnessed cumstances facing society. 
by the speaker,” Johnson “ ... i believe the level of re-
women to be well-
the display or visited the we do so through the lenses said. sponse speaks to how highly 
educated and then 
Feminists united table and of both faith and reason.” 
saint mary’s student body we all esteem and love our 
given the freedom 
social media posts, includ-Johnson said educa­

president senior kaitlyn school,” she said. “we have ing the post by planned tion can occur outside the 
to think critically baker said in an email to the such high expectations of parenthood action celebrat-classroom in the form of 
college’s students yesterday this beautiful school and 
about what we 

that she initially sought her are so proud of its heritage. ing the display, according to college-hosted lectures, de­
have learned ... ” 
robin. partment- or club-sponsored 

position in order to allow all … it is a painful sight to see she said the petition panel discussions and distri-
Kaitlyn Baker voices to be heard. its most important identity has received support from bution of facts and informa-
Saint Mary’s student body “i also believe that there compromised in such an un­bishop kevin rhoades of the tion through mediums such 
president are two sides to every sto-mistakable way. Fort wayne-south bend dio-as posters or handouts. ry, and in most cases, even “we want our school to be cese, as well as alumnae and in the email, Johnson teachings or to sponsor more than two sides,” baker as bold and courageous as families of students. shared the following three events that advocate posi-said. “it is important for us the students it educates,” 
“The comments on the pe-guidelines, which she said tions contrary to the teach-as young women to be well-robin said. “we expect our tition page have varied from are consistently followed by ings of the catholic church.” educated and then given the school to be so especially joyous gratitude to everyone saint mary’s: concerning the third freedom to think critically when its catholic integrity is signing for this reaffirma-“education at saint mary’s guideline, Johnson said stu-about what we have learned, challenged on such a critical tion of saint mary’s catholic includes examining and dents’ ability to host events form our own opinions and issue. The sisters who found-identity, to sheer sadness critically evaluating con-goes hand-in-hand with a re-stand up for what we believe ed saint mary’s would want and disappointment in this troversial issues from many sponsibility to uphold saint is right.” no less of us and neither will public display of support for perspectives. saint mary’s mary’s mission. along with standing up for our daughters who may want an abortion business, all the supports a long and re-“The co-curricular envi-beliefs, it is also important to come to our alma mater.” way to downright frustra-vered tradition of open di-ronment provides an op-to listen to, learn from and tion — families promising to alogue and free access to portunity for advocacy respect each other, baker Contact Kathryn Marshall at withdraw financial and pub-information.” and support. some student said. kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu lic support for saint mary’s “at a catholic institution, clubs and organizations ex-“we all know that there is and Alex Winegar at  until a positive, pro-life activities that advocate and ist to effect change. student more than one way to be a awine01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



The observer |  THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

“shakespeare seems daunt-made it easier for nsr to push “i didn’t think of fairy tales as 
Shakespeare Fairy tales 

ing and it seems pretentious, boundaries with the more an art form. i was really encour­
conTinued From page 1 conTinued From page 1 

maybe, but shakespeare him-creative aspects of the show, 
aged to leave childish things self, he made crass jokes all leyendecker said. 
behind and childhood and which was, i think, surprising the time,” she said. “he was “our cast is huge,” she 
‘princess-gets-married stories,’ write what people considered to all of us because it’s not a not a pretentious guy. … if you said. “we have 18 people, 
but as stories of survival above to be ‘real’ stories,” she said. well-known play.” see a boring production of one which is big for fitting in the 
all.” however, bernheimer said, The group hopes because the of shakespeare’s comedies, washington hall black box, 
bernheimer said her interest she was never able to shake play is less famous than some they’re doing it wrong.” so what we’re trying to do is 
in fairy tales started when she free from the fairy tale writ-other shakespeare works, one of the club’s biggest ad-focus so much on the cast. … 
was a young child reading at ing form, despite never having more people will to come to vantages, leyendecker said, is we’re trying to really make it 
her local public library. been taught any fairy tale writ-the show and learn more about the huge amount of collabora-a story. … we just kind of want 
“For me, it was a safe haven,” ing technique in school. it, konicek said. tion and effort that goes into this drama and this excitement 
she said. “i could walk there bernheimer said when “we just hope that people the productions. that hopefully get more people 
she was working on her first will be interested because, “nsr has a group of people involved and excited about 
novel, she stumbled upon a 
“I wanted to enter 

quite frankly, i think most of that so much care about the coming to see it.” 
shelf of fairy tale scholarship. us hadn’t heard of ‘pericles,’” club. The people right now she also said the group has 
a story and not bernheimer said this helped she said. “i think that’s going want the club to succeed so enjoyed playing with some of 
be disparaged for her finally embrace writing to be the more pervasive view much, which is really cool,” the more outlandish aspects of 
fairy tales. 
the kind of story I 

on campus … which we’re hop-she said. “it’s kind of a differ-the play itself. 
“what i wanted is what i al­
liked ... ” 

ing means people are going to ent environment to be in than “basically, this show is 
ways wanted when i was a kid want to try something new.” if you’re doing another show shakespeare’s ‘game of 
Kate Bernheimer at the library,” she said. “[i Junior cassidy leyendecker, where it’s just the director and Thrones,’” she said. “There 
writer wanted] to enter a story and not co-vice president of nsr, said the stage manager being in-are just the craziest things [in 
be disparaged for the kind of the club prides itself on mak-volved. This, you have all the it]… and we’ve had a blast do-
and read quietly to my heart’s story i liked ... ” ing shakespeare accessible for officers in it, and everyone is ing it for the past month and 
content and … nobody both-bernheimer said she works to actors and audiences. creating events every week to a half. i’m more excited about 
ered me.” advocate for more acceptance “when you’re getting people get [the] cast together.” the process of it than even per-
soon, bernheimer said she of fairy tales through her own involved, having shakespeare The club has come together forming it.” 
was venturing into the adult writing and through the work is awesome because there to put on an enjoyable show, konicek said the combina­
section of the library and read-of others. are so many people who love konicek said, and has experi-tion of shakespeare’s writing 
ing the brothers grimm and she said fairy tales are often shakespeare, but then you mented with different ideas to and the company’s creative 
other fairy tales. accused of being escapist sto­also have a lot of people who make it unique. collaboration has allowed then 
she said her grandfather also ries, but she appreciates that are afraid of shakespeare,” “we try and push the enve-to craft an exciting and enter-
influenced her love of fairy tales aspect of them. leyendecker said. “we want to lope and try new things, and a taining production. 
from a young age. “i love that they are accused get people involved. it seems lot of it comes down to the fact “you shouldn’t be afraid of 
“my maternal grandfather of the very thing that they are super daunting at first, but that we pride ourselves … on shakespeare, and if you are, 
worked as a freelance publicist about. … let’s embrace the es-once you get into it, our club being collaborative and being then i think the people who’ve 
in boston for disney in the late capist because sometimes you does a really good job of try-a team of students,” she said. been teaching you about it or 
‘60s and ‘70s and he got to take do need to escape a bad situ­ing to ease people into it and “This is really a chance for us all performing it for you might not 
home films,” bernheimer said. ation. ... i’m for escapism and understanding.” to show our talents creatively be doing it right,” she said. “it 
The “technicolor madness” the sometimes radical behavior konicek also said in order and to work together and really may be weird, it may be odd 
and aesthetic experience ap-it takes, and sure, a little bit of to make the performances forge a tight-knit bond. … it’s and unusual and strange as a 
pealed to her as a child, she wishing for luck and for magic fun and entertaining, the club shakespeare as performance, play, but it’s not boring.” 
said. as well,” she said. builds off of the foundation yes, but also shakespeare as 
as a younger writer, shakespeare himself laid when coming together.” Contact Courtney Becker at 
bernheimer said she was en-Contact Aline Irihamye at writing his plays. The club’s size this year has cbecker3@nd.edu 
couraged to write other genres. airihamy@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 
Nussbaum 
king’s [i have a dream] speech, at least at first ... but king gets 
conTinued From page 1 
busy reshaping it to work and 
thought for how could it [anger] 
“The most popular issue in the be made good,” nussbaum said. sphere of criminal justice to-nussbaum said a strategy of day is retribution, that is, the transition anger is necessary, view that the law must punish which she defined as a move-transgressions in a manner that ment from anger with all its de­embodies the spirit of justi-fects into a forward constructive fied anger,” nussbaum said. “ ... form and work. anger is at the heart of revolu-“anger towards opponents is tionary transformation. to be transformed into a mental 
“we think about payback all attitude that carefully separates the time,” nussbaum said. “it is the deed from the doer. ... after very common to think that the all, the ultimate goal, as king proportionality between crime says, is to create the world where and punishment somehow all can live together,” nussbaum makes good. only it doesn’t.” said. 
nussbaum described three mandela also embraced this paths to deal with anger: the method, nussbaum said. path of status, which is self-fo-“payback was natural and cused, the payback path, which easy, mandela took the difficult results in the offender suffer-course. ... a generous spirit was ing, or the better, more rational far more useful for the nation,” spirit of looking forward and ‘do nussbaum said. “mandala what makes sense’ option. asked, ‘how shall i produce co-
This third rational option operation and friendship?’ it requires a stage known as the is this remarkable capacity for “transition stage” and is the generosity that was mandela’s stage used by the three leaders genius. in the transition from anger to “it’s a difficult goal, but it’s passionate hope, she said. that goal that i’m recommend-
one must take courage and ing for both individuals and in-learn from the legacies of three stitutions. anger is a prominent noble, successful freedom threat. ... i hesitate to end with movements conducted in the a slogan that will portray my spirit of non-anger — those age, but it really is time to ‘give of mahatma gandhi, martin peace a chance.’” luther king Jr. and nelson mandela, nussbaum said. Contact Kathryn Marshall at 
“now there is indeed anger in kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



INSIDE COLUMN 
gender bias in sTem 
Megan Uekert 
news writer 
women are supposed to be nice and dainty and take care of the children. in my parent’s genera­tion, that was the normal and accepted. well, it’s not 1980 anymore and women are #flawless, #boss and #rondarousey. we are running the world and kick­ing butt. Though powerful women are on the rise, women in science still lurk in the shadows of disap­proval and stereotype. 
From a young age, i have wanted to become a doctor — a surgeon to be specific. Throughout high school, some family members had discouraged that dream. From some of the men in my family, i had received advice to become a nurse or a physi­cian’s assistant instead. i know those are both very respected careers, but they do require fewer years of education and are female-dominated professions. my male cousin was encouraged to become a doctor, even though i had the better grades. yale university recently published a study suggesting that profes­sional physicists, chemists and biologists are likely to view a young male scientist more favorably than a woman with the same qualifications. well isn’t that just spectacular? men are automatically given the upper hand. There are no studies on how men are biologically smarter than women. 
i have recently begun the process of applying to summer research internships, and many of them prefer minority applicants. being a female is listed as a minority under their description. even though i can use that to my advantage, i much rather prefer to not be viewed as a minority in my field of study. i am even considered a minority at my college. i am one of seven chemistry majors in my class of about 400. i chose saint mary’s because there would be no men to compete with or be discouraged by in my science classes. Fortunately both the male and female sci­ence professors are here to encourage us to succeed in our respective sTem fields. as college students, we need to combat the stereotype and show the men at all institutions that women are as smart and capable. 
women in sTem seem to be given a stereotype. when society thinks of female scientists, either a degrading halloween costume or a homely, chubby nerd comes to mind. both images are incredibly in­accurate and suggest that we can’t be taken serious­ly. nobel prize winner Tim hunt thinks that women are too distracting and too emotionally fragile to be in a scientific setting. From what i have gathered in my college career thus far, some men just don’t want us entering into the realm of sTem. why don’t they want us? They are intimidated by us. we are an up­and-coming superpower that can’t be stopped. we are here to take what is rightfully ours: equal oppor­tunity and the respect we deserve. we are after their jobs. The gap has gotten narrower in the past decade but women still only hold a fourth of all sTem doc­torates. we need to demolish this gender-biased field by encouraging young girls to pursue sTem and by being the powerful and smart women that we are. 
watch out men, we aren’t as hesitant to join the sTem field as we once were. society is beginning to realize that we are as intelligent and overpowering as you. we will be the ones to cure cancer, the ones to relate quantum gravity to the origin of the uni­verse, the ones to develop life-saving technology and the ones to bring peace to the world. 
Contact Megan Uekert at  muekert01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not nwwecessarily those of The Observer. 

To fight inequality, first understand the problem 
Patrick Kearney 
bridging the gap 
in bridgend’s last viewpoint column, liam dalton proposed that the key to enacting serious and expedi­ent solutions to income inequality was to revamp our nation’s campaign finance regulatory system, starting with overturning the 2010 supreme court case, citizens united v. Federal election commission. i am not con­vinced such action would produce the results we desire. 
First, proponents of dalton’s view too easily dismiss controversies that legal theorists have debated for de­cades. There are legitimate constitutional questions regarding the interplay between first amendment guarantees of free speech and the government’s ability to regulate campaign donations. For today’s purposes, however, let’s assume these questions are not an issue. 
put simply, would overturning citizens united result in a transformation of our electoral system such that it would alleviate the problem of income inequality? 
citizens united is nothing unique, but only the lat­est in decades of cases regarding the constitutional limits of campaign finance law. however, prior to the 1974 case of buckley v. valeo, congress was allowed virtual free reign in the realm of campaign finance, and crafted policy very much in line with the views of democratic sen. bernie sanders today. The liberal exercise of these powers was embodied most fully in the Tillman act of 1907, which fully prohibited mon­etary contribution to national political campaigns by corporations. 
was the electoral system idyllic under such regu­lations? hardly. in the twenty years following the adoption of the Tillman act, monetary expenditures in national elections quadrupled. what’s more, the “roaring Twenties” saw the highest levels of income in­equality in the 20th century, casting doubt on dalton’s assumption that campaign finance regulation would necessarily allow for the expedient solution of the problem. 
This disconnect between cause and supposed effect continues on to the present. campaign finance regula­tion tightened for decades with the establishment of the Federal election commission and the enactment of the hatch act, smith-connally act and Taft-hartley act. Then, beginning in the mid-1970s, the supreme court ushered in an era of deregulation, culminating in the citizens united case of 2010. Throughout both of these time periods, national campaign expenditures have relentlessly skyrocketed and the nation has endured rising and falling levels of income inequality. 
even if we were to imagine a scenario like dalton rec­ommends, would the results be valuable? imagine that the Tillman act was not only reinstated, but strictly en­forced and entirely complied with. history has already shown us this would do nothing to change the role that money plays in our electoral system, and thus would undoubtedly fail to end the modern phenomenon of the “endless campaign.” 
as dalton noted, house members, with their two-year terms, are geared especially towards “optimal democratic response.” let’s make the bold assumption that reenacting the old systems of campaign finance regulation would free politicians of the burdens of elite corporate monetary interests and allow them to turn their attention entirely to the task of representing the average voter. would politicians then in fact be spurred on to solve our current dilemma of income inequal­ity? dalton claims “the vast majority of americans are dissatisfied with the way income and wealth are dis­tributed,” but recent studies may point in a different direction. 
experts at the brookings institution note that americans have always historically felt dissatisfied with income distribution in the country, but that 2009 marked a historic low for such disapproval. what’s more, the report noted, “in early 2011 gallup polling that asked for an open-ended response to the question of what is america’s most important problem, just one percent said inequality, well below pressing issues like ‘lack of respect for each other’ and ‘foreign aid,’ to name just two.” 
if the solution to income inequality is to come by way of public fervor and grassroots movement, we may be in for a long wait. perhaps, in the end, it is not entirely surprising that campaign finance reform has never historically solved the issue of income inequality. The situation, however, does beg some serious questions. why is it that politicians seemingly concern themselves with policy that benefits the few over the many? why is it that over the past century, corporations and spe­cial interests have bothered to spend tens of billions of their own dollars in attempting to influence congress? why is it that six of the ten wealthiest counties in the nation are centered around the capital, and that d.c. remains the most expensive city in the country? There is an undeniable glut of money and power festering within washington, and the consequences of that glut have rarely been beneficial for “main street america.” perhaps instead of attempting to shut the money valve off via campaign finance regulation — a solution that has never produced tangible results — we should begin asking ourselves hard questions about when and how this became a problem. 
dalton’s points are not without merit. campaign fi­nance reform is a worthy matter of discussion, both in its proper role within our constitutional regime and in the place it has in facilitating just elections that fairly represent the will of the people. however, it is my sense that as far as income inequality is concerned, some digging remains to be done. The issue is enormously complex, and ingrained in our nation’s economic and social fabric. Tackling it will require a comprehensive and systemic approach. To this end, i am proud of the work that bridgend has done thus far this semester. The discourse we work to foster is the first step in reach­ing beyond ideological lines and producing substantive solutions. 
Patrick Kearney is the vice president of BridgeND and a senior living in St. Edward’s Hall. He majors in political science with a minor in constitutional studies. BridgeND is a bipartisan student political organization that brings together Democrats, Republicans and all those in be­tween to discuss public policy issues of national impor­tance. The club meets Tuesday nights from 8–9 p.m. in the McNeil room of LaFortune Student Center. Contact BridgeND at bridgend@nd.edu or by following them on Twitter @bridge_ND. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the 
author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



when i was kicked out of my dorm 
Christopher Damian 
ideas of a university 
i deserved it. There’s no doubt in my mind that it was a decision of retributive justice. i had broken the rules, and removal from my dorm was a reasonable response. 
at the time i had a number of personal issues. i didn’t have the psychological, intellectual, social or spiritual resources to manage some of the most dif­ficult aspects of my life. i acted out. 
in light of what i had done, my rector, a priest, made the decision that i was to be transferred to another dorm. The decision was fine. The way it was handled wasn’t. he never asked to meet with me to discuss this decision. The only meeting we had was initiated by me and consisted largely of me trying to explain myself. later, the decision to remove me from my dorm was first communicated to me by an­other student that my rector had been speaking with. it was humiliating. 
when i had that self-initiated meeting with my rector, he told me the ways in which a student in spiritual direction was troubled by what i had done. i think it was an attempt to make me feel guilty. he didn’t need to do that. i had already been so ashamed that i spent a few nights sleeping in the library, afraid to be in my dorm. The pain and shame weren’t over with that decision, though. Just before the next semester started, my former rector emailed me asking me to refrain from entering my former dorm, even to attend mass. 
i thought of this experience a few years later while learning about the ways in which catholic social teaching can permeate business practice. in pro­moting a “logic of gift,” in contrast to the relativistic “logic of the market,” dr. michael naughton points to a montreal food processing company. at that com­pany, if a manager fires an employee, he must meet with the former employee twice within the next sev­en months. The ceo of the company explained two motivations for this requirement: “1) it transcends the ‘fault’ issues, giving space to the very human experience of asking someone, ‘how are you doing?’ and 2) when people are fired or laid off by their man­ager, a deep rift is formed. The ceo wanted to create an opportunity for reconciliation.” 

it seemed to me that the primary goal of my re­moval was to get rid of a problem — me — rather than to provide a space for healing and eventual reconciliation. perhaps my rector hoped that healing could occur, but the mode he chose to facilitate that healing was to remove me from my home and to nev­er check on me again. i don’t remember him asking me if i was ok or how i was doing. From my perspec­tive, it seemed he wanted to maintain a certain order in his dorm community, and, as a threat to that or­der, i needed to be gotten rid of. i would just become someone else’s problem. From a certain perspective held in many american catholic circles, this solu­tion doesn’t surprise me. i’ve seen it implemented in catholic dioceses across the country, some of which have gone bankrupt. 
years later, there’s nothing that can be done about what i experienced. i still carry some of the scars, and they sometimes hurt when touched. but in some ways the experience has been valuable, not because i believe the situation was handled well or correctly, but because it’s made me much more sympathetic to students in situations similar to my own. and it’s made me tougher, both as a friend and as a legal ad­vocate. i’ve worked as a student attorney with people convicted of sex trafficking, drug trafficking and murder. my understanding of human failure and forgiveness, even my own failures and forgiveness, has very much been shaped by this work. 
in many ways, i find myself challenged by a calling for collaborative and reconciliatory solutions that include the person who committed the harm, those who were harmed and their respective communities. pope Francis argues that punishment must come with a posture of mercy and communion, rather than isolation. during his visit to the united states, he stated that we must “offer encouragement to all those who are convinced that a just and necessary punishment must never exclude the dimension of hope and the goal of rehabilitation.” 
you may not have the notre dame experience you dreamed of. For some, it’s a nightmare at times that lingers even after graduation, but be strong. own up to your mistakes, and even if you have failed at times, don’t give up. others will rely on you to know that they can too. 
Christopher Damian graduated from Notre Dame in 2013. He is currently pursuing a J.D. and an M.A. in Catholic Studies at the University of St. Thomas. He can be contacted through his blog at universityideas.wordpress.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

China policy violates Catholic Social Teaching 
This letter is in response to the announcement made by university president dr. John Jenkins that notre dame is reversing its policy of not making products in china, a country which — in violation of catholic social teaching — does not allow freedom of association for workers. given that Jenkins cites catholic social Teaching several times in his rationale and that teaching catholic social Teaching is my vo­cation (i have taught it every semester at notre dame for 25 years), it seemed that i would be remiss if i did not respond. 
Jenkins does not argue that china’s policy against freedom of association fits with catholic social teach­ing. rather, he argues that notre dame, in making products in china, would not violate “the principle of cooperation with evil.” in this case, the evil of de­nying workers their rights. This reasoning is deeply flawed on a number of points, and they are worth enumerating. 
First, the principle of cooperation with evil deals with third parties whose actions happen to overlap with the evil actions of a primary acting party. The principle raises the question of the culpability of the third parties in those bad acts. however, in the case of production in china, notre dame is not a third party; it is notre dame (and not someone else) who is contracting to have the work done in china. in other words, notre dame, along with the government of china, is a primary party to the act (and there can be more than one primary party). 
sometimes it is helpful to use a dramatic example to illustrate. mr. smith wants to go to a shooting range to practice his riflery. however, the owner of the range says they only use human targets. mr. smith decides to shoot anyway. is he a third party simply because he didn’t make the rule that there be only human tar­gets? This is an extreme example, yes, but the excul­patory logic is the same as that given in Jenkins’ letter. both the university of notre dame and the govern­ment of china are primary parties in the production of notre dame apparel in china. The argument that notre dame is some kind of bystander does not hold. 

second, Jenkins writes with gravity regarding the situations that prompt an appeal to the principle of cooperation with evil: “in a world that is in many ways morally compromised, we often are faced with vexing questions about the morally acceptable degree and manner of cooperation with imperfect, objection­able practices.” phrasing the issue this way makes it appear as if notre dame does not have other options. The fact of the matter is that the policy against pro­duction in china had been in place for fifteen years, and notre dame has successfully been making prod­ucts elsewhere. There was and is no shortage of notre dame products. Therefore, the university is under no compulsion to produce in china. The principle of cooperation with evil applies when there are not other viable options. Jenkins’ use of the principle, therefore, is a misappropriation of it. 
Jenkins suggests that the motive is to improve the conditions of workers in china, but this reasoning is problematic. notre dame produces a finite amount of product. To produce in china (where there is no recognition of freedom of association) therefore takes away from production in those countries where there is recognition of freedom of association. in other words, if our concern is the overall well-being of work­ers, then the new china policy actually makes things worse. 
Third, in appealing to the principle of cooperation with evil to navigate around catholic teaching on freedom of association, Jenkins has effectively gut­ted the whole of the university’s code of conduct. if it is legitimate to apply the principle in the way that Jenkins does to freedom of association, then it is also legitimate to apply it to situations where there is compulsory overtime, unsafe working conditions, or forced labor, because, the reasoning would go, notre dame does not create those conditions, we only make products in them. 
The new policy violates catholic social teaching. This in itself is not new to university conduct. There are any number of university practices that do not fit with catholic teaching. more troubling is the use of catholic teaching to justify practices that contravene that teaching. i do not in any way doubt Jenkins’ sin­cerity or intellectual acuity, and there can be legiti­mate differences in the application of a principle, but that principle is not infinitely pliable. i understand the symbolic cost involved, but it would have been more direct simply to state that the university has decided not to abide by catholic teaching on the issue. earlier articulations by the committee that made the recom­mendation to Jenkins to change the policy reasoned in just this way; Jenkins’ letter itself refers to the com­mittee basing its case on “other criteria” than those of catholic social teaching. it would have been best just to leave it at that. 
Todd Whitmore 
associate professor Theology 


The observer |  THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

LUCY DU | The Observer 

The observer |  THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
scene writer 
one of the most odd side-effects of social media is the number of brands that have assumed the casual, light­hearted voices of teenagers. corporate Twitter accounts in 2015 are more like­ly to borrow slang and piggyback on memes than tweet anything overtly re­sembling advertising. The best (worst?) example is denny’s, whose social me­dia strategy roughly mimics a subur­ban teenager’s Tumblr. on halloween this year, the diner chain’s account tweeted, “last minute costume idea: sexy pancake.” it received nearly 1,400 retweets. There’s something particu­larly insidious about this kind of mar­keting, especially its obscuration of the fact that these are large corporations trying to make money and not just an­other friend in your social media feed. 
perhaps the best satire of the absur­dity of this kind of corporate market­ing is nathan Fielder’s genius comedy central series “nathan for you.” it is a quasi-reality series, the basic premise of which is that Fielder, who claims to have graduated from “one of canada’s top business school with really good grades,” offers his business expertise to help struggling small businesses. 

expertise is an overstatement — the title sequence shows his college tran­script, which is littered with mostly bs and cs. 
Fielder did attend business school, but on “nathan for you” he plays a vastly exaggerated version of himself who tries to convince business owners to go along with his terrible ideas. The show’s nathan is nervous and awkward around other people, but deadly ear­nest about his ridiculously harebrained schemes. in the show’s third season, his business ideas have become even more absurd, with nathan having be­come a master at devising intricate plots that exploit legal loopholes and seek attention by any means possible. 
in “electronics store,” this season’s excellent premiere, nathan devises a plan to help speer’s electronics, a small local store in pasadena, compete with national chains. he proposes tak­ing advantage of best buy’s aggressive price match policy. if speer’s drops the price of their Tvs to $1 for a short time, nathan explains, they could buy up all of best buy’s stock for cheap and resell them. This initial pitch reveals the depths of nathan’s delusions, as his voiceover explains how excited the business owners are about his ideas, even as their faces almost always reflect hesitance. nonetheless, the owners ultimately agree to nathan’s scenarios — after all, the presence of a camera crew seems to reinforce his au­thority as a business expert. 
From there, nathan goes to work spinning an ever-more complicated web. in “electronics store,” he designs and prints flyers announcing the $1 sale, and creates a complicated maze, involving a tiny door and an alliga­tor, to prevent customers from actu­ally reaching the room where these Tvs are being sold. nathan then hires people to try to purchase the Tvs from best buy and threatens a class-action lawsuit when the employees refuse to honor the price match policy. To find a witness to strengthen his case, nathan invents a fake dating show in order to meet a best buy employee and have her admit on camera that the store often refuses to honor its policy. The show is densely-packed for a half-hour comedy with evidence of how far nathan is will­ing to go to ensure his plans succeed. 
what is most brilliant about “nathan for you” is how it pushes the idea of corporation as friend to its most ab­surd extreme. nathan is almost al­ways searching for connection beyond just business relationships; he con­stantly conflates the personal and the professional. at the beginning of “electronics store,” nathan asks the electronics store’s owner if he’s in a relationship or has any other com­mitments. “i’m not in a relationship either,” nathan reveals, “so we can both work on this full time.” nathan’s desperation is frequently cringewor­thy, as is his misguided notion of con­stantly involving his personal life in his business. 
This season’s “horseback riding/ man Zone” arrives at a similar con­clusion. after executing a plan to al­low overweight people to ride horses, nathan congratulates the stable’s own­er and tells her, “This is how you will be remembered when you die.” The owner objects, saying she would rather be remembered for her world cham­pionships, her horses and dogs and her photography. nathan is steadfast though: “i truly believe this and only this will be your legacy.” it’s an affir­mation of, Tv critic erik adams writes, “nathan’s trust in the benevolence and virtue of brands and businesses.” in the age of the brand as hip social media friend, “nathan for you” acknowledges just how ridiculous that idea can be. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at        mmunhall@nd.edu 


LAUREN WELDON and LUCY DU | The Observer 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy 

SUDOKU | The mepham group 


FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

Happy Birthday: make changes based on need, not on emotion. it’s important to justify your actions if you want to come out on top. There will be plenty of opportunities through people you have worked with in the past, as well as paybacks from those you have helped along the way. your innovative, relentless search for answers will result in success. your numbers are 3, 17, 24, 29, 35, 37, 43. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): pick up your pace and get back on track. don’t be idle. learn new skills or take on a mental challenge that will help you choose a suitable direction. set goals and strive to reach them. negotiations will favor you. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): emotional situations will escalate if you let words take over instead of letting your actions speak for you. show the people around you how much you respect and care for them. your humble and understanding approach will result in unexpected favors. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): get your home in order. it’s important to secure your position and mark out your territory when dealing with people who might be inclined to take advantage of you. a deal can be made, but consider the motives involved before you agree. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): check out the way others live or do things and incorporate the things that work into your lifestyle. a couple of subtle changes will make you more comfortable and add to your convenience. a day trip will be enlightening. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you’ll face opposition at home. you are best to stick to professional tasks and let your personal situations calm down a bit. go back to the drawing board and look for alternate ways to present what you want to do. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): observe and take a wait-and-see attitude when it comes to dealing with the people you see every day at home or at work. using your intelligence and practicality will help you make the right decisions. romance is encouraged. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): concentrate on what you can do to collaborate with the people who share your concerns for your community or the environment. you can make a difference if you fight for change. a passionate and sincere plea will get good results. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): an unusual situation will play out in your favor. Talking to people who have experience, knowledge or something to offer will help you make a decision that could alter the way you move forward regarding a trip or home improvement. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): be careful not to make promises you cannot keep. Too much of anything will backfire, causing you unwanted trouble with someone you deal with daily. don’t embellish a story or you will be held accountable. Focus on personal changes. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): an unusual prospect will turn into a moneymaker. review your plans and put them into motion. don’t get involved in a joint venture or with anyone who is unreliable or constantly changing his or her mind. pick and choose your battles. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): listen attentively, but don’t be too quick to follow someone else’s lead. make changes that will improve your personal or professional partnerships. Take a disciplined approach to your goals in order to raise your standard of living. choose your words wisely. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): your unusual ideas and persistent attitude will put you in the spotlight. not everyone will agree with you, but as long as you follow your heart and are honest about your intentions, you will do okay. romance is encouraged. 

Birthday Baby: you are determined and dedicated. you are fearless and adaptable. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FOR SALE FOR RENT 

Executive family home in the country on 10 acres, IVY QUAD 3 BR 2 BA Garage washer/dryer, finished pole barn, 5 bed 3 ½ bath Edwardsburg granite, furnished, walk to campus grocery. Ideal for schools, 68620 Leet Rd. Niles, MI 269-684-0885 family, grad students. Available 6/1/2016 Tom 215 $354,900 913-9191 
To
 receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable to and mail to: The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 
address 
city     state Zip 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 
esports becoming global player 
Brett O’Connell 
sports writer 
over the weekend, leg­endary korean midlaner lee “Faker” sang-hyeok led his team sk Telecom T1 to its second league of legends world cham­pionship. in front of a live crowd of 15,000 and a digital audience of roughly 27 million, Faker and his teammate of many years, Jang “marin” gyeong­hwan, became the first ever two-time league of legends world champions 
— an impressive feat in an esport that has seen four different champions in five years of international play. 
admittedly, this highlight may seem misplaced in a sports column — and on a traditionally-construed sports page, it would cer­tainly raise more than a few eyebrows. but we are reaching a point of no return when it comes to esports in the media. as sports journalists, it seems increasingly irresponsible to ignore an outlet with such a significant presence in the global media. 
These aren’t your father’s professional video games 
— headlined by dusty lan parties in the basements of american convention centers and playing host to hobbyists who, after their day in the esports sun, return to their day jobs as accountants or lobbyists or students. Today, the es-ports scene is dominated by young adults (almost exclusively men, in the case of league of legends) whose gaming pursuits are their careers. 
This may seem difficult to believe. These profes­sional gamers are barely old enough to graduate college (in fact, some have taken leave from their edu­cations in order to pursue careers in professional gaming — an aspect of esports that draws direct comparisons to traditional sports such as football and basketball). and yet, it is estimated that the most successful professional league of legends players, such as danish american midlaner soren “bjergsen” bjerg, make anywhere be­tween $20,000 and $40,000 per month simply from streaming their daily games on services such as Twitch.tv. For those of you keeping score at home, that’s roughly $360,000 a year before taxes (but also before counting profes­sional earnings and con­tractual wages earned from Team solomid, the north american team that bjerg plays for). 
additionally, esports such as league of legends have built an incredible infrastructure around the game that broadcasts pro­fessional matches, hosts weekly programs featuring professional analysis and discussion and sells mer­chandise associated with professional teams and players. all of this — this development of a broader culture around the activity itself — strikes me as eerily familiar. 
nobody is arguing that esports as a whole — let alone league of legends in particular — have the same sort of draw as, say, the nFl. i am not attempt­ing to reconcile or elucidate the fundamental differ­ences between esport and traditional sport, nor am i seeking to insert esports into the american sport­ing canon. still, i can’t help but wonder if it’s time for sports journalists to start paying attention when next year’s league of legends world championship rolls around. 
with media outlets like the new york Times and the bbc already getting in on the action, it seems that the world of journalism is starting to warm to the idea of discussing esports seri­ously — and i would like to board that train before it picks up too much steam. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NBA | wiZards 102, spurs 99 
Wizards top Spurs on Beal’s last-second 3-pointer 
Associated Press 
washingTon — bradley beal made a 3-pointer with 
0.3 seconds remaining to lift the washington wizards to a 102-99 victory over the san antonio spurs on wednesday night. 
beal finished with 25 points and John wall had 17 points and 13 assists for washington. wall had 13 points in the fourth quarter, and the duo scored the wizards’ last 15 points. 
otto porter added 19 points to help washington win its second straight over san antonio dating back to last season. The spurs had previ­ously won 17 straight against the wizards. 
kawhi leonard led san antonio with 23 points and Tony parker scored 11 of his 17 points in the fourth quar­ter. lamarcus aldridge had 10 points and 14 rebounds for the spurs, who committed 21 turnovers and had their three-game win streak snapped. 
after losing their lead late in the fourth quarter, the spurs tied it three times, the last coming when parker sank a 3-pointer from the right wing to make it 99-all with 7.9 sec­onds left. 
The wizards called two timeouts in setting up their inbounds play. eventually they got the ball to wall, who dribbled and found beal in the right corner, where he sank his shot over a leaping defender. 
The wizards, who had an early 17-point lead, used an 11-3 run to take their first lead since the first quarter to set 
up the final sequence.  
They  closed  within  one  
when  marcin  gortat  took  
wall’s  full-court  feed  and  

dunked over the leaping danny green. Two posses­sions later, wall’s 3-pointer from the left corner tied it at 90-all before beal’s dunk fol­lowing a transition feed from porter made it 92-90. 
Tip-ins: 
spurs: F Tim duncan played in his 1,336th nba game, moving ahead of gary payton for 10th all-time. . parker made his 1,000th nba start. . The spurs made their first 11 free throws before boris diaw missed the first of two with 33 seconds remaining in the third quarter. 
wizards: The wizards have allowed at least 50 points in every first half this sea­son after allowing 51 to the spurs. . wall’s 13 assists were his most since registering 14 at memphis on april 4 last season. 
Baker’s Box 
new washington nationals manager dusty baker received a hearty ovation when he was shown on the videoboard sit­ting in a lower-level suite with general manager mike rizzo. baker will be officially un­veiled at a press conference Thursday. 
Up next: 
spurs: host charlotte on saturday night. 
wizards: visit boston on Friday. 
NBA | pacers 100, celTics 98 
George, Pacers squeak past Celtics for second win 
Associated Press 
indianapolis — george hill said the difference during the pacers’ last two games was obvious. 
“playing together more, not just on the offensive end but on the defensive end,” said hill, who scored 10 points. “we have been helping each other and communicating a lot better and being there for one another. as long as we do that, we will be a pretty solid team.” 
george had 26 points and 10 rebounds, Jordan hill added 16 points and 10 boards, and indiana beat the boston celtics 100-98 on wednesday night. 
monta ellis made two free throws with 13.7 seconds left to snap a 98-all tie after he was fouled by avery bradley. 
“we drew a play up that paul (george) was going to fake the screen and slip out and he was coming full steam and got caught up in a bad position,” ellis said. 
bradley then missed a poten­tial winning 3-point attempt for the celtics (1-3). 
“They forced us out of the play we were trying to run and isaiah (Thomas) still made a great play,” bradley said. “he drove and they double-teamed him and i tried to shoot a last-minute 3 up and george hill played great defense.” 
george, who recorded his sec­ond double-double of the sea­son, felt he needed to get some more shooting in and arrived at the arena around 2:30 p.m. he said he took a few hundred shots to get back into a better shooting rhythm. 
The workout translated to his best performance of the season, shooting 8 of 18 from the field, including 5 of 11 from beyond the arc. 
indiana had led by as much as 10 points in the first half, but boston slowly chipped away and overtook the pacers at 62-61 on Jared sullinger’s 3-pointer with 
4:52 to play in the third quarter. 
isaiah Thomas led boston with 27 points on 9-of-19 shooting, while bradley added 21 points. 
george found his shooting stroke and scored six points during an 8-0 run by the pacers in the first quarter just as the celtics missed seven straight. The indiana lead was 19-11. 
boston’s shooting improved as the game went on and the celtics utilized a 7-0 run midway through the fourth quarter to take an 82-78 lead, their largest of the game. 
The pacers immediately re­sponded with an 11-2 run, capped by hill’s jumper. 
Tip-ins: 
celtics: boston started amir Johnson, sullinger and Thomas in place of davidlee, Tyler Zeller and marcus smart, who was out with a mysterious left big toe injury. . r.J. hunter scored his first profession­al basket with 5:16 to play in the second quarter. his father, ron, was in attendance. he coached pacers guardgeorgehill atiupui. 
pacers: glenn robinson iii saw his first action of the season. The second-year forward totaled 10 points and a pair of rebounds in his 19:12 minutes of action. . Jordan hill started in place of the injured c.J miles for the second time this season. 
Pounding the Boards 
For the first time this season, indiana outrebounded its oppo­nent, finishing with a 53-49 ad­vantage. The pacers had a 24-11 edge in second-chance points. 
Quotable 
“in all sincerity, my most mem­orable moments in this area have not been in green yet. my most memorable moments have been in blue (as butler university’s coach). we beat indiana as the no. 1 team in the country. we finally got off the snide with me here last year in march.” — celtics coach brad stevens on being back at bankers life Fieldhouse. 



NHL | blues 6, blackhawks 5 (oT) 
Blues beat Hawks on OT winner 
Associated Press 
chicago — vladimir Tarasenko scored at 3:54 of a whistle-free overtime to give the st. louis blues a 6-5, come-from-behind win over chicago on wednesday night, hand­ing the defending champion blackhawks their first home loss this season. 
Tarasenko, who also had an assist, beat corey crawford on the glove side from the slot for his seventh goal after taking a nifty behind-the-back center­ing pass from alex pietrangelo. 
alexander steen scored twice goals, and robby Fabbri, Jay bouwmeester and david backes each had a goal and an assist in regulation for st. louis, which allowed more than three goals for the first time this season. 
patrick kane, brent seabrook, Teuvo Teravainen and andrew shaw each had a goal and an as­sist and marko dano — recalled from the minors on monday 
— got his first goal to help the blackhawks take a 5-2 lead af­ter one period. chicago hadn’t scored more than four times in a game this season. 
after a sloppy start that saw them fall behind by three in the first period, the blues roared back tied it at 5-5 in the second on goals by steen, bouwmeester and backes. 
steen scored his second goal of the game on a deflection at 3:11 of the second to trim chicago’s lead to 5-3. 
left wide open, bouwmeester got a power-play goal from the hashmarks with 2:48 left in the second. backes tied it with 34 seconds remaining, fooling crawford with a shot from a sharp angle. 
shaw scored on a penalty shot against st. louis goalie brian elliott, who was pulled twice in the first period and gave up four goals on 15 shots. Jake allen entered the game for a second time with 2:16 left in the first and finished with 27 saves. 
crawford stopped 23 shots for chicago. 
elliott left briefly at 6:35 of the first after allowing three goals on chicago’s first six shots. he returned to the net after 41 sec­onds and speaking with coach ken hitchcock on the bench. 
elliott went to the dressing room with 2:16 remaining in the first and 35 seconds after permitting seabrook’s goal that made it 4-2. elliott didn’t re­turn to the bench, but the blues didn’t disclose why. 
st. louis forward steve ott left late in the second period with an upper-body injury. 
after a 3-0 loss at home to los angeles on Tuesday, the blues’ chartered flight was di­verted to milwaukee because of fog and they continued by bus to their chicago hotel. The blues arrived at about 4 a.m. on wednesday and looked groggy in the first period. 
dano opened the scoring 
2:08 in, connecting from the slot after a st. louis turnover. 
The blues tied it just 54 seconds later when colton parayko’s shot from the left point glanced off steen’s leg and sailed past crawford. 
shaw was awarded his pen­alty shot at 4:37 after parayko hooked him from behind on a breakaway. shaw beat elliott on the stick side. 
Teravainen made it 3-1 at 6:35 — and briefly chased elliott — when he swatted in a rebound of Trevor’s daley’s shot from the left point. 
Fabbri cut it to 3-2 with 4:48 left in the period on a screened shot from the right circle. 
seabrook made it 4-2 from the left point with 2:51 left., and kane beat allen 43 seconds lat­er on a screened shot from the left circle just 8 seconds into a chicago power-play. 
chicago outshot st. louis 14-7 in the scoreless third. 
noTes: chicago last scored five goals in a period on march 5, 2010, in a 6-3 win over vancouver. ... shaw’s penalty shot was the second of his ca­reer. he was stopped last season by ottawa’s craig anderson. ... chicago F marian hossa missed his second game with a lower-body injury. ... blues d kevin shattenkirk sat out his his 10th, also with a lower-body injury. ... dano, acquired in a June 30 in a trade that sent brandon saad to columbus, played his second game for the blackhawks af­ter they sent slumping forward bryan bickell to rockford of the ahl. 

NBA | cavaliers 96, knicks 86 
LeBron lifts Cavs past Knicks, extends win streak 
Associated Press 
cleveland — lebron James scored 23 points and did some quick tailoring on cleveland’s tight, sleeved uniforms, mo williams scored 22 and the cavaliers won their fourth straight, 96­86 over the new york knicks on wednesday night. 
James made a 3-pointer and dunked off a nice pass from williams while scor­ing 11 in the fourth quarter, when the cavs outscored the knicks 26-17. 
Tristan Thompson grabbed 13 rebounds and kevin love had 12 rebounds for cleveland, which hasn’t lost since opening night in chicago. 
carmelo anthony scored 17 and rookie kristaps porzingis 13 for the knicks, who were even at 75-all in the fourth when James went to work. 
cleveland’s star capped a 12-4 spurt with a 3-pointer 
—
 just his second this season 

—
 to give cleveland an 87­79 lead with 4:01 remaining. later, he blasted down the lane and thundered home his dunk off a great look from williams. 


James, who earlier this week became the youngest player in league history to reach 25,000 points, had an off-night from the field, go­ing just 9 of 23. 
he might have an excuse. 
during the first half, an irritated James performed an in-game alteration on cleveland’s new sleeved jer­seys. The four-time mvp, who has complained in the past that the retro-looking tops are too tight for his arms and shoulders, tore the sleeves open midway through a 4-of­11 shooting performance in the opening 24 minutes. 
The cavs were wearing the black, body-hugging uni­forms for the first time. 
James has never liked the sleeved jerseys, intro­duced by the nba as an al­ternate look two seasons ago. Following a loss to san antonio in 2014 when he was with miami, James said the uniforms restricted his arms and shoulders, making it dif­ficult to shoot. 
down by 15 in the first quarter, the cavs didn’t take their first lead until late in third quarter when matthew dellavedova fed Thompson with a lob for a dunk, giving cleveland a 70-69 lead. 
Tip-ins 
knicks: new york shot 62 percent (13 of 21) to open its 15-point bulge. ... g arron afflalo (strained left ham­string) could make his sea­son debut this weekend. he’s done some on-court work but has yet to be cleared for contact drills. ... new york is 2-1 on the road, 0-2 at home. ... anthony, now 12­12 in head-to-head match-ups with James, joked that he misses former teammates iman shumpert and J.r. smith, who were traded by the knicks to cleveland last season. “it seems like lebron took all my family from me,” anthony snapped. 
cavaliers: guard kyrie irving hasn’t given a date on his possible return from a broken kneecap, but the all-star told espn.com he “sees the light at the end of the tunnel.” ... since Jan. 19, the cavs are 22-1 in the regular season on their home floor. Thompson played in his 293rd consecutive game dat­ing to Feb. 10, 2012. ... smith sat out with a bruised knee and is expected to miss at least one more game. 
paid adverTisemenT 




WOMEN’S SWIMMING & DIVING 

irish hope to rebound from losses at virginia Tech 

By DAISY COSTELLO 
sports writer 
This weekend, the irish hit the road for their third road meet of the season, heading to christianburg, virginia, to take on virginia Tech and pittsburgh in a triple-dual meet Friday and saturday. 
The irish (2-3) are coming off of a tough triple-dual meet loss to purdue and ohio state over halloween weekend. Junior catherine mulquin said focus and preparation will be a de­ciding factor for the irish this weekend. 
“we have each challenged ourselves to focus on personal weaknesses and flaws we have become aware of over the first three meets of this season,” mulquin said. “as a team, we have focused on acknowledg­ing that we are physically pre­pared to race teams such as pitt and virginia Tech, so we have turned our mindset to focus more on racing strategies to be prepared for the tough rac­ing we have ahead of us this weekend.” 
pittsburgh (2-1) will be rac­ing in just its third event of the season, following a 187.5-107.5 victory over bucknell on oct. 
24. Freshman meghan Joram led the way for the panthers in their last meet, collecting three individual first-place finishes in the 1,000-yard freestyle, 200­yard butterfly and 500-yard freestyle races. The panthers’ only loss came in the first meet of the season in a head-to-head meet at conference rival duke. 


no. 24 virginia Tech is off to a hot start in 2015 with a record of 5-1 thus far, having defeated Queens, richmond, maryland baltimore county and gardner-webb last week­end. The hokies’ sole loss came to nonconference opponent penn state in the first meet of the season. Following the loss to penn state and subsequent victory over west virginia, freshman diver ashlynn peters was named acc diver of the week. 
against ohio state and purdue, senior lindsey streepey finished in first-place in the one- and three-meter dives on the first day. The next morning, streepey finished in third-place in the one-meter dive and in second-place in the three-meter dive. 
mulquin and freshman sofia revilak were the top perform­ers off the block for the irish in their loss to the buckeyes and boilermakers. mulquin earned second-place honors in the 100­yard backstroke and finished fourth-place in the 100-yard freestyle. revilak placed sec­ond in the 100-yard butterfly and fourth in the 50-yard free­style. Freshman alice Trueth also earned a second-place fin­ish in the 200-yard backstroke. 
The irish struggled in the two-day meet against purdue and ohio state, mulquin said, showing signs of fatigue saturday morning following their action the previous eve­ning. The same type of sched­ule will be in place against virginia Tech and pittsburgh as well, as the irish will race on Friday at 5 p.m. and return to the pool again the next morn­ing at 10 a.m. 
“while swimming two days in a row is tough, it is most certainly not impossible. beginning with last week­end’s schedule of swimming two dual meets on Friday and saturday, we have been prepar­ing ourselves to be able to with­stand the fatigue that comes with so much racing,” mulquin said. “The best way we plan to combat that fatigue is through positive attitudes and simply having fun racing with team­mates and for the university we all love. 
“The team’s goals are to race with strength, power and con­fidence. our hopes are to come out strong in the opening races of the meet to set us up with momentum that will lead us to an irish victory,” mulquin said. 
The irish travel to virginia this weekend to take on acc opponents virginia Tech and pittsburgh. They start at 5 p.m. Friday and again at 10 a.m. saturday from the christiansburg aquatic center. 
Contact Daisy Costello at mcostel4@nd.edu 



MEN’S SWIMMING & DIVING 

irish prepare for triple-dual conference meets 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 
The irish are set to take on two conference rivals, pittsburgh and virginia Tech, this weekend at the christiansburg aquatic center in christiansburg, virginia. it will be notre dame’s first road meet of the season. 
“we are excited to swim in the christiansburg aquatic center,” irish head coach matt Tallman said. “it will be a great atmosphere, but we will treat it like any other place.” 
The two-day meet will take place Friday and saturday. Tallman said his team knows it is about to face two tough opponents. 
“virginia Tech was the 2014 acc champions. They have plenty of team members that were part of that season,” Tallman said. “They are a team that we are chasing in the conference and on a na­tional level. pittsburgh has been a rival since the days of the big east. we are looking forward to some great racing and diving this weekend.” 
coming into this weekend, virginia Tech has won all of its meets this season and has been ranked as high as no. 26 in the country. The hokies won their first meet of the season oct. 16 at penn state. The next day, they defeated west virginia. last week­end, the hokies won three meets, defeating Queens, maryland baltimore county and gardner-web. 
pittsburgh comes into the meet with a 1-2 record. on oct. 3, the panthers lost their first meet of the season to duke, followed by a loss to georgia Tech on oct. 17. The panthers then defeated bucknell a week later. 
The irish come into the weekend with wins in their first two meets of the sea­son. last weekend, they de­feated michigan state. 

Tallman said his team has been working to improve the little things they do since the meet with the spartans. 
“we have done some spe­cific work on the little things on top of trying to stress the importance of doing the little things better to be the best we can,” Tallman said. “we are preparing to swim our races the way we know how. if we take care of doing our own business, we will be happy at the end of the meet and with where we are at this point of the season.”” 
Contact Michael Ivey at  mivey@hcc-nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 






paid adverTisemenT 


W Tennis 
conTinued From page 20 
great test against three com­petitive teams,” gleason said. “i know i will have three tough singles matches and three tough doubles matches ahead of me, and i’m looking forward to competing next to my teammates.” 
gleason has been among the top seeds at multiple tournaments this fall, most recently being the top-seed at the iTa midwest championships, where she was upset in the round of 16. 
“my fall season wasn’t ide­al, but i’ve definitely learned a lot about my game and i’m excited to see how i can use what i learned in the coming spring season,” gleason said. 
gleason said she prefers to play with a chip on her shoulder, so being the one with the target on her at dif­ferent points this fall gave her an opportunity to learn. 
“it’s an honor being seeded at fall tournaments,” gleason said. “i’ve been working to­wards that since my fresh­man year. That being said, i prefer to be the dark horse or underdog. This fall has been really helpful in gaining ex­perience with being a seed at national tournaments.” 
senior Julie vrabel, ju­nior Jane Fennelly, gleason, closs, broda, miller and chong are slated to be the seven making the trip across the illinois/indiana this weekend. chong, the squad’s lone freshman, has impressed her older team­mates, both gleason and closs said. 
“she has been playing great, and has really proven herself at the first two fall tournaments,” gleason said. “i’m confident she will be a great contribution to the lineup this spring season.” 
“[chong] has been awe­some so far,” closs said. “she’s transitioned very well from juniors to college. we are excited to have her com­peting for us in the spring. she brings a lot of energy and intensity to the courts. she’s a great player and overall a great teammate.” 
notre dame was also sup­posed to host the bedford cup at eck Tennis pavilion this weekend, but the event was cancelled. 
The irish will begin play at the illinois blast on Friday, and action will wrap up sunday. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at  zklonsin1@nd.edu 



The observer |  THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Volleyball 
conTinued From page 20 
irish in four sets. 
virginia Tech (14-7, 5-7 acc) is coming off a three-set loss to no. 15 Florida state on nov. 1, and the irish look to capitalize on their home-court advantage over the hokies in their return to south bend. 
“it’s less wear and tear, our fans are cheering for us and we get to play where we train, so it’s a lot better for us right now,” mclaughlin said. 
sophomore outside hitter sam Fry, who is averaging 3.05 kills per set this season, looks to capitalize against a hokies de­fense averaging only 2.1 blocks per set through this season. Fellow sophomore outside hitter sydney kuhn backs up Fry on the offensive side, and has 184 kills on the season, averaging 
2.00 per set. 
The irish defense will have its hands full Friday against the hokies hitters. Junior out­side hitter lindsey owens has a 3.38 kill per set average in 2015. owens is the anchor of the virginia Tech offensive at­tack, which averages 13.12 kills per set. Fry and freshman out­side hitter rebecca nunge lead the irish in blocking, together collecting 145 of the 359 irish blocks in 2015. 
after hosting the hokies on Friday, the irish welcome pittsburgh (19-5, 9-3 acc) to purcell pavilion on sunday. The panthers currently sit in third-place in the acc standings and are coming off of a confer­ence win against no. 15 Florida state on Friday, sweeping the seminoles 3-0. 
pittsburgh features one of the acc’s best offenses, averaging 
14.5 kills per set. both the irish and the panthers are very effec­tive serving teams, with just one service error per set on average in 2015. 
“we’re always working with an end in mind, and our end in mind is 10 percent errors. we have to continue to serve tough balls and the girls are doing that every day,” mclaughlin said. “we’ve always said what gets measured gets managed, and what gets managed gets done, and we’re measuring those things every day, and the girls are starting to eliminate those errors.” 
The irish welcome virginia Tech and pittsburgh this week­end in their second-to-last home stand of the season. They play virginia Tech on Friday at 7 p.m. at purcell pavilion, then return to action sunday against pittsburgh at 1 p.m. 
Contact Daisy Costello at mcostel4@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 





M Bball 
conTinued From page 20 
competing for playing time. 
“i’ve been really pleased with them because they compete every day,” brey said. “ … matt ryan’s shoot­ing ability is a weapon that we just always have to keep handy — there’s not a lot of guys that can stretch the floor like that. 
“ … rex pflueger, great de­fender, learning how to be better with the basketball, but an energy guy. 
“ … and elijah burns, even though he was out a week with a concussion, he’s a big guy that knows how to play.” 
after evaluating the caldwell game, brey said he and his staff will determine whether or not some or all of the team’s freshmen will be redshirted. 
“we’ve done that strategi­cally in the past, put guys on a five-year program,” brey said. “That’s something we’ve really got to talk about and think about. maybe at the end of the day nobody is redshirted.” 
all three will see play­ing time against caldwell, a team that was recently picked to finish fourth in the north division of the central atlantic collegiate conference of division ii. coming off of a 15-13 sea­son, the cougars return two of their top three scorers from last season in seniors guard dawan lighty and forward billy mcdonald. both averaged more than 13 points a game last year, with mcdonald shooting 49.1 per­cent from the field. 
against the cougars, brey said he is looking for his team to improve their offen­sive efficiency from their ex­hibition last week. 
“it’s been one of the hall­marks of the program here, and last year it was off the charts,” brey said. “… right now our [defense] is ahead of our offense. and i love that, too — we’re longer, able to get deflections — but i think especially in the half court. when we get into a half court battle, can we be efficient and move it and keep our space consistent?” 
The irish will wrap up their exhibition schedule when they play host to caldwell on Thursday at purcell pavilion, a game that is set to tip at 7 p.m. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplandond@nd.edu 






The observer |  THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Farrell, new faces look to mold retooled Irish 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
notre dame will host caldwell on Thursday in its final tune-up before the reg­ular season gets underway next Friday 
as the irish prepare for their last exhibition, irish head coach mike brey said he is excited about building on last season’s 32-6 record, but cautioned about com­parisons between this team and last season’s. 
“The first exhibition game last year we kind of knew who we were,” brey said. “we had the two seniors, guys were grown, we were almost close to a finished product. we had been to italy and had reps. i think this group, we’re going to be able to get better throughout the year and learn more, not only about the starters but who we’re going to bring off the bench.” 
although the exhibition will benefit all players, brey said he is most excited to learn about potential role players and how they op­erate in a game situation. he pinpointed sophomore guard matt Farrell as some­one who has taken a giant step this offseason. 
“he’s come back stron­ger, he’s come back a better defender, he’s come back running the team and quar­terbacking and being more vocal,” brey said. “and he’s such an energy guy, and ob­viously a shot maker … [and] a big-time threat. i was really encouraged to see him come in and give us a lift, give us a chance to rest [junior guard] demetrius [Jackson]. he gives us a chance, too, to move demetrius off the ball when he’s in the game.” 
Farrell will be one of a few new faces for irish fans following the depar­ture of senior leaders pat connaughton and Jerian grant, both of whom play in the nba now. a trio of fresh­man — forwards matt ryan and elijah burns and guard rex pflueger — is also 
see m bball PAGE 19 

Observer File Photo 
Junior guard Steve Vasturia dribbles near the 3-point line during Notre Dame’s 77-73 victory over eventual national champion Duke at Purcell Pavilion on Jan. 28 last sesaon. 

ND VOLLEYBALL  ND WOMEN’S TENNIS  
notre dame returns home  ND travels to  
to face two acc foes  Illinois Blast  

By DAISY COSTELLO 
sports writer 
after two straight weekends of away competition, the Fighting irish return to south bend this weekend against virginia Tech and pittsburgh. 
The irish (6-18, 1-11 acc) have struggled throughout confer­ence play to close out tough matches, but irish head coach Jim mclaughlin said he has a plan to keep the irish going down the stretch. 
“The preparation is the same, it’s very consistent throughout the year. we’re just controlling our errors, we’re controlling how many points we give up to oppo­nents,” mclaughlin said. “we’re trending in the right area, but most of it is that we have to learn not to beat ourselves before we can capitalize on [our] oppo­nents’ trends, making people earn points.” 
The irish fell last weekend to north carolina state and north carolina in a series of difficult away matchups. The wolfpack (14-10, 3-9 acc) defeated the irish in five sets, while the Tar heels (13-8, 10-2 acc) bested the 
see volleyball PAGE 18 


By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports editor 
notre dame nears the end of its fall slate this weekend as a portion of the squad heads southwest to champaign, illinois, for the illinois blast. 
The irish will be one of four teams participat­ing in the tournament this year. in addition to notre dame and the host illini, purdue and missouri will also join what amounts to a preseason dual tourna­ment. dual season begins in January, whereas the fall is usually reserved for more bracket-style action, but this weekend’s format will give the irish the opportu­nity to create a more team-driven atmosphere, junior mary closs said. 
“The tournament is mock dual format which will be really fun,” closs said. “we will play singles and dou­bles in a lineup format. This means we get to play along­side each other at the same 
time, which we haven’t ex-
EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 
perienced yet this fall. it’ll 

Sophomore setter Maddie Dilfer runs under the ball during a 3-0 loss 
give us a chance to pump 

to Florida State at Purcell Pavilion on Sept. 27. 
each other up while play­ing and feed off the energy of our teammates.” 
senior Quinn gleason said having teammates around them will help mo­tivate the irish, especially with the energy of some of the younger players mak­ing the trip like freshman rachel chong and sopho­mores brooke broda and allison miller. 
“as a senior i’m look­ing for the underclassmen to bring a lot of energy to the court,” gleason said. “a huge part of tennis is mental, so it’s important to show your opponents and teammates how badly you want it and how hard you’re willing to fight.” 
gleason played at the top of the singles lineup in dual matches last season, compiling a record of 11-11, while going 6-7 in acc dual matches. she’ll be back at top of the lineup this week­end, and she said she’s ex­cited to get back into dual action. 
“This weekend will be a 
see w Tennis PAGE 17 




