The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 10 | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL FRIDAY FEATURE 
Collins to announce his 200th home game 
Notre Dame’s public address announcer doubles as friendly South Dining Hall greeter three days a week 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
news writer 
For many students in col­lege stadiums across the country, the voice resound­ing through the stadium’s public address system is the most exposure to the public address announcer they’ll ever have. rarely does the average student meet the person to whom that voice belongs. 
let alone have him swipe their id cards to get into the dining hall. 
but mike collins, enter­ing his 34th season as notre dame’s public address an­nouncer for football games, does just that. 
monday through wednesday every week, collins sits at the entrance of south dining hall (sdh) doing a job he started six years ago. 
“i was bored [during the week]. i had a couple of of­fers to do something, and i heard about this,” collins said. “it’s just a joy for me to be on campus and around the students. it’s rewarding to me.” 
saturdays, however, collins occupies quite a dif­ferent post, wearing a set of headphones, sitting in front of a microphone and perched in the press box high above the field in notre dame stadium. 
when notre dame and Texas meet saturday night to kick off their respective seasons, collins’s voice will sound throughout the sta­dium for the 200th time, 30 more games than any other pa announcer in notre dame history. 
“[Two hundred] means a lot to me. it really does,” collins said. “it’s a mile­stone. i would imagine there can’t be too many division i college pa announcers who have done more.” 
collins’s first game was 
see collins PAGE 4 

ZACH KLONSINSKI | The Observer 
Mike Collins sits at his other desk at the entrance to South Dining Hall. Collins has welcomed students to their meals for six years. 



SMC fair to offer service options 

By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 
saint mary’s will host a service fair in the student center Friday between 11:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m., which will feature different orga­nizations offering a variety of vol­unteer opportunities for students. 
The director of the office for civic and social engagement (ocse) erika buhring said she started the service Fair in the fall of 2014 to provide “an environ­ment for students and commu­nity agencies to connect with one 
JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 
another.” 
“The primary reason a service fair was started was to draw volun­teer-minded students, staff, and faculty together in order to con­nect them with organizations that were in need of their assistance,” she said. 
according to buhring, organi­zations that will be present at the fair include hannah and Friends, st. margaret’s house, she’s the First, students supporting autism, the south bend center for the 
see service PAGE 5 


alumnus gifts $20 million 
Observer Staff Report 

The university an­nounced Friday the cre­ation of the Fighting irish initiative, made possible by a $20 million donation to notre dame by 1988 gradu­ate sean cullinan and his wife sue, according to a university press release. 
The Fighting irish initiative will be a “ground­breaking” program to fund fully the education of students coming from low-income households making less than $50,000 annually, the press release stated. The program will also create a “comprehen­sive enrichment program” to help students glean the most from their time at the university. 
university president Fr. John Jenkins stressed in the press release the impor­tance of making the notre dame education available to all students regardless of socioeconomic status. 
“we want to ensure that the talented students who are admitted to notre dame are able to attend and find a supportive home here,” Jenkins said in the release. “we are tremendously grateful to sean and sue for their willingness to fund an initiative that will make a notre dame education a reality for those who are in need of financial assis­tance, and then to make the 
see donaTion PAGE 5 


Campus holds AA meetings 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer 

amidst the seemingly countless activities and programs of a home foot­ball weekend, the alumni association and the center for social concerns (csc) have teamed up to create a safe meeting space for recov­ering alcoholics on football weekends. 
“we all know that there are many among us who suffer from alcoholism or problems with alcohol,” bill norberg, notre dame class of 1987, said. “These alcoholics anonymous (aa) meetings are an extension of the groups around south bend and those members who happened to be alumni. alcoholics anonymous deals with the life-threatening disease. For those who are truly addict­ed, it provides a way out of a merciless enslavement.” 
norberg said he helps lead the aa meetings on campus, and has done so off-campus in the past. 
“you can safely say that the meetings have been on cam­pus for over 20 years,” he said. 
he has personally led the on-campus gatherings for five years now, and said he enjoys the service aspect of 
see meeTings PAGE 5 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 FooTball irish insider wiThin 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney cristina gutierrez Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 

What is your favorite study snack from The Huddle? 

Billy Fox 
freshman 
siegfried hall 
“candy wall.” 
Clare Hannon 
freshman 
Farley hall 
“pretzels.” 
EJ Smith 
junior 
o’neill hall 
“sweet potato chips.” 

Emily Gust 
sophomore 
breen-phillips hall 
“honey mustard pretzels.” 
Kim Sammons 
senior 
breen-phillips hall 
“pretzels and icing.” 
Weronika Kaczmarczyk 
sophomore 
off campus 
“candy wall.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

clare Kossler Zach Klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
matthew mcKenna marek mazurek martha reilly ryan Klaus 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
Janice chung miko malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 

michael yu Tabitha ricketts Heaney, Place and Football vs. Texas Men’s Soccer vs. UAB Labor Day MSPS Welcome Back Property Notre Dame Stadium Alumni Stadium Campus-wide Picnic Hesburgh Library 7:30 p.m. 2 p.m. All day North Quad 4 p.m.-5:30 p.m. The Irish take on the Notre Dame vs. Administrative offices 4 p.m.-7 p.m. 
Corrections 

Memorial lecture by Longhorns in the first University of Alabama closed, all classes in Photo booth, music, 
The observer regards itself as 

Christopher Morash. game of the season. at Birmingham. session. prizes and free food. 
a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 

Men’s Soccer vs. USF Changing American Rejoice! Mass Intramural Film: “The Girl Can’t 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

Alumni Stadium Voter in 2016 Dillon Hall Registration Help It” (1956) 
however, recognize that we will make 

7:30p.m. Snite Museum of Art 8 p.m.-9 p.m. Rolfs Sports Center DeBartolo Performing 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 

The Irish take on USF 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Mass rooted in the 6 a.m.-11 p.m. Tuesday Arts Center 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. in the Mike Berticelli Part of Saturday African-American Register online for 8 p.m.-9:40 p.m. 
Memorial Torunament. Scholars Series. tradition. intramural teams. Free for ND students. 


SMC to host state officials cyber cafe unveils 
By ALEX WINEGAR 
associate saint mary’s editor 
The saint mary’s college women's entrepreneurship initiative (wei) and the career crossings collegiate speaker series will host indiana lt. gov. sue ellspermann and her chief of staff Tonya brothers-bridge Tuesday sept. 8 for a panel dis­cussion titled "leadher." The panel will take place between 7 and 9 p.m. in o’laughlin auditorium, and consist of lo­cal community leaders who will direct the conversation and ask questions of ellspermann and brothers-bridge. 
according to the saint mary's website, the discussion will cen­ter around topics such as "fear­less leadership, transitions in life and the power of women men­torship." associate project direc­tor for the wei  Joan mcclendon will moderate the event. 
mcclendon said female lead­ers from the community includ­ing president and ceo of the ywca north central indiana linda baechle, president and ceo of michiana partnership regina emberton and saint mary’s students eleanor Jones and ambar varela will compose the panel. 
brothers-bridge visited saint mary’s may 27 for an entre­preneurial leadership event and asked if she and the lieu­tenant governor could return, mcclendon said. 
“she really enjoyed her time here and asked if they could come back to visit, including touring the campus and meeting the students,” mcclendon said. “we are an all-women’s college so it is a natural fit for them to come.” 
ellspermann's and brothers­bridge’s experience working to­gether will be a key component of the talk, college director of media relations gwen o’brien said. 
“part of the reason we even asked Tonya to come was be­cause she had an opportunity to share her relationship with the lieutenant governor," o'brien said. "she talked a lot about her relationship with the lieutenant governor [on her previous visit] so i think that will be important. i want and hope that women can take away that women can come together in a professional and in a personal level.” 
mcclendon said when she spoke to brothers-bridge, she asked what ellspermann and brothers-bridge could bring to saint mary’s, and what they wanted to discuss. 
“obviously they work together and have worked together be­fore," mcclendon said. "They thought these three topics of leadership and transitions in life were great. They can speak to college students, either coming from high school into college, college students leaving and women making transitions in their careers and lifestyles. 
“we have more in common 
paid adverTisemenT 
than we do differences so you have this beautiful opportunity 
new layout 
to have these two very influen­
tial women to come in and share their very influential experienc­es,” she said. “The third thing is mentorship and the importance of really having someone to be able to come along side of you.” 
women of different gen­erations will be represented at leadher, o’brien said. people will get different things out of leadher depending on where they are in their life. 
“To me this talk is another ex­ample of how women help wom­en,” o’brien said. “we just do, we don’t hesitate with ‘what if.’ we’re talking to a couple different gen­erations but wherever they are in their life, they could use a pep talk on how to make that transi­tion in life or how to be a mentor.” 
“There are some awesome women in the community that need to meet these awesome women inside saint mary’s college,” mcclendon said. “and let’s not just meet, but let’s de­velop synergy and relationships. That’s my passion and i believe that is the passion of the lieu­tenant governor and her chief of staff, as a matter of fact i know that that is their passion and that’s why they’re coming here.” 
a photo booth and refresh­ments will be available at the talk, mcclendon said. The event is free but ticketed. 
Contact Alex Winegar at  awinega01@saintmarys.edu 

By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 
as students returned to saint mary’s campus, many noticed the new arrangement of cyber cafe. The cafe went through a remodeling over the summer to help improve efficiency, to better meet the needs of students, and to further sodexo’s goal towards sustainability. 
barry bowles, director of dining services, said the new configuration of the cafe is actu­ally the same set up the cafe had a number of years ago. he said the college had a need for more seat­ing in the student center, espe­cially since rice commons holds more and more events each year and thus cannot be utilized by students. 
“we need seats!” bowles said. “we need a comfortable space for students. …i’ve seen professors doing small groups in [cyber] this year. professors meeting with stu­dents in there, that type of thing. i think it’s serving its purpose to what we wanted it to do. i still am excited about what we’re doing.” 
another change is the absence of the imacs that used to line a wall of the cafe. bowles said those computers were the most under­utilized computers on campus, so iT moved them to other buildings on campus. however, the iT de­partment increased the strength of the wifi in the cafe, and they are working on including charging stations so students can still use their personal devices, bowles said. 
not only did the cafe switch its market area and seating area, but other changes have also been made. Two programs the cafe are focusing on this year are options from starbucks and sustainability. 
“our biggest concern com­ing back was sustainability is­sues,” bowles said. “all those little creamers and sugar packets and everything else. you’ll notice ev­erything now is self-contained. we’re trying to reduce the amount of waste we have in that area. …it may not seem like much to have the bulk liquid creamer and the bulk sugar, but every little bit is helping.” 
starbucks options will also in­crease in the cafe, bowles said, and those changes are expected to happen in the near future. 
The new look of the cafe also helps wait times for ordering food and helps the employees work better, bowles said. people no lon­ger have to crowd the cash regis­ters because there is more open space to wait for orders. 
“we are busier, but students don’t wait as long, and now the wait is actually tolerable be­cause not everyone is standing right there. There’s places to go and sit down and wait for you to be called. it’s a lot more com­fortable, and there’s not that big congestion. 
“what that did was ease the stress on the staff. it has this men­tal effect for employees that they are doing a good job and they are moving fast. before, they couldn’t really tell.” 
as for the market, bowles said that switch helped make every­thing look more organized. The new area made shelves a more vi­able option, and the products are better spaced out. 
The market also increased its selection, bowles said. 
“we’re carrying more products that students were looking for. what’s nice about how its laid out now is that it looks more orga­nized and it looks a lot better kept than what we’ve done in the past.” 
some products were discon­tinued, such as two-liter bottles of soda, because those were not selling at the prices sodexo was required to have, bowles said. The chip section has been reduced, but the overall aesthetic of the market makes this less noticeable. 
students and employees have welcomed the changes within cyber cafe, bowles said. he has received positive feedback, and the cafe made $1000 more in the first week of school than it had in previous years. 
Contact Nicole Caratas at  ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 




“i used to go into my base-stadium, and i hadn’t even of his other lifelong dreams collins said he enjoyed his Collins ment in pittsburgh and read checked the phases of the this spring: being an an-time with the pirates, and conTinued From page 1 starting lineups out loud for moon.” nouncer for his hometown got what he described as “a 
baseball. That’s how much it pirates at their spring train-lot of swag” from the organi­september 19, 1982: the first-meant to me.” New developments ing park in Florida. again, zation: all sorts of different ever night game at notre a member of notre dame’s The campus crossroads though, he said just hap-articles of pirates apparel. dame stadium. The irish de-class of 1967, collins spent his project is now radically re-pened to walk right into the he also got an offer to come feated michigan, 23-17. first two years in cavanaugh shaping the traditional pic-opportunity. back next spring. 
“and here i am doing this hall and morrissey manor ture of notre dame stadium. “it was a case of being in “as far as i’m concerned, with no previous experience before landing a room in the collins is far from the least the right place in the right i’m a kid in a candy store as a football pa announcer,” old Fieldhouse. affected, but he’s taking it in with his parents’ credit collins said. “There i was hanging out stride. he’s also already en-
cards,” collins admitted. “i 
“I’m all pumped up, 
with all these athletes, so i visioning how to pair himself have my two dream jobs: the 
and the team came 
Getting his start thought i was a big shot even with a video board for the 

pirates spring training and “i really got the job be-if i wasn’t,” collins said. team introduction pregame. 
out of the tunnel notre dame football.” 
cause, and i’m not kidding collins said he owed ev-“The team’s now gathered and I just opened as for his gig at sdh 
when i say this, there re-erything to two men: sports in the tunnel, before they though, collins again re-
up the microphone 
ally wasn’t time to interview information director charlie burst out. but right before turned to the students. 
and went, ‘Here 
anybody else,” collins said. callahan, who got collins that, on the video board we 

“my wife and i have made “my predecessor retired 48 his first two jobs in broad-have that video we have of 
come the Irish!’” lifelong friends of stu­
hours before kickoff of the casting, and valdiserri, the Knute rockne in the locker dents over the years,” he 
Mike Collins 
1982 season. They called me man who hired him as the pa room going, ‘boys, you gotta said, also mentioning the 
PA announcer 
up out of the blue.” announcer that day in 1982. fight, you gotta go, you gotta Thanksgiving dinner the 

collins had never called he also got his first job do this, you gotta do that!’ time and not enough time couple hosts each year with a football game before that in the press box during his and then they burst out of to interview anyone else,” students primarily from night, but he was previous-time as a student. the tunnel and then i say, collins said. overseas. ly the pa announcer for the “my job was getting the ‘here come the irish!’ he had sent an email a few what’s more, collins said, irish hockey team. writers their cigarettes and “i’m telling you, people months prior asking to be there’s another, expected 
The spot for hockey opened booze and delivering it to will be dancing in the aisles. kept in mind if the pirates perk of working in a dining up some years before his them,” collins said, laugh-Their tears will be flowing. needed any help in the hall. transition to football, and ing at the thought of his for-… The video board … is go-spring. “i get a free meal,” collins collins, who was already at mer position. ing to be a great asset. i think “eight days before the start said. the games keeping stats, de-“when you consider what notre dame is going to use it of the spring season i got an “never underestimate the cided to inquire about the the media was like then, i wisely, not like the debacle i email from them and it said, value of free food or beer.” position. thought it was a very impor-saw in dallas with their vid-‘are you still interested in 
“i went to the coach at the tant job.” eo board.” interviewing? The other guy Contact Zach Klonsinski at    time, lefty smith … and i collins got to live out one just quit.’” zklonsin@nd.edu said, ‘hey, i’d like to have His own personal touch a shot at that,’ and i don’t collins lays claim to start-think lefty wanted to spend ing a couple of his own irish any time finding a pa an-traditions, including an­nouncer so he just gave me nouncing the home team’s the job,” collins said. “it was charge out of the tunnel like he got it off his desk.” before each game. he said 
so, a few years later when the tradition began against former notre dame sports Florida state at the start of information director roger a no. 1 vs no. 2 matchup in valdiserri asked collins to 1993. announce the michigan “i’m all pumped up, and game in 1982, collins said he the team came out of the “got all unnerved.” tunnel and i just opened 


“i was so stunned when up the microphone and roger valdiserri called me went, ‘here come the irish!’ up,” collins said. “when he collins said. “after the game said can you do the game my wife said, ‘i really liked saturday, my mind kept tell-that,’ and i had no idea what ing me, ‘why are we having a she was talking about. … she hockey game in september?’ said, ‘you have to do that for and he told me, ‘no i mean every game.’ the football game.’” “i haven’t gotten any kick-
originally collins said it back on the T-shirts that was only a one-game deal, say ‘here come the irish,’” meant as a place-stop to buy collins joked. “i should have the university time to find a taken out a copyright on new announcer. eventually, that.” one game turned into one matching the theme to year and then another. now, the game, weather or time 34 years and 199 games later, of day, collins also reads off he’s still at the helm. song lyrics before the pre­
game weather report, vary-Preparing from a young ing from bruce springsteen’s age “Thunder road” to earth, 
most elementary-age boys wind and Fire’s “september.” dream about becoming an “now i have people who astronaut, a firefighter, an stop and ask me what i’m go-elite athlete or a superhero. ing to do, so now i’ve put this not collins. incredible pressure on me,” 
“i’m the only person i know collins said. who, when they were seven although he could re-years old, actually wanted to call a number of lyrics over be a pa announcer,” collins the years, one particularly said. “my dad took me to stands out to collins: van my first baseball game, and morrison’s “moondance” be-there are a lot of things that fore the night game against a kid can be fascinated with usc in 2013. at his or her first baseball “‘it’s a marvelous night game, but i was stunned by for a moondance ‘neath the this voice that seemed to cover of an october sky,’” come out of nowhere.” collins said. “and i swear 
From that moment, collins to god, in the first quarter said, he was hooked. a full moon came over the 




Service 
conTinued From page 1 
homeless, Food bank of northern indiana, Take Ten, the american red cross and the Jesuit volunteer corps among others. 
“integrated within the mission of the ocse is the notion of devel­oping a bridge for the saint mary’s community to connect with the michiana area while also fostering a sense of social responsibility to­wards others as they participate in civic engagement,” she said. “The service Fair certainly promotes these ideals.” 
buhring said the service Fair differs substantially from the involvement Fair, which was held earlier this year by the office of student involvement. 
For one thing, she said the service Fair is held the second week of school as opposed to the first week so that students have a chance to become familiar with their schedules before signing up for volunteer opportunities. additionally, buhring said the service Fair focuses on bringing outside agencies to campus in­stead of exclusively promoting on-campus groups. 
however, she said together the service and involvement Fairs serve to help students become in­volved on campus. 
“The ocse sees that the service Fair and the involvement Fair are complementary towards one an­other. by having both, individu­als have the opportunity to learn about so many different types of activities and volunteer work available to them.” 
buhring said the service Fair also encourages faculty and staff as well as students to par­ticipate and find opportunities to volunteer. 
“This fair constructs the space for fostering conversations that in turn allow each participant to learn more about opportunities that might be a solid fit for them,” she said. “volunteer placement success rates are increased due to interactions at the service Fair.” 
saint mary’s stresses the im­portance of service and provides students with opportunities to get involved, buhring said. she said through the service Fair, students can conveniently learn and follow through on making connections with the community and with post-graduate organizations. 
“The design of the fair is to as­sist students in making a strong match to an opportunity that they might otherwise not be aware of,” buhring said. “The size of the fair allows for students to be able to talk individually to the represen­tatives from the organization, but also allows them to see the breadth of choices available to them.” 
Contact Nicole Caratas at ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 
Meetings 
conTinued From page 1 
his position. 

The csc, located in geddes hall, provides the space for the meetings, while the re­quests for the meetings for­mally go through the alumni association. 
“For many years, the alumni association has sought to support our alum­ni and friends who value the opportunity to attend aa meetings during home foot­ball weekends,” dolly duffy, notre dame class of 1984 and executive director of the alumni association, said. 
duffy, who is also the as­sociate vice president for university relations, said the meetings are aimed at fos­tering fellowship amongst alumni struggling with ad­diction. she said by sponsor­ing the meetings, the alumni association seeks to provide a comfortable territory for these individuals. 
“we hope the fellowship of these meetings provides a welcome respite during these busy weekends,” duffy said. 
norberg said that alcohol­ism is an issue millions face nationwide, and therefore it is important to focus on recov­ery everywhere. 
“with the national scope of notre dame and the number of visitors we have on game day weekends we like to pro­vide this service,” he said. “it provides a chance for people to come back annually and catch up just like people do at tailgates. it is just a safer environment. 
“in its simplest terms there are some of us who can’t drink ... and aa provides not only a way out but a safe ha­ven. notre dame recognizes this need in its alumni and students and provides these meetings to give them a safe place to go.” 
The meetings will be held in geddes hall in room 304b. For 3:30 p.m. kickoffs, the meetings will be held at 12 p.m., and for night games, meetings will be held at 4 p.m. 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 
its student body,” bishop said in the statement. “in the past five years we have added more students from the lowest-income house­holds and have strategies in place to continue to find and cultivate even more of these top scholars. 
“adding more support and enhancements in pro­grams to elevate their edu­cational, professional and personal development is an exciting prospect for us as well as our students.” 
Donation 
conTinued From page 1 

years they spend here on campus as successful and rewarding as possible.” 
The initiative will cover all official costs of notre dame, including tuition and fees, room and board, books and transportation but will also cover less ob­vious expenses such as win­ter clothing, study abroad expenses and tickets to 
paid adverTisemenT 
athletic and dorm events, according to the release. The cullinans’ donation will also fund the hiring of a full-time staff to lead the program.  
don bishop, associate vice president for under­graduate enrollment, said a diversity of students provides an asset to the university. 
“notre dame has estab­lished itself among the top 15 national research uni­versities for the quality of 


love is enough 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Students are ND 
Catherine Owers 
news writer 
For the past three seasons of football games i’ve attended in notre dame stadium, i never really liked the “we are nd” cheer. pushups after touchdowns? yes. dancing to “rakes of mallow” on shaky wooden bleachers? love it. singing the alma mater after games? always. but cheering “we are notre dame” didn’t make sense to me, maybe just because it seems like stating the obvious. of course our school is notre dame, i would think to myself as i cheered. 
it was not until last spring, when i stud­ied abroad in dublin, that i began to think about the phrase differently. 
my semester in ireland was fantastic: it was fun and stressful and interesting and challenging. going into the experience, i knew a significant part of study abroad is learning on a campus that isn’t in south bend, eating food that isn’t from south dining hall and embracing cultures with rhythms different from the ones i had grown comfortable with here. and from midnight-stargazing in northern ireland, to getting rained on for three straight hours while waiting for easter mass with pope Francis, to being told by an italian priest to “love Jesus, love each other, change the world,” i was certainly able to expand my worldview. 
yet in the midst of all of these adven­tures, i still had a very distinct sense of connectivity to the university because of the other notre dame students with whom i was living and learning for five months. i wouldn’t trade the memories from that semester for anything, and more importantly, i couldn’t have asked for a better group of people to make these memories with. i realized that while i love stepping out the door onto god Quad every morning, going to class in o’shag, walking around the lakes, visiting the grotto and eating monogram waffles, these things don’t define my notre dame experience. 
at the end of the day, notre dame is not about the buildings or campus land­marks. They do play a role in bringing our community together, but if they no longer existed, notre dame still would. For me, notre dame is about the students — the brilliant, funny, ambitious and kind peo­ple i am blessed to call my peers. whether we’re in the football stadium or 3,000 miles away in dublin, we, the students, are notre dame. we are nd. 
Contact Catherine Owers at  cowers@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Editor’s note: In a letter to the editor in Tuesday’s edition, Kyle McCaffery quoted Prof. Tim O’Malley without permission and unintentionally misrepresented his views. McCaffery apologizes for the unethical writing and any confusion he caused. 
Dash Holland 
guest columnist 

Editor’s note: This column is the second in a two-part se­ries. The first was published on Thursday, Sept. 3. 
i have always considered myself a good liar. i can tell jokes without cracking a smile, and i can remain outwardly composed when the situation makes it difficult. however, for 19 years i lived a lie that was anything but harmless. i denied myself the right to be myself, and i lied to myself about myself, followed by repeated and brutal mental abuse if i dared reject the lie. 
i am gay. my ability to speak this truth proves i have left that duplicitous part of my life behind me. i chose truth over lies. i chose myself over what my inner monologue told me to be. even a year after i made this choice by com­ing out, the past can still be painful. The abuse i subjected myself to is unlike other forms of pain such as jamming a finger or even breaking a leg. Those are accidents that can heal. The pain i made myself feel was filled with malice and hatred. like foot binding, i tried to contort myself into something else, breaking and crushing the parts of me that stood out. 
after coming out, i relished the opportunity to be hon­est. even something as simple as walking to class seemed to triumph over the lies i had told myself because with every step i took and person i passed, i knew the truth, and i could accept it. however, i was still uneasy with myself.  The truth was imperfect in my eyes. i was fine with it, but part of me still wanted to change it and to change myself. i believed that simple walks meant i was at last living my life differently and honestly, yet i returned to the wish to be different. The same wish that began all my lies. my hateful abuse left wounds infected with poison, and they were not healing. 
i am writing this because something has changed. i can­not say exactly what or why. maybe it is the passage of time or the constant support from my family and friends. it could be that traveling by myself in europe made me con­front my issues and put them to rest. perhaps it was read­ing virginia woolf this summer. all these factors probably helped, but i cannot give a recipe for achieving self-accep­tance. however, i can say i feel a peace that leads to a deep satisfaction. it is a peace to accept things as they are. 
out of this peace, i have reached a hope that overcomes the problems and worries i faced before. alright, i don’t know how i will have kids. i may break the bloodline of men named william holland. This and other parts of my future remain unclear. however, i get to love someone. To love someone else is simultaneously to give of yourself and to receive another. at this point in my life, i am talk­ing about a love i have never personally felt. i may be naïve and overly optimistic, but i finally have so much hope that i do not care. To love like this seems so beautiful, and, better still, it seems so natural. as long as i can hope for something that great, why would i care about anything else? love is enough. happiness and love, these are what i want to find in my life. it may sound like i am speaking in dull platitudes, but i believe there is so much truth in them. consider it: love is enough. 
To me, being gay is more than loving a man. it’s about loving myself. it is recognizing i am not damaged, and i am not disadvantaged. i assume i will experience many things in my life to come: moments of sheer happiness and despair, accomplishments and embarrassment, pain and wonder. i may not know much about what i’m talking about, but i have hope and trust i will find happiness in my life and love will take its place somewhere in there. i don’t know what my future holds, but i’m going for it. if i can say i am blessed with anything, it is that i have the opportunity to love, and for me love is enough. 
Dash Holland is a junior studying political science and economics. He lives in Siegfried Hall and can be contacted at wholland@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

‘Be a voice for change’ 
like many in our community, i was very excited when i heard Justice sonia sotomayor was coming to visit notre dame in early september. as one of the very few puerto rican faculty members at this university, this represented a moment of pride. you see, for a long time puerto ricans in this country have received bad press. Think about how the media typically portrays puerto ricans — the ste­reotypes that are perpetuated — and you can see where i’m heading. we can count on the news to report the “bad stuff” that’s going on in puerto rican communities across the u.s. (or on the island), but we hardly ever hear the “good stuff” that’s happening. and, something re­ally good happened here at notre dame on sept. 2 and 3. Thanks to some of the most generous people i have met in my life, puerto rican Trustee emeritus José e. Fernández and his wife mary Jane — who made Justice sotomayor’s visit a reality — many of us were able to listen and learn from an incredibly inspiring person. i had never met a supreme court Justice before, so i wasn’t sure what to expect. however, i did not expect to meet someone who despite her status and position treated everyone with such warmth and dignity. i also didn’t expect to struggle trying to keep up with her as i jotted down every phrase or sentence i found inspiring. although she far exceeded my expectations, i did have the feeling her message would resonate profoundly with our university’s mission and values. i’d like to share some of the most powerful quotes that i was able to capture in writing during the events i was lucky to be able to attend. here are a few: 
“you make choices about the kind of person you want to be.” 
“what is it that you want to do in this world?” 

“The bad will always exist around you, but in the end the choice is yours.” 
“you can’t change the world in big ways, but you can change it in small steps.” 
“do what’s right.” 
“no job is worth your conscience.” 
“be a voice for change.” 
about underprivileged kids, especially those who have lost a parent: “Take an interest in the child.” 
“The greater obstacle to success is the lack of knowledge of what’s available.” 
Justice sotomayor didn’t tailor her message to notre dame; these are the guidelines she has followed to be­come the person she is today. The essence of her message, especially to our students, was to follow your heart and your conscience because they will lead you to a place where you’ll be able to make a difference in this world. she emphasized the importance of using college years wisely: take courses about topics you know nothing about; befriend people who have different backgrounds from you and learn their stories; sit at different clubs’ meeting and learn from their conversations; get out of your comfort zone; study what you love; inform yourself and become a better person. have fun. she also empha­sized the privilege we all have or have had to go to school and that it’s our responsibility to help children, especially underprivileged children, reach that goal. notre dame students can play an important role through community outreach. students can “take an interest in the child” and help them build their dreams. as she put it, “The greater obstacle to success is the lack of knowledge of what’s available.” notre dame students can show children in this community what their options are for the future. we can “be a voice for change” as she has urged us. For that reminder and her down-to-earth wisdom, we’ll forever be grateful. 
Marisel Moreno 
associate professor of spanish sept. 3 


We’re as mad as hell 

EDITORIAL 

it took one week, five hours and 44 minutes. 
not fully eight days after the first notre dame freshmen began moving into their new homes, we received the year’s first alert of a sexual assault on campus. 
Two days later, notre dame security police (ndsp) sent the year’s second email, this time informing students of two reported acts of sexual violence. 
with three reports of sexual assault or battery in fewer than two weeks — the first two weeks — frankly, we’re as mad as hell, and we’re not going to take it anymore. 
Those words, which come from the 1976 film “network,” are just about the only way we can accurately express our reaction to last weekend’s reports. everyone — students, faculty, staff and all members of the notre dame and saint mary’s com­munity — should have been deeply and personally offended and enraged to learn of these attacks on campus. 
we should still be mad, too. when any act of sexual violence occurs on cam­pus, we, as a community, have failed. and with the timing considered, a few short months after the release of “The hunting ground” and the productive dialogue it generated, these most recent failures are particularly infuriating. 
we can only hope the increased discourse on sexual assault that began last se­mester is part of what empowered the survivors of these recent assaults to come forward and report the attacks. if it is, then our community has made some prog­ress in cultivating an environment in which survivors of sexual assault feel safe enough to seek the justice they deserve. 
and we should continuously strive to build our community as a safe, empower­ing space, but we should work for more, too. we should live in a community where survivors feel safe, but we should also create a community safe enough to prevent future attacks. 
in our final staff editorial of last school year, we as an editorial board vowed to continue the conversation on sexual assault. now, at the beginning of a new year, it has quickly become apparent that this conversation is still needed, perhaps more than ever. accept this, our first staff editorial of this school year, as a tangible sign we have not given up on this conversation or the issue of sexual violence in our community. 
it has become apparent, too, that a conversation about sexual assault is not sufficient. discussion is illuminating and emboldening, but it can only go so far. The current situation — characterized by media across the nation as a campus sexual assault epidemic — demands action from all members of the community, particularly from the bottom up. 

The unfortunate truth is there is no single solution to the egregious problem of campus sexual assault. nor will any combination of solutions work overnight. 
in the days since ndsp’s emails, we have seen a bevvy of proposed solutions on these pages and elsewhere. some have been more outlandish than others, but with such a persistent and troubling issue, we are open to new ideas, and the beginning of this year has brought with it many promising solutions. 
saint mary’s resource groups utilize green dot training, a national program designed to empower bystanders to take action and prevent violence before it hap­pens. This year, green dot has partnered with student government at notre dame. practices of active bystander intervention and the importance of consent play an important role in the new moreau First-year experience courses. notre dame’s student government is continuing its involvement in the white house’s “it’s on us” campaign to prevent sexual assault. 
participating in established programs like these is an excellent step in fighting the campus sexual assault issue, but we still urge all members of the notre dame and saint mary’s communities to do more. don’t just sign a pledge for “it’s on us”; take its message to heart and make sexual assault a deeply personal issue. 
get mad when an act of sexual violence occurs on campus and use that anger to take real, tangible steps — no matter how small — to prevent the next attack. refuse to take part in a culture that passively allows sexual assault to happen in our campus community. 
That sounds like a massive task, and it is. but we must start with small steps that work against what many scholars and activists call the rape culture that exists on college campuses and beyond. Talk to your friends, or anyone who will listen, about the issue. introduce it as a topic of class discussion. point out when others around you make insensitive or harmful jokes about rape and articulate why such attitudes are legitimately harmful. The way we talk about the issue matters. 
There is no one big, end-all-be-all solution to the campus sexual assault crisis. rather, there are a multitude of smaller solutions that, put together, will work to­wards a true cultural shift and a campus community that can last much longer than two weeks without a report of sexual assault. 
some lives don’t matter 
Gary Caruso 
capitol comments 
my first column each semester usually exudes a “what happened to me” summer recap of excitement and enjoyable experiences. This year’s should lead with my highlight of the summer — coaching a char­ity congressional baseball team that plays annually at the washington nationals field. To everyone’s sur­prise, president obama appeared in our dugout roll­ing a cooler behind him that contained white house brew beer and said, “i brought the beer!” 
but this summer has been an angry, deadly affair replete with raucous rhetoric and community activ­ism that dwarfs much of any one person’s warm-weather pleasantries. police-involved deaths in baltimore, new york city and Ferguson ignited the demand for evenhanded procedures throughout the law enforcement ranks nationwide. Through a series of similar but unrelated incidents in diversely differ­ing communities, the “i can’t breathe” slogan swelled into the “black lives matter” cause. 
sadly, some sought revenge upon any law enforce­ment figure despite that officer’s personal distinction or honorable character. officers were senselessly gunned down in a patrol car in new york. The hunt for three men this week is still ongoing in the chicago area for allegedly ambushing an officer. most notably, harris county, Texas sheriff ron hickman pointedly told the nation it was time to cool the hate-filled rhet­oric because all lives matter, including those of cops. 
speaking of how the national rhetorical crusade has gone beyond control, sheriff hickman described how his assassinated deputy, darren goforth, was cold­bloodedly murdered execution-style from behind and then shot again while laying on the ground. The sher­iff said, “we’ve heard ‘black lives matter’ [and] ‘all lives matter.’ well, cops’ lives matter too. so why don’t we drop the qualifier and just say ‘lives matter,’ and take that to the bank?” 

nationwide, communities are struggling. eventually, all of our law enforcement communities will work through and adjust to being aggressively vigilant in our era of terror threats while evenly ad­ministering their arrest duties. but many who seek “black lives matter” changes are also the first to an­grily confront law enforcement officials when told to comply with police orders. conversation instead of confrontation is key to changing cultures who believe the other is overstepping its boundaries. 
There’s no denying many law enforcement enclaves throughout the united states need improvement. it is wrong for any officer on any level to waver from strictly enforcing the law, in favor of behavior that gins up unfounded charges for financial gains in the town budget or due to personal prejudices or for po­litical reasons. i work with officers of color who tell stories of being stopped in small communities for what they consider are not legitimate reasons. one described his journey as “driving while hispanic” in georgia. after immediately identifying himself as a federal official who was carrying a weapon to the local policeman, the conversation turned to how they both trained at the same facility in georgia. my co­worker refers to such an irresponsible local officer as “barney Fife.” 
how do we end a barney Fife mentality? Together, we americans of all backgrounds from every corner of our nation need to be open-minded and gracious toward our neighbors. our society will only achieve our goal of a perfected balance between respecting personal rights and administering law enforcement duties when, as sheriff hickman says, all lives mat­ter and are respected. moreover, healing begins by changing religious canon and political pretense. 
pope Francis, our refreshingly humble catholic leader, embraces rather than condemns. This week he shattered another rigid practice by embracing those within our church who were previously shunned — remorseful women who had sought atonement for their abortions. as the pope oftentimes affirms, we are not the ones to judge, we are to serve and accept others. 
ironically, many continue to use scripture as their authority to denounce others. many so-called “pro­life” politicians rationalize away their bona fides in the name of religion while they scripture-thump through bible passages. if a political candidate op­poses abortion, it matters little to political supporters whether that politician favors death through war or capital punishment. Former virginia governor and notre dame alumnus, bob mcdonnell (class of 1976), who was recently convicted of several corruption felony charges, is a case in point. portraying him­self as pro-life against abortion, mcdonnell favored the death penalty when other christians may have prayed the condemned might find Jesus while serving life in prison. 
in 2010, mcdonnell refused a clemency request by 41-year-old grandmother, Teresa lewis — judged with a 72 cognitive Full scale iQ — making lewis the first woman executed in virginia since 1912. mcdonnell’s statement clearly showed all lives did not matter to him. he said, “i find no compelling reason to set aside the sentence. … accordingly, i decline to intervene.” 
we americans have what others around the globe admire and desire. authority maintains our civil and calm society — so long as it is just. respect for all other lives and the law maintains our peace. yet we still have a long journey because, tragically, in both our political and religious circles, some lives still don’t matter. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legis­lative and public affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s ad­ministration. His column appears every other Friday. Contact him on Twitter @GaryJCaruso or at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


lack of charisma, which — for a comic 
Adam Ramos 
— is an essential quality in connect-
scene writer 
ing with the audience. however, it’s important to remem­
earlier this year, comedy legend ber Jost is still in the process of transi-Jerry seinfeld made comments regard-tioning from a writer to an entertainer, ing his refusal to perform on college and with his track record as prec­campuses. blaming the environment edent, we have a lot to look forward of hyper-sensitive political-correct-to in his career. Jost’s form of sharp, ness, seinfeld is not alone in his dis-shrewd comedy works well for him like of our demographic, as both larry and his standup can be closely com-the cable guy and chris rock avoid pared to some of John mulaney’s rou­preforming at colleges. seinfeld pro-tine who, like Jost, came from higher fessed that college students “don’t education, began writing for snl and know what the hell they are talking slowly transitioned to standup. about” when using words like racist, sub’s decision to go with colin Jost sexist and prejudice. makes a lot of sense. The high sensi­
while political correctness is an es-tivity levels on campus coupled with sential part of our community at notre the location of the show on south dame, we may be going too far. with Quad all point to Jost’s style of com-the student union board’s (sub) re-edy. while a comedian with more cent announcement about comedy on success at standup would have been the Quad, we must ask ourselves: is great, a subdued comedian modifying sensitivity beginning to mitigate free his routine in order to fit the parame­speech and, if so, can comedy exist in ters of the show would have been dis-such an environment? appointing. Jost will be able to present 
on Tuesday, sub announced this most of his jokes and no one will leave year’s comedy on the Quad stars the show offended (well, hopefully not saturday night live head writer and a lot). “weekend update” anchor, colin Jost. as a final psa, i urge anyone go-Jost boasts an impressive resume: ing to see the show: please, for the after graduating from the prestigious sake of preserving one of my favorite regis high school in new york city, pastimes, don’t take the jokes too he was admitted into harvard where seriously. look, everybody has a line he went on to become president of for what’s appropriate and what’s harvard lampoon, the school’s fa-not, but don’t put yours next to every mous humor publication. at the mere single controversial issue. society age of 22, Jost became part of the snl runs smoothly when we can all take a writing team before working his way step back and take a moment to find up to head writer. after seth myers the humor in those touchy subjects landed “late night,” Jost found him-we tend to avoid discussing. Jost’s aim self next in line and happily obliged. will not be to offend the student body, 
employing a very clean-cut ap-but he may say some jokes that make proach to comedy, Jost tends to stay you a bit uncomfortable, and that’s on the safe side of many of his jokes. just the nature of the beast. comedy michael che is Jost’s co-anchor on on the Quad is already shaping up to “weekend update,” which makes be a great show for everyone at notre sense, as che usually delivers on the dame to enjoy — try your hardest to more risqué and controversial jokes. make that the reality while Jost fits the role of “weekend update,” conjuring past anchors like Contact Adam Ramos at                        norm mcdonald, colin Quinn and of aramos6@nd.edu course his predecessor, seth myers,    The views expressed in this column are Jost has yet to attain the same success. those of the author and not necessarily many critics have knocked Jost for a those of The Observer. 
JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 


By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 
dust is tucked into the grooves of “poison season.” singer/songwriter dan bejar, stage name destroyer, has a habit of spinning his lyrics with the aged beauty of faded paintings and yellow-paged narratives. The scenes and characters in bejar’s work are al­ternatively personal and historical, his perspective alternatively romantic and cynical. The music he makes as destroyer always seems to be reaching back towards faded cities, only to grasp them as they vanish. it’s this moment of loss that bejar captures so well in his understated, orchestral compositions — one that seems to simultaneously embody and long for what is gone. 
“sounds, smash hits, melody maker, nme ... all sound like a dream to me,” bejar sang on his last full-length re­cord, “Kaputt,” listing off the (mostly) defunct music magazines he read as a kid. it’s a devastating line draped over a gorgeous yet sterile smooth jazz groove. while bejar’s lyrics have always bal­anced nostalgia and realism, the pro­duction on Kaputt was blindingly clean and accessible. 
The clash between the one-dimen­sionality of Kaputt’s sound and its nu­anced lyrics is enthralling. yet “poison season” boasts a sonic palette that meshes, rather than coexists, with the subject matter of its lyrics — one that sounds, well, dusty. a subtle wave of distortion blurs and ages the trumpets, drums, saxophones and other instru­ments that populate the record. it’s a welcome touch of depth: where Kaputt was cloudless, “poison season” sits in a light fog. The name of the album itself, ominous and airy, seems to linger in the dissonance and fuzz that roll in and out of each arrangement on the record. 
as for the arrangements, each is spec­tacular. immaculately written and per­formed strings and winds cloak bejar’s compositions in breathtaking beauty. yet for all the immediate beauty in the arrangements, the actual songs on “poison season” tend to veer un­predictably. street-rock stomps erupt from midnight meditations. runs of dissonant notes slink out of seemingly straightforward chord progressions be­fore blooming into new progressions al­together. bejar’s piano and vocal work clearly sit at the heart of the ballads of “poison season,” guiding the tempo through skips and pirouettes without missing a step. it’s the sort of music that’s so well-constructed that it comes off as both capricious and inevitable. 

Thankfully, destroyer’s attention to detail does not stop at the notes on the page. bejar’s lyrical content is stan­dard for the singer songwriter. “poison season” spends its fifty-minute runtime illuminating societies old and new, col­lapsed or collapsing. yet his penchant for concise and affecting phrasing is stronger than ever. “dinosaur on the ice / buffalo on the plain,” bejar hums on “sun in the sky,” “i left my keys on the kite / left my violin on the trolley.” it’s an astonishingly effective, and wholly american, reminder that all of history 
— no matter how distant it seems — is simply a tally of each day and place as they pass into legend. 
The shining star of the record, how­ever, is “Times square,” which acts as both the bookends of the record and its centerpiece. performed in three dif­ferent ways, it deftly introduce (and reintroduce) a set of classic characters while complicating our ideas about them. “Jesus is beside himself / Jacob’s in a state of decimation / The writing on the wall wasn’t writing at all / Just forces of nature in love with a weath­er station,” sings bejar in the opening lines. bejar has a striking ability to con­struct figures that are familiar, trou­bled and human, stuck both in the past and in the present; in short, he brings to life characters that are real, just like the refreshingly tangible instrumen­tation that surrounds them. “poison season” is an incredibly human record, marked by the touch of a masterful musician who paints a beautiful yet convincingly deteriorating portrait of america as we know and knew it. even as “poison season,” too, gathers dust, it will be worth turning to if only to touch something that feels true. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 
“Poison Season” 
Destroyer 
Label: Merge Records Tracks: “Sun in the Sky,” “Times Square If you like: Beirut 


WEEKEND EVENTS CALENDAR 
FRIDAY 

Comedy on the Quad 
come out on south Quad for a a great atmo­sphere, stay for a night filled with laughs on top of laughs. courtesy of sao, colin Jost will be coming to notre dame to take students into the first football weekend of the year. Jost is the head writer of saturday night live and is the co-anchor of weekend update. Take a load off and enjoy the night. Jost performs at 10 p.m. and the event is free to all students. 
SATURDAY 


Football: Notre Dame vs. Texas 

Football is back. notre dame takes on the Texas longhorns in the season opener. This marks the beginning of a season filled with promise, interest­ing storylines and high expectations. 
The season opener begins at 7:30 p.m., and is a lock to be a night chock-full of excitement. 
SUNDAY 

Men’s Soccer 
more sports! come support the irish men’s soccer team as they take on the university of alabama at birmingham blazers. The irish are fresh off a thrilling double-overtime victory over the indiana hoosiers, and look to continue to build momentum at home. 
The game begins at 2 p.m. at alumni stadium. 
JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 
young quarterbacks given no chance 
Ben Padanilam 
sports writer 
when news of robert griffin iii’s removal from the starting quarterback spot hit the wires four days ago, i couldn’t help but feel sorry for him. his story is emblem­atic of the unfair expectations and mismanagement that are far too prevalent in the nFl today, and it’s a shame the best player at the position for the redskins is sitting on the bench because of it. 
drafted just four years ago, griffin took the league by storm. he set rookie records for quarterback rating and touchdown-to-interception ratio. he won nFl offensive rookie of the year honors, was named co-caption by the team midway through the season and led the team to its first playoff appearance in six seasons. his meteoric rise led to his being tabbed the “savior” of the washington redskins organization. 
Then came the playoffs, when griffin faced his first true obstacle: an acl injury. despite having not been cleared to return to game ac­tion following a previous knee sprain, griffin was put back on the field by then-redskins head coach mike shanahan in the nFc wild card game. This decision only exacerbated the injury and, ultimately, started griffin’s downfall. 
Throughout the offseason, griffin made immense strides to get back on the field by week 1 of the 2013 season. however, the rust and lack of a full recovery were evident in his play, as the superstar that had blossomed just the year before failed to make an ap­pearance. soon, tension be­tween griffin and shanahan became public, and shanahan effectively gave up on griffin and benched him for the last three games of the season. 
Then, at the start of the 2014 season, the redskins hired Jay gruden to replace shanahan as head coach. yet nothing changed, as gruden soon made it clear that he was far from a fan of griffin’s, calling him out through the media and benching him for several games in what became a season-long mess at the quarterback position for the redskins. and now, before this season has even begun, he has been benched yet again for a quarterback in Kirk cousins he has proven to be better than. 
The evidence speaks for itself. all three seasons he has been in the league, his quarterback rating has been higher than cousins. in the two seasons he was benched for cousins, he had a higher completion percentage. and by the way, his career 40-23 touchdown-to-interception ratio is vastly superior to cousins’ 18-19 mark. This doesn’t even account for the mobility griffin has — albeit limited since his injury — and cousins simply does not. 
while griffin’s story is certainly paramount in the mismanagement of young quarterbacks in the nFl, it is far from the only one. look at Johnny manziel, brady Quinn, colt mccoy or any one of the 20 quarterbacks the browns have started since 1999. what about blaine gabbert in Jacksonville or Jake locker in Tennessee? They were first round picks by bad teams who failed to improve at other positions. Then, failing to experience immediate turnaround, these teams made those young quarterbacks the scapegoats and immediately moved on. 
undoubtedly, the immedi­ate success of griffin played a significant role in the unfair expectations that resulted in his mismanagement. in ad­dition, the success of young quarterbacks like andrew luck and russell wilson have created a perception around the nFl that success comes immediately and, if it does not, then it is time to move on. They fail to realize these players are either once-in­a-generation talents (luck) or very good players finding themselves on an already very good team (wilson). They have all but forgot­ten that elite players at the position such as Tom brady and aaron rodgers did not even start in their first sea­sons, let alone shine. peyton manning’s colts went 3-13 his rookie season. 
Quarterback is the tough­est position to play in all of sports. you receive the credit for the wins and bear the blame for the losses. yet ex­pectations continue to bury young quarterbacks in a hole that they are never even given the chance to recover from. robert griffin iii has shown fans and opposing defenses that he can be a star in the nFl. it’s a shame Jay gruden and the redskins won’t give him a fair chance to prove it to them too. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadali@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

MLB | whiTe soX 6, Twins 4 
Samardzija ends losing streak in win over Twins  
Associated Press 

minneapolis — J.b. shuck’s two-run, pinch-hit triple in the seventh inning sent the chicago white sox over minnesota 6-4 Thursday, the Twins’ last home game before beginning a key road trip. 
eddie rosario hit a grand slam for the Twins, who fell 1½ games behind idle Texas for the second al wild-card spot. minnesota now starts a nine-game swing to division leaders houston and Kansas city and wraps up at the white sox. 
shuck’s liner off reliever casey Fien (4-6) made it 5-4 and helped chicago win for just the second time in 10 games at Target Field this season. shuck scored later in the seventh on adam eaton’s sacrifice fly. 
Jose abreu had three hits for the white sox. 
rosario’s slam in the third put the Twins ahead 4-1 against Jeff samardzija (9-11). The white sox starter ended his six-game losing streak. 
david robertson got his 28th save in 34 chances. 
The white sox trailed 4-3 when alexei ramirez led off the seventh with an infield single that Fien kicked with his leg when it looked as if shortstop eduardo escobar already had a play on the ball. 
geovany soto walked, carlos sanchez sacrificed and shuck delivered. 
shuck hasn’t started a game since aug. 19 and had just five plate appearances in that stretch. he had been 6 for 26 with three rbis as a pinch-hitter this season. 
samardzija managed to earn his first win since July 
28. he has an 8.33 era in his last seven starts and has al­lowed nine home runs during that span. 
Fien has allowed runs in back-to-back outings after going 12 straight innings without allowing a run. The Twins bullpen had allowed just 11 earned runs in its last 45 2-3 innings for a 2.17 era. 
rookie miguel sano didn’t start for minnesota as he’s dealt with a hamstring injury. he pinch-hit in the eighth with one runner on base, but flied out to end the inning. Trainer’s Room 
Twins: closer glen perkins was unavailable and won’t leave on the upcoming road trip with the team as he deals with back spasms. ... rhp phil hughes threw in the bullpen for the first time since going on the disabled list on aug. 14 with lower back inflammation. Up Next 
white sox: chicago heads to Kansas city and will start lhp John danks (6-12, 4.82 era) in the first game of the series against rhp Kris medlen (3-0, 3.51). danks has lost four straight decisions, allowing two runs and seven hits in six innings against seattle on aug. 28. 
NFL | eagles 24, JeTs 18 

Tebow, Eagles best Jets as starters rest 
Associated Press 

easT ruTherFord, n.J.  — it was Tebow Time again. at least for one more night. 
Tim Tebow threw two touchdown passes and an interception in his fi­nal opportunity to make philadelphia’s roster, and the eagles fell to the new york Jets 24-18 on Thursday night. 
Tebow, competing with matt barkley for the no. 3 quarterback job, flashed some of the playmaking skills and maddening in­consistency that have made him such a polarizing player throughout his nFl career. Tebow, who last played in a 

FOR SALE 

Open house, Condo- walk to ND Saturday September 5th 10a.m-4 
p.m 2 bedroom 2 bath 1,107 sq. feet, 2 car detached garage New London Lakes Condominiums. Take Edison to Ironwood, go in on Ironwood past 23 and Martin’s Condo entrance on left off Ironwood downhill, on left 5-6 garage. 2109 Coventry Trail Apt. C. 574-277­3002 Under $100,000- negotiable. Immediate occupancy. Patty Flynn 
regular-season game with the Jets in 2012, finished 11 of 17 for 189 yards and add­ed 32 yards rushing on four carries. 
chip Kelly must decide whether it’s barkley, who was 4 of 9 for 45 yards and an interception, or Tebow behind sam bradford and mark sanchez for the eagles (3-1). 
both teams rested most of their regulars, although linebacker Kiko alonso made his debut for the eagles and had two tackles in his one series.alonso, acquired from buffalo for lesean mccoy, tore his anterior cruciate ligament last sum­mer, dealt with a concussion during training camp and was scratched last week with tendinitis in his surgically repaired knee. 
matt Flynn and Josh Johnson each made their de­buts for the Jets (3-1), trying to make a case for a backup job behind ryan Fitzpatrick. Flynn was 10 of 14 for 136 yards with two Tds and an interception, while Johnson was 7 of 12 for 82 yards and had 76 yards rushing on sev­en carries. 
darrin walls had the first of his two interceptions on barkley’s second pass of the game, intended for Josh huff and setting up the Jets’ first score, an 18-yard Td catch by chris owusu from Flynn. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
CONDO-Mishawaka,  Sedgwick  Amazing  1832  RGargesFarm  
House, 3BR 2.5 BA. View of park  Bedroom!https://www.airbnb.com/  
and riverwalk. Secured entrance with  rooms/5428944?s=23  
underground parking. $95,900. Call 574-329-0645  WANTED  
FOR RENT  
MAKE  $$  THIS  SATURDAY!  
Student(s) wanted to help mar- 
STAY AT A VERY HIP &amp;  keting firm at and around the foot- 
FABULOUS  FARM!  ONLY  19  ball game Saturday night. Please  
MILES TO ND! GO IRISH! YEEHA!  contact  sales@hotsportsgrills.  
Check out this listing on Airbnb,  com  




ND VOLLEYBALL 
At Seton Hall for tourney, Irish seek to improve 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
after salvaging a win at the blue raider bash last weekend, the Fighting irish look to fix some mistakes and create a winning streak as they travel to the seton hall classic in south orange, new Jersey this weekend. 
last weekend, the team suf­fered two saturday defeats be­fore turning it around sunday with a strong showing against middle Tennessee state to give first-year head coach Jim mclaughlin his first win with the program. 
“what i saw when we studied the film was less repeated errors [as the weekend went on], more good movements in place, be­ing in the right place at the right time, staying more focused on the things they were told to do,” mclaughlin said. “i saw bet­ter movement patterns. i saw better aggressiveness. i saw us improve, and i think we also understand that there’s other stuff that have to continue to make progress in, but for sure we need to move forward. That’s the most important thing, we have to move forward again this weekend. it’s another test, and we have to pass it.” 
now notre dame (1-2) turns its attention to seton hall, Temple and hofstra, the three teams the irish will face at the seton hall classic on Friday and saturday. 
as the irish turn their atten­tion from one tournament to an­other in consecutive weekends, mclaughlin said it’s less about individual talent and more about the team playing together as one. 
“They all have their own in­dividual battles, and they’re learning that,” mclaughlin said. “we’re all in the same situation, and we’re studying to see who’s winning in terms of making changes. That’s the first part of winning. i thought everybody contributed when we played well, so nobody really stood out. i thought that [junior middle blocker Katie] higgins had good numbers, and so can she repeat that and keep getting better? That’s the deal. i thought collec­tively, the contribution changed a little bit [from saturday to sunday].” 
This weekend, the irish face seton hall (1-2) on Friday be­fore squaring off against both Temple (2-1) and hofstra (4-1) on saturday. 
“we need to move forward, to get better, more consistent in what we do,” mclaughlin said. “we have a higher understand­ing of what we need to do and we’ll invest in it and deal with the adversity along with im­proving, which is hard. but it’s nothing magic, we’ll just keep making progress.” 
after coming home from their second road tournament in two weekends, the irish will again have to refocus and prepare for the golden dome invitational, which will be held at purcell pavilion next weekend. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at  hmcdani1@nd.edu 
W Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
at home for a bit, so we’re ex­cited to play on somebody else’s field and make sure we’re play­ing the same style and still do­ing the same things that we can do at home.”in addition to play­ing on the road, romagnolo said the weather will challenge each team’s mental toughness. 
“one of the challenges will be that it’s going to be hot, as we’re playing at 4 [p.m.] and [noon],” romagnolo said. “it’s some­thing both teams are going to have to deal with, and you’ll see the mental toughness factor.” 
and while the weather is out of their control, their strategy is not. in order for the irish to continue their undefeated sea­son through this weekend, they will have to balance posses­sion and aggression in a way that opens up opportunities to score, romagnolo said. 
“we need to move the ball,” romagnolo said. “we need to move the ball really well and be aggressive in the attack. i think finding the right combination of when to take players on and when to possess to open up op­portunities for ourselves [will be key].” 
olmsted said this has been a significant focus of the team throughout practice this week in order to ensure success on the field when the first whistle is blown. 
“we’re working on settling the ball, passing, trying to be more of a dynamic team and being more patient in front of goal and outside wide,” olmsted said. “we’re working on getting around players and taking people on but knowing when to take them on and when to pass, and moving off the ball i think is the biggest thing.” 
The irish will take the pitch this weekend when they battle western michigan on Friday at wmu soccer complex at 4 
p.m. before traveling again to play michigan state on sunday at noon at demartin soccer complex. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at  bpadanil@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 





Rugby 
conTinued From page 16 
field sessions as units, and then a field and a bit of gym, using the ice hockey gym which is pretty awesome,” mcmahon said. “The facilities there are really great, and it was good to work there.” 
although the team has spent most of its time in prac­tice as the world cup ap­proaches, mcmahon said he and the rest of the team did have a chance to see some of the sights around campus. 
“it’s been a really busy week here training,” said mcmahon. “it’s been really hot and the humidity makes things dif­ficult, but notre dame’s been unreal. we’ve been biking around campus on the bikes from the hotel having a look around campus, getting to see Touchdown Jesus, notre dame stadium and all the other sites. it’s been awesome. 
“i didn’t know too much about notre dame, i just knew that they had a pretty good football team, so i was pretty excited to come to the sta­dium and all that, which was pretty cool.” 
wallabies head coach michael cheika said he was similarly impressed with the facilities, and he also men­tioned the school’s culture has created the perfect situa­tion for his team. 
“it’s been brilliant really,” cheika said. “i couldn’t have imagined everything would be as good as it’s been. The whole set-up here at notre dame is so conducive to ex­cellence. i think that espe­cially being here the week before they play Texas really let us see notre dame at its best. 
“we’ve mostly managed to get all of our work done with­out much distraction. There have been some times when we’ve gone into starbucks in fluorescent jerseys and got some funny looks, but things have really been ideal here.” 
The game against the eagles — the u.s. national team — will be the last match for the wallabies before the world cup begins in england and wales later in september, and mcmahon said he believes the game will be important for everyone involved. 
“it’s a very important match,” mcmahon said. “with the world cup around the corner, it’s very important to focus ourselves and get ready for the world cup so we can dominate our pool, and as i’ve said before, the impor­tant thing is we’ve just got to execute our game plan.” 
mcmahon also said he was particularly excited to receive his first ever start for the wallabies in the united states and at soldier Field. 
“i’m super excited to final­ly get a start this year,” said mcmahon. “it’s a great place to finally get a start in, at soldier Field. it’s also the first ever game where i’ll get to play 15-a-side in america, so i’m really excited about that.” 
with the game serving as a last opportunity to try some­thing new before the world cup begins, cheika said the wallabies may look a little dif­ferent than the one that won the rugby championship, but will still be very strong. 
“what we did was just pret­ty much take a look at the guys who’ve already accumu­lated a lot of time in the rugby championship and give them a little time off,” said cheika. “They’ve already played a good amount of rugby before this world cup starts, and we’ve got a few guys that i have in mind for the first game that i want to see play together, and then a few guys who i just want to give an opportunity to, so i think that this team is a really good mix.” 
The wallabies take on the united states on saturday at soldier Field in chicago at 
6:30p.m. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at  doboyle1@nd.edu 
M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
week’s adidas/iu credit union classic with a 1-0-1 record, lachowecki said the irish un-

Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmcobserver 
paid adverTisemenT 

derstand they will have to hone in on their offensive abilities to beat the bulls. 
“we come off a big win at iu, so hopefully we keep the momentum going and fig­ure ourselves out even more as the season progresses,” lachowecki said. “hopefully we can get some more goals … and keep a clean sheet just like we did last week. This week we’re focused on being super-efficient in front of the goal.” 
Freshman midfielder Thomas ueland, who scored the game-winning goal against no. 14 indiana in the team’s last contest, said he believes the irish need to keep their inten­sity level high and not get look past either team. 
“especially after a big win, it’s easy for the level of play to drop,” ueland said. “as a team, we let it drop sometimes, so we need to be careful we don’t do that and keep it high.” 

“This is a huge tournament,” clark said. “[south Florida is] coming off a huge win. They beat georgetown so they’ll be feeling pretty good about themselves, and this is a good opportunity for them as well.” 
For a team that has had a significant amount of success recently, clark practices what he preaches about not looking past any opponents. 
“i haven’t even thought about the acc,” clark said. “The only thing we’re worried about is south Florida.” 
with its focus honed in on facing south Florida, notre dame will seek to improve to 2-0-1. The irish will kick off their matchup against the bulls at 7:30 p.m. at alumni stadium. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Football  weekend.  
conTinued From page 16  Injury report  
Freshman cornerback  
to say malik’s a veteran, he’s  shaun crawford under- 
still not. he played really in  went surgery Thursday for a  
one game for us last year, and  torn acl suffered aug. 19 in  
he didn’t play the whole game.  practice.  
“malik is gonna have his  “it came out great, great re- 
moments where he’s got to  ports from brian ratigan, our  
settle into the game, and  team [orthopedic surgeon],”  
emotion versus enthusiasm  Kelly said. “he is resting com- 
is big for him. he can be emo­ fortably at st. liam’s, and  
tional at times, and we have  we feel really good about his  
to transfer that into being just  recovery.”  
enthusiastic.”  crawford drew praise from  
his coaches and teammates  
First-year action  during the preseason and was  
of the 33 true freshmen list- making a push for immedi­ 
ed on the irish roster, five will  ate playing time before the  
have the chance to see playing  injury.  
time against Texas on special  Kelly said there were no  
teams, Kelly said: receivers  other injuries to report be­ 
equanimeous st. brown and  fore saturday’s matchup. he  
c.J. sanders, running back  added senior running back  
Josh adams, cornerback nick  c.J. prosise, who was side­ 
coleman and kicker Justin  lined earlier in the preseason  
yoon.  for a hip flexor injury, is fully  
Two of them are slated to  recovered.  
start for notre dame, sanders  “he’s had two solid weeks  
as punt returner and yoon at  of practice to get where we  
kicker.  need him to be, so we have  
Two other freshmen are also  no concerns or issues with his  
listed as second-stringers on  health,” Kelly said.  
the team’s depth chart: Jerry  
Tillery on the defensive line  Long-awaited returns  
behind sophomore daniel  Two cogs of notre dame’s  
cage, and alizé Jones at tight  defense will hit the field  
end alongside three other  against the longhorns af­ 
players. Kelly said Tuesday  ter long absences from com- 
both of them should play this  petition: senior cornerback  




Keivarae russell and gradu­ate student linebacker Jarrett grace. 
while Kelly said he always believed Keivarae would in­evitably lace up again for either the irish or another team, he was less optimis­tic with grace. however, the head coach said grace will 
paid adverTisemenT 
lineup with the kickoff team saturday. 
“i just didn’t know if Jarrett was ever going to play football again because of the injury and the severity of it,” Kelly said. “probably been in his hospital room more than any one player that i’ve coached, so i can say that firsthand that there were doubts in my mind after, about leaving him with no doubt that he would play, but i doubted it myself when i was leaving that he would ever play again, so that’s go­ing to be great to see him.” 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 
44 Pretends not to care 
47 1945 event 
48 Shootingpellets? 
49 Completely gone 
DOWN 
1 Katherina or Bianca, in “The Taming of the Shrew” 
2 Like questions of what is knowable 
3 1 or 2 Timothy 
4 Where to hear hearings 
5 Sch. in Ames 
6 Finds customers from social media, perhaps 
7 Preceded 
8 Baseball stat 
9 Woodsy scavengers 
10 Its national anthem is “Amhrán na bhFiann” 
11 Boxing seg. 
12 “Guys andDolls” song 
13 Some basic car care 
14 Take on gradually 
16 Rulers or managers 
Edited by Will Shortz 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  14  
15  16  
17  
18  19  20  
21  22  23  
24  25  26  
27  28  29  
30  31  
32  33  
34  35  36  37  
38  39  40  
41  42  43  
44  45  46  
47  
48  49  

Puzzle by Joe Krozel 

22 Didn’t hide 30 Askance 39 “The ___: A one’s feelings, Tragedy in Five 
31 Wearer of the 
to say the least Acts” (Shelley 
triregnum 
work)
23 Bad thing to crown make at a 40 Unlike HDTV
33 Spoofing, with
restaurant screens

“up”26 One working on 42 “South Pacific”
35 Absolutely
a board girl
perfect28 Tiffany features 45 Relig. title
37 Like campers at29 Elite night, typically 46 Christian ___ 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: opportunities are heading your way. don’t let your fear of change cause you to miss out on what life has to offer. apply the lessons of the past to how you live in the present and you will head into the future with a solid base to build whatever your heart desires. parlay your expertise into a commodity that everyone wants. your numbers are 7, 15, 20, 28, 33, 37, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): make personal changes that will help you reach your dreams. building your confidence will make a difference when it comes to enticing others to help you. don’t react emotionally or it will ruin your plans with someone special. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): if you are receptive to the changes going on around you, it will make it easier for you to get things done. press forward and make do with what you have available, and you will make a good impression. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): making home improvements will give you a boost as long as you don’t overspend. you may feel like sharing your handiwork with friends by hosting an event. Keep it simple and avoid self-indulgence. hearing others’ thoughts will give you insight. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): listen attentively, but don’t let anyone put demands on your time. get back to the hobbies, activities or pastimes that you used to enjoy. call someone who you used to enjoy spending time with. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Keep moving forward until you have made the changes that will position you for success. use your charm and knowledge to gather information and to get the approval you need to reach your goals. romance will improve your life. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): share your thoughts, not your emotions, to avoid being put in a vulnerable position. it’s important to keep secrets and to make a point of being a good listener. a chance to observe cultural differences will change your outlook. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): pursue the physical improvements that will make you happy. your frame of mind will depend on how you feel about the way you look and how skillful you are. don’t settle for anything less than perfection. your hard work will pay off. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): emotional matters will rise to the surface if jealousy sets in or an argument breaks out. don’t let them affect your efficiency. stick to professional matters and avoid sensitive topics. look for improved living quarters. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you will benefit financially if you make changes that will cut your overhead. don’t incur debt because someone wants you to buy something you don’t need. you can’t buy love, but you can offer affection instead of lavish gifts. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): explore financial possibilities, but don’t take someone’s word and invest in hearsay. it’s important to do your own thing and put your cash where you know it will get a good return. home improvements will pay off. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): evaluate financial or medical issues. Talk over your situation with the people you love and trust the most. a change in the way you do things will help you find a way to bring in extra cash. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): stop speculating and start making things happen. if you want something, you have to go after it. make new friends and check out what you can offer and what you can get in return from the connections you make. 

Birthday Baby: you are tough, stubborn and persistent. you are responsible and helpful. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

ACROSS 
1 Line of acid reflux medications 
7 Gash 
15 1984 film based on the 1924 novel 
17 Causes for some wars 
18 Court org. 
19 French-built rocket 
20 Downwind 
21 Some religiousexperiences 
23 Laplanders 
24 ___ Tamid (synagoguelamp) 
25 Items often found near the cash register 
26 Suffix with diet 
27 Mark atop, asgraph points 29 Money fornothing? 
30 Undergoesliquefaction, asa gel 
31 It may have an ext. 
32 Actresses Graff and Kristen 
33 Next 
34 Like some rule-breakingOlympians 
35 Not getting it 
36 Leave 
38 Guidance 
39 What’s between fast and slow? 
41 Great Lakes state: Abbr. 
42 Segue 
43 Country whosename sounds like a Jamaican exclamation 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 

city      state Zip 

FOOTBALL 
notre dame makes final tweaks before Texas 
By MARY GREEN 
assistant managing editor 
Junior quarterback malik Zaire will enter a high-pressure situation saturday when he be­gins his first season as notre dame’s starting quarterback, but head coach brian Kelly doesn’t want Zaire believing he has to put the whole team on his back. 
“as i told him, you don’t have to be the reason why we won. you can’t be the reason why we lost,” Kelly said in his press con­ference Thursday. “you’ve got 10 other guys around you who are really good playmakers. get the ball to them, get it to the right play. if he does that, he’s going to do very, very well for us.” 
Just like many of the 80,000­plus fans crammed into notre dame stadium on saturday, Kelly said his gaze will be fo­cused on his new quarterback. 
“eyes are still going to be cen­tered on the quarterback play,” he said. “as much as we’d like 
see FooTball PAGE 14 

MEN’S SOCCER 
Berticelli tourney set to kick off 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
coming off an overtime vic­tory on the road and looking to build some momentum, no. 4 notre dame hosts the mike berticelli memorial Tournament this weekend at alumni stadium. 
notre dame (1-0-1) has made its mark on the college soccer landscape as of late, consistently placing among the best in the country year after year. in the last three years, the irish were the first, third and first seeds in the ncaa tournament, respec­tively. They kick off their first regular season home games of the year this weekend against south Florida and the alabama­birmingham (uab). 
The mike berticelli memorial Tournament has been held at notre dame every year since 2002, with the exception of 2013. berticelli coached the irish from 1990 to 1999 and compiled a 104­80-19 record. in 2000, he died from a heart attack at the age of 48. 
“it’s always a nice way to remember someone who was a good friend of mine, a coach and colleague,” irish head coach bobby clark said. “he was some­one who did a great job at notre dame as a coach. it’s a nice thing that we’ve done every year re­membering ‘bert’ for who he was. it was very sad, i remem­ber the morning i heard the bad news. it was tragic. he was just 48 years old. a young man.” 
in addition, notre dame alumni come out every year and get together in berticelli’s honor to support the irish. 
“it’s a nice weekend for alumni to come back to town and honor him,” graduate student defender max lachowecki said. “For us it’s a good weekend. we have a ban­quet, and our parents come into town. everyone’s family comes in, and the older kids’ parents meet the younger kids’ parents. it’s a good thing for all of us.” 
Friday night, the irish will take on south Florida (2-0-0), which defeated no. 3 georgetown, 2-0, on monday. despite leaving last 
see m soccer PAGE 13 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
Irish to square off with Spartans 
By BEN PADANILAM 
sports writer 
This weekend, no. 6 notre dame will hit the road for the first time this season when it takes on western michigan on Friday and michigan state on sunday. 
The irish (4-0-0) are coming off a four-game stretch at home in which they outscored oppo­nents by a combined total of 13-1 en route to an undefeated start. more impressively, they scored more goals than they al­lowed shots during that stretch (13-5). 
however, they are now set to hit the road to face their two strongest opponents of the year thus far. The broncos (2-1-0) are coming off two straight wins following a double-overtime loss to wisconsin to open the year. The spartans (3-0-1) have yet to drop a match this season, or allow more than a goal in any one of their games. irish head coach Theresa romagnolo said she believes both teams will be as strong as their records indicate. 
“i think they’ll both be really organized,” romagnolo said. “i think they’re going to defend well. both have good records. They’re both winning, so they believe in themselves, too.” 
irish junior forward Kaleigh olmsted said the team needs to approach both games with the same aggression they have in all their other contests this season. 
“i feel as though our team needs to take these games like any game and go at them the same way we went at portland, santa clara and the other two games as well,” olmsted said. “i think the challenge will be go­ing in knowing that we have a good record and trying to stay focused.” 
These two matches also represent the first time this season the irish will take the field outside of the friendly confines of alumni stadium. romagnolo said the team is ex­cited to face the test of a hostile environment. 
“we’re getting ourselves out of our comfort zone,” romagnolo said. “we’ve been 
see w soccer PAGE 11 
RUGBY 

Wallabies visit campus in prep for World Cup 

EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 

Wallabies winger Joe Tomane slides to the turf after being taken down in a practice Sept. 1 at Stinson Rugby Field. 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
students might have seen some new faces and accents from down under in the past week, as the australia national rugby union Team held prac­tices at notre dame in prepa­ration for its world cup warm up game against the united states on saturday at soldier Field. 
Fresh off a victory in the rugby championship earlier this summer, the wallabies — two-time world cup champi­ons and among the favorites for this year’s competition — practiced on riehle Fields, ad­jacent to the stepan center. 
The australian kickers held a clinic monday, teaching some students how to kick a rugby ball before engaging in a series of practices. Twenty-one year-old flanker sean mcmahon — set to make his first start for the wallabies in chicago — said he was very impressed by the facilities at notre dame 
“we come out, we run two 
see rugby PAGE 13 





