The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 38 | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Student government launches online forum 
Platform modeled after social media sites encourages student suggesions and participation 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
news editor 
on sept. 29, seven months after originally announcing it as a part of their campaign platform, student body presi­dent and vice president bryan ricketts and nidia ruelas un­veiled onward, an online fo­rum for students to submit and vote on ideas, loosely-based on social media sites reddit and yik yak. 
on the forum — which can be accessed through studentgov­ernment.nd.edu and requires a notre dame login — students can submit ideas as well as up-vote or down-vote ideas that they like or dislike, as well as respond to posts by other stu­dents. all posts begin with the tag “ideation stage,” but can gain “implementation” status when student government be­gins to look into moving for­ward with them. 

constituent services director John kill described the site en­courages a “problem-solution model” to help students voice their opinions and share ideas with student government and 
see Forum PAGE 5 



grc hosts prayer service for victims of violence 
By CLARE KOSSLER 
associate news editor 
in the midst of relationship violence awareness month, the gender relations center (grc) held a prayer service Tuesday evening for the healing of victims and all others impacted by interper­sonal violence. 
“we gather here today because we know that sex­ual violence, that dating violence, that all forms of interpersonal violence don’t affect only individuals but communities, and they don’t need only individuals to heal – they need communi­ties to heal,” bridget o’brien, who is an assistant rector of Farley hall and a doctoral candidate in theology, said. 
“[Forms of violence] don’t affect only our physical well-being; they don’t affect only our emotional well­being; they don’t affect only our spiritual well-being; but they impact all of these things, and we need to heal in all of these ways.” 
o’brien, who offered the service’s reflection, said it is the responsibility of the community to confront in­terpersonal violence for the sake of its own health and for that of its members. 

“we come together in soli­darity to offer support and strength to one another, and to pray for healing for our­selves, for those we love, for our communities,” she said. 
o’brien reflected on a bib­lical passage from 1 samuel, in which a woman named hannah asks for god’s in­tercession to bring her peace and healing. she said hannah’s story is a model for those suffering the con­sequences of interpersonal violence. 
“hannah’s is a story of surviving year after year, of praying prayers that seem unheard year after year,” she said. “ … hannah’s is a story of being misunderstood, a story of betrayal and viola­tion of trust when someone close to her uses her pain against her. 
“ … her story is messy and undignified and not the sto­ry of someone who has it all together. and yet that story, 
see service PAGE 5 


Alleged robberies reported 
Observer Staff Report 

over the weekend, two students — one male and one female — were the vic­tims of separate robber­ies, according to an email Tuesday from ndsp. 
The email stated neither student sustained inju­ries and no weapons were involved. 
according to the email, the first robbery took place along Twyckenham drive near the soccer practice fields saturday at around 
2:40 a.m. The suspect ap­proached a male student, falsely identified himself as a police officer and threat­ened the student with ar­rest unless he gave him $40. 
“The suspect told the vic­tim to get into his vehicle and drove to several aTm machines where the vic­tim attempted unsuccess­fully to get cash,” the email stated. “eventually the sus­pect drove the victim to a residence hall on campus where he accompanied the victim inside.” 
The student then re­trieved cash from a friend and subsequently gave it to the suspect, and at 3:13 a.m. 
the suspect left campus, the email stated. 
The email stated the sus­pect was described “as a tall, heavyset black male with short hair wearing a red and black baseball cap, black frame glasses, a black shirt and gray sweatpants driving a mid-sized silver suv with dark interior that was in good condition.” 
ndsp released a picture of the suspect’s alleged car in the email. 
The second robbery oc­curred sunday at around 
see robbery PAGE 4 



alumni donate to nd football team, mendoza 
Observer Staff Report 

on oct. 9, two press releases announced two multi-mil­lion dollar donations to the university. 
pat and Jana eilers have do­nated $3 million to endow the football team’s defensive backs coaching position, and alum­ni James parsons and carrie Quinn have made a $20 mil­lion donation to establish a new institute for global investing within the mendoza college of business, according to the releases. 
Jack swarbrick, university vice president and the director of athletics, praised the eilers for their continuing generosity to notre dame. 
“This extraordinary gift is just one of many ways in which pat and Jana continue to give back to notre dame. i have not met anyone who be­lieves more strongly in value of intercollegiate athletics and the role it can play in educat­ing young people; we are very fortunate to count pat and Jana among the members of the notre dame family,” swarbrick said in the release. 
This is the first endowed as­sistant coach position at the university, the release stated. in June, the university announced gifts from alumnus 
see donaTions PAGE 5 






Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green 
Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu,  wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 


If you could go anywhere for fall break, where would you go? 

Adriana Fazio 

Gabrielle Jansen 
first year 
junior 
mccandless hall 
le mans hall 
“cape cod.” 
“killarney, ireland.” 

Catherine Kirkpatrick 

Kristina Miller 
first year 
senior 
mccandless hall 
holy cross hall 
“outer space.” 
“asheville, north carolina.” 

Emily Rompola 

Olivia Ortiz 
junior 
junior 
le mans hall 
le mans hall 
“australia.” 
“an african safari.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 
margaret hynds kit loughran Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Jp gschwind ben padanilam megan valley 
Scene Graphics adam ramos 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
erin rice 

Viewpoint Photo bianca almada 
Law School Lecture Mindful Meditation Football Pep Rally Compassionate Care ND Volleyball vs. 
rosie biehl 

Law School Coleman-Morse Hesburgh Library in Medicine Wake Forest 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Center 5:45 p.m.-6:30 p.m. Jordan Hall of Science Joyce Center “The Death Penalty, 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. A home game weekend 1 p.m.-2 p.m. 1 p.m.-3 p.m. 


Corrections 

Dignity and Doing Meditate with Campus tradition. Part of the Science The Irish take on the 
The observer regards itself as Justice.” Ministry. Exploration Series Demon Deacons. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Reading Series “Iron Sharpens Iron” ND Women’s Soccer Football vs. USC Evening Vespers 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Hammes Bookstore Coleman-Morse vs. Wake Forest Notre Dame Stadium Basilica of the Sacred 
however, recognize that we will make 
7:30p.m. Center Alumni Stadium 7:30 p.m. Heart 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Orlando Menes, 10 p.m.-11:30 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Notre Dame takes on 7:15 p.m.-8:15 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
professor of English, Weekly praise and The Irish take on the its longtime rivals, the Evening prayer in the 
we can correct our error. 

presents. worship service. Demon Deacons. Trojans. Lady Chapel. 




Professor examines impact of women in protests 
By JP GSCHWIND 
news writer 
according to dr. selina gallo-cruz, the role of wom­en in organizing for peace has long been ignored. 
gallo-cruz, a professor of sociology at the college of the holy cross of worcester, massachusetts, and a re­search fellow at the kroc institute for international peace studies, delivered a lecture monday afternoon at the hesburgh center for international studies titled, “vulnerability over violence: women and nonviolent power in argentina, serbia and liberia.” 
sponsored by the kroc institute, the lecture exam­ined nonviolent movements spearheaded by women that were overlooked and even mocked, but ultimately, led to significant results. in par­ticular, gallo-cruz analyzed the impact of women in the dirty war in argentina, on ethnic cleansing in serbia and in recurring civil wars in liberia. 
gallo-cruz began by sum­marizing common academic theories on the relationship between people and social power, asserting that there is a tendency to overemphasize dramatic action and land­mark events over more subtle movements. 
“There are different ways of defining power and mea­suring power, but there is also a particular bias in how we locate and define power,” campaign against anyone gallo-cruz said. they considered a dissident 

in order to rectify this under the guise of fighting mistake, gallo-cruz said, guerrilla rebels, gallo-cruz academics must pay closer said, and their victims in­attention to social move-cluded students, academics, ments that embrace non-social workers, doctors and violence and less overt many others. action than public protest “about 70 percent of the and armed resistance. victims were men, but often, 
“my aim is to expand the their wives would disappear theoretical framework for shortly after,” she said. how we understand people in response the widespread and power and if there’s an crackdown and persecu­explanation for how different tion, gallo-cruz said, many 

“My aim is to expand the theoretical framework for how we understand people and power and if there’s an explanation for how different sectors of a social movement can mobilize in different ways to give a broader explanation of the lifetime of the social movement.” 
Selina Gallo-Cruz 
professor of sociology 

sectors of a social movement groups organized resistance, can mobilize in different but one of the most impor­ways to give a broader ex-tant was the madres de plaza planation of the lifetime of de mayo, a group of mothers the social movement,” gallo-whose children were victims cruz said. of the government. 
The first case gallo-cruz gallo-cruz said the govern-used to illustrate these ideas ment did not take the madres was a period of tremendous or their efforts to protest and violence in argentina from spread awareness about the the 1970s to the early 1980s disappearances of their fam­known as the dirty war. ily members seriously, be­
“it was popularly called the cause the group lacked the dirty war, although many male leadership and formal scholars say we should re-resources of other resistance ally call it a genocide,” gallo-organizations. cruz said even after the dirty war 
The argentine govern-ended, gallo-cruz said, the ment launched a massive madres served a crucial role by speaking out against at­tempts to whitewash or com­promise with perpetrators of the brutal persecution and the disappearances 
“They became really cru­cial in developing a discourse against denial,” gallo-cruz said. 
The next case gallo-cruz examined was the role of the women in black in com-batting nationalistic vio­lence during the 1990s in yugoslavia. 
gallo-cruz said the women in black organized actions and demonstrations specifi­cally designed for publicity that successfully drew atten­tion to the atrocities being committed. 
“The women in black are known for doing public pro­tests and street theater,” gallo-cruz said. 
however, she said their dedication extended beyond public demonstrations. 
“They immediately moved into extensive work in un­attended social spheres,” gallo-cruz said. 
additionally, gallo-cruz said, the women in black also provided useful information because they had training in sociology and made an ef­fort to collect exhaustive ac­counts of the violence. 
“They did hundreds of sur­veys throughout the region on all kinds of data: on the experience of women in con­flict, on the ways in which men were mobilized into conscription,” gallo-cruz said 
The last case study she dis­cussed was the civil wars in liberia. 
starting in 1989 and ending in 2003 with several gaps in between, the liberian civil wars threatened the founda­tions of society, gallo-cruz said. 
“There were nine differ­ent ceasefires in that period, none of them lasting,” gallo­cruz said 
a common tactic through­out the conflict was the sys­tematic rape of women, she said. 
“an early survey from med­ical workers in 1994, that’s really early on in the con­flict, show that half of the women surveyed had experi­enced rape at the hands of an 
armed soldier,”  gallo-cruz  
said.  
according to  gallo-cruz,  

this may have helped prompt women to organize with a call for peace. 
Just like their counterparts in argentina and yugoslavia, gallo-cruz said, the women of liberia combined their political cause with social work. 
“They were this invisible force in society, really build­ing up the decent structure of the movement from dis­armament to leading social services to food and medical treatment,” she said. 
Contact JP Gschwind at  jgschwin@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 





ND partners with Life is Good 
By ANDREA VALE 
news writer 
The life is good company recently announced that it will partner with notre dame. Through the partnership, the hammes bookstore will start carrying life is good apparel and products, and life is good will create products that are a hybrid brand between the two institutions. 
“This new partnership has introduced a well-known and popular lifestyle brand to stu­dents, faculty, staff, alumni and friends that shares many of the same core values as the university,” david werda, di­rector of the hammes bookstore and retail operations, said. “life is good apparel has a relaxed fit and comfortable feel, and the graphics evoke a laid-back, young vibe that differentiates itself from many of the other brands that we carry. 
“The initial product launch has included men’s and wom­en’s t-shirts and long sleeves, but based on the overwhelm­ingly positive feedback, we an­ticipate the product line to not only become part of our core assortment but expand to in­clude fleece as well as gift and novelty items in the future,” he said. “The company [life is good] has been very receptive to customer feedback on which products they like best and which they would like to see in upcoming lines.” 

“we are proud to carry life is good products at the hammes notre dame bookstore because of the power of optimism that the brand promotes,” caitlin kinser, marketing manager for notre dame retail opera­tions, said. “life is good uses the catchphrases ‘go do good,’ and ‘enjoy the ride.’ both of these are important messages for notre dame students, the first because it supports the catholic mission of service on which the university is built, and the second because it serves as a reminder to appre­ciate and savor the opportu­nities that we are all given as members of the notre dame community. overall, we feel that the life is good brand re­flects the zest for life that is ap­parent here on the notre dame campus.” 
michael low, director of li­censing at notre dame, said the university was introduced to the life is good brand last February during an annual trade show, and that life is good was a particularly good candidate for co-branding with the university. 
“co-branding needs to be a thoughtful process,” he said, “when allowing another en­tity to use your trademarks on commercial products, you want some assurance that their brand is strong, well thought of and capable of building friends for the university.” 
low said that launching the campaign has involved a lot of preparation, including presenting the concept of the partnership to the notre dame licensing committee and ob­taining approval; “agreeing upon common language and terms for the actual license”, and “approving the graph­ics which would include both the (life is good) and (notre dame) trademarks.” 
“we hope to work in concert to encourage [life is good] to have a larger presence on campus,” low said, “not just their apparel, but their people and creative staffs. They have a great story to share with out students, and we will encour­age them to share with our campus community.” 
The university launched the brand partnership saturday with a number of events in the morning before the football game against the naval academy. according to werda, the events included the follow­ing: “an official life is good hangout at the hammes notre dame bookstore as part of an 8 week, 40 community tour focusing on raising funds for kids in need through the life is good kid’s Foundation. both bert and John Jacobs, compa­ny co-founders, were in atten­dance for the weekend where they interacted with campus guests promoting the newly formed partnership and the sale of (life is good and notre dame) apparel as well as their book, life is good: The book.” 
low said the partnership will allow life is good to sell notre dame licensed apparel across “multiple distribution channels,” including owned and franchised life is good stores. 
“notre dame can learn a lot from life is good,” low said, “They can certainly learn from us as well. i hope in the com­ing months that we generate a significant level of sales and that the strength of our brands will raise the bar on positive messaging.” 

Contact Andrea Vale at avale@nd.edu 
Robbery 
conTinued From page 1 
5:30 p.m. and involved two suspects, according to the email. 
“ … a female student was walking southbound on the east side of notre dame avenue across from cedar grove cemetery, talking on her cell phone,” the email stated. “Two high school-aged males on bicycles rode up from behind her, grabbed the phone from her ear and headed southbound off campus.” 
according to the email, one suspect wore a red jack­et. ndsp was unable to lo­cate either suspect. 
The email asked anyone with information regard­ing the robberies to contact ndsp at 574-631-5555. 


paid adverTisemenT 





Service 
conTinued From page 1 
her story, is a story of heal­ing,” she said. 
o’brien said as in the case of hannah, healing for in­dividuals and communities affected by interperson­al violence is not an easy process. 
“we are here to affirm in humility that that healing can be slow,” she said. “we are here to acknowledge in humility that that pain can be hidden.” 
besides o’brien, sev­eral others participated in the service. Junior ben 

“We are here to affirm in humility that that healing can be slow.” 
Bridget O’Brien 
assistant rector of Farley Hall 
swanson was a cantor for 

said. 
“unfortunately, relation­ship violence is something that people walk past every day – not that they don’t care, but it’s just you don’t know who’s been affected,” gesicki said. “This shows you who in our commu­nity is impacted and that out community as a whole is impacted. This is here, it’s visible and it’s some­thing that we all have to en­counter – [or at least] most of us – on our way around campus.” 
gesicki said the service was a departure from previ­ous years, in which the grc held masses of healing. she said the change reflects a desire to try something new and to make the event more noticeable in the notre dame community. 
“we just wanted some­thing that was more visible, [so that] people even if they weren’t participating, they 


Forum 
conTinued From page 1 
their peers. 
“students identify a prob­lem with the school, whether it’s Food services, facilities, and hopefully, they also have a solution,” kill said. “That way, we can see what they’re think­ing, and then other people can see that and decide if there’s something they’re missing. 
“we want it to be a place where people post ideas, but it’s not a replacement of any structures that we already have in place. it’s not going to replace [the student] senate. it’s not going to replace hall councils or hall president’s council (hpc).” 
while the site will not re­place these existing groups, kill said, it would help gather ideas to be brought them. 
“The whole idea is that it provides this place for ideas so that senate, hpc, hall council and student government can look at these ideas and decide said. “we want to encourage conversation, we want to en­courage people to be honest on the forum, so the mod­erators aren’t there to police discussion, they’re there to make sure it remains a place of civil discourse and also to have a keen eye for ideas that are gaining popularity and feasibility. That way, they can report to the steering com­

“The whole idea is that it provides this place for ideas so that senate, HPC, hall council and student government can look at these ideas and decide how we can best implement them.” 
John Kill 
constituent services director 
mittee, and we can take that 
into consideration as we think 
the forum voting for some­thing — a fantastic percentage of engagement there.” 
other ideas currently gain­ing traction on the site include making berries available in the campus dining halls, a wider selection of options in grab and go, as well as more visible prices in the huddle mart in the laFortune student center. 
ricketts said his goal with onward is that it will draw out all students — not just those involved in student govern­ment or hall councils. 
“we’re absolutely hoping that anybody who wants to can log on and have that con­versation; you don’t need to be connected to [student govern­ment] do it; that’s kind of the point,” he said. 
“i want students to under­stand that because admin­istrators are looking at what the next steps are and how they can improve student life, it means something for [students] to vote on these ideas or comment on these 


were walking by and look­ing at it,” she said. “ … we thought it would be a nice way to be more out in the open and also potentially, knowing this is midterm week, have a shorter event.” 
The final event of relationship violence awareness month is the Time to heal dinner, scheduled for oct. 28 in the morris inn ballroom. 


Contact Clare Kossler at  ckossler@nd.edu 
the event, and sophomore 
pierce witmer offered the 
intercessions. 
Following the reflec­
tion and intercessions, all 
those in attendance had 
the opportunity to tie vari­ous colored ribbons around intertwining ropes sus­pended from a tree south of laFortune student center. students will also be able to add ribbons to the tree throughout the remainder of the week. 
The service took place outside laFortune student center between nieuwland and crowley halls – a loca­tion chosen for its visibility on campus, the grc’s assis­tant director of educational initiatives regina gesicki 
how we can best implement about ideas that need to be ideas, to participate in the 
them,” he said. “From there, implemented.” conversation. 
looking at those ideas, we can student body chief of staff “if they care about an issue, 
then go to administration of­dan sehlhorst said the team’s we might use the names on 
ficials and work a way out to purpose was not to censor, but here to pool a focus group that 
see what ideas are the most rather to find and prevent “ad would meet with the relevant 
feasible.” 
ricketts said there are two main teams of people who look after the site — a mod­eration team led by kill and a steering committee that re­ports to ricketts. 
while the steering commit­tee looks at the bigger picture questions of how ideas are being implemented, kill said the moderation team works to maintain “civil discourse” on the site. 
“when people think mod­eration, they think negative 
— it’s not really negative,” he hominem attacks, harassment … things that would threaten our community in some way.” 
sehlhorst said students whose behavior violates the site’s code of conduct may be subject to expulsion from onward. 
ricketts said since its launch, the forum has had about 400 active users and more than 50 submitted ideas. 
“The top idea the last time i checked was wi-Fi on the quads, which had about 145 net votes on it, which is great. it’s a little over one third on people. it makes a difference to say that 145 people want wi-Fi on the campus versus 1,000 people voted on this is­sue, and 800 said yes, this is something they would want. 
“There’s a difference in magnitude there that means something, so if you want to be engaged in these issues, this is a very tangible way to do it,” ricketts said. “we hope it will have those far-reaching effects.” 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 
received their undergraduate degrees from the university. parsons received an mba from harvard business school and is founder and portfolio manager for Junto capital management in new york city. Quinn gradu­ated from Tufts university medical school and is cur­rently an assistant clinical professor of pediatrics at mount sinai hospital and ex­ecutive director of the mount sinai parenting center. 


Donations 
conTinued From page 1 
richard corbett that endowed the head football coaching position. 
pat eilers is a member of the 1988 national football championship team, the re­lease stated. 
“last year, eilers took a sab­batical from his work as man­aging director of madison dearborn partners (mdp), a chicago-based private eq­uity firm, to serve as defen­sive quality control assistant for the Fighting irish in order to support kelly’s staff while defensive graduate assistant coach kyle mccarthy was on a medical leave,” the release stated. 
of parsons and Quinn’s donation, roger d. huang, martin J. gillen dean of the mendoza college of business, said it would supplement and improve existing educational 

paid adverTisemenT 

opportunities for students, faculty and alumni. 
huang said in the release he believes the institute “provides that vital nexus for research, the classroom, our alumni and other part­ners so that we can leverage all of it for a greater impact than the sum of its parts. ... i’m confident that the insti­tute will enable us to expand opportunities for our stake­holders — especially for our students — and become a significant thought leader in the global investment community.” 
The institute will employ expertise of the finance fac­ulty, the finance curriculum and partnerships to “form a platform for both learn­ing and influencing the way investment managers the world over think about global finance,” the release stated. 
according to the press re­lease, parsons and Quinn 

Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmcobserver 



INSIDE COLUMN 



millennials are not lazy 
Andrea Vale 
news writer 

i am going to talk about how ridiculously ig­norant it was for Joel stein to generalize millen­nials as the “me, me, me” generation and call us “narcissistic, materialistic and addicted to technology” in his may 20, 2013 Time magazine article. by the way, the few hazy statistics he used are uncited, and a “narcissism scale” is not a thing. 
it is hurtful and insulting that that same magazine has a “millennial cliché” scale. i am intensly frustrated at the accumulation of saturday night live skits that fall back on the easy target of millennials’ supposed inan­ity and vocal fry, most recently when miley cyrus hosted on oct. 3. There’s nothing lazier than copping out of writing an insightful criti­cism and over-generalize about the laziness of millennials. 
ezra klein’s may 9, 2013, washington post rebuttal to stein’s article showed millennials prioritize being good parents, having success­ful marriages, helping others in need and living religious lives about two to six times more than becoming famous. 
but my most intent rebuttal is just plain in­sult and hurt. when i think of my generation, i remember most the unhealthy competition over saT scores and admission to ivy league schools, to the point of record-breaking levels of depression and anxiety. i remember my parents ridiculing me for spending all my time in high school studying, pointing out they never went to college and did just fine, laughing at how shockingly low they scored on their saTs and encouraging me to go have fun with my friends. 
yes, when i think of my generation, i think of social media — the pavlovian apprehension that arises every time i open an app because of the anxiety and stress caused by being sur­rounded by everyone’s highlight reel. social media really boils down to sculpting personas of ourselves as the people we want to be and exhibiting instances of ourselves living the lives we want to have. 
but i also think of the maddening pressure to ace my classes and have classy internships but also to remember to travel the world, cultivate deep relationships and have fun. and i think of healthline’s claims that 1 in 4 college students suffer from some mental illness, 44 percent of them experiencing depression, and that young people suffering from depression are five times more likely to attempt suicide than adults. 
and after all of this, thanks to the ignorant, casual generalizations of Joel stein, we’re just apathetic? 
so here’s my brazen, obnoxious generaliza­tion: millennials are far from shallow. we’re stressed, anxious and scared because we live deliberately. we are obsessed with living mean­ingful lives — with being the people we want to be and plodding individualized, deathbed-pleasing paths, with making sure we travel, have deep relationships and are successful in our passions. 
it’s overwhelming, and almost impossible, but we’re not lazy — we’re trying. 
Contact Andrea Vale at avale@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Pervasive pornography 
Timothy Bradley and Hailey Vrdolyak 
guest columnists 
sexual violence has once again come to the fore as an alarming problem facing notre dame. but are we — the members of the notre dame community — willing to face the root causes of the problem? The root cause of sexual assault is in part our defective campus culture in regards to human sexuality, and a major aspect of this culture is the rampaging use of pornography, especially but not only among the men of notre dame. 
Justice potter stewart famously wrote in a 1964 case on obscenity that while he could not narrowly define what constituted hardcore pornography, he knew it when he saw it. we have no problem today identifying pornogra­phy — it is always around us, always a click or two away, and it is graphic, gross and oppressive. pornography use is primarily a matter of intention: the intention to pro­duce or use material for the purpose of arousing and/or satisfying illicit sexual desire. 
The pervasiveness of pornography thus stems from two directions: those who produce traditional porno­graphic material (especially as promulgated today by the internet) and those who seek out and consume pornog­raphy even where it does not seemingly exist. in other words, we — the men (and women) of notre dame — make the porn culture possible and pervasive. 
how does the use of pornography — what seems to be a private individual act — cause problems in our culture at large? 
pornography undermines the good of personal integ­rity. The human person is not simply a consciousness inhabiting or animating a body but is rather a complex unity of mind and body. especially in the common case of masturbation accompanying pornography use, we make our bodies tools of our conscious selves — tools for bringing about certain pleasurable feelings. when we use pornography to arouse and perhaps satisfy sexual desire, we seek a certain feeling of gratification and re­lease and use our bodies to affect that end. This dualistic separation affected between one’s conscious self and one’s body violates personal integrity. 
pornography also violates the integrity of those who are manipulated and used to produce it. consumers view these persons as mere objects of desire. lured into the fantasy world of pornography, the consumer rejects the personhood of the people in the images or videos and comes to view them simply as a body, or more specifi­cally as particular body parts. 
in this way pornography use affects all of our relation­ships — when we are willing to view some human beings (including ourselves) as mere objects for the arousal and satisfaction of sexual desires, we will be tempted to view more and more human beings in the same way. we may be surprised at the extent to which the use pornography colors the way we view those we interact with on a daily basis. 
pornography also undermines the good of marriage. To enter into and participate in the good of marriage, one must have some idea of what marriage is and must intend to abide by the objective norms that structure it. To the extent that one is willing to share one’s self sexu­ally with someone other than one’s spouse, one is unable to make a commitment to an exclusive, permanent and self-giving relationship: to marriage. because the very intention of pornography is to arouse and satisfy sexual desire with someone who is not one’s spouse, it always offends the good of marriage, and is thus, unreasonable and wrong. This should be of concern not only to those who are married or who intend to marry in the future, but also to those who never intend to marry. disrespect for marriage, even by those who never intend to marry, harms our culture in various ways. 
in different language, pornography use erodes our ability to love real persons. not only is pornography a fantasy in which we are presented with unreal images (thereby undermining our ability to be grateful for and to properly appreciate the beauty of the real people around us), it makes public something that should be private. pornography is by its very nature impersonal — it involves no contact with the other as a person but only as an object. marital sexual acts — the only licit sexual acts — involve a giving of oneself but also a reception of another’s self. in pornography, the consumer is not re­quired to give anything of him or herself, but only to take in. only in pornography, the receptivity of the consumer is not the reception of the personhood of the other, but only of the other as an object for use, for the arousal and satisfaction of sexual desire. 
how should we respond to the pervasiveness of porn? The law has an important, though secondary, role to play. effectively regulating pornography under the law is a difficult task. but law functions as an effective teacher, and teaching that the use of pornography is wrong may serve to encourage choices that respect marriage, integ­rity and dignity of every human being. 
more important than law, though, is culture. For too long, pornography has been encouraged or at least con­doned in many circles. if we recognize pornography for what it is, we should take steps to stigmatize it and make clear the shameful character of the choices to produce or consume it, while at the same time compassionately providing support for those struggling to overcome por­nography addiction. 
in a culture, like ours here at notre dame, in which pornography use is pervasive, the attitude reflected in pornography — that it is acceptable to treat people as objects for the satisfaction of our desire, and even worse, that they should enjoy, or at least submit to, being so ob­jectified — comes to be reflected in the choices of at least some members of the community. 
what we are willing to do to ourselves and others on the privacy of our computers is bound to cross over, even if only rarely, into the way we view or treat the people around us. in a culture in which pornography flour­ishes, we lose our ability to perceive and appreciate the beauty around us. when we use pornography we isolate ourselves within the fantasies of our own sexual imagi­nations — fantasies in which we are never denied what we want and can search for increasingly novel content. we lose the ability to make a total gift of self to another. at the same time, we lose the ability to encounter and receive the totality of another person. we lose our ability to love. 
by understanding the wrong of pornography and perceiving its many harms, we can contribute to the rebuilding of a culture in which people — especially children, the most vulnerable among us — can witness the beauty and dignity of human sexuality in the lives of those around them. rebuilding that culture would go a long way toward helping people to understand, respect and participate in the goods of marriage and personal integrity, and would allow our culture to teach us what love is rather than encourage its destruction. along the way, we may solve the problem of sexual violence as well. 
Timothy Bradley and Hailey Vrdolyak are the president and vice president of Students for Child-Oriented Policy, respectively. They are both seniors. They can be reached at tbradle5@nd.edu and hvrdolya@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


under a dark cloud 
Elizabeth Hascher 
dignified response 

after every mass shooting, our nation is covered in a shroud of darkness. president obama and other government officials address the nation offering thoughts and prayers to the families affected. The media covers the stories of these mass killings in depth, providing anecdotes that form emotional connections between readers and survivors who will never meet. Fear grips the hearts of citizens across the country. 
politicians, researchers and other experts are quick to analyze the reasons why these tragedies occur. They often point fingers towards loopholes in gun control laws and mental illness. They conduct studies and talk endlessly about how our country has once again failed to keep its citizens safe. 
it is time to change the conversation. we have spent far too long going around and around in cir­cles, endlessly debating the ways in which american society has gone wrong when it comes to preventing senseless acts of violence. we need to start talking about what is working, whether in our own commu­nities or abroad, and let that inform our discussion. 
in their book “switch,” chip and dan heath dis­cuss how important it is to look for the bright spots 
— those people and methods that are effective and successful amongst the larger population that seems to be struggling. 
They discuss the example of an organization called save the children, which was tasked with finding ways to fight malnutrition in vietnam. This is no small task. world hunger is not exactly a new prob­lem, and people have worked towards trying to end it for years. 
instead of adding to the body of preexisting re­search on malnutrition, the leaders of the organi­zation chose instead to focus on the children who weren’t malnourished and consider what their moth­ers were doing right. after finding that adding ac­cessible items like sweet potato greens to children’s diets could vastly improve their health, they set about implementing those practices among the rest of the villagers. 
although my summary of that case study is over­simplified, we can glean some meaning from the way save the children was able to find a solution to a problem that initially seemed hopeless. we often spend so much of our time devoted to the details of issues but rarely focus instead on what is going right. 
we need to start looking for the bright spots that shine through the gloomy cloud of gun violence. it is time to realize that there is a light at the end of the tunnel and that we should be chasing after it rather than running backwards into the deep darkness. 
more of our time and resources should be spent searching for successful efforts worth emulating. The focus of the gun control debate occasionally shifts this way but does not always result in exten­sive research or solid proposals. 
perhaps we should start by seeking out com­munities in which there are lower rates of gun vio­lence. The onion’s recurring headline “‘no way To prevent This’ says only nation where This happens regularly” has ceased to be satirical and has instead become deserving of serious considering. other nations have found ways to limit gun deaths. let’s research what sets them apart and what makes them a worthy example of how to eradicate the widespread fear and pervasive violence due to guns. 
maybe we should take an evidence-based public health approach, as suggested by nicholas kristof of the new york Times. we have effectively prevented thousands of other deaths by applying the principles of public health to things like cigarettes and swim­ming pools. who is to say that we cannot find a way to accomplish something similar with the gun issue? 
any solution will require the work of experts across many different disciplines. it certainly will not ma­terialize overnight. but we can start by changing the conversation surrounding gun violence. let’s stop analyzing the minute details of every mass shooting and instead turn our attention to what other people and communities are doing right. it is time to admit that we have failed and look to others to guide us on the path forward. 
There are times when the dark cloud is appropri­ate. every year, we lose 33,000 lives to gun violence in our country. not every day is full of sunshine. however, we must start to challenge our accep­tance of the omnipresent cloud of gun violence. The bright spots truly are out there; we just need to start looking. 
Elizabeth Hascher is a sophomore living in Lewis Hall. She hails from Grand Rapids, Michigan, and is studying political science with a minor in international development studies. Contact her at ehascher@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



Parable of the parents 
Erin Thomassen 
The examined life 

There were once two parents who loved their chil­dren. or at least they tried to. They found it difficult to love each other, and because there were reflections of each other in the children, it was impossible for them to love the children fully. The saddest part was that the two parents found it hard to love each other because they disagreed over the right way to love their children. 
The quarreling began when the mother discovered she was pregnant with her first child. both parents could agree on one thing: this one child was actually three children. They both accepted this rather myste­rious and logically challenging truth. They could not agree, though, on something else: how to raise them. 
both parents agreed that they based their parent­ing practices on the first parenting book ever written. The introduction consisted of stories of their child’s ancestors and predictions of what their child would do. it even included lullabies. The middle contained the story of the child’s life. The end described the child’s legacy through letters written about him by those who knew or heard of him. 
The mother wanted to combine the wisdom gleaned from the parenting book with the parenting tradition handed down by her ancestors. The father would not accept her ancestor’s advice; if the advice was not explicitly written in the parenting book, he could not accept it as truth. he did not realize that though the writers were surely privy to parenting wisdom, his wife’s ancestors also had access to such wisdom. The wife thought the author of the parent­ing book would have wanted them to learn from the diverse experiences of parents who lived after the book’s publishing. The father did not understand why his wife wanted to trust in seemingly questionable tradition, and thought it wiser to stick to nothing but the book. The mother thought the father was narrow-minded and prideful, and the father thought the mother accepted what her ancestors told her rather than thinking for herself. 
The mother liked to frame pictures of her smiling children above her bed. she even wore a locket with her children’s pictures and names engraved in it. The father disapproved of these graven images. Framed images of his children made him uncomfortable. it made him think that his wife adored their image rather than their person. he was able to love his chil­dren’s person without an image. he did not realize that his wife was able to appreciate her children’s image without compromising her adoration for their person. in fact, their image was simply a way that allowed her to more fully appreciate and love their person. 
The mother liked to say: “i love you” to her children every night. The father thought that this became rather repetitive, even robotic. The father did not understand that every time the mother said the same phrase to her children, she understood the same words in a deeper way. There was something special about adoring her children with the same words her mother and her mother’s mother used to adore their children. it unified them. Their words, and thus they, lived on through her repetition. The father preferred to praise his children in a new way every night, let­ting his soul lead the way. he did not want to recite the words of others. he wanted the words to come from himself, because he thought it was a more meaningful, genuine way for him to express his love. 
The father and mother were not able to commu­nicate well and this led to misunderstandings. each time one spoke, the other did not truly listen — he or she was too busy composing a rebuttal. They be­gan to think their differences were irreconcilable, especially since the father refused to see a family therapist for reconciliation. The mother, though, was not completely without blame. when the father com­posed a list of complaints about her parenting, she was too offended and defensive to respond in a con­structive manner. 
ever since the list, both parents focused on proving that their way of loving their children was best. yet their children just wanted to be loved. The children wished their parents could see past or even appre­ciate each other’s differences, as it was not a ques­tion of “either/or” but of “both/and.” The children benefited from both the mother’s contemplative reflections and their father’s zealous speeches. The children loved them both. couldn’t their parents love each other? 
They gave up trying and separated from each other. Though the parents were able to survive for centuries, they were not able to live forever. They started showing signs of physical and even mental decay. They could no longer take care of themselves or live independently. They had to move in with their children. 
after centuries apart, the two parents were finally reunited in their children’s house. They could not re­fuse to talk to each other anymore. when they spoke, they started to see how silly their disagreements were. They realized they were placing too much em­phasis on their different styles and too little on their shared substance. They learned they never should have insisted on their complete independence: eve needed adam, and adam needed eve. 
yes: the mother should have listened better to the father’s grievances, but the father never should have separated himself from the guidance of the mother’s ancestors. separated, they could not be the family they were meant to be. 
united with each other, they could finally unite with their children. They always knew that both of them were in their children and their children in them. now they realized: if they fully loved their chil­dren, they would fully love each other. They no longer quarreled over how to parent, for they had become children. 
Erin Thomassen likes listening to string instruments tuning. Please come tune violins and cellos near her window in Pasquerilla East Hall, preferably in the next two years, as she is a junior. She can be reached at ethomass@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

LAUREN WELDON | The Observer 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By NICK LAUREANO 
scene writer 

art has always been something of a rorschach test. each of us carries a myriad of past experiences and prefer­ences that shape our interpretation of every book we read, every film we see, and yes, every television show we fol­low. (Television is art. get over it.) “mad men” concluded in may, meaning i’m up to date with only one current television series. (come back to me, liz lemon and don draper!) i miss “mad men” dearly. i’m quick to flaunt my fandom in all of my FTT classes — where i’m probably known as that kid who never shuts up about “mad men” — and the show has even informed much of my work in histo­ry and philosophy classes. “mad men’s” effect on me is a supreme example of past experiences shaping current interpreta­tions, for better or worse. i can’t help but wonder if i’m a little too eager to connect whatever i’m reading or writing about these days to “mad men,” if my love for the show clouds my judgment and if all of the parallels i see between life, art and “mad men” merely amount to wishful thinking. it’s possible that the midterm paper for my european history class — written partly through the lens of the show — is utter garbage. so, being fully aware that we often see what we want to see in art, i’m still thoroughly convinced “Fargo” draws significant connections to my favorite television show. 
and of course, that show i’m up to date 

By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
scene writer 

last wednesday, the baltimore dream pop duo beach house an­nounced that their sixth studio album, “Thank your lucky stars,” would be re­leased on oct. 16. it arrives just under two months since the group released its last album, “depression cherry.” if the new record is anywhere near as excel­lent as “depression cherry” — which is already a very strong contender for album of the year — it will have been quite a year for the group. The an­nouncement got me thinking about other artists who have put out multiple studio releases in the same year with­out sacrificing quality. 

Bob Dylan — 1965 

1965 was the year dylan went elec­tric — first on march’s “bringing it all back home,” but only one side of the album. The first side housed the first signs of dylan playing with a full band, especially on the bluesy beat anthem “subterranean homesick blues,” while with is “Fargo,” which just kicked off its second season monday at 10 p.m. on FX. “Fargo,” an adaptation of the coen brother’s 1996 masterpiece, is very much of its moment. a dark, quirky sense of humor pervades each episode. its de­piction of violence stretches the limits of decency. and it’s an anthology series, meaning each new season presents a new story with a new cast of characters. (“Fargo” actually borrows a couple of characters from its critically acclaimed first season, but, since this season is a prequel to the first, younger actors are cast in these parts.) 
monday’s episode, “waiting for dutch,” set a lot of story pieces in mo­tion. it’s 1979. Jimmy carter’s “malaise” speech captures the tone of a changing nation. The north dakotan gerhardt crime family experiences power strug­gles after their boss suffers a stroke. a low-level member of the gerhardt family is working an angle to score some extra cash, and this being a show inspired by the coen brother’s film and sensibili­ties, we know his scheme will only lead to trouble. a state trooper comes home to his daughter and ailing wife. a rival crime family plots to move in on the gerhardt’s territory. and oh yeah, four people are brutally killed. 
That this incredibly dense hour of television never felt exasperating is a testament to “Fargo’s” writing, act­ing and perhaps most notably, its style. where the first season drew many visual cues from its source material — vast 
the other half featured acoustic folk like “mr. Tambourine man” that fell more in line with dylan’s earlier work. Then, in august he put out magnum opus “highway 61 revisited,” on which he committed to rock full-time. dylan discovering the electric guitar is one of the most indelible narratives in rock history, and it resulted in some of his best work of his career. 

The Beatles — 1967 

part of the reason the beatles are so enshrined in popular music history is due to how productive they were — re­leasing 12 albums in just seven years. The Fab Four put out two studio re­leases in 1963, 1964, 1965 and 1969. but it was 1967 that the band’s high water marked for innovation. in June, the band released “sgt. pepper’s lonely hearts club band,” one of their most experimental lps and one that laid the groundwork for the modern concept album. Then in november came the compilation album “magical mystery Tour,” with the film’s soundtrack on one side of the lp and a collection of panoramas of a snow-covered land­scape, punctuated by cars, parkas and blood — season two nods to action films of the 70s. wipes set to absurd leitmo­tifs, extensive use of split-screen and a mustard-yellow that seems to pervade every set announce more than just the show’s time period, they announce its mission statement: to swing for the fences. season one’s comparatively modest style at time’s felt like its apol­ogy for attempting to create a successful television adaptation of a classic film, something many (including myself) felt was impossible. we were all proven wrong, and now, “Fargo” is back with a vengeance. This season’s sheer bravado is reminiscent of “boogie nights” and is why “Fargo” is the best show on televi­sion. (does he ever shut up about “mad men” and “boogie nights?”) 
season two’s style isn’t its only point of departure from previous iterations of “Fargo.” rather, showrunner noah hawley seems to be inverting many of the themes explored in the film and first season. last year martin Freeman’s lester nygaard was cut from the same cloth as william h. macy’s Jerry lundegaard (one of the villains from the film). both were husbands, both were all-around disappointments to their families, and both turned to crime when the familial pressure became too great to bear. This year we are presented with the blomquists, peggy and ed (played by kirsten dunst and Jesse plemons). like the nygaards and the lundegaards, 
their singles from the year on the other. “hello, goodbye,” “strawberry Fields Forever,” “penny lane” and “all you need is love” are songs other bands would kill to release over an entire ca­reer, let alone all on side two of a single lp. 

Neil Young — 1975 
by 1975, neil young hadn’t given an interview in nearly five years. when he finally granted one to rolling stone, cameron crowe wrote in his introduc­tion that young’s “often cryptic studies of lonely desperation and shaky-voiced antiheroics have led many to brand him a loner.” For a so-called recluse, though, young was fairly prolific in his musical output, especially in 1975. That year saw the release of “Tonight’s the night” in June, which written in the af­termath of the deaths of young’s tour­ing guitarist danny whitten and roadie bruce berry. although it had been re­corded two years earlier, the album sketches a portrait of someone com­ing to terms with loss. after wrapping up the so-called ditch Trilogy, “Zuma,” they’re a middle-class family struggling to get by. but ed is completely different from lester and Jerry. he has ambitions. he yearns to provide the white picket fence, the 2.4 children and all the other trappings of the american dream for his wife … who, frankly, doesn’t seem all that interested in him or his efforts. (when ed attempts to coax her into making a baby, she replies, embarrassed, “we just did that last weekend.” ouch.) 
it is peggy who provides the show’s connection to “mad men.” she yearns for a new life beyond the confines of the great white north. a postcard of california taped to her mirror graces her view as she puts on her makeup. when she and ed end up with a body to hide, she suggests they pretend the crime nev­er happened, that they flee to california to start again. and how many times did don draper start over? how often did he turn to california as a site of re­birth? For peggy’s sake, i hope she, like don, doesn’t only like the beginnings of things … because the path she embarks on is not for the faint of heart. 
it seems to me that california is more than a symbol of regeneration for don and peggy (blomquist not olsen). if this first episode — with its newfound audacity, style and themes — is an ac­curate sample of what’s to come, then california may mean regeneration for “Fargo,” too. 
Contact Nick Laureano at                      nlaurean@nd.edu 
credited to young and his backing band crazy horse, came out in november. in contrast with “Tonight’s the night,” the album was seen as a return to form and more direct than its dark, sprawling predecessors. 
Ty Segall — 2012 
The southern californian garage rocker Ty segall is one of the most prolific indie rock musicians of the past decade, no time more apparent than in 2012. in april of that year, he released “hair,” a collaborative album with Tim presley (recording under the name “white house”). in June, “slaughterhouse,” an album put out under the Ty segall band banner, arrived. The former is more psychedelic, while the latter is more punk, but both sound characteristically like segall. The albums were included together on no. 18 on pitchfork’s Top 50 albums of 2012 list — a sure sign that the quantity of his output doesn’t nec­essarily detract from its quality. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at              mmunhal@nd.edu 
LAUREN WELDON | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 



Esports deserve a chance 
Marek Mazurek 
sports writer 
league of legends is a multiple online battle arena game where … oh hold on, i can hear the hat­ers already. 
There is always the tried and true objections: video games are for nerds. esports aren’t real sports. insert your complaint here. 
Former espn talk-show host colin cowherd went as far as to say that he would quit his job if espn ever made him talk about esports in any way, shape or form. 
while i doubt that many peo­ple would quit their jobs to avoid mentioning esports, there is no doubt the overall sentiment to­wards esports in america is luke­warm — at best. 
and it is easy to understand america’s hesitancy to embrace esports. esports are drastically different than the “traditional” sports we grew up with. They are played while sitting in chairs, and no team members have ever scrambled to see whose mom brought the orange slices to the world of warcraft game. 
am i saying that esports ath­letes are athletes in the traditional sense? no. am i saying that es-ports should be considered sports in the traditional sense? no, i am not. what i am saying is that we should give esports a chance and to treat esports athletes for who they are: highly talented individu­als who are masters of their craft. 
as we speak, the world’s most popular esport, league of legends, is holding its world championships, and i encour­age everyone to check it out. all of the games can easily be found on youTube. even if you check it out for five minutes and find you don’t like it, at least you can say you tried. 
if you get past that initial cul­ture shock, you will find that just like any “traditional” sport, esports require an immense amount of skill, coordination and practice. 
a common misconception about esports is anyone can play, but this is simply not true. Just as you need to be a certain height to play in the nba, you need a certain level of hand-eye coordi­nation and reflexes to be a profes­sional esports athlete. 
and just like regular sports natural ability combined with a work ethic makes a profes­sional. esports requires an in­sane amount of practice, often even more than some traditional sports. esports athletes are not kids who game on the week­ends for fun. Just like any other athletes, esports athletes devote themselves to their craft, often sacrificing their education and moving in order to further their careers. 
a common practice for esports teams is to set up a gaming house where the team eats, sleeps and practices. For high school age es-ports athletes, a normal day in­cludes school from 8-3 p.m., five hours of practice or scrimmaging with the team and then “solo­que” or individual practice until 
3:00 a.m. 
another aspect of esports that makes the phenomenon worth watching is that the gameplay is constantly changing. league of legends (and most esports) release “patches” periodically where certain aspects of the game are tweaked or changed to make the game more balanced overall. This means that esports teams and players would need to adopt their strategy to fit the new environment. 
you may find this practice odd, but imagine if overwhelm­ing aspects of traditional sports, like flopping or rob gronkowski, could be eliminated or at least limited. it would at least make the nFl more balanced. 
something that college football fans may find similar with esports is regional power struggles. Just as the sec has historically domi­nated the division i landscape, so too do korean and chinese teams for esports. however, spoiler alert, north american and european teams are starting to flip the script at this year’s world champi­onships. so, for north americans like us, it’s an exciting time to be a league of legends fan. 
all this being said, esports are not going away. according to the creator of league of legends, riot games, the game has seen an in­crease from 32 million to 67 mil­lion monthly players from 2012 to 2014. in korea and other parts of asia, esports are broadcast on network television and have whole government agencies de­voted to their management. in the 
u.s. and europe, the spoiled chil­dren of billionaires buy football or basketball teams; in china, they buy esports franchises. 
even in north america, league of legends and esports have picked up considerably in popu­larity. The 2013 league of legends world championships sold out the staples center in los angeles, and korean stars, such as gamers impact and piglet, were signed away by american teams willing to offer more money. 
again, esports are not for ev­eryone, and i understand that. however, the time has to come to stop trivializing esports ath­letes and their fans as nerds who are too un-athletic to play “real” sports. esports have a bright fu­ture, and it would be wise to at least see what the fuss is about. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

nd set to close out fall 
By DAISY COSTELLO 
sports writer 

a dominant 30-stroke victory at the chip-n club invitational pro­pels the irish into two on-the-road tournaments next week. 
The irish travel first to louisville, kentucky, to play the cardinal cup hosted by acc-rival louisville at the university of louisville golf club on oct. 19 and oct. 20, before traveling to wilmington, north carolina, to close out their fall season at the landfall Tradition at the country club of landfall from oct. 23 to oct. 25. 
This year marks the first time the irish compete in the cardinal cup, and their event debut fea­tures a strong competition field, including no. 15 east carolina, no. 21 louisville and Florida state. however, the irish were able to overcome their last tournament’s field, as freshman isabella dilisio finished second with a two-un­der par 215 at the chip-n club invitational. dilisio said she looks to build off of her fundamental-based performance in louisville and wilmington. 
“it was awesome to be able to play well and finish second in a big tournament as a freshman,” dilisio said. “i was just really ex­cited, and the whole team played great [in nebraska].” 
“especially on the second day [in nebraska] i started making a lot of putts,” dilisio said, “i didn’t really get myself in too much trou­ble, for the most part i kept it out of the trees and just made my putts.” 
“my irons were good too, so i was able to get on the green and putt for birdie a lot.” 
The irish then return to the landfall Tradition for the seventh year in a row. last season, the irish tied for third place, behind tour­nament champion wake Forest and runner-up alabama. both the demon deacons and crimson Tide will be among this year’s competition at the Tradition. 
“it’s a really tough field, really strong, a lot of good acc teams,” dilisio said. 
“if we can beat a couple of the really good teams like they did last year and finish pretty high, i think our ranking will jump up a lot.” 
last year the irish defeated a host of ranked opponents at the landfall Tradition, including acc rivals now-no. 6 duke, no. 10 virginia and then-no. 16 north carolina state. Junior Jordan Ferreira finished with the lowest score of current team members last season with a two-over 218 to tie for sixteenth. dilisio said that is the goal once again, as the irish transition into their spring season. 
“if we can try to keep lowering our scoring average as a team, then we will finish better and then our ranking will get better,” dilisio said. 
The irish head to louisville’s home territory for the cardinal cup at the university of louisville golf club on oct. 19 and oct. 20. The team completes its Fall sea­son at the landfall Tradition three days later in wilmington, north carolina, at the country club of landfall from oct. 23 to oct. 25. 
Contact Daisy Costello at mcostel4@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | iTa all-american championships 

gleason, robinson advance 
By DOMINIC BUSH 
sports writer 

The irish look to rebound from the iTa all-american championship at next week’s iTa midwest regional championships in ann arbor, michigan. 
irish doubles team of se­nior Quinn gleason and junior monica robinson entered the iTa all-american championship at the riviera country club in pacific palisades, calif. ranked no. 10 in the country, earning the duo a first round round bye. in the second round, gleason and robinson faced no. 15 senior whitney kay and junior haley carter of the university of north carolina. The Tar heels doubles team pulled away early to win, 8-4. however, the irish team re­bounded Friday with an 8-5 win over arkansas’s no. 11 senior yuliya lysa and junior shannon hudson to advance to the conso­lation semifinal. 
head coach Jay louderback, who enters his 25th season this season, was proud of his two players but said he saw a missed opportunity. 
“They played well,”louderback 

FOR SALE 

NICE 3 BEDROOM UPDATED RANCH within 2 miles of ND campus- $110,000! All applianc­es, fenced yard, 2 car garage. Call Kathy Platt, Cressy &amp; 
said. “but [they] had to pull out of the doubles consolation bracket because of an injury to monica. 
“if we had gotten more match­es in against ranked opponents it would have been good for us.” 
attention now turns to notre dame’s trip to ann arbor next week. michigan plays host to the iTa midwest regional championships from oct. 22 to oct. 27 at the varsity Tennis center. The tournament will serve as a qualifying event for next month’s usTa/iTa national indoor intercollegiate championships in Flushing, new york. 
while the draws have not been set, six irish players are scheduled to participate, with a seventh un­decided due to an injury. 
The six confirmed notre dame participants are gleason, robinson, junior mary closs, sophomores brooke broda and allie miller and freshman rachel chong. 
louderback said the Fall season is the ideal time for teams to work out kinks and fine tune for the spring season, and the iTa midwest regional championships are especially good for this purpose. he cited the size of the tournament as a potential benefit. 
“For the six singles, it’s a big draw, where we could end up playing anyone,” louderback said. “we are all in the same draw which means some of our kids can end playing some highly ranked competition. 
“it is a good indication to where we are right now.” 
The veteran coach is excited by the latest editions to notre dame women’s tennis, includ­ing chong. louderback said he sees potential in his roster that will hopefully be realized in time for the beginning of the spring season. 
“it’s still early, but for the Fall we are hoping to have our kids work and develop on skills that the may not have yet. 
“also we hope to use the Fall to determine our lineup for the spring.” 
louderback and the irish return to the court at the iTa midwest regional championships on oct. 22 in ann arbor, michigan. The tournament will be played through oct. 27. 
Contact Dominic Bush at dbush@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Everett, 574-276-4688  ND.  52162  Pickwick  Lane.  
FOR RENT  $1200/mo + deposit. 574-386-0882  Call  

Beautiful home 1 mile from 3 BR 2 BA house with pool. ND. 2 furnish rooms 4 rent $650 Georgetown sub. Close to each 949-292-1200 must see. 


MEN’S GOLF | crooked sTick inTercollegiaTe 
irish place 10th, set for ireland 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
notre dame finished 10th out of 12 teams at indiana’s crooked stick intercollegiate at crooked stick golf club on Tuesday. 
notre dame posted a fi­nal round of 323 to close the three-round tournament with a 71-over-par score of 935 (301­311-323). illinois took home the title with a two-over-par mark of 866 (297-279-290). 
with junior matt rushton out due to injury, the irish played three freshmen — ben albin, miguel delgado and kevin conners — alongside junior blake barens and sophomore Thomas steve. 
“i thought our freshmen got off to a great start,” irish head coach James kubinski said. “all three were in the top 15 after the first round. 
“They did some impressive things in tough conditions. as the tournament played out though, the golf course ended up winning.” 
barens was the top irish fin­isher for a second consecu­tive tournament, tying for 27th (77-77-77-231) individually. conners, though, led the irish through the first two rounds with a seven-over-par 151 (75­
76) that had him tied for 20th. he faded at the end of the two-day event, though, and tied for 37th with delgado’s 18-over-par total of 234. 
The irish entered the final round Tuesday in eighth place after finishing the first round in sixth place. however, the crooked stick course proved challenging for the irish, kubinski said. 
“we went from a pretty solid start, sixth place after the first round but only eight from the lead and four behind the na­tion’s no. 1 team, to a very disap­pointing finish,” kubinski said. “when you play a young team though, three freshmen and a sophomore in the starting five, you expect a learning curve. This tournament presented our guys something they’ve never seen before. 
“we played a course set up and in conditions high school players never encounter, and one that became more difficult through the tournament. 
“we didn’t rise to that chal­lenge this time, but with the les­sons learned today, i think we’ll be better prepared the next time we face these conditions.” 
The irish embark for ireland to close their 2015 fall season at the Jerry murray/notre dame invitational at the waterville golf club in waterville, ireland, from oct. 22-24. notre dame will compete against Texas a&m, unc wilmington and three irish collegiate teams. 
“we’d like to get our no. 1 player, matt, healthy and back into our lineup [our last fall event],” kubinski said. “we’ll then look at ireland as another chance to compete and feed the experience meter that is criti­cal with so many young players right now. 
notre dame ends its fall season at the Jerry murray/ notre dame invitational at the waterville golf club in waterville, ireland, from oct. 22 to oct. 24. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 

ND VOLLEYBALL 

Notre Dame hosts ACC rivals Duke, Wake Forest 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 

The irish continue their run through the acc with two home matches this weekend and two on-the­road next week. 
notre dame (6-12, 1-5 acc) will welcome duke and wake Forest to campus this weekend. The team will take on the blue devils (7­9, 2-4) on Friday at 7 p.m. and the demon deacons (9­9, 1-5 acc) on sunday at 1 p.m. 
Following a rough stretch that saw the irish drop six consecutive matches, they finally clinched their first conference win this past Friday by outlasting clemson, 3-2, in a five-set nail biter (25-12, 25-22, 22­25, 19-25, 15-13). Though they fell to georgia Tech on sunday, 3-0, junior middle blocker katie higgins said the win over clemson gave her and her teammates confidence heading into this next string of matches. 
“[The win] definitely in­stilled a lot of confidence in us,” higgins said. “we played at the potential that we knew we could play at. 
“even though it went to five, we felt like we had control in the game the whole time. it felt good to finally play the game that we knew that we could, at our best.” 
sophomore outside hit­ter sam Fry echoed this sentiment. 
“as we’ve said before, the more we start winning, then we’ll have that win­ning mentality, which will be good to carry through the rest of the season,” Fry said. “so it’s a good confi­dence booster, and all of the acc matches are tough so it was good to know that we could finish the match like that.” 
This victory brought notre dame’s overall win total level with last season’s mark. with 14 matches re­maining on their schedule, the irish have more oppor­tunities to improve upon their season. 
higgins said the team is focusing on preparing the same way it has all season before its match with duke on Friday. 
“some things that we al­ways try to focus on are the serving and passing bat­tles, being a better serving team and then being the better passing team than the other team,” higgins said. “one thing that we are really focused on is our blocking and being in the right place at the right time, so we’ll continue to work on those for this weekend.” 
Fry added that the irish want to build on some of things they saw this past weekend on the road. “what we’re gonna take away from this weekend is ball control, just making moves — pass­ing moves, blocking moves 
— and keep bettering spe­cifics of our individual games,” Fry said. 
after the irish make it past duke and wake Forest on sunday, notre dame be­gins its preparation for fel­low acc-opponents no. 25 louisville and virginia the next week. The irish first take on the cardinals (12­4, 6-0) on oct. 21 at 7 p.m. in louisville and then head to charlottesville to meet the cavaliers (12-5, 4-2) at 7 p.m. on oct. 23. 
notre dame and louisville met earlier this season sept. 25 when the cardinals swept the irish (25-23, 25-19, 25-16) at notre dame, as the irish were unable to hold on to 22-18 lead in the first set. 
The irish return to ac­tion Friday night at 7 p.m. when they take on the blue devils at purcell pavilion before welcoming wake Forest to campus sunday at 1 p.m. The action will con­tinue during fall break with matches at louisville and virginia on oct. 21 and 23, respectively. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdaniel@nd.edu 


SARAH OLSON | The Observer 

Irish sophomore outside hitter Sam Fry, right, attempts a block during Notre Dame’s 3-2 loss to Syracuse at Purcell Pavilion on Oct. 4. Fry finished the match with 12 kills and one dig. 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
increased her offensive out­put during that time, aver­aging 17.75 points per game through the first four rounds of last year’s ncaa tourna­ment. in the Final Four, how­ever, she managed just eight points and 10 assists while turning the ball over seven times in two games. 
mcgraw said allen’s two trips to the Final Four and her late surge last season means she will be expected to carry the scoring load this year, as well as lead a young backcourt. 
“we’re going to want the ball in her hands because her handle has gotten even better, her shot looks good and her passing has been very good,” mcgraw said. “she’s some­body we expect to have a tre­mendous assist-to-turnover ratio and to lead the team and score a little bit more.” 
mcgraw also said allen is playing at all-american level from what she has seen in summer workouts and lim­ited practices this fall. 
Turner led the nation in field goal percentage and the irish in rebounds her fresh­man season, but she also struggled in the final two games of the season, fouling out in the ncaa semifinals and struggling to contain connecticut’s post game in the national championship. 
“we are going to ask her to do a lot more,” mcgraw said. “she needs to be able to make that free-throw jumper, she’s really worked on her free throws, and she’s becoming a better passer. she’s worked on that this summer.” 
Two seasons ago, notre dame dealt with the loss of guard skylar diggins by spreading her offensive load across several players. while allen and Turner are most expected to take on that role this year, both said they do not think they will fully imi­tate or replace loyd. 
“Jewell was a great player, we’re not going to have any­one who can just replace her,” Turner said. “so i think it’s going to be a team effort.” 
Handling depth 
last season, notre dame had nine players appear in 30 or more games, but only one reserve, graduate stu­dent guard madison cable, got more than 20 minutes per game on average. This year, however, the bench will fig­ure much more prominently in the irish game plan, almost by necessity, mcgraw said. 
“it’s really going to be diffi­cult for me to figure out how to work the pieces together,” mcgraw said. “everyone thinks that having a lot of depth is a great problem to have, but really we have nine or 10 people who could play a lot of minutes. That’s a little more difficult, to see which situation each player is going to be most effective in.” 
in the post, things are not as crowded, as junior forward Taya reimer and Turner look to have the starting spots locked up, and sophomore kathryn westbeld is the only returner who played signifi­cant minutes last season. 
That unit is led by reimer, who missed two games mid­way through last season but came back to provide a steady presence down low. she was named a tri-captain for this season and said her leader­ship role within the unit will continue throughout the year. 
“consistency is going to be a big thing, as well as lead­ing by example,” reimer said. 


“i need to be more vocal on the court. it’s about knowing where i am supposed to be and where i’m going to be and making sure i know where everybody else is going to be, especially in the post.” 
but notre dame’s corps of guards will have more than enough players looking for playing time. in addition to three veterans — cable and seniors hannah huffman and michaela mabrey — allen, sophomore mychal Johnson and three freshmen all could see significant time on the court. 
Freshmen make early impressions 
Those three freshmen — ali patberg, arike ogunbowale and marina mabrey — haven’t been on campus all that long, but they already have mcgraw thinking about how they will fit into the team’s rotation, especially in light of loyd’s departure. 
mabrey, the younger sister of michaela, has been espe­cially quick to adapt, one of the benefits of playing on the same team as her sibling, she said. 
“Just showing up every day with a good attitude is really important,” marina mabrey said. “wanting to learn, since you’re going to mess up a lot as a freshman, and just being able to take it and move onto the next play [is important].” 
mcgraw said mabrey is more physical on the court than her sister but still is not the most hard-charging rook­ie on the squad. That title belongs to ogunbowale, an undersized but strong 5-foot­8 guard. 
“i think she’s going to lead the team in free-throw at­tempts, because she can drive the ball and get her shot up with contact. she can finish with contact,” mcgraw said of ogunbowale. “i’m really ex­cited about her and her ability to do different things.” 
patberg is not as much of a 

paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT 
pure scorer as her freshmen counterparts, mcgraw said. instead, she distributes from the point, and in sets with allen, patberg will likely take over that position while allen shifts to the wing in search of more points, mcgraw said. 
notre dame kicks off its 2015-2016 season nov. 7 with an exhibition against wayne state at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Greg Hadley at  ghadley@nd.edu 







paid adverTisemenT 
M Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
connaughton were both se­lected in June’s nba draft, they were arguably the two biggest cogs in the system that made the irish click. Their de­partures force notre dame to re-tool its approach heading into this season. 
brey said junior guard demetrius Jackson enters the season as the leader of this irish squad, after averaging 
12.4 points per game playing off the ball last season. a po­tential first-round nba draft pick, Jackson said he’s still ad­justing to his newfound lead­ership role. 
“i feel like i’m still in that process [of becoming a lead­er],” Jackson said. “guys are still getting more confident in me day-by-day; i’m just trying to develop my leadership skills every day, to get better.” 
For Jackson, being the pri­mary scorer means he’ll have to alter his decision-making when he drives to the basket. 
“i need to be aggressive on every play, creating for oth­ers and myself,” Jackson said. “The coaches have really talk­ed to me about when i get in the lane, taking those little short shots, which was a shot i would usually pass up last year.” 
one of Jackson’s biggest roles on last year’s squad was de­fensive — pressuring the ball. despite assuming the ball-handling duties offensively, he said he’ll still look to bring the same intensity defensively. 
“i just want to lock in on both ends of the floor and do whatever it takes to help my team win,” Jackson said. “and i think ball pressure is some­thing i can do to help our team.” 
Joining Jackson as return­ing starters are a pair of fellow upperclassmen who each av­eraged north of 10 points per game last season: junior guard steve vasturia and senior for­ward Zach auguste. 
brey said he expects auguste to evolve into a double-double player this year, and auguste said he shares his head coach’s expectations. 
“[averaging a double-dou­ble], that’s what i expect, and i know that’s what my team­mates expect out of me,” auguste said. “i just really want to do whatever it takes to help the team. no individual is better than the team.” 
For vasturia, he said step­ping up is about attacking more than he has in the past as a complementary player. 
“[i’m] being more aggres­sive, trying to find my spots offensively,” vasturia said. “i think we have a lot of great weapons here on this team and that’s what makes this of­fense great. people know how to play, and they share; they move the ball. so it’s just find­ing how to pick your spots and playing the way you’ve grown up playing.” 
with two starters gone, notre dame’s sixth and sev­enth men from the 2014-2015 season will slide into the start­ing lineup when the irish open their season at the end of the month, brey said. sophomore forward bonzie colson and ju­nior forward v.J. beachem are expected to join the starting five, giving notre dame’s de­fense more length than in past seasons. 
“The length obviously helps us out a lot,” colson said. “we can deny, we can challenge shots — it definitely helps us out.” 
his teammates tend to agree, and auguste said he thinks it’s going to help on the offensive side of things as well. 
“They have that length there to deflect balls, get their hands in passing lanes and that’s gonna be huge for us,” vasturia said. “i think we have a great chance to be a really good de­fensive team.” 
“we’re gonna be a real ver­satile team — it allows us to get out in transition,” auguste said. “it gives us a threat both offensively and defensively. 
i think it’s gonna be a good look for us and something that’s problematic for other teams.” 
while the starting five for the exhibition opener against st. Francis (illinois) on oct. 30 appears set, brey conceded he’s not sure of the rotation past that point, with sopho­more guard matt Farrell, se­nior forward austin burgett and sophomore forward martinas geben amongst the options. 
“somebody asked me the other day, ‘who’s the sixth and the seventh guy?,’” brey said. “i have no idea. i’m still figur­ing that out but we certainly have a lot of candidates.” 
a trio of scholarship fresh­men entered the program — guard rex pflueger, forward matt ryan and forward elijah burns. brey said he’s liked what he’s seen from the new­comers so far. 
“They came in here very confident, very physically ready to do things, and they compete and go after the older guys,” brey said. “i’ve loved how willing they are to learn.” 
This will mark the third year for notre dame in the acc, and brey said the conference is starting to show depth simi­lar to that of the big east while the irish were a member. 
“i really believe this year is the year the acc sees the big east depth we left — you know eight or nine ncaa bids, may­be 10,” brey said. “i believe this is the year it will play out.” 
notre dame opens its exhi­bition slate oct. 30 against st. Francis (illinois) at purcell pavilion and will open its reg­ular season against st. Francis (pennsylvania) at home nov. 13. 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu 



Football 
conTinued From page 16 
and ready to go. it’s a rivalry game for them as well. it’s a chance for them to respond.” 
despite the quick and un­expected transition from sarkisian to helton, kelly said he didn’t think the Trojans’ offense would be too different than what they have prepared for. 
“play-calling is such a combination of art and sci­ence. now that [helton] is clearly running the pro­gram, you tend to see a little bit more of that finish come out, where maybe steve had his thumb or stamp on it,” kelly said. “i think certain­ly it would make sense that clay would have a little bit of his. but i don’t think you go too far from what they are and who they are as an offense.” 
kelly said he didn’t expect this week’s commotion to af­fect the competitiveness of the Trojans (3-2, 1-2 pac-12) on saturday. 
“They have some of the finest athletes in the coun­try,” he said. “i’ve recruited a lot of them, and they have an immense amount of pride for their program and per­sonal pride, so they will come out with that here at notre dame — there is no question about that.” 
kelly himself has been brought up in the conver­sation speculating possible candidates for the usc head coaching job, but he quick­ly deflected those rumors Tuesday. 
“what we do here is we avoid the noise, and that would be considered a lot of noise,” he said. 
Protecting Prosise 
senior running back c.J. prosise has carried the bulk of the notre dame offense through its first six games, averaging 161 combined yards per game, 129.8 of those rushing on about 18 carries each game. his out­put has helped the irish, who are averaging 502.7 to­tal yards per game, to their most productive season since 1970, the last year their per-game average was over the 500-yard mark. 
because the offense has relied so much on prosise, kelly said they will pro­tect the senior from contact headed into the seventh game of the season. 
“we’re going to thud [freshmen] Josh [adams] and dexter [williams], but c.J.’s not a guy we’re going to thud this week,” he said. “we’re going to take a week off, and then maybe we can add some more thud back into our work, but we have to be careful with it.” 
A new ‘way of life’ 
as has been the case for the entire season, kelly’s entrance into the press con­ference was preceded by the arrival of the showtime pro­duction crew, complete with cameras, a boom micro­phone and videographers. however, the head coach said he doesn’t bat an eye anymore at their continual presence. 
“i would say it’s no longer an experiment; it’s a way of life,” kelly said. 
“especially when you go to the bathroom, and you have one of those [microphones] on, and you go, i’ve got to take this off. so i think it’s now become more common­place, and everybody’s much more comfortable with cameras and microphones and things of that nature around.” 
while the finished prod­uct of “a season with notre dame Football” has featured storylines such as Jerry Tillery’s non-football inter­ests, corey robinson and romeo okwara’s ukulele jam sessions and deshone kizer’s adjustments to the starting quarterback role, there’s just been really good dialogue and communica­tion between the football staff and showtime, and it’s making it work on a day-to­day basis.” 



Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
the former “experiment” wasn’t always smooth sail­ing. kelly said the adjust­ments to the show’s presence were made easier by the work of the crew sent to capture the good, the bad and the behind-the-scenes moments of notre dame’s season. 
“it was a difficult transi­tion early on,” kelly said. “we have a great staff that’s working on it every day and has done a great job com­municating with the staff, as well as with showtime, where we feel like we need some space, so i think 
paid adverTisemenT 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: don’t dwell on the past. live in the moment and make the most efficient moves to guide you into the future. use your skills, intellect and experience to make the changes that will bring you the greatest happiness. shake things up and don’t fear what others think or say. it’s your life and it’s time you started living it. your numbers are 2, 13, 22, 27, 34, 38, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): listen to someone you respect and you will gain the momentum to do your own thing. learn from past experiences and make the changes that will improve your life. it’s time to shake things up and take on new challenges. embrace the future. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): professional connections will be able to help you advance. romance is in the stars, and socializing will spark interest in a change of location or developing a long-distance relationship. emotions will escalate. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): being too opinionated will lead to an unfortunate misunderstanding. don’t let anger take over when you should be directing physical efforts into improvements. diplomacy will be necessary if you want to convince others to do things your way. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): stop pontificating and start practicing. make personal and professional changes that will fit your current plans. don’t worry about complainers if realistic suggestions aren’t being offered. Follow your intuition and success will be yours. do something special for someone you love. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): your ability to outtalk and outmaneuver others will put you in a key position. Tell it like it is and do what you have to do to reach your goals. Take on a challenge and you’ll impress someone of influence. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): back away politely if someone is demanding. put some pressure on the people who need to do their fair share, and it will happen. an event or activity that interests you deserves your undivided attention. do what’s best for you. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Try something new and you will meet someone you enjoy spending time with. don’t limit the possibilities by sticking around someone who brings you down. venture into new territory and see what transpires. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): beef up your resume or find a new creative outlet that has the potential to bring in a few extra dollars. good fortune can be yours if you allow your imagination to wander and your talents to expand in new directions. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you’ll face opposition if you exaggerate your qualifications. a problem with someone you are close to will set you back if you have promised to get involved in a joint venture. stick close to home and avoid dealing with institutions. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t give in to someone using emotional manipulation. protect your assets and possessions and be prepared to say no if necessary. Trust only in the things that you know to be factual. love is highlighted. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): make your money work for you. you can sign contracts, move money around or invest in something that will help you alter an agreement that no longer fits your current situation. speak up and make things happen. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Find out what’s expected of you before you accept help. someone will try to steal your thunder or take credit for something you did all by yourself. protect your rights and present the facts. don’t commit to anything or anyone. 


Birthday Baby: you are intuitive, intelligent and sensitive. you are unpredictable, engaging and thoughtful. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 




make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Kelly discusses USC coaching tumult, Prosise 
By MARY GREEN 
assistant managing editor 
Facing off against ri­val usc is always a noted matchup on no. 14 notre dame’s schedule. 
but after last year’s 49-14 blowout loss, the last and perhaps bitterest in a string of four straight defeats to close out the regular season, the irish (5-1) have a little bit more invested in saturday’s game, head coach brian kelly said at his press con­ference Tuesday. 
“after getting beat last year out there, it’s been one that we have really set our eyes on in terms of want­ing to eradicate that in our minds in terms of that game itself,” kelly said. 
kelly said he expects a dif­ferent team to show up this weekend at notre dame stadium than the 2014 irish team, which was riddled by late-season injuries and competed without “the grit and determination that we needed.” 
“They knew that’s not notre dame football, and you don’t play that kind of football here at notre dame and use it as an excuse,” kelly said. “you build your program, and you don’t ex­pect those days to occur. so we kind of have talked about what our standard of play was and is, and that’s not our standard of play.” 
notre dame will meet a Trojans squad surrounded by many uncertainties in the midst of a tumultuous week. usc athletics director pat haden announced sunday that head coach steve sarkisian would take an im­mediate leave of absence to seek treatment for alcohol-related problems, and he was replaced in the interim by offensive coordinator clay helton. haden then said monday the university had fired sarkisian and would open up a search for a new head coach. 
“coach helton, obviously, being put in the role of head coach is somebody that i have a lot of respect for,” kelly said. “he’s been in this role before. he does a great job as an offensive coordina­tor, and i’m sure he’ll have his football team prepared 
see FooTball PAGE 14 


MEN’S BASKETBALL 

irish turn to Jackson for leadership this year 
By ALEX CARSON 
associate sports editor 
a year after the program’s first acc championship and first elite eight appearance in over 30 seasons, irish head coach mike brey said his squad is ready to take the next step, building on last season’s success this campaign. 
“i think there is a little bit of ‘let’s try and go further; let’s see if we can go further next year,’” brey said at his media day press conference Tuesday. “i think that was all from with­in them from the spring and in the summer. i didn’t have to go in and say a thing. 
“ … There’s pressure on this group after last year, and that’s a good thing. There’s pressure of, ‘wow, we have got to deliver again.’” 
while the irish lost just two rotation players from last year’s squad, guard Jerian grant and guard/forward pat 
see m bball PAGE 13 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

ND begins season without Loyd 
By GREG HADLEY 
editor-in-chief 
it would seem to be the same old story for muffet mcgraw and notre dame. 
once more, the irish begin fall camp without last season’s best player. once more, they have talented but raw fresh­men coming in who will be expected to contribute right away. once more, they have to answer questions about when, if ever, they will defeat rival connecticut and claim the ncaa championship. 
but at the team’s media day monday, the head coach and her players focused less on the past and more on the pres­ent, discussing improvements several starters had made over the summer and the im­pact of three freshman guards crowding into the backcourt. 
Replacing Jewell Loyd 
with the departure of guard Jewell loyd, who turned pro after her junior season and was selected no. 1 overall in the wnba draft last spring, the irish will have to replace almost a quarter of their of­fensive production from the 2014-2015 season. 
mcgraw said one challenge in replacing loyd will be find­ing a player who will step up in high-pressure situations and demand the basketball. 
“That’s the biggest thing that we really have to look at; who’s going to take that shot, late in the shot clock, late in the game,” mcgraw said. “we have a number of op­tions, and some really good things to work on. [Junior guard] lindsay allen and [sophomore forward] brianna Turner are playing really well. Those two are definitely go­ing to have the ball in their hands a lot at the end of the game.” 
allen has started every game for the irish in the past two seasons and steadily 
see w bball PAGE 12 





