The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 55 | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Student groups seek to end sexual assault 
Student-led initiatives at ND, SMC work to continue conversation, combat sexual violence 
By CLARE KOSSLER and MARTHA REILLY 
associate news editor and news writer
     Editor’s Note: This is the third installment of a five-part series on sexual assault at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s. Today’s story focuses on student group responses to sexual assault. 
approaching the issue from a variety of different perspectives, students from notre dame and saint mary’s are seeking out avenues to continue the conversation around, and ultimately pre­vent, sexual assault on col­lege campuses. 
central to their efforts is defining what it means for students to stand against sexual assault. 
seniors Tess rinaldo, left, and skyler hughes hold signs outside of south dining hall to raise awareness for sexu­al assault and rape culture 
as  pa r t  of  loyal daughters  
a nd  sons’   “Ta lk  about it  
Tuesday”  campaign.photo  

courtesy of loyal daughters and sons. 
“a lot of people on campus, okay, they’re against sex­ual assault,” senior skyler hughes said. “but it’s not a controversial thing to be aga inst.” 
hughes is a producer for loyal daughters and sons (lds), an annual, student-run performance that col­lects the personal stories of notre dame community members regarding gender relations, sexuality and sex­ual assault, and adapts them for the stage. 
see group PAGE 5 




Student-athletes start charity drive 

By JP GSCHWIND 
news writer 
a new student-run campaign is changing the way student-athletes use issue gear. 
“one shirt, one body” gathers excess athletic apparel from stu­dent-athletes and distributes it to organizations in the community. 
Junior andrew helmin said he came up with the idea last semester when his roommate, junior foot­ball player cole luke, was about to throw out the old athletic shoes and cleats he had been issued by 
see gear PAGE 3 


university explains study abroad assault report process 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 

every year, notre dame stu­dents travel abroad to more than 30 sites in more than 20 countries. according to the university’s ad­missions website, more than 50 percent of its students will par­ticipate in one of these programs. while studying abroad offers students the opportunity to learn from another culture, the immer­sive experience also includes new risks and can bring students face­to-face with sexual harassment and assault. 
Tom guinan, associate vice president for administrative operations for notre dame international, said much like for students studying on the main campus in south bend, prevent­ing sexual assault is emphasized to those traveling abroad. 
“This is one of the most impor­tant topics that we address prior to students going abroad, and we have mandatory training sessions for all students going abroad,” he said. “we have them in the spring and fall and summertime.” 
according to guinan, there are three main types of study abroad 
see abroad PAGE 3 


SMC celebrates Food Week 
By SYDNEY DOYLE 
news writer 

saint mary’s annual Food week kicked off monday and brings diverse and fun food options to campus, while also promot­ing food education with a wide variety of events, Food services committee chair and sophomore bailey oppman said in an email. 
“[Food week] ranges from learning how to nourish your body with food, to special themed meals in the dining hall, to learn­ing about food sustainability, to dining from local food trucks,” she said. 
The week's events started with “meatless monday,” a vegetarian lunch served in the noble Family dining hall. 
Food services general manager barry bowles led a ques­tion-and-answer took place in the dining hall during dinner, during which students asked questions and voiced their opinions about dining hall food. 
monday night ended with with a screening of the movie “Julie & Julia” in vander vennet Theatre. 
Tuesday’s first event, “Tortilla Tuesday,” took place in the dining hall during lunch. in the evening, students were able to try healthy treats and make their own recipe books. 
on “waffle wednesday," the dining hall will serve waffles 
see Food PAGE 3 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 FooTball PAGE 16 men’s basKeTball PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                 Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 

News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

What would you have been named if you were of the opposite sex? 


Kelly Smith 
junior 
lyons hall 

“Kenny lofton, after the indians’ outfielder because i was born during their 1995 playoff run.” 
Nikki Micelotta 
junior 
lyons hall 
“michael micelota, my mom really likes that name.” 
Michael Gregory 
senior Keenan hall 
“Jennifer.” 

Anthony Goo 
junior alumni hall 
“claire.” 
Ben Beiter 
sophomore Keenan hall 
“christine.” 
Marisa Mitrano 
sophomore cavanaugh hall 
“John.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Katie galioto Kit loughran Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: matthew mcKenna rachel o’grady megan valley 
Scene Graphics adam ramos 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday     Sunday 
lauren weldon 

Viewpoint Photo bianca almada 
Fall Reading Series 2015 Laura Shannon Mammograms Men’s Basketball vs. Volleyball vs. 
caitlyn Jordan 

DeBartolo Hall Prize Lecture Library Circle UMass Lowell Clemson 
7:30p.m. Jordan Hall 9 a.m.-4 p.m. Joyce Center Purcell Pavilion Bret Nye, Nicole Riggs 5 p.m.-6:15 p.m. This preventative 2 p.m.-4 p.m. 1 p.m.-3 p.m. 
Corrections 

and Alethea Tusher will Sir Christopher Clark offering is free to The Irish take on the The Irish take on the 
The observer regards itself as read. will present. women over 40. River Hawks. Clemson Tigers. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Women’s Basketball “For Freedom Set Volleyball vs. Georgia “Little Shop of Cello Fest 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
vs. Toledo Free” Tech Horrors” DeBartolo Performing 
however, recognize that we will make 
Purcell Pavilion McKenna Hall Purcell Pavilion DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7 p.m.-9 p.m. all day 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Arts Center 2 p.m.-3 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
The Irish take on the Part of the 16th annual The Irish take on the 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Concert featuring cello 
we can correct our error. 

Rockets.  fall conference. Yellow Jackets. Musical production. chamber ensembles. 


Saint Mary’s choirs host Fall Concert 
By OLIVIA JACKSON 
news writer 
The saint mary’s women’s choir and the saint mary's collegiate choirs will perform their Fall concert with bellacapella tonight in o’laughlin auditorium. 
conductor nancy menk said the women’s choir will be singing the same songs they plan to take to the american choral directors association conference in chicago this coming February. 
“one of our pieces, a setting of psalm 150, is composed by carolyn pirtle, assistant director for the center for liturgy at notre dame, so we have a local composer rep­resented,” menk said. “another piece i'm proud of is ‘heaven Full of stars’ by eric william barnum. it's a very challenging piece for ad­vanced women's choirs, and i feel we're singing it very well.” 
sophomore alyssa rogers said the challenging music has been ex­citing to learn. 
“The music we have been work­ing on is very diverse,” she said. “some pieces are slow and tradi­tional, but we also have a few that are new and upbeat. several of the pieces are sung a cappella, and others have very complex piano ac­companiment. we are also singing a few pieces in different languages.” 
rogers said the concert will showcase the progress and hard work of both choirs. 
Junior Jackie schramm said the Fall concert is particularly exciting because it is the first time the cam­pus can hear both choirs together. schramm said she enjoys being in a choir because she can express herself with like-minded people. 
“choral music, in my opinion, is a rare opportunity to hear a larger group of people work together to make a uniform sound with just their voices.  This skill is not as easy as it seems” schramm said. 
rogers said she has always en­joyed performing arts. 
“i really enjoy being able to go to choir after all my classes and do something totally different. it's very relaxing and rewarding for me,” she said. “most forms of entertainment today are experi­enced through various forms of media. i think that it is important to appreciate choral music in live performances as well because it is a totally different experience. it's not always perfect, but it's real, and that's what makes it so enjoyable for me.” 
menk said participation in choirs has positive effects on students. 
“There is study after study about how participating in choirs boosts students' academic abilities and social interactions. it's a great way to de-stress from homework and exams as well,” menk said. 
Contact Olivia Jackson at ojacks01@saintmarys.edu 


to 10 a.m. Food week will draw 
message of higher education, helmin said the model of one Food to a close Friday evening, with 
Gear promoting people’s goals and re-shirt, one body gives autonomy conTinued From page 1 local food trucks parked in the 
conTinued From page 1 ally inspiring these individuals,” to individual schools, which are mccandless parking lot from 
helmin said. responsible for collecting dona-during lunch, and wednesday 5 to 7 p.m. students can pur­
the athletic department. helmin, helmin said he recalls visit-tions from their athletes and evening's dinner will be saint chase food truck tickets at lunch 
who is a member of the irish ing south bend’s center for the then selecting the organizations mary's annual Thanksgiving throughout the week. 
track and field team, asked luke homeless to give out football that will receive the apparel. dinner. oppman said she is most ex-
if he could bring them home to shirts and was struck by the en-“This makes it very appealing “Three cheese lunch” will take cited for the food trucks. 
give to his younger brother and thusiasm it generated among the because it’s customizable, it’s place Thursday in the dining hall, “[They] will be a new way for 
his friends. The positive reaction center’s residents. easy to implement, and you’re and sara stewart, a nurse from students to get some delicious 
from the kids was overwhelm-“athletes have a very big role in making a big impact with this unity gardens, will discuss food food,” she said. 
ing, helmin said, and it inspired the community, and this cloth-clothing,” helmin said. sustainability and food justice in Food week aims to provide 
him to start collecting issue gear ing can make a difference in The athletic conferenc­vander vennet Theatre from 7:30 students with fun ways to learn 
to donate to local charities. people’s lives,” he said. es currently adopting one to 8:30 p.m. oppman said she is about improving healthy eating 
“They’re saying, ‘cole luke working with junior football shirt, one body include the looking forward to hearing from habits, oppman said. 
wore these shoes,’ and you can player corey robinson, helmin wac, conference usa, the stewart and feels students will “we try to incorporate the 
see the excitement on their fac-said one shirt, one body began patriot league and the big sky enjoy the discussion. fun things about food, like food 
es,” helmin said. as a pilot program through notre conference, helmin said. “she's a really energetic and trucks and free donuts, along 
The concept of one shirt, one dame but has quickly spread to a The rapid growth of one passionate person, so i think the with educational and important 
body, helmin said, is more than number of other colleges. shirt, one body has been excit­discussion will be really dynam-food topics, like sustainabil­
just the tangible process of giv-robinson pitched one ing, helmin said, but he wants ic,” she said. ity and knowing how to make 
ing clothes to those in need. issue shirt, one body to the acc to perfecting how the program on Friday morning, coffee healthier choices,” she said. 
gear that has actually belonged student-athlete advisory com-runs. and doughnuts will be served to 
to college athletes excites and mittee, helmin said, and the “a lot of what we’re doing now students in spes unica hall and Contact Sydney Doyle at 
uplifts the recipients, he said. idea was quickly supported by is just trial and error and seeing madeleva hall from 8:30 a.m. sdoyle01@saintmarys.edu 
“we’re trying to go for this acc schools as a conference where we can keep improving,” initiative. he said. 
paid adverTisemenT 

one shirt, one body will also helmin said the best way to be featured at the ncaa conven-support one shirt, one body is tion in san antonio this coming by spreading the word about it January, and helmin said he on social media and talking to has ambitious plans to grow the friends at other schools that have initiative. not yet adopted the program. 
“our goal is to get all division i, ii and iii schools running this Contact JP Gschwind at  collection,” he said. jgschwin@nd.edu 
for them to use. 
Abroad 
“we  contact the student in vary­
conTinued From page 1 

ing ways, based on where they programs: students who are fully actually are and offer them pretty enrolled in an overseas institution, much the same types of services third party providers who put stu-we would offer if they were on cam-dents into places where they want pus,” guinan said. “if it’s a known to study and “global gateways,” notre dame situation, we would such as the london program, actually refer them back to the Title where notre dame staff are actu-iX coordinator on campus, be-ally “on the ground” to work with cause even though the host insti­students. The first two categories tution has their own protocols and have their own “mechanisms for wants to take action, it is something reporting, preventing and dealing that would come back to notre with sexual assaults that happen dame and the resources available on their campuses,” guinan said. through the Title iX coordinator 
“The one obvious complicat-would be made available to that ing factor here is that st. [Joseph] student.” county and [notre dame security even with these resources avail-police] typically would be involved able, guinan urges students to be in the criminal investigations,” he more vigilant abroad than they said. “we have relationships with might be while on campus. offices in each location so the stu-“we remind the students, both dents know legal remedies they before they leave and when they might pursue in those countries arrive on site, that they are still and the laws related in each coun-notre dame students and so that try to sexual assaults are different.” the expectations and standards of 
guinan said if a student is as-conduct are still with them as they saulted abroad, especially if the go abroad.” complainant and respondent are both notre dame students, re-Contact Megan Valley at  sources are available on campus mvalley@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




Groups 
conTinued From page 1 
almost a decade after its initial beginnings as a se­nior thesis project, hughes said lds still works to iden­tify how the performance fits into the ongoing discus­sion about sexual assault, and more broadly, gender relations. 
“[lds’s] role has definitely evolved, and i think that’s one of the things we’re try­ing to negotiate right now: what is our role in this larg­er conversation?” he said. 
hughes said lds distin­guishes itself by bringing a personal element to the conversation. 
“i think because we tell these stories — these very personal stories — i think we add a dimension to the conversation that other campaigns — with statistics, or trainings, or door-to-door campaigns — they can’t add … ,” he said. “and i think that’s a really important side to have in the conversation about sexual assault. we can’t detach it from those personal stories.” 
Focusing their efforts on educating and informing students about sexual as­sault rather than relating students’ personal experi­ences, the Fire starters — a student initiative of the gender relations center (grc) — are also working to define their stance against sexual assault, notre dame senior and Fire starter annie Kuster said. 
“There’s a lot of different angles that we can take to­wards sexual assault and re­lationship violence,” Kuster said. “[it’s] not just like, ‘this is what sexual assault is.’” 
Kuster, a member of the Fire starters subgroup on sexual assault and 
relationship violence, said  mary’s students march  
the Fire starters aim to fos­ across notre dame’s cam­ 
ter a dialogue concerning  pus to demonstrate solidar­ 
“gender and sexual identity  ity with survivors, spica  
and relationship violence,  said.  
and things like that, that  “This is happening to our  
usually are swept under the  peers, these acts of sexual  
rug.”  violence,” she said. “we  
she said her subgroup this  need to be support systems,  
semester chose to consider  we need to be encourag­ 
sexual assault through a dis­ ing, and saint mary’s and  
cussion on the meaning of  notre dame are a family, so  
consent.  we need to act like it and be  
“one of our biggest fo­ there as a support system  
cuses was consent, [and]  for each other.”  
understanding — not neces­ spica said the group set­ 
sarily promoting sexual ac­ ting of bavo allows stu­ 
tivity — but understanding  dents to collaborate with  
what consent means, how  like-minded peers and to  
that functions,” she said.  increase the overall impact  
“any interaction you have  they can have in addressing  
with someone else involves  sexual assault.  
consent, to some degree.”  “sometimes it’s very dis­ 
“i’m fairly sure that no­ couraging when you’re by  
body goes into the night and  yourself working on issues  
is like, ‘you know what, i’m  like this, because, individ­ 
going to sexually assault  ually, it’s hard to see how  
somebody, i’m going to hurt  much of an impact you’re  
somebody tonight,’” Kuster  making,” spica said. “when  
said. “and we [as a sub- you have so many people  
group] thought it had to do a  doing it in a group, it’s in- 
lot more with this fuzzy line,  teresting to see how many  
and when you cross it and  people’s minds you can  
you don’t cross it.”  change or how many people  
similar to Fire starters in  you can influence.”  
their educational approach,  bavo is not the only stu­ 
saint mary’s belles against  dent initiative to facilitate  
violence office (bavo) aims  group collaboration. notre  
to provide students with the  dames — a female empow­ 
knowledge necessary to take  erment club started in 2014  
a stand against the prob­ — provides a weekly forum  
lem of sexual assault, saint  in which students can joint­ 
mary’s sophomore abbie  ly examine sexual assault  
spica said.  and other issues impacting  
“i think that we can take a  women on both campuses,  
stand against sexual assault  club president and founder  
largely through education,  notre dame senior alison  
by informing people of the  leddy said.  
realities of sexual assault,”  “one of the reasons i ac­ 
spica, who serves as the  tually started notre dames  
head of bavo’s student ad- was because i had a few  
visory committee for events  friends who were victims  
and campaigns, said.  of sexual assault, and what  
among other initiatives,  was consistent in their ex­ 
bavo offers green dot by­ periences was that they felt  
stander intervention train- like they didn’t have a voice  
ing and helps coordinate  — either in the situation, or  
Take back the night, in  after the situation,” leddy  
which notre dame and saint  said. “ … i was personally  

paid adverTisemenT 
really moved by the fact that they didn’t feel like they could say anything or they didn’t feel like their voice was worthy of being heard. 
“especially in an instance of sexual assault where so much power is taken away from you, their voice was the first thing to go.” 
complementing the ef­forts of lds, Fire starters, bavo and notre dames, oth­er student groups are focus­ing their attention on those aspects of sexual assault which are often overlooked in the larger discussion of the issue. 
at saint mary’s, the straight and gay alliance is seeking to challenge the largely heteronormative discussion of sexual assault, according to the alliance’s president, saint mary’s sophomore abigail lynn. 
“a lot of times, people in the lgbTQ community write [sexual assault in a homosexual relationship] off as it not being sexual assault when, if the same thing happened in a het­erosexual relationship, it would be a huge deal,” lynn said. “That’s why it needs to be talked about. if it’s not talked about, you don’t even realize it.” 
according to lynn, ex­pressing opinions openly is one of the first steps stu­dents can take in working to raise awareness about the issues surrounding sexual assault. 
“i realized really quickly that if you go about it the right way, people are really receptive to what you have to say,” lynn said. “we can acknowledge that we have different viewpoints on things, but we can also re­spect each other. we’re try­ing to build a community.” 
echoing the mission of the straight and gay alliance, members of the college’s Justice education student advisory committee are also working to promote more inclusive language when speaking about sexual assault, committee member and saint mary’s sophomore alex shambery said. 
“people come to saint mary’s with certain mind­sets about things, and then they have discussions with other people who may have a greater sense of knowl­edge about those subjects, and this brings people to re­alizations,” shambery said. “The only way to go is up.” 
saint mary’s senior bri o’brien, who also sits on the committee, said peo­ple sometimes dismiss the idea of same-sex assault on campus because it is not as commonly discussed as in­stances of heterosexual as­sault are. 
“sometimes when you just talk about the surface level of something, you’re not re­ally getting at the heart,” o’brien said. “it’s easy to do the bare minimum. it’s easy not to talk about same-sex assault. 
“The bare minimum doesn’t include same-sex assault.” 
in addition to same-sex assault, the issue of male advocacy figures only mar­ginally into the larger dis­course on sexual violence, president of men against sexual violence (masv) and notre dame junior daniel esparza said. 
“There’s not many male groups at all that talk about sexual violence as a serious matter, and that’s actually a subject that i do take seri­ously,” he said. 
according to esparza, masv’s mission in part is “to be able to dissolve any misconceptions behind sexual assault, first and foremost.” 
but dissolving misconcep­tions can sometimes require people to go outside their comfort zone, esparza said, and student advocates must often embrace awkward and uncomfortable situations. 
“There’s really a need to make conversations uncom­fortable,” esparza said. “it’s kind of a social polarization deal. if [men] are not con­stantly bombarded with the problematic atmospheres that they might create, they really get comfortable vali­dating those problematic behaviors and attitudes. 
“continuing the conver­sation is really a matter of trying to make things awk­ward, in a way.” 
News writers Selena Ponio and Andrea Vale contributed to this report. 
Contact Clare Kossler at  ckossler@nd.edu and Martha Reilly at  mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 



The observer |  WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Keep making art Olivia Jackson 
news writer 

This is a letter to the freshman who is considering an art major. This is a letter to the senior who has spent four years studying music and is now starting to worry their parents were right in that they will never get a job. This is a letter to myself, a junior theatre major who just wants to be taken seriously. most impor­tantly, this is a letter to everyone else. 
dear student artist, 

it’s hard, i know. it’s hard to stay up all night finishing a painting. it’s hard to memorize lines and everything else you need for class. it’s hard when you start to believe everyone who says you won’t find a job, you won’t make a difference, you aren’t as smart as everyone else. but please: Keep. making. art. 
many people look at the student artist and think they must walk around with their head in the clouds. but get to know an artist and you’ll know we are some of the most grounded people around. student artists are always juggling dead­lines, but your stress is not always taken seriously. you will pour your hearts into your work, only to be ripped apart by your professors and peers, but just know it only makes you stronger. instead of giv­ing up, keep making art. 
if you love something enough to pursue it wholeheartedly, anything is possible. The best part about a career in the arts is that you can often create it yourself. we have all been asked the dreaded question, “a degree in the arts? what are you going to do with that?” sometimes this is asked out of genuine curiosity, but sometimes it’s asked pretentiously. don’t be afraid to answer honestly. if that person judges you because your honest answer is “i don’t know,” screw them. you just keep making art. 
artists are the ones who shape our culture because they are the ones who capture it in a photo, a film or play. art is a mirror for our society. it challenges us and, when done really well, changes us. 
we need artists. we need you to make us laugh and cry and hold each other a little tighter. we need you tell us hard truths about ourselves through stories. we need you to write music we can fall in love to. we need you to keep making art. 
and so, student artist, just know that you are loved. your work is valued even if you don’t realize it. not everyone will un­derstand or appreciate what you do, but at the end of the day, you get to do what you love. as you move forward, remember that you are a student and that every art­ist who has impacted you began where you are today. 
so keep your head up, know your audi­ence and for the love of god, keep making art. 
Contact Olivia Jackson at  ojacks01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

we are seeds 
 “again i looked and saw all the oppression that was taking place under the sun: i saw the tears of the oppressed — and they have no comforter; power was on the side of their oppres­sors — and they have no comforter. and i declared that the dead, who had already died, are happier than the living, who are still alive.” - ecclesiastes 4:1-2 
This is a response to a letter to the editor published on Tuesday, nov. 17, entitled “perfect place to grow.” This re­sponse is meant to address not only the author, but also the larger notre dame community. we, the undersigned, feel that our entire campus would benefit from a careful rebuttal of each of the points made in the article. moreover, this response should be read as a clear statement of our values. 
on wednesday, nov. 11, at 5 p.m., members of the notre dame community gathered on the steps of the main building to stand in solidarity with students of color at the university of missouri who have been affected by institutionalized rac­ism and unimaginable threats to their well-being. we stood in solidarity against prejudice, injustice and hate. but more importantly, we stood in solidarity for change. 
we exercised the rights the members of our armed forces fight for day in and day out. speaking up is one of the most patriotic expressions of the freedoms for which our service men and women sacrifice their lives. our demonstration’s coincidence with veterans day was not intended as a display of disrespect, but rather an appreciation that we have the free­dom and obligation to stand up for what we believe in. 
“every step toward the goal of justice requires sacrifice, suf­fering and struggle; the tireless exertions and passionate con­cern of dedicated individuals.” - dr. martin luther King, Jr. 
The first objection to our demonstration was that it ap­pealed more greatly to “emotion, anger and passion than to morality and solidarity.” as we gather from the words of the rev. dr. martin luther King, Jr., words that lack passion lack conviction. movements that lack emotion lack purpose. solidarity, one of the main tenets of catholic social Teaching, is not mutually exclusive of emotion, anger and passion. emotion is an integral element of what it is to be human and crucial to communication, commitment to the common good and understanding. moreover, morality is rarely a cold, calcu­lated execution of logic. it is a compassionate statement of faith tempered by the reason of equality and justice. if the injustice we witness — in violence towards people of color around the world — does not make us angry, how can we credibly claim to be moral agents? people who come together for a cause in the absence of passion are not truly standing in solidarity for or against anything. we are unapologetically emotional, un­apologetically angry and unapologetically passionate. 
secondly, we wish to respond to the claim that our move­ment is an exclusive one. last week, students across the nation wrote variations of the following Facebook status: 
“To the students of color at mizzou, we, the students of color at notre dame, stand with you in solidarity. To those who would threaten their sense of safety, we are watching.” 
it is, however, important to note that among the variations of this status was the following: 
“To the students of color at mizzou, we, allied students at notre dame, stand with you in solidarity. To those who would threaten their sense of safety, we are watching.” any student who does not identify as a person of color but wished to show their support was free to repost this version of the status. 
why did the statuses not read, “we, all the students of notre dame, support all the students at mizzou who need our sup­port”? because the students at mizzou — and at universities across the nation, including notre dame — who are the sub­ject of racial slurs and whose safety on campus is threatened due to race are students of color. The statement that all stu­dents at notre dame support all students of mizzou has not been substantiated up to this point, since all of our peers have not made it a priority to break the culture of silence surround­ing racial injustice on college campuses. until all students have demonstrated a commitment to standing against the in­justices like those that students of color at mizzou have faced, we will not accommodate our messages of support to include their silence. lastly, the suggestion to modify our words to read, “we support all the students at mizzou who need our support” is founded in the same logic that replaces “black lives matter” with “all lives matter.” all students across the nation do not lack institutional support in the same way that many students of color do. all students are not the subjects of racially-motivated violence. students of color are specifically targeted, and it is time that they are directly and intentionally the focus of our solidarity. 
next, we want to make clear the difference between being intentional about the language we use and being intolerant of other people’s opinions. political correctness operates at its best as a system of language discernment. being offended by someone’s opinion is not the same as experiencing a micro­aggression that emerges from notions of race and difference entrenched in white privilege and white supremacy. The key difference between an opinion shaped by white privilege and one that is not is the power dynamic: the former opinion has the power to oppress marginalized groups, and often times has been part of systemic oppression, while the latter does not. The logic that protesting and demonstrating are somehow morally lacking and overtly emotional is often used to justify the criminalization and subsequent brutalization of organiz­ers and agitators, in addition to the continued endangerment of those on whose behalf they demonstrate and organize. 
as notre dame students concerned with “respect for human life and dignity,” in the vein of the black lives matter move­ment, we view our demonstration as a necessary proclamation of the value inherent in the lives of the black students targeted at mizzou and across the country. we take umbrage at the sug­gestion that our decision to champion the lives of students of color in some way denies the value inherent in the lives of our nation’s veterans or those of students who do not identify as people of color; we simply wish to make clear that the lives of black students are precious too. 
lastly, we wish to address the claim that the timing of our demonstration lacked discernment. racism is never conve­niently timed. students of color are tasked with coping with microaggressions on campus and news of national and global racism in addition to an already rigorous academic curricu­lum. while we meant no disrespect to the veterans day cere­mony, which was planned prior to the events at mizzou, we felt that our response as a notre dame community in support of the students there needed to be swift and meaningful. direct action and social justice campaigns are often considered “poorly-timed” or inconvenient in the view of those who have not suffered unduly from the implications of racism. we are of the mindset that justice too long delayed is justice denied. as current events demonstrate, our heightened sense of urgency following the events at mizzou is shared by students at many other colleges and universities across the country who have felt equally inspired to create change on their campuses. 
we hope our attempt to address the concerns from the origi­nal letter lead to greater understanding, more nuanced discus­sion and long-lasting change on our beloved campus. 
“They tried to bury us, but they forgot we are seeds.” 
Alex Rice 
senior 
Rachel Wallace 
senior 
Xitlaly Estrada 
junior 
Natalie Thomas 
junior 
Lucas Garcia 
class of 2015 
Bi’unca Redmon 
 freshman 
Taja Reynolds 
freshman 
Carlisia McCord 
senior 
Matthew Caponigro 
senior 

To view the complete list of the 43 authors  who have signed their names to this letter, visit ndsmcobserver.com 

Suffering from insomnia 
Erin Thomassen 
The examined life 
i lie awake in bed at 3:03 in the morning. it is Thursday night, but i did not just get back from Feve. i did not stay up studying or pretending to study. i went to bed at the reasonable hour of 11 p.m. 
why, then, am i not yet asleep? 
insomnia. in other words, i am not sure why i cannot fall asleep. if i did, i might be able to fix it. 
not being able to sleep is quite an unpleasant phenomenon, especially when one is exhausted. especially when that one is you. i lie awake with my eyes shut, waiting for drowsiness to proceed logi­cally to sleep. yet it refuses to proceed. The rem cycle does not begin. 
worries begin instead. i worry about what time i must rise the next day (too early to still be awake). i calculate how many hours of sleep i will get if i fall asleep now (which is almost impossible, since i’m calculating), in fifteen minutes (optimistic) or in a half hour. 
“please god,” i pray, “help me fall asleep… if it be your will.” i learned to add the qualifier in sixth grade bible class from the book of James. “when you ask, you do not receive, because you ask with wrong motives, that you may spend what you get on your pleasures.” 
i pray that i ask for sleep with the right motives. can sleep be sinful? if i obsess over sleep to an ex­cess, yes. if i am so slothful that i become a sloth — even a cute sloth — i am lazy. yet i do not believe i am being obsessive or lazy. i want to be rested so i can stay awake during class and lunch. it’s not fun to fall asleep while i should be learning. or chew­ing meatballs. 
as i try to empty my mind and fall asleep, i re­member a poem from péguy that imagines god saying, more or less: “cursed is him who does not sleep, who does not trust me to govern his affairs for the night.” 
“god,” i say, “i trust you. please just help me fall asleep.” 
yet i remain awake. 

i grab my handy dandy book light and read for a bit. The savanna biome, how fascinating. actually, not really, so it’s time for me to nod off, right? nope. i’m still awake. 
i try to convince myself i already fell asleep, and i just woke up. how strange! i’ll go back to sleep now. nope. i’m still awake. 
i listen to ocean waves on a white noise app for other paranoid noise nazis like me. nope. i’m still awake. 
while trying to fall asleep, my ears are incred­ibly perceptive. yesterday you asked me to do the dishes, but sorry, i didn’t hear you. Tonight, while trying to fall asleep you coughed three doors down from me. you may as well be hammering on a cowbell. 
Fall asleep. i ought to be a normal person and fall asleep. well, can people normally fall asleep? according to the extensive research i carried out on google search, 30 percent of american adults 
show symptoms of insomnia. i rejoice; i am not alone. There are so many exciting kinds of insom­nia, such as adjustment, anxiety and inadequate sleep hygiene insomnia. if you’re lucky me, you get to sample them all. 
Fun fact: middle-aged women are at the high­est risk of developing insomnia. That explains so much. i always had a hunch i was middle-aged. 
There are also side-effects of insomnia, such as moodiness, poor memory and fatigue (surprise). 
enough of the bad news. it is time for the good news. There is a plethora of treatments for insom­nia, such as cognitive behavioral therapy (change your sleep habits), nonprescription drugs (antihis­tamine will save me?), approved prescription drugs (careful: can develop reliance) and unapproved prescription drugs (*danger*danger*). 
i cannot try many of these at 3:46 in the morn­ing. but i can seek out help in the future. and i can hope that i have tired myself out enough to fall asleep. 
Zzz. Zzz. That’s pretend. my insomnia is not. i wish it were. Then i would meet the morning bright-eyed instead of red-eyed. 
goodnight. well, actually, good morning. 
Erin Thomassen likes listening to string instruments tuning. Please come tune violins and cellos near her window in Pasquerilla East Hall, preferably in the next two years, as she is a junior. She can be reached at  ethomass@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
defending liberal arts education 
Elizabeth Hascher 
dignified response 

about a month ago at a town hall meeting in south carolina, former Florida governor and pres­idential candidate Jeb bush urged universities to consider a shift away from liberal arts education, saying, “when a student shows up, they ought to say, ‘hey, that psych major deal, that philosophy major thing, that’s great, it’s important to have liberal arts … but realize, you’re going to be work­ing at chick-fil-a.’” 
during the nov. 10 republican debate, sen. marco rubio advocated for more of an empha­sis on vocational training and less on liberal arts, stating: “welders make more money than philosophers. we need more welders and less philosophers.” 
considering that bush and rubio studied latin american affairs and political science respec­tively, these remarks are extremely hypocritical. moving beyond that, however, both claims imply that a student receiving a liberal arts education lacks the potential for meaningful work and a prosperous career. in addition, they suggest that if a career path does not offer relatively high pay, it is not worth pursuing. 
it’s not just our presidential candidates who regard the future of students in the liberal arts to be bleak. as many of us in the college of arts and letters know, those in our home communities and even our fellow students often doubt our choice of study. 
disclosing a major in “arts and crafts” is more often than not accompanied by a surprised, ques­tioning look or a “so what are you going to do with that?” 
not only has study in the liberal arts provided american society and civilization as a whole with some of its greatest minds and leaders, but it is also one of the most powerful tools at our disposal when considering how to improve the future of our world. 
The liberal arts should most certainly not be cut back — if anything, they should be emphasized more. 
in the broadest sense, a liberal arts education enables students to become free, autonomous thinkers who are able to question assumptions, form arguments and think critically about issues. every discipline that falls under the liberal arts umbrella also offers a unique set of skills that can only come from a deep immersion in the subject matter. 
studying history instills in students an appre­ciation for the people and cultures that came be­fore us, and invites them to consider how to avoid repeating the mistakes of the past when looking to the future. 
students in design learn how to sketch, model and create products and systems from a multitude of tools. They are taught that everything around us is designed, from door handles to systems of economic oppression, which empowers them to realize that because everything is designed, it can also be redesigned to be better, more efficient and more fair. 
often labeled the least practical major, philoso­phy not only teaches students how to question the validity of claims made by people such as bush and rubio, but it also provides them with critical comprehension and analysis skills that are neces­sary in nearly every career field from business to politics. 
certainly there is tremendous worth to be found in receiving a vocational education, a technical education in a sTem field or in having a career that does not require as much formal training. 
welders will not become irrelevant overnight, and we can be sure that engineers and scientists are play an integral part in our ever-changing world. 
however, as we look to shape our collective fu­ture, it is training in the liberal arts that holds the greatest potential for fresh thinking and new ap­proaches to the problems that have been left to us by our parents’ and grandparents’ generations. 
in order to deeply investigate the issues facing our world today and properly formulate adequate solutions, we will need to rely on the critical thinking skills that are gained through liberal arts education. 
our late university president Fr. Theodore hesburgh shared in The hesburgh papers, “if our lives in education have any meaning or signifi­cance, it will be in our reading the signs of the times and in educating the young of our times in the visions and values that will civilize and make for reasonable human progress and lasting peace on earth.” 
This is the goal of a liberal arts education — not solely to provide students with the knowledge necessary to find a career, but to empower them to seek truth, think critically and have a lasting impact on our world. we will always need more philosophers. 
Elizabeth Hascher is a sophomore living in Lewis Hall. She hails from Grand Rapids, Michigan, and is studying political science with a minor in international development studies. Contact her at ehascher@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

LAUREN WELDON | The Observer 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By KELLY McGARRY 
scene writer 

The millennial perception of the ‘90s is distorted by our own immaturity at the time, we forget that not everyone was listening to the backstreet boys. The teen pop trends that we associate with the decade didn’t stop monumen­tal rock and alternative albums from bands like radiohead, u2 and nirvana. 
with their current presence so strong, most of us also forget that the ‘90s was the peak for the red hot chili peppers. hugely influential albums “blood sugar sex magik,” “one hot minute” and “californication” were all released in the 90s, the middle of these being one of the most underappreciated albums of all time. 
as red hot chili peppers’ lead singer 
By JACK RIEDY 
scene writer 

on his new album “shadow of a doubt,” Freddie gibbs includes a sam­pled conversation from his appearance on snoop dogg’s talk show. gibbs ex­plains that he got to establish the sound of gary, in, his hometown, because he was the first rapper to transcend the city’s scene. The elder rapper agrees, saying gibbs sounds like he’s “not from nowhere.” it’s a ringing endorsement that happens to be stone cold fact. 
Freddie gibbs grew up in gary, a crime-ridden satellite city to chicago, and now splits his time between there and los angeles. gibbs surged in pop­ularity last year after the release of “piñata”, his album with the sampling wizard madlib. The no-nonsense street rapper and the patchwork globofunk beat maker seemed an unlikely duo in theory, but their work ultimately had creative chemistry to rival Madvillainy, the producer’s 2004 album with doom. The anachronistic instrumentals and gibbs’ rhymes added up to a gritty flavor to rival the best low-budget ‘70s crime films. The album hit the Top 40 charts and the duo toured internationally to play for packed festival crowds. 
less than two years later, gibbs has a new full-length out. he has taken an entirely different direction. “shadow of a doubt” finds gibbs embracing anthony Kiedis described in his autobi­ography “scar Tissue,” the production of funk-punk album “one hot minute” was set back by personal problems among band-members. Through drug addiction, death, and depression, the quote from “mulan,” (another ‘90s clas­sic) applies to this album: “The flower that blooms in adversity is the most beautiful of all.” one of the biggest challenges was the absence of guitar­ist John Frusciante, whose writing con­tributions had been crucial to “blood sugar sex magik.” 
Frusciante was replaced by dave navarro, founding member of Jane’s addiction, who influenced a darker tone in “one hot minute.” metal riffs characterized hard-hitting tracks like “one big mob,” but the classic rhcp sound was far from lost. The full, 
the contemporary sounds of Top 40 rap through a slew of producers. Trap-influenced drums and icy keyboards drive beats by boi-1da, mike dean, Kaytranada and others. vocal hooks are twisted and distorted into snippets of megaphone chatter, echoing Future and rae sremmurd. Tracks “lately” and “narcos” in particular seem one Jodeci sample away from the next drake mix-tape. it’s quite a departure for gibbs 
— and it succeeds. 
one highlight, “10 Times,” is built around a bouncy beat that fuses dJ mustard’s one-finger vibraphone riffs with snaps and claps influenced by The neptunes. gibbs spits boasts about trav­eling to chicago, smoking in front of the Trump Tower and calling a girl despite knowing she has a boyfriend. gucci mane follows with another chest-puffed verse and e-40 bats clean-up, bringing the same slick energy he brought to big sean’s “idFwu.” all three rappers glide over the instrumental to coast along the groove. 
gibbs’ greatest strength is his flow, ver­satile enough to lend itself to something new. gibbs can experiment with differ­ent rhythms in one song. on “packages,” gibbs raps most of his verse in a furious triplet rhythm, only to stretch out his last few bars in a smooth “dirty south” cadence. he summarizes himself suc­cinctly in the last line, saying “i keep a pistol on me and a brick on the desk.” 

even crowded sound gives meaning to Kieidis’ metaphysical yet flippant mus­ings with lines like “one two buckle my shoe / take care of me ‘cause i might be you.” 
The bass-slapping funk influence via Flea comes out in “walkabout” and “aeroplane,” but there’s not such a clear divide between the metal and the funk on this album. Take “coffee shop,” which opens heavy metal but progress­es to one of the album’s funkiest riffs, and demonstrates each member’s style being amplified and complemented by the other. 
Flea’s influence takes on a differ­ent role in his lyrics and vocals in “deepkick,” and even more notably in the quirky yet expressive track “pea.” The decision to include “pea” on the al­bum is an interesting one, as it has the 
good luck separating him from either. 
obviously, his sense of the streets is intact and as vibrant as ever. gibbs’ old-school gangsta persona is refresh­ing. his imagery is stripped of any glamor and excess, utterly focused on the hustle. drugs are the one and only concern in his raps, leading to the aliases gangsta gibbs, Freddie Kane and Freddie corleone. The topics in his raps grow naturally from that root: “narcos” contrasts the difficulty of pushing weight with the easiness of the rap industry, while “mexico” is about traveling south to spend ill-gotten cash. besides incidental references to netflix and #blacklivesmatter, these stories could have been told twenty years ago just as easily as today. 
Timeless lyrics and progressive beats are a potent combination in the hands of Freddie gibbs, but it does not al­ways work out. The album is simply too long, with filler tracks that threaten to force the record down into monotony. “basketball wives” is perhaps the most experimental song on the album. its thick soundscape of sweeter-than-hon­ey synths and auto-Tuned vocals creates a lullaby effect. what was likely intend­ed to sound narcotic comes out sluggish. 
still, gibbs’ failures are far more inter­esting than a lot of hip-hop. he has few contemporary equals in terms of vivid lyrics and sheer rapping ability. save pusha T, there is no one else releasing feel of something Flea spontaneously played during one of the band’s jam sessions, and i would definitely ask him about it if i got the chance. 
even without the melodic influence of Frusciante, rhcp even pulled off a few smooth ballads in “my Friends” and “Tearjearker,” dispersed evenly within the album’s track listing, injecting the pain and loss of the band’s experience during the album’s production. 
with such variety and expressivity, “one hot minute” is arguably one of rhcp’s most exciting albums. Twenty years after its release, i fondly remem­ber “one hot minute” as the only wor­thy music i appreciated for at least the first ten years of my life. 
Contact Kelly McGarry at                            kcmcgarry@nd.edu 
gangsta rap this fresh while maintain­ing the traditions of hip-hop’s richest subgenre. snoop dogg’s presence on the album, even if only in conversation, is revealing. gibbs is smoking and kick­ing-it with a charismatic, universally beloved dealer-turned-musician who can and will rhyme over every kind of beat. That sort of legendary status seems within reach for the gary native himself. 
The newest Freddie gibbs album is too uneven to be his best, but it occu­pies an important, forward-facing part of his discography. branching out to such progressive production is a bold choice that pays off, bolstered by gibbs’ consistently excellent rhymes. “shadow of a doubt” concludes in a decelerating wash of stuttering modulated keys. like the static fading off the screen of an un­plugged Tv, gibbs leaves listeners bath­ing in the afterglow of his sound. 
Contact Jack Riedy at jriedy@nd.edu 
“Shadow of a Doubt” 
Freddie Gibbs 
Label: ESGN Tracks: “Careless,” “Extradite,” “10 Times” If you like: ScHoolboy Q, Pusha T, Future 


LAUREN WELDON | The Observer 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 


Happy Birthday: you’ll have options this year, but some will be more favorable than others. don’t let emotions interfere with your ability to make the best choice. you have to look at the long-term effects and evaluate the costs. any opportunity to add to your skills or qualifications should be taken. advancement will depend on how much you are willing to take on. your numbers are 2, 13, 21, 24, 30, 42, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): an opportunity will come through someone you have worked with in the past. consider negotiating a contract that will help you stabilize your financial situation. call in favors and you’ll get the help you require. romance is highlighted. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): emotional situations will hinder your productivity at work. don’t share your personal problems with your peers or the information may be used against you. what you do to improve your skills will take your mind off your worries and help you advance. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): use persuasive tactics to get your way, but don’t underestimate what someone else will ask for in return. don’t limit your chance to get ahead by promising something you can’t possibly deliver. work on yourself instead of trying to change others. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): hang on to your cash. if you want to impress someone, use your charm and intellect to command attention. creative input and an openness to explore new possibilities will lead to a better living arrangement. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): it’s what you do that counts. Talks will lead to emotional mishaps if you aren’t careful. live up to your promises and be responsible and you will avoid criticism. spend time with the ones you love. 



VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): good fortune will be yours if you utilize your insight and common sense to make positive changes at home and within business partnerships. how you communicate with others will make the difference. opportunities will result if you network. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t let someone else’s changes slow you down or give you an excuse not to finish the projects that you start. what you do to improve who you are, how you look or what you have to offer will pay off. 



SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): make your move quickly to avoid an emotional setback. be creative and think outside the box and you will find an unconventional way to get others on board. an interesting change at home will motivate you to succeed. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): be careful about what you promise to do. someone will hold you to your word and judge you if you don’t live up to your claims. move forward quietly until you have everything in place, or you will risk interference. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): problems with friends, relatives or peers can be expected. be prepared to work alone if you want to get things done. it will be in your best interest to be secretive about your ideas until you can get all the kinks ironed out. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t become confused by what someone says. ask questions until you understand what’s happening. The personal changes you make will help you regain confidence. Finishing overdue projects will ease stress. romance is encouraged. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): a business trip will lead to valuable information and good connections. a partnership looks encouraging and will give you a fresh look at an old idea or plan you’ve been contemplating. express your thoughts and people will listen. 

Birthday Baby: you are serious, innovative and unique. you have good instincts. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

To
 receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable to and mail to: The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 
address 
city     state Zip 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Don’t bother with DraftKings 

Marek Mazurek 
sports writer 
every weekend, along with millions of americans, i par­ticipate in fantasy sports. it’s easy, it’s fun and i like to think i’m pretty good at it. 
however, unlike many, i have stayed and will continue to stay, far away from daily Fantasy sports (dFs) where betting is involved. 
dFs have been in the news quite a bit this year, even if you haven’t seen one of the millions of commercials they’ve put out. according to Forbes, dFs will generate $2.6 billion in entry fees this season and they are projected to grow that total to $14.4 billion in 2020. The main reason for dFs’s growth has been a huge increase in invest­ment from big name com­panies like Fox sports, nbc sports, Time warner cable and comcast. 
This all seems good, right? capitalism and sports coming together. everyone wins. 
unfortunately for dFs and its investors, many states have recently placed the label of gambling on the industry and are demanding regulation. dFs is fighting back, however, and both draftKings and Fanduel (the two leading dFs compa­nies) have filed lawsuits against the state of new york, claiming dFs involves skill and therefore is not gambling. 
so which is it? is dFs a skill-based way for sports buffs to earn a few extra dollars, or should it be regulated as gambling? 
i am inclined to side with new york. dFs does require an entry fee and offers the chance to win lots of money just like poker, horse racing or any other kind of gambling that comes to mind. yes, there is some skill involved in dFs. you do have to successfully predict which players will play well in order to win and to do this, one must take into account matchups, injuries and a variety of other factors. 
but even poker and horse racing require a certain level of skill. Knowing how to bluff and counting cards play a big fac­tor in winning at poker, but it is still considered gambling. 
also consider who actu­ally wins money in dFs. commercials for draftKings or Fanduel would like you to be­lieve that regular Joes like you or me can win the millions of dollars up for grabs. however, that is simply not the case. 
Just like in poker, there are players known as “sharks” who prey on less skilled players and take the majority of the profits. Joshua brustein, writing for bloomberg businessweek, de­tails how these “sharks” spend 15 or more hours a day creating hundreds of different entries and used advanced analytical software to gain an edge over the average user who creates only one or two entries with little or no thought. according to a study conducted by the sports business Journal, only the top 1.3 percent of dFs play­ers made money during the three month period studied. 
in other words, if it walks like gambling and sounds like gam­bling, it probably is. 
but the “gambling” tag does not signify the end of the line for dFs. For whatever reason, the word “gambling” has a stigma attached to it. when we hear gambling, we think of back alley pai gow games in James bond movies. but millions of dollars are spent on sports gambling by aver­age americans every year. gambling is not inherently bad. 
what actually happens if dFs is declared to be gambling is that companies like drafKings and Fanduel will submit them­selves to governmental regula­tion and their profit margin will surely narrow slightly. more importantly for average players, “sharks” will have a tougher time of it, as multiple entries and software advantag­es will be cut down on in order to protect the consumer. 
and, if the two dFs compa­nies, each valued at over $1 billion, have to give up some of their profits in order to create a more fair playing field, i am all for it. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


SMC CROSS COUNTRY | ncaa greaT laKes regional 
beeler earns all-miaa honors as belles wrap season 
Observer Staff Report 

The belles placed 15th at the 2015 ncaa great lakes regional on saturday in Terre haute, indiana. 
The 33-team ncaa great lakes regional marked saint mary’s last race of the season, as it finished with an overall team score of 463 to beat miaa rivals alma and albion both by 12 points. Fellow miaa com­petitor, no. 12 ranked hope won the title at 112, while no. 25 calvin finished close behind with a score of 124. both the champion and runner-up will advance to the 2015 ncaa division iii championships this saturday. 
Junior brittany beeler continued her impres­sive streak of consistency saturday, once again fin­ishing the top belle in 16th with a season-best time of 22:36.7. beeler’s time earned her an all-region medal for the second con­secutive year, the third-highest individual finish for a belle an ncaa regional race. it also represents the fourth-fastest time at a re­gional saint mary’s history. 
senior allie danhof closed out her college ca­reer in 102nd at 24:18.2. danhof was less than a second away from placing her within the top 100 in a field of almost 250 runners. behind danhof, freshman mary philbin took 109th with a 24:28.1, while ju­nior colleen ogren claimed 118th with a 24:44.6. ogren almost edged an alma run­ner to snag 117th but ran out of space to complete the final pass. Freshman adele edmonds rounded out the overall team score in 128th with a time of 24:52.2. 
Following the top five, junior Kaitlyn alessi post­ed a time of 25:16.8, which placed her 0.1 ahead of an albion runner for 147th, just six-tenths of a second from 146th. bringing up the rear for the belles, sophomore anna mcclowry finished 156th overall at 25:30.8 in a pack crossing the finish line within a few seconds of one another. 
saint mary’s now heads into the offseason, while hope and calvin con­tinue their 2015 sea­son 2015 ncaa division iii championships on saturday in winneconne, wisconsin. 
SOCCER 

French, English national teams unite in respect 
Associated Press 

london — uniting in a symbol of defiance and respect, players and fans of the French and english soccer teams de­livered a moving display of soli­darity at wembley stadium at a friendly staged four days after the deadly attacks in paris. 
a touching pre-game cere­mony saw england and France supporters sing the French na­tional anthem as one, before the squads came together around the center circle to observe im­peccably a minute’s silence in honor of the 129 people killed. 
social media was awash with praise for the dignified way a sensitive occasion was han­dled, while French sports daily l’equipe’s wednesday front page comprised a photo of the players observing the minute’s silence with the single word “respect.” 
wembley’s iconic arch was lit up in the blue, white, and red of the French flag, while the French motto “liberte, egalite, Fraternite” was projected on the front of the national stadium. 
england won 2-0, but rarely has the result of a soccer match 
— particularly one this presti­gious — felt so irrelevant. 
“This will be shown round the world and will show unity,” said england captain wayne rooney, one of the team’s goal-scorers. “Football is a global game and . it is not about religion or race. we need to stand tall together in these tough times.” 
France striker olivier giroud said it was an emotionally charged occasion, “illustrated by the minute’s silence and ‘la marseillaise (France’s national anthem).’” 

“we wanted to play this match for all the people who have stayed in paris, to pay homage and to honor the vic­tims and their families,” giroud said. “everyone who played the match is a professional player. even if it wasn’t easy, we had to do our job on the pitch.” 
prince william, who helped lay floral tributes beside the field, and british prime minister david cameron were among the 71,223 spectators at wembley, where there was an increased police presence and enhanced security measures that includ­ed compulsory bag searches. 
with a police helicopter whir­ring overhead and armed of­ficers on patrol, england and France soccer fans had mingled outside wembley in a calm pre­match atmosphere on a wet and windy evening in london. There was no sense of panic among supporters, who ap­peared intent on sending a de­fiant message of unity after the bombings in the French capital. 
“we have been welcomed here like it’s our own home,” sebastien correia, a train driver from the northern French city of calais who was attending the game with nine friends, told The associated press. “That’s very important for us, for europe, and for the world, for all the people who are fighting against dictatorships and terrorism. we need solidarity on a european and a world level.” 
France’s players were caught up in the attacks that ripped through paris in several loca­tions on Friday. suicide bomb­ers attacked the stade de France, where France was playing germany in a friendly. The teams spent the night in the stadium as carnage struck elsewhere. 
France midfielder lassana diarra’s cousin was killed and France forward antoine griezmann’s sister escaped from the bataclan concert hall where 89 people died. diarra and griezmann were among the 23-man squad that came to london, and both came on as second-half substitutes to applause. 
diarra lowered his head dur­ing the minute’s silence. many France players, who had been told to play the game by the French Football Federation, looked emotional for what was the country’s first major public event since Friday’s atrocities. 
dele alli and rooney, with his record-extending 51st england goal, were the scorers for the home side. yet, worldwide focus was not on the game or the re­sult between two of the major powers in european soccer, but on what the occasion came to represent. 




W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
Freshman guards marina mabrey and arike ogunbowale stepped in for allen and com­bined to pour in 25 points to go with eight rebounds. mabrey was particularly effective, shoot­ing 6-for-10 from the field and adding a 3-pointer off an as­sist from sophomore forward brianna Turner. she finished the game with 16 points. 
“i need to work on my rotations and being more aware of where i am, where the best players are and where i need to be,” mabrey said. “also, i need to make smart­er passes on offense.” 
Toledo’s freshmen, on the other hand, barely figured into its regular season opener, a 62­59 home loss to arizona. none of the three rookies scored any points or played more than 11 minutes. 
instead, the rockets (0-1) re­lied on the efforts of senior guard brenae harris, junior center sophie reecher and sophomore guard Jada woody, who com­bined to score 34 points. 
with the graduation of guard inma Zanoguera, the rockets lost last season’s leading scorer and rebounder. however, harris, reecher and woody are part of the eight other highest scorers who return this season. 
against the wildcats, Toledo grabbed 32 rebounds, 12 of them offensive, but in the post against the irish, the rockets will be at a disadvantage in size. notre dame features two starters — Turner and sophomore forward Kathryn westbeld — who stand 6-foot-2 or taller, while Toledo has only player in its rotation that tall. 
The irish will be without its leader in the frontcourt, ju­nior forward Taya reimer, who missed sunday’s game with an achilles injury and is not expect­ed to return. 
without reimer, no notre dame player recorded more than six rebounds against bucknell, which mcgraw said needs to change in the coming games. 
“we have some better re­bounders than we showed to­day,” mcgraw said sunday. 
limiting offensive boards and the extra opportunities that come with them is also an area that needs to be addressed, Turner said. 
“we need to know where we need to be,” Turner said sunday. “it would help to communicate better. it’s always loud in here be­cause we have really great fans, so we need to be loud and com­municate a lot.” 
notre dame faces Toledo on wednesday night at purcell pavilion in its second game of the regular season. Tipoff is scheduled for 7 p.m. 
Contact Greg Hadley at  ghadley@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 




M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
potential third-round opponent for the irish. The cavaliers and the irish met three times last year: in the regular season, the acc tour­nament and the ncaa tourna­ment, with the cavaliers winning the last encounter on the way to the national title. This year, the two sides have met already in the regular season and the acc tour­nament, with the irish winning each time. looking even further ahead, the irish may take on no. 2 seed clemson in a quarterfinal clash for a place in the college cup games. 
but right now for the irish, it’s all about their first opponent. 
“right now, all we’re focused on is the first game,” hodan said. “we’re just focused on whoever wins between Tulsa and Florida international, and that’s our focus.” 
The irish come into the tour­nament after notre dame’s first ever appearance acc conference championship final, where the irish lost to the tournament’s sev­enth seed, syracuse, 1-0. notre dame’s run to the final saw a 1-0 win over virginia on nov. 8, 
paid adverTisemenT 
followed by a 1-0 road win over top-seed wake Forest on nov.11. hodan said the quality of the con­ference allows the tournament to act as a perfect tune-up for the na­tional competition. 
“The acc tournament is great practice for the ncaa tourna­ment,” hodan said. “all the teams we played in the acc tournament are actually in the ncaa tourna­ment and mostly very high seeds, so there were a lot of learning points from each game.” 
The irish, as the seeded team, have earned home-field advan­tage. hodan said the advantage could be important for the irish, especially in the event of adverse weather conditions. 
“it’s definitely nice to be at home,” hodan said. “we’ll obvi­ously be comfortable with all the weather throws at us. we’ll ob­viously be comfortable, but you never know how the opponent will prepare. i’m sure they’ll be ready.” 
The irish have proven to be one of the most successful men’s soc­cer programs in recent years, win­ning a regular-season title in the acc last year, along with recent regular-season and tournament title victories in the big east and a national title in 2013. another postseason run could present the season-defining moment the irish have awaited. 
“in the tournament, we’ll re­ally find out who we are as a team. i think we’ve done a good job,” hodan said. 
The irish will host either Florida international or Tulsa at alumni stadium in the second round of the ncaa’s men’s soccer cham­pionship on sunday at alumni stadium. The game is scheduled for 2 p.m. Tulsa plays hosts to Florida international in the first round Thursday at 8 p.m. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 




Football 
conTinued From page 16 
game at Fenway fit in line with the previous locations of the annual trip for notre dame, calling it “a classic shamrock series,” and he hinted at other locations he’d like to play in the future. 
“whether it’s yankee stadium, Fenway park, i just think we do a great job of finding those iconic venues,” he said. “i’ll be excited if we could get lambeau Field. i would be excited in terms of those classic venues. Fenway park is one of those. This one is certainly a great one, and we’ll look forward to more just like this.” 
Though he said he had not received a recent report on the conditions at Fenway for game, such as the placement of new turf for a football field or tight corners near the end zones, Kelly said he was confident they will be fine for saturday. because of the park’s close quarters for baseball games, the irish and eagles (3-7, 0-7 acc) will share a sideline. 
“They felt very comfort­able with what they have put together,” he said. “we’ve seen pictures, the sidelines, the end zones seem to be ad­equate where we don’t seem to have a concern about our players and safety issues. 
“[i] feel very comfortable, got a schematic of it. They laid down new sod, but we played on a lot of fields that laid down new sod fairly regularly in the nFl stadi­ums. so i’m fairly confident they’re a professional group and feel like the field condi­tion shouldn’t be an issue.” 
as with all shamrock series games, notre dame will technically be the home team for saturday’s contest. but boston college’s campus is located about 15 minutes away from Fenway, a proxim­ity Kelly said did not concern him too much. 
“i thought the Temple at­mosphere and clemson re­ally prepared you for being in kind of that real hometown,” he said. “when you drive into the stadium and it’s all one team, you kind of are hit with that. obviously when we get into the stadium, we think it’s going to be obviously a partial notre dame crowd. so i think our kids are well acclimated to that, and late in the season now, being on the road, i think they’ll be very level-headed about it.” 
Depth chart shuffle 
with junior lineback­er James onwualu (knee) and freshman receiver equanimeous st. brown (shoulder) out against the eagles, the irish shuffled around their two-deep depth chart for this weekened’s game. 
sophomore receiver corey holmes is now backing up ju­nior will Fuller in st. brown’s place, while sophomore greer martini will fill in for onwualu at the sam line­backer position. graduate student Jarrett grace will back him up, though Kelly said both would receive play­ing time. 
“i think we’ll get funda­mentally sound football,” he said. “both those guys are very conscientious players and both can play in space. greer, i thought, did a very nice job as a cover down line­backer for us against wake. wake was in virtually all spread sets. he was out over a no. 2 receiver for virtually the entire game. when they get into more two tight end sets, Jarrett grace will get the lion’s share of the play. but we’ll use those two as a tandem in the loss of James onwualu.” 
Kelly said onwualu had been playing his best foot­ball before the acl sprain in the first quarter against wake Forest, which forced him to the sidelines and on a pair of crutches. 
“against pittsburgh, he was aggressive off the edge, had a sack. he’s gone from being a very, very good cover down backer to somebody that was tackling effectively. and probably as big a loss in special teams — outstanding special teams player for us as well, so he will be sorely missed. hopefully, we get him back here in a couple weeks.” 
Injury report 
Kelly announced last week there was a possibility senior defensive lineman Jarron Jones, who was ruled out for the season after suffering a torn mcl in fall camp, could make a return for an irish postseason game. 
he added another starter to that list Tuesday, this time in the form of a player whose position group has struggled in his absence. 
“The guy who is making the best progress right now is [sophomore tight end] durham smythe,” Kelly said. “we’re encouraged with durham that we may even get him back for a playoff situation or a bowl game, so he’s made great progress as well.” 
smythe, who tore his mcl against virginia on sept. 12, won’t be back in time to face boston college this weekend, but Kelly said senior running back c.J. prosise should be. prosise, along with sopho­more tight end nic weishar, sat out last week’s game against wake Forest as a pre­caution after they both suf­fered concussions against pittsburgh the week before. 
“c.J.’s an elite player. getting him back this week will be beneficial to our foot­ball team,” Kelly said. 
sophomore defensive lineman daniel cage, who also was held out against the demon deacons with a con­cussion, had not been cleared for Tuesday’s practice as prosise and weishar were, but Kelly said they were “en­couraged” by his progress. 
The head coach also gave an update on junior running back Tarean Folston, who tore his acl against Texas on sept. 5 but has apparently not let the injury subside his competitive nature. 
“[he’s] doing well, mak­ing really good progress,” he said. “you know, it’s hard because you’ve got to keep up with [sophomore safety drue] Tranquill, who is a freak in his rehab, but he’s matching him. and it’s great to have those guys on similar paths relative to the surgery because Tarean now has to have a bar, and it’s Tranquill. and Tranquill is a little bit ahead of him. why is he a little ahead of you? so they’re both making great progress.” 
Quote of the day 
“he’s playing with some of that reckless abandon that, at times, he was kind of feel­ing his way through his role in his play, where now he’s really confident in what he’s doing and how he’s doing it.” 
– Kelly on senior defensive lineman romeo okwara, who is eighth in the country with nine sacks this season. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 






M Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
tonight,”beachem said. “[i] wasn’t really rushing and the guys were finding me. playing with great players that know the game, it makes it very easy for a shooter like me.” 
brey also praised beachem’s 
performance, saying his prac­
tice is paying off. 
“[beachem has] practiced so well,” brey said. “he didn’t miss a shot yesterday in practice. ... sometimes i stop practice when a guy is shooting real good be­cause you want to save some of those bullets for the next day. but he had it again today. and his teammates really found him. ... i’m excited for what he can be. ... Tonight he should feel like he’s a main, main guy for us.” 
it was the fourth game in five nights for the panthers, but they did not appear tired and held notre dame’s offense in check early, causing back-to-back traveling violations on junior guard steve vasturia and senior forward Zach auguste early in the game. milwaukee held an 8-6 lead five minutes in sparked by excellent 3-point shooting as the panthers went 6-of-9 from behind the arc in the first half. 
“i think [milwaukee] is very good,” brey said. “i think they’re going to challenge [valparaiso] for the league championship of their league. They’re hard to deal with. usually when you absorb 12 or more [3-pointers] s, you lose those kind of games.” 
The game remained close for the rest of the half as each time notre dame made a small run, the panthers answered. beachem made two consecu­tive 3-point shots from the top of the key, but milwaukee fresh­man guard Jordan Johnson and junior forward austin arians replied with 3-pointers of their own to extend the panther lead to six at 29-23 with 6:14 left in 
paid adverTisemenT 



the first half. 
The irish seized control of the game with a 16-2 run over the fi­nal 6:14 of the half, highlighted by a third 3-pointer by beachem and two fast-break layups from vasturia. The irish forced four consecutive turnovers during the run and finished the half up 39-31. 
brey said the key to the run was increased offensive production. 
“we’re down six and i’m thinking, ‘ok, this is going to be interesting,’” brey said. “we guarded enough, but our offen­sive efficiency was through the roof and some nights you just have to do that to escape a team that’s really shooting the heck out of the ball.” 
The irish picked up where they left off to start the half, go­ing on a 12-4 run over the first 
3:42 of the second half which was highlighted by a fast-break dunk by beachem and a re­verse layup by junior guard demetrius Jackson. 
auguste, who finished with 17 points and six rebounds, said a more deliberate tempo on of­fense helped the irish establish their second-half lead. 
“our offensive tempo was different,” auguste said. “we slowed things down, we got good shots and we passed the ball, extra passes. defensively, i think was most important, we locked in defensively. guys were rotating, dropping, getting help-side. Just buying into the defensive end i think translated into good offense.” 
notre dame extended the lead to 17 two minutes later with a monstrous slam by Jackson and then to 20 off a 3-pointer from freshman forward matt ryan. 
but, the panthers clawed their way back and completed an 16-5 run with seven minutes left to play to make it a nine-point game, but a beachem 3-pointer and two dunks by auguste put the irish back up by 15 as they closed out the panthers. 
Though notre dame strug­gled early for the second-con­secutive game, all five starters scored double-digits and the irish have put up more than 85 points in both showings. brey said the high offensive numbers come from notre dame’s abil­ity to play two distinct styles of offense. 
“i thought when our two bigs were in, we ran the right stuff to take advantage of that, which is more of that circle action,” brey said. “and then when one big was in and we were four­around-one, the floor was really open and that was a demetrius Jackson field day. go, find, zip, rip, we got shooters and a ball-screen big guy. ... That’s real offensive growth for us today. ... i think we made some right choices there offensively.” 
The irish look to contin­ue their offensive produc­tion against umass lowell on saturday at 2 p.m. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Kelly discusses Shamrock Series, injury updates 
By MARY GREEN 
assistant managing editor 
This weekend marks no. 4 notre dame’s annual trip to a professional stadium for its yearly shamrock series game. 
This time, however, it won’t be played in an nFl venue, but a baseball one instead, with saturday’s game against boston college held at Fenway park. 
The matchup isn’t notre dame’s first foray into historic baseball territory — the irish (9-1) made a trip to the new yankee stadium for the 2013 pinstripe bowl — but it is a meaningful one for head coach brian Kelly, a massachusetts native. 
“To play at Fenway park is go­ing to be exciting,” he said at his press conference Tuesday. “we’re really excited about the shamrock series. going on the road has been something that we’ve really enjoyed. playing in boston, playing in front of great fans. we’ve got great support in new england and in particular boston.” Kelly said holding the 
see FooTball PAGE 14 

MEN’S SOCCER 

nd earns no. 7 seed in ncaas 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 

after the program’s first ever run to the acc tournament final over the weekend, notre dame earned a no. 7 seed in the 2015 ncaa men’s soccer champion­ship on Tuesday. 
The seeding represents notre dame’s fourth consecutive top 10 seed in the tournament. The seventh seed propels the irish (11-4-5) past the first round into the second. They will host a second-round matchup against the winner of Thursday’s first-round game between Tulsa (7­6-6) and Florida international (12-6-1). although notre dame has little history with either side, both teams have already played competitive games against lead­ing acc opposition this season. Florida international, who won the conference usa title, lost, 1-0, to the Tar heels in its season opener aug. 28 and, 3-2, to wake Forest two days later. american athletic conference champion Tulsa defeated connecticut, 4-3, in penalty kicks after a 1-1 draw in the conference champion­ship game, after drawing 1-1 with virginia early in the season sept. 4, right before a close loss to north carolina, 2-1, on sept. 
6. while the panthers won each of their conference tournament games including a 1-0 win over Kentucky on nov. 13, the golden hurricane earned its conference title through a series of three consecutive penalty shootouts. 
despite the difference in how each team reached the tourna­ment, senior tri-captain and forward patrick hodan said that regardless of the opponent, the focus for the irish will be on their own game. 
“we’re just going to have to play our game,” hodan said. “we’re going to have to move the ball well, get our pressure right and just stay composed in the tough moments of the game.” 
a win for the irish in the sec­ond round could see them in a third-round clash with no. 10 seed maryland. The Terrapins have a history of success in the ncaa tournament as three-time champions, most recently lift­ing the trophy in 2008. acc rival virginia also represents a 
see m soccer PAGE 13 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

mcgraw looks to see irish improve 
By GREG HADLEY 
editor-in-chief 
with its 85-54 win over bucknell this past sunday, no. 3 notre dame started its 21st straight season with a victory. it’s also been more than a decade since the irish have dropped their second game of the season. 
but that doesn’t mean irish head coach muffet mcgraw doesn’t see plenty of places to improve for wednesday’s home matchup against Toledo. 
“hopefully we will show tre­mendous improvement after this game,” mcgraw said follow­ing the win. “i think we learned a lot. offensively, we struggled at times. defensively, we had a lot of breakdowns. we have a lot of work to do. we are not where we need to be right now.” 
The bison outrebounded the irish (1-0), 44-33, on sunday and picked up 14 second-chance points off 17 offensive boards. 
notre dame’s 85 points were its fewest in a home-opener since 2011, while the 54 points allowed were the most over that time. 

of particular concern to mcgraw was the inconsistency of her older players. 
“The areas of concern i have are many. They are in pretty much every area of the game,” mcgraw said. “we have to fig­ure out what we are going to get from a certain player every single night. consistency is something that you expect freshmen to be pretty up and down with, but the rest of the team you expect to be on a certain level and we are not there yet.” 
Junior guard lindsay allen, who has averaged nearly 30 min­utes per game over her notre dame career, played just 20 this past sunday, due to two fouls in the first quarter and two more in the third. she scored just four points. 
“it’s a concern not to have lindsay on the floor, and i think you can see that. … we struggle without her on the floor in every way,” mcgraw said. 
see w bball PAGE 12 

MEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 86, milwauKee 78 
Beachem’s career night leads Notre Dame to victory 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
The first time notre dame and milwaukee met the irish narrow­ly edged by the panthers 70-69 in the first round of the 2003 ncaa Tournament. 
last night’s game wasn’t nearly as close, but the irish needed big performances from all five start­ers on their way to an 86-68 vic­tory over a veteran milwaukee team. 
“[The starters] had to win one tonight,” irish head coach mike brey said. “They had to commu­nicate on the defensive end, they had to play together offensively, they had to talk through tough stuff. That was good for them.” 
leading the way for the irish was junior guard v.J. beachem, who tied his career high with 19 points on 7-of-12 shoot­ing. beachem said the key to beachem’s performance was patience. 
“i think i was taking my time 
see m bball PAGE 15 





