The IndePendenT TO unCOVer newsPaPer serVIng The TruTh nOTre dame and and rePOrT saInT mary’s IT aCCuraTely 

VOlume 49, Issue 64 | mondAy, dEcEmbEr 7, 2015 | ndsmCObserVer.COm 
co-chairs explain curriculum changes 
Core Curriculum Review Committee discusses possible changes to requirements 
By CLARE KOSSLER 
associate news editor 
future students of notre dame may be facing a differ­ent set of requirements for graduation than those cur­rently taken by undergradu­ates under the university’s core curriculum. 
The Core  Curriculum  
review  Committee  —  
charged  by  university  

President fr. John Jenkins and Provost Thomas burish in an aug. 2014 letter to the faculty “to lead the process of reviewing [university] requirements and deliberat­ing on possible changes to the curriculum” — released a draft report on nov. 30 con­taining a series of recom­mendations for changes to the core curriculum. 
dean of the College of arts and letters and co-chair of the review committee John mcgreevy said the recom­mendations of the commit­tee are “the most significant recommendations for change since 1970.” 
“I think it would be really 
see CurrICulum PAGE 3 

SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 


students celebrate Christmas with campus decorations 


College launches new website 

By KATIE GALIOTO 
news writer 
notre dame students are busy decking the residence halls for the holiday season. The 29 dorms on campus each cel­ebrate in a different way, with unique events and traditions. 
This past friday, Carroll hall hosted its signature event, Carroll Christmas, inviting the entire student body to start celebrating the holidays. This year’s turnout for the event was almost double last year’s, with an estimated 600 people in attendance, Carroll Christmas commissioner and junior mitchell meersman said. 
meersman said this year’s event featured its traditional Christmas tree lighting cer­emony, horse-drawn carriage rides and performances from student music and comedy groups, in addition to arcade-style “reindeer games.” Carroll Christmas was first hosted 15 years ago, replacing “Carroll haunted house,” a halloween­themed signature event. 
“There are things that we al­ways do at Carroll Christmas,” he said. “we always have santa and the elves, and our fresh­men are traditionally the ones who dress up. It’s a rite of pas­sage kind of thing. In Carroll hall, they dye their freshmen’s hair gold, and then at Carroll Christmas you work a shift as an elf.” 

meersman said Carroll Christmas is one of his favorite dorm traditions. 
“I would encourage everyone to try and make it out to Carroll Christmas before they graduate, 
see ChrIsTmas PAGE 4 


By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
saint mary’s editor 
saint mary’s launched its new website last wednesday, with the purpose of telling the saint mary’s story with a new look and feel, according to vice president for College relations shari rodriguez. 
last spring, the College conducted research on pro­spective students and par­ents, current students and faculty and staff, rodriguez said. The research was fo­cused on opinions about saint mary’s, the strengths of the College and how the College compares with other higher education institutions. 
“Through that research we gained a cleared understand­ing of the types of things prospective parents and pro­spective students want, and that is a little different than what current students and faculty and staff care about,” rodriguez said. 
The research helped so­lidify the decision to update the website with new images, branding and messaging, she said, as well as admis­sions materials and banners around campus. 
“Our old website was trying to serve everybody, and because these audiences have such different needs, it was best to restructure the website to hone in on what each audience cares about,” rodriguez said. 

“The website was devel­oped based on what prospec­tive students and parents told us about how their make decisions [about college] and what they want to know quickly.” 
for this reason, the variety of majors and departments are prominently displayed on the updated website, and it is mobile-friendly as well, rodriguez said. 
“International students, transfer students or first-year student have tabs on the lower half of the home page, you want to be able to [click] on the information you care about quickly,” she said. 
It is also important for prospective parents and stu­dents to understand what someone does with par­ticular majors and see what the outcomes are for saint mary’s students, she said. 
“People want to hear sto­ries,” rodriguez said. 
The new website will be 
see websITe PAGE 4 


news PAGE 2 sCene PAGE 5 VIewPOInT PAGE 6 fOOTball PAGE 12 wOmen’s baskeTball PAGE 12 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com What is your favorite study space? 
P.O. box 779, notre dame, In 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, In 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 


JP Bruno 
greg hadley 
sophomore

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
                        Jack rooney                  Cristina gutierrez 
Zahm house 

Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
“I like studying in hesburgh library” 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 

Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice 


Chris Bowers 
Multimedia Editor: wei Cao Online Editor: michael yu 
freshman 

Advertising Manager: mariah Villasenor 
Zahm house 

Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
“I like studying at lafun.” 


Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 


Emily Salerno 

(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
freshman 

Managing Editor 
farley hall 

(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
“I like studying in the fishbowl.” 

(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 



Emily Gust 
sophomore 
breen-Phillips hall 
“I really like the study spaces in my dorm.” 

Harry Federspiel 
freshman 
Zahm house 
“Jordan hall of science” 

Kaela Crowley 
sophomore 
Pasquerilla east hall 
“lafun is the best place to work.” 

Want your event included here? Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Photo Desk Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 

Advent Vespers “Do You Hear What I Auditions: “The Bear” Mindful Meditation Mass 
(574) 631-8839 

Regina Chapel Hear?” and “Afterplay” Coleman-Morse Basilica of the Sacred Policies 6:45 p.m.-7:15 p.m. Lewis Hall DeBartolo Performing Center Heart 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
Join the community 8 p.m.-9 p.m. Arts Center 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
in prayer during the Unchained Melodies’ 6 p.m.-7:30 p.m. All students, faculty The Feast of Our Lady 
dame du lac and saint mary’s College.  editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the Christmas season. winter concert. All students welcome. and staff are welcome. of Guadalupe. administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 

Piano Masterclass Men’s Basketball vs. ND Women’s Keynote Address Reading Day 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the Snite Museum of Art Stony Brook Basketball vs. DePaul Jordan Auditorium Campus-wide majority of the editor-in-Chief, managing editor, assistant 
3:30p.m.-5 p.m. Purcell Pavilion Joyce Center 6:30 p.m.-7:30 p.m. All day 
managing editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
Learn from pianist 9 p.m.-11 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Mark Gottfredson No classes in session. 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Svetlana Belsky. Open The Irish take on The Irish take on the of Bain & Company Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
to the public. the Seawolves. Blue Demons. delivers the address. 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 

FYS adjusts Moreau program 
Post Office Information The Observer (usPs 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one observation of student work submitted asking to stay in the same section with the 
semester. By DEVON CHENELLE 
The Observer is published at: newswriter in sakai, dawson said. The survey had people they had already studied with, and 
024 south dining hall 

notre dame, In 46556-0779 a more than 60 percent response rate, we’re pretty happy with that,” she said. 
Periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
POsTmasTer The end of the semester marks the dawson said, and it prompted classroom “for discussion you really need a small 
send address corrections to: 

The Observer conclusion of the first semester of the conversations between instructors and environment. long-term, if you could 
P.O. box 779 

024 south dining hall moreau first-year experience, a year-students about how to improve discus-make class sizes smaller that would be 
notre dame, In 46556-077 

The Observer is a member of the associated Press. long, two-credit course for freshmen that sions and streamline assignments. great, but in 50 minutes many more than 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 

replaces the previous physical education “The student midterm survey gave us a 19 students is not conceived well.” requirement. lot of really clear, concise responses from dawson said she expects the moreau 

The moreau first-year experience is students about what they thought was first-year experience will help students intended to ease new students’ transi-working, what was uninteresting and understand notre dame’s complexity and tions to the university and convey notre what was laborious,” she said. access its resources, and it will facilitate dame’s educational philosophy, maureen survey responses also showed students students’ holistic development and en-
News Sports 

margaret hynds alex Carson dawson, an assistant dean in the first liked the small group setting and the sec-able students to identify things that excite selena Ponio Zach klonsinski 
year of studies program, said. tions built around residential neighbor-them. This excitement will help students 
alex winegar rachel O’grady 
Throughout the fall semester, admin-hoods, dawson said. The instructors also engage with the university itself and with 
Graphics Scene 

istrators have emphasized program ele-completed a survey, and responses to that the diverse communities within and 
susan Zhu matthew munhall 
ments that are working well and reworked survey were influential in determining fu-around notre dame, dawson said. 
Photo Viewpoint 

aspects that are not, dawson said. after ture changes to the curriculum. “I think over time we’ll evolve that abil­
amy ackermann Claire radler 

fall break, the length of the course’s read-“They said that they really enjoyed ity to showcase resources more point­ings were changed, and efforts to educate working with students on a weekly basis, edly,” dawson said. “now we’re at the students about lesser-known campus re-though they critiqued the reading materi-stage where we’re sharing information 
Corrections 

sources were re-emphasized. als,” she said. “so we took that into consid-with students, and we’re building a base 
The Observer regards itself as “from the semester’s midpoint to now, eration for next fall and for the spring.” for reflection and discussion. ... with a professional publication and 
we actually trimmed back some of the The present classroom size is success-each successive semester, we’ll be able to strives for the highest standards 
assignments. we cut back assignments’ fully creating community and facilitat-move students more directly in contact 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
minimum word count, to make things ing discussion, dawson said, though even with these resources and opportunities 
however, recognize that we will make 
more focused and flexible for students,” smaller class sizes are a future possibility. around campus.” 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
dawson said. “going into spring, students self-regis­
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so These changes were driven by stu-ter, and right now the registration is go-Contact Devon Chenelle at  
we can correct our error. dent responses to a midterm survey and ing pretty smoothly. many students are dchenell@nd.edu 

ndsmCObserVer.COm | mondAy, dEcEmbEr 7, 2015 | The ObserVer 

curriculum 
COnTInued frOm Page 1 
hard to look at this document and think of it as revolution­ary, but we’re not used to any change, and so even a little bit of change takes getting used to,” he said. 
some of the more notable recommendations of the re­port include a reduction in the total number of course 
requirements from 12 to 11 
—
 not including the moreau 

first-year experience course 

—
 and a new option for stu­


dents to choose between 
several categories when ful­
filling certain requirements. 
still forms the base of our thinking for how you would organize a curriculum,” he said. 
The “ways of knowing” approach 
hildreth said one regard in which the proposed changes would increase flexibility is through the new “ways of knowing” approach en-potentially from several dis­ciplines, when signing up for a course to fulfill a certain requirement. 


reasoning behind the recommendations 
addressing the ratio­nale for the recommended changes, mcgreevy said besides providing students with increased flexibility, the committee wanted “to give students some new ex­
periences” — particularly 
with the addition of the in­
tegration course, a team-
taught course spanning two 
or more disciplines. 
moreover, he said, the pro­
posed changes reflect the 
courses in theology and two in philosophy. following the committee’s proposed curriculum, students would still have to take two courses in each, although they could substitute a “Catholicism and the disciplines” course for their second philosophy course. 
according to the report, the reason for the continuity director of academic com­munications and a staff member of the review com­mittee, said moving forward, the committee hopes to en­gage with the university’s different colleges and de­partments, as well as indi­vidual faculty and students, in a campus-wide discussion concerning the proposed changes. 

“every single regular fac­ulty member got an email 
on [nov. 30] inviting them 
to look at the site, down­
load the report and respond 
individually,” blakey said. 
“ … There’s meetings not 
only with college groups but 
some departments who are 
for example, whereas cur­rent undergraduates must all take one course each in history, social science and fine arts or literature, if the university decides to adopt the recommendations of the committee, in the fu­ture, students will select three courses from among the five categories of “aes­thetic analysis,” “social sci­ences inquiry,” “historical 
analysis,”  “advanced  lan­ 
guage  and  culture”  and  
“integration.”  
aesthetic  analysis,  so­ 
cial  sciences  inquiry  and  

historical analysis roughly correspond to the current requirements in fine art or literature, social sciences and history, while advanced language and culture and in­tegration are new additions. 
michael hildreth, profes­sor of physics and the other co-chair of the committee, said the committee’s pro­posed curriculum would offer greater flexibility to students while still remain­ing true to the ideals of a lib­eral arts education. 
“Part of the core is really based on the traditional, classical, medieval core of the liberal arts. and so that committee’s desire to re­spond to concerns raised by students within designated focus groups. 

“we heard in the student focus groups a lot of inter­est in team-taught, multi­disciplinary courses on a big picture question or en­during question in the past. … In a way, those courses won’t happen unless there’s some incentive for stu­dents to take them as part of their core requirements,” mcgreevy said. 
hildreth also explained the committee’s proposal to eliminate aP scores as a way to test out of university re­quirements, saying, “If you take it to its logical conclu­sion, if you allow some aP, then there’s no reason not to allow all aP. and then we would have students who could aP out of everything. and then there is no core curriculum anymore.” 
The theology and philosophy requirements 
alongside the committee’s various recommendations, one element of the core that would experience little modification is the require­ment for students to take two is that “as central threads in the Catholic intellectual tra­dition, theology and philos­ophy have played and should continue to play a central role in notre dame’s core curriculum.” 
however, hildreth said, in the new curriculum, stu­dents with previous course­work in theology may have the opportunity to take a more advanced first theolo­gy course than the standard “foundations of Theology.” 
“frankly, if someone comes to notre dame af­ter spending 12 years in Catholic school, maybe they know some theology, and it’s possible that they should be allowed to branch out early into other areas of theology that they may not have had an opportunity to experi­ence yet,” hildreth said. “ … we’re certainly not advocat­ing that they be able to place out of a theology course — we still feel that two theolo­gy courses are an important part of the curriculum — but maybe they should be given a little additional flexibility.” 
ongoing discussion 
marie blakey, executive 
PaId adVerTIsemenT 

particularly affected by the curriculum, like the math department or the social sci­ence department chairs. and then, I think, we’re also just deciding, based on where the questions go, what kind of additional responsive ac­tivities we might [have].” 
hildreth said the report will undergo certain revi­sions before the commit­tee presents it formally to the faculty senate and academic Council, and ul­timately Jenkins. he said already the committee is planning to make several modifications for the sake of clarity and hopes to receive constructive feedback. 
“ … we’re hoping we can move forward with this and get it approved. but it’s time for constructive dialogue. we’re not going to ram this through anything. we’re expecting to take the rest of the academic year for discussion.” 
according to the report, the committee plans to pres­ent its final report to faculty and administration in the fall of 2016. 
Contact Clare Kossler at  ckossler@nd.edu 
dorsed by the committee in the report. according to the report, the committee en­visions nine distinct ways of knowing — quantita­tive analysis, scientific and technical analysis, aesthetic analysis, historical analy­sis, social science inquiry, advanced language and cul­ture, integration, theology and philosophy. students must take classes that fall under at least seven of the nine “ways of knowing.” 
“each of these [ways of knowing] represents an im­portant modality for ap­proaching, analyzing and understanding different as­pects of our lives and our world,” the report states. “ … These different ways of knowing are often aligned with traditional academic disciplines. It is implicit, however, in a ‘ways of know­ing’ approach that a given discipline may not be the sole vehicle for understand­ing a particular mode of thought.” 
The new approach would increase flexibility, hildreth said because students would be able to select from a more diverse set of offerings, 



The ObserVer | mondAy, dEcEmbEr 7, 2015 | ndsmCObserVer.COm 

Website 
COnTInued frOm Page 1 
infused with students and alumnae stories because, rodriguez said, stories help prospective students see them­selves at saint mary’s through others’ experiences and where education at the College can take them. 
Chief information officer michael boehm said the new portal my.saintmarys.edu is also part of the website upgrade released last wednesday. having the saint mary’s portal for current students, faculty and staff helps to target information to the specific audiences, he said, and students, faculty and staff are given targeted access for all applications they use on a daily basis. 
The portal also helps the College to be transparent and present information that’s available but not often easily found, such as College policies on campus safety and emergen­cy information, boehm said. 

The portal will continue to be a work in progress, he said. 
“The creation of the por­tal is very much a user-driven process,” he said. “we didn’t want to make assumptions that these are the features our users will want so the mul­tiple phases will allow users to provide input and make recommendations.” 
On the portal, there is a “buy, sell, Trade” forum in which students, faculty and staff can sell event tickets, sell books or share rides, boehm said. 
“It’s an opportunity for the College to have a marketplace,” he said. 
before this forum, rodriguez said there wasn’t an efficient way of communicating items for sale or ride-sharing. 
The forum was one of the things that came out of the fo­cus groups, boehm said, and the community as a whole thought it would be of value. In January, boehm said, there will be a variety of different forums for users to provide feedback on the portal. 
rodriguez said she and oth­ers on the website project will be tracking how people use the site to make sure the update is as effective as it can be. 
“we will be using google analytics to watch how people navigate through the site and making changes accordingly,” she said. “we want the website to be user-friendly and help people find information they want in most efficient manner.” 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
christmas 
COnTInued frOm Page 1 
especially if they’ve never been to Carroll before,” he said. “It’s a great way to get introduced to Caroll. we’re really not that far away.” 
Junior Patrick deJong, presi­dent of O’neill hall, said the dorm’s signature Christmas decoration is its large O’neill “O” wreath. 
“Once the ‘O’ comes out, 
everyone  gets  excited,”  he  
said.  “everyone  knows  it’s  
Christmastime.”  

O’neill also spreads Christmas cheer inside the dorm, deJong said, with sec­tion decorations and a “secret santa” gift exchange. 
“O’neill really revolves around its sections,” he said. “going out with the guys, going Christmas shopping, getting trees, getting lights, getting gifts, getting stockings is just a blast. It really gets you in the mood for Christmas.” 
dillon hall employs 5,000 lights to produce its annual light show, senior and resident assistant Tom hite said, which has been a tradition in dillon for more than 10 years. 
“we have a ton of lights on the side of dillon, in multiple col­ors,” he said. “The performance is about 10 minutes long. It’s synched to music. It’s a giant production.” 
The annual light show pre­miered last night and will run at 8 p.m. every night this week. 

Pangborn hall focuses on creating a festive environ­ment within the dorm com­munity with events such as door decorating competitions, cookie decorating and a tacky Christmas sweater party. 
“since we’re here for so long, we’re here up until dec. 17 or 18, I think it’s important to make the dorm a homey at­mosphere,” sophomore and hall president annie batcheller said. “your dorm’s already your home. when I’m at home dur­ing Christmastime, I want my home to be decorated, and I want it to look like Christmas. This is the same thing.” 
hite said the residence hall system at notre dame allows students to come together and celebrate the holidays in a 
PaId adVerTIsemenT 

familial setting. 
“If the goal is to have the dorm be a family, which I feel that dillon is, it’s nice to have everyone decorating on friday afternoon,” he said. “The whole section’s out decorating, Christmas music is blasting, we’re drinking eggnog. That’s kind of like a family event.” 
The Carroll dorm culture is also conducive to celebrating the holidays as a community, meersman said. 
“In Carroll, we study to­gether, we hang out together. Christmas is a family thing,” meersman said. “because we’re celebrating it together, it solidi­fies the whole idea of the notre dame dorms as trying to create that family.” 
Outside of the dorm, university-sponsored decora­tions and events help contribute to the holiday spirit on campus, batcheller said. 
“notre dame does a great job,” she said. “I love how there’s garland in the main building. I love all the free food. It feels like everyone’s in a little better mood because of it.” 
despite the impending stress of finals, hite said students find ways to enjoy the holiday season and spread Christmas cheer. 
“Christmas is a big holiday,” hite said. “do it right. go all out. spend time together. because it’s easier to be in a better mood during finals week when there’s Christmas lights up.” 
Contact Katie Galioto at  kgalioto@nd.edu 


The ObserVer | mondAy, dEcEmbEr 7, 2015 | ndsmCObserVer.COm 

By ADAM RAMOS  By MATT McMAHON  
scene writer  scene wirter  
All dogs — “Kicking Everyday”  downtown boys — “Full communism”  
all dogs, a four-piece, brooding rock outfit from Columbus, Ohio, re­ “why is it that fear always wants us to go looking for more? so when  
leased their splendid debut, “kicking everyday,” late in the summer, an  people are brown, when people are smart, white hegemony wants us to go  
appropriate time considering their warm blend of melancholic harmo­ looking for this third thing. why is it that we never have enough with just  
nies. The main influence on the album is ‘90s grunge rock — I would  what’s inside of us? Today we must scream at the top of our lungs that we  
definitely recommend if you’re into bands like speedy Ortiz or Cloud  are brown, we are smart.” downtown boys’ lead singer Victoria ruiz deliv­ 
nothings. The album also functions as an emotional purge for front­ ers this charged speech as an intro to single “monstro” off her band’s debut  
woman maryn Jones, with each song acting as a mini-investigation into  album, providing a mission statement not only for the band, but for anyone  
her personal feelings through creative songwriting and candid vulner­ similarly fed up with today’s social injustices. Continued across the rest of  
ability. like she croons over screeching guitars on the album’s opening  its hard-hitting 23 minutes of “bilingual political dance sax punk,” “full  
track: “when you’re looking for a reason to feel ashamed like me / I am a  Communism” is as fueled by ruiz’s contemptuous snarl as its two-minute,  
black hole all, I take in.”  brass- and percussion-blasted tracks.  
oddisee — “The Good Fight”  Contact Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu  
late last spring, d.C-based rapper/producer Oddisee dropped “The  
good fight,” an eclectic hip-hop record dripping with soul. “The good fight” boasts expert production and showcases Oddisee at his best, mix- By JOHN DARR scene writer  
ing effortless rhymes with impeccable flow. Combined with Oddisee’s  
inventive production, the result is a beautiful, creative exploration into  Kauan — “Sorni nai”  
the limits of popular modern hip-hop. songs like “Counter-Clockwise”  In 1959, nine hikers in russia’s ural mountains abandoned their tents  
and “That’s love” are not only fun, but fruitful. On the surface you have  and fled in different directions to meet their frostbitten deaths. The mys- 
fun, jazz-pop-infused hooks, but underneath you find inventive, power­ terious incident, set in one of the most awe-inspiring and unforgiving  
ful storytelling.  landscapes on earth, is the perfect fodder for a kauan album. kauan’s epic  

 fusion of post-rock and black metal provide them with every musical tool  
Contact Adam Ramos at aramos6@nd.edu  usually associated with the spacious and epic: crushing guitars, reverber­ 
ating drums, swelling strings, gorgeous synthesizer pads and so on. It’s no  
By MATTHEW MUNHALL scene writer  surprise, then, that “sorni nai” is the “biggest” record of the year. The crisp yet atmospheric production does a wonderful job of conveying the story’s  
mountainous setting. The excellent vocal work swings gracefully between  
dawn richard — “blackheart”  haunting melodies and crushing roars. The string and guitar progressions  
The former danity kane and diddy-dirty money member is in full- are constructed with precision but performed with soaring abandon.  
blown auteur mode on “blackheart,” the second album in her planned  “sorni nai” is a showcase for the power of black metal elements in an ac- 
heart trilogy. richard’s futuristic, genre-defying art-pop seamlessly syn­ cessible context. melody and harmony are ever-present; their impact and  
thesizes styles from electro and funk to calypso and house, frequently  beauty are only increased by the walls of guitar and guttural vocals that  
defying traditional pop song structures even as she crafts world-conquer­ usually scare listeners away from the metal genre. It’s a remarkable cross­ 
ing hooks. The most indelible of these are “billie Jean,” which reimagines  over accomplishment. The absence of “sorni nai” from year-end lists is as  
michael Jackson’s obsessive groupie as an empowered, money-making  big a mystery as the event that inspired it.  
sex fiend. for all the album’s boundary-pushing production, what ulti­ 
mately makes “blackheart” so compelling is the universal redemption  Turnover — “Peripheral Vision”  
narrative at its center: It opens with richard crying out, “I thought I lost it  There are a lot of elements in pop-punk I truly enjoy. There’s the unstop- 
all!” but by the end she’s triumphantly declaring, “I’ll rise like a phoenix.”  pable youthful energy, the heartfelt lyricism and the relentless catchiness  
of the vocal and guitar melodies. however, it’s a genre I rarely sit down and  
Susanne Sundfør — “Ten Love Songs”  listen to because, well, I associate it with middle school and everything  
norwegian singer/songwriter susanne sundfør creates electropop for  unpleasant about it. It’s often obnoxious, self-obsessed and belligerent.  
cathedrals — titling her sixth studio album “Ten love songs” somewhat  sophistication in thought and form are relatively hard to come by.  
undersells just how grandiose these songs are. each of sundfør’s medita- Turnover have made a magical transformation from a pop-punk band to  
tions on longing and heartbreak is elevated to life-or-death proportions:  an understated indie rock band, preserving everything I love about pop­ 
“wars erupting like volcanoes / blood streaming down the walls” is how  punk while dropping the general vein of immaturity that runs through it.  
she violently describes one particular relationship; “you won’t let go, you  “Peripheral Vision” is a record loaded with vocal and instrumental hooks  
won’t give in / ‘Til every part of you is suffering,” she warns on another  and laser-guided precision in its songwriting. It’s clear, wandering guitar  
song. These gothic pop songs unfold in unexpected ways, from the omi­ hooks and soft vocals are both engaging and easy to listen to. however,  
nous organ solo that haunts “accelerate” to the gunshot percussion that  Turnover maintains a heaviness and urgency that’s often absent in the  
echoes throughout “delirious.” “memorial,” a 10-minute epic co-produced  music of its peers (real estate, ducktails, lotus Plaza, etc.). Turnover’s ar­ 
with m83’s anthony gonalez, does the most shapeshifting, beginning as  rangements are denser — their low-end production a little rougher and  
a ballad before morphing into a cosmic orchestral suite. yet, even at their  warmer than those who’ve come before them. “Peripheral Vision” is a re- 
most menacing, her songs are always grounded in skyscraping melodies.  markable record because it’s the work of a band that has entered a genre  
with “Ten love songs,” sundfør has created an expansive pop master- and managed to improve upon its general formula. That, and because it’s  
piece that compels you to dance even as it rips your heart out.  an absolutely delightful listen.  
Contact Matthew Munhall at mmunhall@nd.edu  Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu  

SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 


InSIdE coLumn 

Where are you, John Quiones? 

Martha Reilly 
news writer 

Though John Quiñones has yet to rush up to me with a microphone and camera crew, exclaiming that I have just been featured on “what would you do?” I remain thoroughly convinced that I have taken part in many of his social experiments. I cannot conjure up any other reasonable explanation for the fair number of bizarre or uncomfortable scenarios I have somehow managed to encounter. 
after all, when the boy sitting next to me on a three-hour flight throws up mid-conversation, I cannot help searching the aisle seats for a cameraman. and when a crazed fan pours ice-cold gatorade down the shirt of the old man beside me at a baseball game, my instinct is to scan the crowd for John Quiñones. Perhaps he is somewhere in a white sox jersey trying to eat a pretzel without taking off his foam finger, as he tests whether or not I will intervene in these outlandish circumstances. 
Or maybe his presence lingers in the laundry room, where an enamored couple making out stands not in a corner, or even in the middle of the room, but propped against the very washing machine that contains my clothes. maybe he hides behind a bookshelf in the library, where he observes my reaction to a girl speaking an­grily at full volume on her phone as she sits at the desk directly next to me and aggressively sips from a glass full of ice. 
This summer, though, I was almost certain I was a participant in some social experiment, as I witnessed a heated confrontation on the sub­way. a man standing across from me was hold­ing up a radio and blaring music whose only lyrics I guarantee were “Chillin’ cause I’m a vil­lain.” another passenger approached him and 
— thankfully — pressed the off button, but then took the radio out of his hands and forcefully dropped it on the floor, proceeding to play his own tunes, which contained only swear words. 
The two men then initiated an energetic debate over whose music was better, begin­ning to survey the surrounding observers. This brawl was a made-for-television moment, and I could practically hear the phrase “hi, I’m John Quiñones from ‘what would you do?’” as I sat there pondering whether or not I had some moral obligation. In fact, I would highly recom­mend this premise for a suspenseful finale epi­sode, if of course this particular instance was not captured on camera as I had thought. 
Though a girl can dream for celebrity status and a revival of ashton kutcher’s ‘Punk’d,’ an appearance on “what would you do?” would more than suffice. The show itself more com­monly involves cases of children behaving rudely in stores, babysitters acting irresponsi­bly in parks or even parents abandoning their kids on busy streets. my instances may include slightly more levity, but they still warrant cov­erage on the show, as I often feel like stating “hi, I’m martha reilly, and this is ‘what were They doing?’” 
Contact Martha Reilly at mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Tragedy in the Facebook age 
Michael Fliotsos 
retained reflection 
In a situation that is depressingly familiar as of late, my latest discovery of the mass shoot­ing in san bernardino occurred through the “Trending” tab on facebook. One click on the “#sanbernardino” link at the top of the list brought me to a feed that was distressing on many different levels. 
The first — and most immediate — of these re­sponses was the incomprehensible sense of sad­ness I felt for the victims and their families in light of yet another senseless act of violence. much like my response during the rest of these unfortunately common events of gun violence or terror through­out the world this year, I attempted (and failed) to put myself in the shoes of those affected by the tragedy and the feeling of sadness intensified. 
not long after this response of sadness came an overwhelming sense of disgust. yes, this feeling was most certainly directed toward the killers and whatever motivated them to act so horrendously. yes, it was certainly caused by the fact that there are husbands and wives and sons and daughters who have to live the rest of their lives without their loved ones. however, this sense of disgust also extended to the instant, visceral, polarizing and uninformed politicization I saw from both my facebook “friends” and other social media commentators. 
This tragedy, like many of the other acts of ter­ror and gun violence that have been so prevalent around the world in 2015, brought into painfully sharp focus many of the caricatures, hyperboles and illogical arguments these events evoke. from the perennial “all muslims are IsIs terrorists” ar­gument to the now-viral “336 days, 355 mass shoot­ings” infographic, individuals were quick to point fingers when it was still unclear what we were even trying to point to. 
as is typical, and as it happened in this case, time progressed and details were clarified. for example, while IsIs indeed claimed the shooters as “supporters” in a news release, the organization stopped short of the language of martyrdom that typically follows an event planned and executed by one of their own. In regard to the “mass shootings” graphic, when the fine print was scrutinized by sources such as mother Jones, who runs a database of public mass shootings, it was revealed that the “355 mass shootings,” while unquestionably unac­ceptable and tragic, were of a completely different context and magnitude than the tragedy in san bernardino. 
In summary, posts and pictures flew left and right with varying degrees of applicability, rel­evance and accuracy. going further, the number of likes and shares on certain posts validated these often-erroneous claims and conclusions. 
The lingering question in my head: why is this? 
In an era characterized by instantaneous ac­cess to an unfathomably vast pool of misinforma­tion and the desire for instant validation of our opinions, the aftermath of tragedies such as those in san bernardino begins to make more sense. because it is so quick and easy to find a source that corroborates what we want to hear, we become less concerned about that source’s accuracy and more concerned about making a statement for others to like or share. again, it makes sense why this knee-jerk response is so common — it is faster, easier and more reassuring to have your previous concep­tions or ideations upheld and maintained in light of situations such as these that unearth such pow­erful emotional responses. what happens when we decide to make these premature judgments, though, is an increased sense of division and deri­sion, which are the exact opposite feelings that situations such as these so desperately need. 
Michael Fliotsos is a senior science-business major currently living in Duncan Hall. He would sincerely appreciate emails with feedback or suggestions for future topics at mfliotso@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTEr To ThE EdITor 
keep our nation great 
as a resident of Indiana and a member of the notre dame community, I do not see overwhelm­ingly credible evidence that syrian refugees threaten our security. while I appreciate the cau­tion shown by gov. Pence and appreciate his desire to protect hoosiers, the federal government al­ready has an effective review protocol in place that vets refugees and ensures the safety of american citizens. according to a recent Cato Institute study, this process lasts on average 18 to 24 months and has successfully resettled 859,629 refugees into the united states since 2001. The number of these refugees with ties to an incident of domestic ter­rorism? Zero. 
I fear gov. Pence has conflated the actions of a single syrian terrorist in Paris with the intentions of millions of syrian refugees. yes, what happened in Paris was awful, and I don’t want it to happen here. but we should not hold the actions of a single, deranged terrorist as representative of the many law-abiding, freedom-loving syrians who desire peace and a safe home. 
The majority of refugees welcomed into our country so far have been women, children and orphans, the most vulnerable groups in a humani­tarian crisis. The recent terrorist attacks in Paris, while horrifying, do not alter the devastating humanitarian situation in syria that has forced millions of syrians into migration. yes, we must be vigilant in the face of terror, but by halting and reversing our welcome of these innocent human beings, we are not only playing into the fear IsIs desires to spread, we are also fundamentally be­traying the ideals that have made our nation great throughout its history: “give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, The wretched refuse of your teeming shore. send these, the homeless, tempest-tossed to me, I lift my lamp beside the golden door!” 
Thank you to gov. Pence for valuing our safety, but it is time to make public policies based on facts, not fear. It is time for us to act on the values of compassion, mercy and hospitality that make our nation great. 
James Strasburg 
Ph.d. candidate nov. 20 



What it means to be free 
Kitty Baker 
english, Channeled 

what is free speech? This question has dogged philosophers for centuries. we all know the first amendment protects this right: “Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of reli­gion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the government for a redress of grievances,” but the difficulty lies in laying out the boundaries of that free speech. 
Is it that free speech means I can say or write whatever I want? I think even the most outspoken person would agree that obviously the answer is no. Traditionally, the line is drawn in areas of speech that incite hatred, specifically violence towards other people. for instance, in germany it is against the law to deny the holocaust. we can all agree implying slavery is the natural order is an obviously heinous statement, and therefore should not be allowed to be spoken publicly. 
but as I mentioned before, the examples above are obvious. but what about other topics, maybe even topics that people are too readily offended by? I have often had discussions with people who are extreme moralists and say that because Thomas Jefferson owned slaves, he cannot be a great man. Or because mahatma gandhi made teenage young girls sleep naked next to him to prove his strength of character, what he did for India is null and void. because these people did these negative things, does that mean that we 
LETTEr To ThE EdITor 


as winter draws closer, once again public dis­course in this country turns in part toward what some call the war on Christmas. as a Jew and as an atheist reflecting on what I see, hear and feel, I have some humble thoughts I’d like to share, especially with my many Christian friends. 
I like this time of year. In the cold and the dark, I like how we remember the warmth and the light. I like the ritual around it. I like the rich symbolic language we have for it: bright colors, over-the-top decorations, wreaths, holly, pine trees, snowmen, candles, festive sweets and more. It warms my soul to see how much of ourselves we put into this cheerful effort. One of my favorite rituals as a child was visiting a small shopping mall near my family’s home. santa was there and, yes, I sat on his lap, but that’s not what I remember most. what I remember most is should not speak positively about them? 
but besides free speech between friends and family, where does the government draw the line? how much can the government prevent people from saying anything they want? should we make actual rules, where you are punished by the gov­ernment for saying certain things, or should we simply make it so socially unacceptable that you would be ridiculed for saying such things? 
These questions are not easily answered, and they are made even more pressing in light of recent things that have been done and said by a certain possible presidential candidate. a lot of what he says about certain minority groups and his recent mimicry of a disabled reporter are said under the guise of “free speech” and are therefore met with criticism, but not punished, as he is allowed to say such things under the Constitution. 
One of the biggest influencers on free speech, and one of the many reasons why we are allowed to say whatever is on our mind, is John stuart mill, whose “On liberty” specifically demon­strates that free speech is what really makes us free. for mill, the inability to speak one’s mind is the real cause of the problems preexistent in our nation. for him, the majority “voice” destroys the liberty of the individual. but the problem still lies in where to draw the line. 
Part of the answer for mill lies in the issue of supposedly free speech causing others to be sub­jugated to our general will. 
for the real problem with free speech lies in the voiceless. The problem lies in those who once had a voice and are now voiceless. The problem lies in those on the margins of society, who the majority 
Joy to all 
eating pizza from this one shop they had there, sanctified by the overall experience, while I excitedly watched the enormous and elaborate model train town the mall set up in the central hallway. Its sheer size and detail enthralled me. every child deserves memories like those. 
I understand that many people practice winter rituals as a way to express their Christian faith, and how important those rituals are for reinforc­ing it. my hope in writing this column, however, is that people might realize that winter celebra­tion — joy in dark times — is for everyone. Our whole civilization does it, not just Christians. The thorny matter is, though, that some symbols reach more broadly than others. when I see an ornately lit tree or a bright red cup, those things instill joy. when I see a manger scene or particu­larly angel-heavy public decorations, I instead 
QuoTE oF ThE dAy 
“That’s what building a body of work is all about. It’s about the daily labor, the many individual acts, the choices large and small that add up over time, over a lifetime to a lasting legacy. It’s about not being satisfied with the latest achievement, the latest gold star, because the one thing I know about a body of work is that it’s never finished. It’s cumulative. It deepens and expands with each day you give your best. you may have setbacks and you may have failures, but you’re not done. you haven’t even started.” 
— Barack Obama President of the United States 
has deemed unable to fit within the world they have created. 
The problem lies with the fact that I feel free to give my opinion without wondering about the consequences of my action, because I know that the worst that will happen is someone will dis­agree with me intellectually, not based on the color of my skin, or even my gender. 
The problem lies in the fact that when people disagree with each other, it is not based on the legitimacy of their arguments, but rather on what people perceive to be attacks on their personhood. 
The problem lies in the fact that we are talk­ing past each other, at each other and not with each other, in agreement that the most important aspect of a discussion is the ideas are shared. agreement does not have to be reached. 
There is beauty in disagreement. There is beauty in the idea that two people can walk away from each other, after having shared their ideas, and not feeling as though their argument was pointless. 
There is beauty in our difference. There is beauty also in commonality. 
I don’t have an answer to the limitations on free speech. but I think a good place to start is to recognize the humanity in each other. 
Kitty Baker is a senior program of liberal studies and film, television and theatre major and proud Cavanaughty. She can be reached at cbaker7@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
remember that I’m not part of the main group and feel left out in the cold (so to speak). I know many Christians insist as a tenet of faith that the birth of Christ is a universal message meant for everyone. however, insisting on imagery I don’t identify with, when all I want is to feel a little joy, isn’t a good way to spread a message of uni­versal love. 
so please, this Christmas, celebrate in what­ever way you deem is right. I only ask that you leave room in your words, in your acts and in your hearts for the joy of those like me who may not see the world the way you do. Thank you. 
Mike Haskel 
graduate student nov. 19 




croSSWord | wIll shOrTZ 

JuST Add WATEr | erIC CarlsOn & JOhn rOddy SudoKu | The mePham grOuP 



horoScoPE | eugenIa lasT 
Happy Birthday: don’t let a lack of discipline stop you from reaching your dreams. It’s up to you to initiate and orchestrate what you want to see happen. Change is in the air, but how good it will be depends on how you handle matters. don’t be persuaded to take on unrealistic challenges when success depends on focus and simplicity. your numbers are 7, 12, 16, 22, 35, 37, 49. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t get upset about trivial matters. enjoy each moment and gravitate toward the positive and the people who offer the most support. a day trip will open your eyes to new possibilities as long as you don’t go over budget. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): stay focused on what you need to know in order to get ahead. Pick up additional skills and information, or do your best to make new connections that will contribute to your plans. romance will lead to an unusual proposal. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you can have fun and make positive changes without taking on too much or spending more than you can afford. Check out your options and consider splitting the costs with someone heading in the same direction as you.    

CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t let mood swings ruin your day. getting into a tiff with someone you love will sever any possibility of working as a team in order to reach a common goal. be on your best behavior. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take part in games that challenge you, or open up conversations with people who test your intelligence and inspire you to expand your knowledge. strive to make personal improvements using innovative means and methods. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Protect your possessions and assets. don’t let anyone railroad you into taking on responsibilities that don’t belong to you. any chance you get to work on perfecting your skills will bring you that much closer to your goals. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): emotional sensitivity will be an issue. don’t get into a confrontation with someone you live with or let an unexpected change throw you off guard. follow through with your plans regardless of what anyone else does, even if it means moving forward alone. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): attending a reunion or traveling to a place you used to frequent will bring back memories. don’t let anyone persuade you to get involved in something you discarded a long time ago. do what’s best for you. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you’ll face opposition if you get into a discussion about politics, religion or any matter that has to deal with money, institutions or lifestyles. spare yourself the aggravation by focusing on making positive personal changes. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): someone will challenge or try to outdo you. don’t let your emotions take over or allow anyone to coerce you into doing something you don’t want to do. spending time with someone who loves you will be rewarding and insightful. Put passion first. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): look over important papers and do your best to take care of sensitive issues in a timely manner. you’ll have a sixth sense when dealing with people who want your help. move ahead with enthusiasm and optimism. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): soul-searching will be required in order to get past a disagreement you have with a friend, neighbor or colleague. Try to see all sides of a situation and you will find it easier to come up with a workable solution. 

Birthday Baby: you are determined, heartfelt and intuitive. you are outspoken and benevolent. 
JumbLE | daVId hOyT and Jeff knurek 




The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

To
 receive The Observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable to and mail to: The Observer                                                                                               P.O. box 779 notre dame, In 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 
address 
City     state Zip 

ndsmCObserVer.COm | mondAy, dEcEmbEr 7, 2015 | The ObserVer 

SPorTS AuThorITy 

Four is the  ideal number 

Alex Carson 
associate sports editor 
well, that was easy. 
as no. 1 Clemson and no. 2 alabama won saturday, the College football Playoff selection Committee had a stress-free sunday morning, selecting a clear top four to make up this year’s playoff field. a year after drama dominated proceedings, it was a calm, serene gather­ing sunday afternoon when the semifinal matchups were selected. 
Twelve months ago, that drama caused some to speak out in favor of a six- or eight-team playoff, but if 2014 was the argument against a four-team field, 2015 made the perfect argument in favor of it. 
because here’s the thing: there’s no perfect number. 
let’s look at this season. Iowa finished the year no. 5 and, quite honestly, had a fantastic season. They ran the table in the regular season, an impressive task, and hung tight with no. 3 michigan state until the final seconds saturday in the big Ten Championship game in Indianapolis. 
but for everything the hawkeyes did throughout the year, when the green and white confetti rained down saturday at lucas Oil stadium, we knew one thing: Iowa had its chance. and lost. 
Or look at no. 6 stanford, who may well be one of the four “best” teams in the country. It has a litany of good wins, highlighted by a triumph over no. 8 notre dame, but it also has two pesky losses to good teams. Over the course of the sea­son, stanford had every op­portunity to stake a claim to a spot. but it didn’t. 
even a move to a six-team field would’ve rewarded two teams that, at the end of the year, had seasons a cut below no. 4 Oklahoma. 
no. 7 Ohio state, who’s probably the most-talented team in college football and no. 8 notre dame each have similar stories. The buckeyes played michigan state, the Irish battled Clemson. 
both lost. 
for either team, a win would have meant a spot in the playoff. and to be frank, it’s very fair that neither team gets a chance to redeem itself in an eight-team playoff field. 
Think about why college football is, well, so incredibly special. look at the passion each weekend across the country, from dejected fans in Charlottesville, Virginia, to ever-rabid ones in baton rouge, louisiana — you see the picture painted each fall saturday, that the game on the field is supremely important. 
for fans that prefer col­lege football to its profes­sional counterpart, it’s likely a decision of passion, one that directly stems from the importance of that regular season. 
I’d hate to see that go away because we suddenly wanted to move to an eight-team playoff. 
when it comes to the argu­ment for an eight-team field, last year paints a similar story: mississippi state and michigan state, who finished no. 7 and no. 8 respectively, were both very good two-loss teams. but both had the op­portunity to show they were one of the best — and both fell short. 
The four-team playoff should be here to stay for a little while and, quite honest­ly, that’s not a bad thing. To have existential discussions about its fit after two years is a little premature and as we gain more years of data, we’ll get a better understanding of how strong a four-team field really is. 
and, of course, we can all play the “what if” game. what if stanford beat no. 15 Oregon, winning the Pac-12 at 12-1? would Oklahoma have been left out, leaving the big 12 on the outside looking in once more? 
Or what if that bizarre fourth-and-25 conversion from arkansas that helped it beat no. 13 Ole miss never happened? The rebels win that game and, consequently, the seC west. do they make the playoff as a two-loss team with a win saturday? would two-loss stanford have slipped in ahead of alabama and Ohio state, two 11-1 teams without a conference title? 
but, of course, those things didn’t happen. 
Things worked themselves out this year. so maybe it’s a sign we should pump our brakes for a few more on larger, existential questions about a four-team playoff. 
sit back, relax and enjoy the football. because for one year, four is the perfect number. 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


hockey 
COnTInued frOm Page 12 
deal of success on both ends of the ice throughout the weekend, controlling the pace of play and frequently forcing umass defensemen into long shifts in their own defensive zone. Irish head coach Jeff Jackson praised the unit following friday’s game. 
“I thought that’s the best this year [the first line] has played,” Jackson said. “I thought they had some re­ally good scoring chances, I thought defensively they did a really good job. That’s encouraging.” 
The Irish added goals from sophomore center dawson Cook and senior left wing Thomas diPauli to bring their lead to 3-0 on friday night. Things stayed close late in the game, though, as umass winger shane walsh brought the visiting team within two with a goal four minutes into the third period. 
The Irish held their two-score lead for the remainder of the game, despite heavy pres­sure from the minutemen. with only a minute and a half to go in the game, freshman defensemen bobby nardella took a tripping penalty be­hind the Irish net. umass then pulled its goaltender to create a six-on-four advan­tage in a last-ditch attempt to rally. still, the Irish were able to hold on and win the game, 3-1. 

Jackson said he and his squad respected the visiting team’s ability to come from behind. 
“This is a dangerous team,” Jackson said. “They’ve come from behind several times this year, so I knew they were gonna give us a push, and they did.” 
after the first game, fogarty stressed the importance of maintaining the team’s early lead — something the team has struggled to do at times this season. 
“I think that’s been a huge focal point for us,” fogarty said. “we kind of just didn’t think about it, and I think that was a huge factor. when you’re up, you’ve got to play up and take it to them. I think we did a good job of that [friday].” 
The Irish demonstrated that mindset in the second game of the weekend as well. after massachusetts answered fogarty’s early goal with a wicked wrister from just in­side the circle, the Irish went on to score the final four goals of the game. Though umass threatened early in the game, outshooting the Irish 13-8 in the first period, notre dame controlled much of the re­mainder of the game, includ­ing a third period where the Irish outshot their opponent 17-10. 
Jackson lauded the perfor­mance of his team following saturday night’s tilt, afford­ing particular praise for his squad’s third-period play. 
“Tonight may have been a more complete, 60-min­ute game than last night,” Jackson said. “I’m most pleased with the third period tonight. when you go into the third with a lead, you need to play a certain way — you don’t play back, but you have to be prepared for the other guys to play aggressively and play active. Our guys did a god job of it, so that was prob­ably our best third period of the season.” 
hidden somewhat be­neath the strong play of the Irish offense were a pair of impressive wins earned by Irish netminder Cal Petersen. between the two games, Petersen stopped 55 of 57 shots faced, earning him the first star in both games and a considerable amount of post-game praise from his head coach, who called it Petersen’s “best weekend” this year. 
The Irish now prepare for a marquee matchup with con­ference rival no. 2 boston College. with the holiday season looming, Cal Petersen divulged a portion of his Christmas wish list. 
“[I’d like a] win against boston College,” Petersen said. “maybe a little Christmas present.” 
The Irish return to action Thursday as they travel to Chestnut hill, massachusetts, for a 7:05 p.m. tilt against boston College. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at  boconne1@nd.edu 


The ObserVer | mondAy, dEcEmbEr 7, 2015 | ndsmCObserVer.COm 

W bball 
COnTInued frOm Page 12 
but when marina mabrey came off the bench, the freshman helped keep the Irish alive, hitting a pair of 3-pointers to trim uConn’s lead to 12-8 before the huskies pushed their lead back out to nine at the end of the quarter, 27-18. 
In the second quarter, marina mabrey’s shooting continued to be a highlight for the Irish, while her older sister, senior guard michaela mabrey contributed offensively as well. The two sisters combined for 25 of notre dame’s first 30 points before junior forward kristina nelson added a jumper to put the Irish ahead for the first time, by a score of 32-31. a layup from marina mabrey brought her to 21 points and gave notre dame another lead with 36 seconds remaining in the half, but uConn senior guard moriah Jefferson put the huskies back ahead at halftime with a 3-pointer to make the score 45-43. Irish head coach muffet mcgraw said she was impressed with the team’s resilience and the way they recovered in the first half despite missing Turner and reimer. 
“after the start of the game, when they took an eight-point lead, it could have ended badly,” mcgraw said. “but we just fought back, and got the lead for a couple of possessions and ended up down by only two at the half. so I think we showed the resilience we have and that it doesn’t take size, we found another way to play and we were very successful with it.” 
In the second half, though, the huskies began to pull away. The Irish found themselves down by seven points with 3:44 remain­ing in the third quarter when Irish freshman guard arike Ogunbowale made a layup to make the score 61-56. but notre dame didn’t score again in nearly five minutes of play, while the huskies added 17 points to extend the lead to 78-56. The Irish fought back with a 13-2 run to stay in the game with just under five minutes remaining, but the huskies were able to close it out with relative ease, winning by a margin of 10 points in the end. 
“There were a lot of positives,” mcgraw said. “I thought we battled. we never quit. we had a four minute stretch in the third quarter that was the difference in the game. we missed a couple of shots and they were able to convert some and that was it, the game came down to that stretch. I was really pleased with how we shot the ball, I thought our guards on the perimeter were fantastic. They played with poise and confidence. everybody who came in off the bench, especially marina [mabrey] and [Ogunbowale] was fearless. 
“The two freshmen came in on the biggest game of the season so far, in a hostile environment and really played well and didn’t show any fear. I was really proud of how they played and how they handled themselves.” 
marina mabrey was effectively shut down by Jefferson in the sec­ond half, adding only two points but still led the Irish in scoring with 23. after impressive showings in previous weeks, mcgraw said she felt the freshman was set for a breakout game on the big stage. 
“she came from a tournament down in the bahamas where she was on the all-tournament team, and then after the Ohio state game we really felt like she was about to have a really special game,” mcgraw said. 
The injuries inside for the Irish had a clear impact, as the huskies outscored them in the paint 48-30, as senior forward breanna stewart scored 28 points and added 10 re­bounds for the huskies. 
The Irish will next be in action at Purcell Pavilion on wednesday at 7 p.m., when they tip off against dePaul. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 


Observer File Photo 

Sophomore forward Briana Turner goes up for a layup during Notre Dame’s 63-53 loss to UConn on April 7 in Tampa, Florida. 
Green 
COnTInued frOm Page 12 
Jewell loyd now in the wnba and forwards brianna Turner and Taya reimer out with injuries. 
The outlook for the future down low didn’t look much more hopeful either, as Turner’s injury to the same shoulder that bothered her last season might cost her all of her sophomore campaign, while reimer’s ability to take the court depends on how high her pain tolerance is — not too ideal a situation. 
with their two main post players sidelined, head coach muffet mcgraw had to use a four-guard lineup, with just one forward to take on 2015 naismith winner breanna stewart. for most of the game, that was sophomore kathryn westbeld, a reserve from last year, with mixes of junior kristina nelson, whose injuries have largely kept her off the floor until this season. 
and gampel Pavilion in storrs, Connecticut, certainly isn’t a neutral court, espe­cially when the Irish come to town. 
The result was still the same, a defeat for notre dame, but so was the differ­ence in score, this time at 91-81. 
The huskies didn’t return their entire starting lineup from last season, either, with kaleena mosqueda-lewis gone after graduation, but gabby williams has stepped into her new role as a starter with much improvement. 


but somehow the Irish were down just two at halftime, were buried by a 22-point deficit near the start of the fourth quarter and cut the uConn lead to just 10 at the final buzzer. 
for notre dame, a loss is still probably just a loss — you aren’t one of the only teams in the country that can challenge uConn by accept­ing moral victories and pat­ting yourselves on the back for a well-played game — but there’s plenty of optimism to take away from this game, and from the last week of games the Irish have played, with wins against no. 24 uCla and no. 10 Ohio state. 
during the esPn broadcast saturday, play-by-play com­mentator dave O’brien said viewers around the country probably couldn’t believe how the game was playing out, considering the tough string of injuries that have af­fected notre dame. 
but if we know anything about the consistent iden­tity of the Irish over the past years, it’s that not too much can really slow them down for a long period of time. The team and its coaches have way too much talent for that to happen. 
The plan at the beginning of the season, as it usually is for notre dame, was to go with a guard-heavy game plan. Then after freshman ali Patberg tore her aCl, it shifted to a forward-heavy plan. but without reimer and Turner, it’s been the four-guard rotation, and still the Irish outrebounded a big Ohio state squad and were edged on the boards by uConn by just four rebounds. 
notre dame can win with its guards, but what will stop opponents is the question of which guard will lead it to victory. 
On saturday, it was almost freshman marina mabrey 
— she of 21 points and 9-of­11 shooting in the first half against the huskies, along with a triple-double four games ago. uConn was able to stop her in her tracks in the second half, but that caliber of defense and quickness in adapting the game plan won’t come from many other teams. 
against Ohio state, it was graduate student madison Cable, who picked up a dou­ble-double with 25 points, 11 rebounds and five 3-pointers. 
and you can never rule out junior lindsay allen, who showed how dangerous her offense can be when it sparks up during last year’s nCaa tournament, or michaela mabrey, whose shooting from behind the arc, when it’s on point, is just as difficult to stop. 
notre dame also lost to uConn at this point in the season last year, but it was an 18-point defeat, also without an injured Turner. 
The game was much closer this time with an even more hampered lineup, showing the Irish aren’t going any­where — not that it should really be a surprise to anyone by this point. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 


ndsmCObserVer.COm | mondAy, dEcEmbEr 7, 2015 | The ObserVer 

bowl game 
COnTInued frOm Page 12 
including a victory in the most recent matchup, a 34­20 victory in the 2006 fiesta bowl, notre dame’s last ap­pearance in the game. 
Ohio state is led by junior running back ezekiel elliott and sophomore quarter­back J.T. barrett, the former a heisman contender this year and the latter in the mix during the 2014 season. kelly was effusive with his praise of the whole buckeye team, however, including head coach urban meyer. 
“It starts with that physical dimension, physical front,” kelly said. “[Junior defen­sive end] Joey bosa coming off the edge, a pass rusher. Physical front, physical of­fensive line, running the football. That’s what kind of stands out as the demeanor of an Ohio state football team, physical, and then just well-coached in all areas, in­cluding the special teams.” 
with the selection, kelly will have now taken teams to bowl games in each of his first six seasons, the first coach in notre dame history to accomplish such a feat. for kelly and the Irish, the fiesta bowl will also pres­ent the opportunity to win a major bowl game for the first time in 22 years when notre dame edged Texas a&m, 24­21, in the 1994 Cotton bowl on new year’s day. 
“wining this is important,” kelly said. “not being there in a while and not playing well in 2012 on a national stage, it’s very important for us to play well and win this game.” 
Preparation for the bowl game will have notre dame practicing until dec. 23, with the schedule working around players’ final exams. The team will reconvene in Phoenix on dec. 27 for a nor­mal week of practice leading up to the game. 
Injury updates 
kelly provided updates on several injured notre dame players. as of sunday after­noon, kelly expects junior tight end durham smythe (shoulder, knee), senior de­fensive lineman Jarron Jones 
(knee),  junior  linebacker  
James  Onwualu  (knee),  
junior  cornerback  devin  
butler  (head)  and  senior  

running back C.J. Prosise (ankle) to all be ready to face Ohio state come new year’s day, with Prosise being the only one of the group who is not yet fully cleared for Thursday’s practice. 
smythe and Jones will be making their return after starting the season at the top of the depth chart for the Irish but going down with injuries in the second game and during preseason camp, respectively. kelly said he expects to get a solid level of play out of both despite all the time they have missed. 
“I know [head football athletic trainer] rob hunt feels like we can get durham smythe to where he was in august,” kelly said. “his strength levels are above where he was coming into the camp. Jarron is at about 90 percent right now, so it just depends on where we can get his volume. If we can get his volume up, I think at this time of the year, that’s pretty good.” 


kelly also reiterated that senior cornerback keiVarae russell will not be avail­able for the fiesta bowl as he recovers from a broken tibia suffered nov. 21 during the shamrock series game against boston College. 
Potential nFL jumps 
sunday’s press confer­ence also turned to the state of notre dame’s ros­ter next year, and wheth­er or not a handful of key contributors will be on it. kelly announced nfl draft evaluations were requested for russell, Prosise, senior offensive lineman ronnie stanley, junior receiver will fuller and junior linebacker Jaylon smith, all of whom have eligibility remaining. 
stanley  and  smith  are  
projected  first-round  draft  
picks  by  many  pundits,  

while fuller has previously stated he plans on returning for his senior season. Players can receive one of three grades from the nfl’s advi­sory committee: first round, second round or return to school. 
“I hope they all come back,” kelly said. “I don’t know if that’s going to be the case, but we’ll see.” 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamon@nd.edu 

dame has tried to establish it­self in Ohio, with varying levels of success. 
“well, we think, and I know from experience that in the midwest there are some great recruiting areas,” kelly said. “Ohio is one of those great ar­eas that we like to have a pres­ence in, and we target certain areas. we’re not quite as good in Columbus recruiting. but there are some geographical areas that we’ve had some suc­cess in.” 
since kelly took over in 2010, the Irish have landed 18 recruits from Ohio, but only three have come from the Columbus area, where Ohio state dominates. 
“you always have to deal with Ohio state, and so it’s in­evitable that we’re going to run into Ohio state in those areas,” kelly said. “but we think that we have some distinctions that carry some strength in those areas.” 
besides recruiting, there is personal history between kelly and fourth-year Ohio state head coach urban meyer. while kelly coached at Cincinnati, meyer’s alma ma­ter, he became close with the meyer family. 
“he certainly was accus­tomed to what the program was like at Cincinnati having been there, and I leaned on him for some advice at the university of Cincinnati and got to know his dad and got to know his family a little bit, so there was a personal connection there,” kelly said. 
“but we’re just two foot­ball coaches that are trying to coach our football teams, so we don’t spend a lot of time talking back and forth. but got that opportunity when I was at Cincinnati to get to know him, and then obviously from there just have a lot of respect for him and what he’s accomplished.” 
coaching carousel 
while kelly was at meyer’s old school, meyer won the national championship with florida in 2008. a year later, both men were linked to the head coaching vacancy at notre dame following the fir­ing of Charlie weis. It was not the first time meyer’s name had been mentioned in the search for a new Irish coach. after Ty willingham and notre dame parted ways following the 2004 season, meyer was considered a prime candidate for the job. 
both times, nothing came of the rumors. but that doesn’t mean some fans don’t think meyer might still land at notre dame, something he once called his “dream job,” a senti­ment kelly addressed sunday. 
“we’re going to wrestle, arm wrestle before the game, and whoever wins gets the notre dame job,” kelly said. 
“no, I mean, I think that’s just great talk for the fans, and urban is a great coach. who knows; I’m not going to be here forever. maybe he’ll get a chance one day to coach at notre dame if that’s what he wants.” 
although meyer never coached the Irish, several members of his staff have ties to notre dame and kelly. buckeyes offensive coordi­nator ed warinner, running backs coach Tony alford and tight ends/fullbacks coach Tim hinton all worked with kelly at notre dame, while corner-backs coach and special teams coordinator kerry Coombs as­sisted kelly while he was at Cincinnati. 
“we’ll probably have to con­sider it and look at maybe what we communicate on the line of scrimmage and be cognizant of it,” kelly said of the pos­sible disadvantage of having so many former staff members on the opposing sideline. “you know, I think it’s something that we’ll consider certainly on the offensive side of the ball with former coaches that are there. so I definitely think it’s something we’ll look at.” 
Contact Greg Hadley at  ghadley@nd.edu 
ohio State 
COnTInued frOm Page 12 
one coach remains from the last time they met in that 2006 game: Ohio state defensive coordinator luke fickle, who was co-defensive coordinator at the time. but all the same, a healthy sense of rivalry still exists. 
off the field 
while Ohio state and notre dame have not clashed on the gridiron anytime recently, kelly said sunday the programs have confronted each other on the recruiting trail, as notre 


The ObserVer | mondAy, dEcEmbEr 7, 2015 | ndsmCObserVer.COm 
FooTbALL 

notre dame headed to Fiesta bowl 
Irish to clash with No. 8 Buckeyes  in Glendale 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
after a season that saw notre dame’s College football Playoff hopes come unhinged by two losses by a com­bined four points, it was an­nounced sunday that the Irish will meet defending national champion no. 7 Ohio state in the battlefrog fiesta bowl in glendale, arizona, on Jan. 1. 
“I won’t tell you that they were jumping up and down when the announcements were made today, because they were disappointed that they weren’t one of the four teams, but they also want to play one more game together, and this is that opportunity to play one more game together,” Irish head coach brian kelly said sunday afternoon. 
notre dame (10-2) and Ohio state (11-1) will meet for the sixth time ever, with the buckeyes leading the series 3-2, 
see bOwl game PAGE 11 


nd WomEn’S bASKETbALL | uCOnn 91, nd 81 
ND falls to top-ranked Huskies 
Mabrey’s 23 points not enough as Irish suffer first loss 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
Through just over two quar­ters, a depleted no. 3 notre dame looked to be matching no. 1 Connecticut blow for blow, behind a 21-point first half from freshman guard marina mabrey. but a 17-0 run for the huskies (6-0) in the second half was too much for the Irish (7-1) to overcome, as uConn defeated notre dame 91-81. 
notre dame was forced to enter the latest installment of the most famous rivalry in women’s basket­ball without either of its starting forwards: junior Taya reimer was ruled out with an achilles injury while sophomore and aCC pre­season Player of the year brianna Turner missed out due to a shoul­der injury. Their absence was conspicuous in the opening min­utes, as the huskies raced to a 10-2 lead, scoring all 10 points within the paint and out-rebounding the Irish 6-0. 
see w bball PAGE 10 
ND, OSU set for rematch 10 years after last meeting 

By GREG HADLEY 
editor-in-Chief 
nine years and 364 days later, notre dame will be back, and it all seems oddly familiar. 
In 2005, Charlie weis was in his first year with the Irish and had guided his squad to a 9-2 regular season record, marred only by last-second losses to michigan state and usC. notre dame was, as current head coach brian kelly would put it, only six points away from a perfect season. 
Then, Jan. 2, 2006, at sun devil stadium, with a 13-year-old Joe schmidt in the stands, Ohio state topped the Irish, 34-20, to claim the fiesta bowl title. 
almost a decade later, the buckeyes and the Irish will meet again in glendale, arizona, on Jan. 1, 2016 for the fiesta bowl. It will be only the sixth meeting all-time between two of the most successful programs in college football history. 
between the two squads only 
see OhIO sTaTe PAGE 11 

hocKEy | nd 5, umass 1 
fogarty powers sweep 

By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writer 
no. 20 notre dame took ad­vantage of the opportunity to solidify its place near the top of the hockey east stand­ings this weekend, as it swept a two-game series against vis­iting massachusetts, winning 3-1 friday and 5-1 saturday at Compton family Ice arena. 
The Irish offense came alive over the course of the two games, alongside two strong showings from sophomore goaltender Cal Petersen. 
both games got off to similar starts, with senior center steven fogarty opening the scoring for the Irish in each match. The Irish captain scored 3:38 into the first period friday for his fifth goal of the season and added his sixth tally one day later 3:33 into the game. 
The Irish top line had a great 
see hOCkey PAGE 9 


Injuries hold back Notre Dame against UConn 

Mary Green 
assistant managing editor 
when notre dame faced uConn in the national cham­pionship game last april, the Irish were confident as ever. They had one of the best play­ers in the country in their starting five — the best player, as several coaches argued dur­ing the course of the season 
— steady confidence and a healthy lineup, something they weren’t afforded in the final four the year before. 
That team lost to the huskies on a neutral court by 10, 63-53 
The top rivalry in women’s college hoops resumed for a rematch saturday, but the cir­cumstances were much differ­ent than they were in Tampa, florida, eight months ago. 
notre dame brought back just two starters from that final four squad, with guard 
see green PAGE 10 




