The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 16  | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
‘The Hunting Ground’ subjects speak out 
Speakers visit Notre Dame to discuss impact of documentary exploring campus sexual assault 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
news editor 
Friday afternoon at legends of notre dame, annie clark and andrea pino, co-founders of end rape on campus (eroc), spoke to students, faculty and community members about sexual assault at notre dame. 
pino and clark, who were fea­tured prominently in the cnn doc­umentary “The hunting ground” directed by Kirby dick, spoke at notre dame and saint mary’s last week as well as indiana university at south bend. 
in addition to the two women’s stories, the documentary also in­cludes the story of lizzy seeberg, a saint mary’s first-year who com­mitted suicide in september 2010, ten days after accusing a notre dame football player of sexual as­sault. last spring after its debut at sundance Film Festival in 2015, the documentary was screened at both notre dame and saint mary’s, sparking intense discussion of vic­tims’ rights and resources on both campuses. 
The two women’s involvement with the campus sexual assault prevention began after each was assaulted at the university of north carolina during their undergradu­ate career there. after exhausting all other options, pino said, the two filed a Title iX lawsuit in 2013 along with three other women against unc. 
of their transitions from survivors to advocates, pino said in the early 
see eroc PAGE 5 

KATHLEEN DONAHUE | The Observer 
Andrea Pino and Annie Clark speak to students at Legends about their experiences with campus  assault and the Title IX process as shown in the CNN documentary “The Hunting Ground.” 


cushwa center hosts yearly hibernian lecture 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
The cushwa center for the study of american catholicism invited dr. gillian o’brien to deliver this year’s hibernian lecture. o’brien’s lecture was about her book, “blood runs green,” which was the product of her 2012 hibernian research award and focuses on the 1889 murder of dr. p.h. cronin, an irish physician in chicago. o’brien’s research interests, found in her new book include: irish-american republican­ism in the nineteenth century, sensational crime, the history of newspapers and journal­ism and the urban history of chicago, all of which helped to inspire her interest in cronin’s murder. 

“To give a little context to how the book came into being, i came to this query almost ten years ago in chicago on a fel­lowship to do something en­tirely different, but it involved me looking at newspapers and dealing with chicago newspa­pers of the 1880s,” o’brien said. “i repeatedly came across 
see lecTure PAGE 4 




SMC performance commemorates Civil War 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
associate saint mary’s editor 
Friday night in saint mary’s little Theatre, mu­sic brought to life the trag­edy of the civil war. 
performed by a guest so­prano, a string trio, pianist and the women’s choir, william averitt’s work, “From These honored dead,” musically tied to­gether civil war hymns, quotes and poems. 

according to the perfor­mance program, the piece was commissioned in com­memoration of the 150th anniversary of the end of the civil war. 
Throughout the week, averitt worked with the musicians and the women’s choir in preparation for the performance, director of the women’s choir dr. nancy menk said. 
“it’s an appropriate piece for this day [9/11] in history, but was actually written to commemorate the end of the civil war,” menk said. “it is moving and heart-wrenching at the same time.” 
before the performance began, averitt spoke to the audience about the struc­ture and arrangement of the piece. The work is di­vided into three sections each dealing with a theme 
see civil war PAGE 4 

Justice Friday features CAT program 

By ALLISON SANCHEZ 
news writer 
This week’s Justice Friday lecture highlighted how saint mary’s women can impact students in the south bend community school corporation. 
The conversation, led by as­sistant director of the office for civic and social engagement (ocse) samira payne, focused on the college academy of Tutoring (caT) program, which employs saint mary’s students to serve as tutors and teacher’s assis­tants in partnered schools. 
payne said the caT program 
see schools PAGE 5 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 volleyball PAGE 16 men’s soccer PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green            Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 

News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu lsteven1@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

If you could name any building on campus, what would you name it? 


Joe Newhall 
sophomore 
morrissey manor 
“Joe’s photo building.” 
Rob Braddock 
sophomore 
Keough hall 
“brady Quinn.” 
Tori Lew 
junior 
ryan hall 
“lew center.” 


Steve Burk 
sophomore 
alumni hall 
“grant center for basketball excellence.” 
Jess Wilson 
sophomore 
ryan hall 
“sarah elliott building for excellence.” 
Anna Bourbonnais 
junior 
ryan hall 
“Francis hall.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

haleigh ehmsen Zach Klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
andrea vale rachel o’grady nicole caratas alex carson 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
susan Zhu matthew munhall 
Photo Viewpoint 

Men’s Soccer vs. Are You Getting the Dante’s Other Works Blackhawks Training Football vs. Georgia 
Zach llorens harry Federspiel 
Xavier Signal? Hesburgh Library Camp Tech Alumni Stadium DeBartolo Hall 4:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. Compton Family Ice Notre Dame Stadium 7-9 p.m. 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. Celebration of Dante’s Arena 3:30 p.m. 
Corrections 

The Irish take on Interactive improv minor works for his All day The Irish take on the 
The observer regards itself as Xavier. performance 750th birthday Team opens training Yellow Jackets a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Workshop: “Getting Core Facilities Fair An Evening with The Future of the Rules of Engagement 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Started in Research” Jordan hall of Science Ramahan Faulk Past Raclin-Carmichael Hall 
however, recognize that we will make 
110 Brownson Hall 10 a.m.-2 p.m. DeBartolo Performing Hesburgh Library 11 a.m.-12 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
4-5 p.m. Learn how core’s Arts Center 4 p.m.-5:30 p.m. Lecture on 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Learn research faicilities benefit 7 p.m.-8 p.m. Lecture on revival of underserved global 
we can correct our error. 

strategies. research projects Visual artist presentation Ireland from 1891-1922 health volunteerism 

ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2015 | The observer 

Tau Beta Pi honors Notre Dame students 
By ALINE IRIHAMYE 
news writer 
This year, Tau beta pi, the en­gineering honors society recog­nized three notre dame students with its most distinguished awards. Tau beta pi awarded scholarships to adam Farchone and huili chen and a laureate honor to ashley armstrong. 
Farchone, a senior chemi­cal engineering major and this year’s president of the indiana gamma chapter, said he was honored to be chosen as a schol­arship recipient. 
“it’s a very competitive pool of applicants from around the nation,” Farchone said. “The top one-eighth of all engineers were all competing for the same scholarships, and they only give out a few hundred so it was … very exciting to hear the news.” 
Farchone said he worked in professor marya lieberman’s lab, researching the nano-elec­tronic application of dna origa­mi. currently as a intern for the alliance for catholic education (ace), Farchone said he will complete two years of service upon graduation teaching sci­ence at a high school. 
“after those two years, i plan on going back to graduate school into a ph.d. program in chemical or biomedical engineering, with the goal of someday working in the healthcare field,” Farchone said. 
Farchone said one of his main goals as president of indiana gamma was helping engineering majors get involved with service opportunities in the south bend community. There are many ways for engineers to carry out Tau beta pi’s motto of “integrity and excellence in engineering” by serving others, he said. 
“There’s so many different avenues to improve the lives of others … and that was what excited me about the major,” Farchone said. 

huili chen, a senior double-majoring in computer science engineering and psychology, has similarly been very involved on campus during her time as an engineering major. 
according to a college of engi­neering press release, chen does complex networks research to understand aging and other key biological processes. she has additionally displayed a strong commitment to service while at notre dame by participating in several of the center for social concerns’ programs. 
ashley armstrong, a mechan­ical engineering major who graduated from notre dame last spring, was honored as one of Tau beta pi’s five 2015 laure­ates for her achievements in academic excellence and ath­letics, according to the society’s website. 
“doing golf and engineering, there were times where it was quite challenging,” armstrong said. “my sophomore year was one of my hardest years. in the spring, we had our ncaa re­gionals during school finals, so i had to take five of my finals within two to three days before we left for regionals. 
as two-year captain of the university’s varsity golf team and a two-year capital one academic all-american hon­oree, armstrong said she was able to succeed both in class and in sports because of notre dame’s strong support of stu­dent athletes. 
armstrong said she was also involved in undergraduate re­search, working with professor steven schmid and depuy orthopaedics. 
“we were investigating a novel manufacturing process in order to make surgical equipment cheaper and lighter … for hip replacements,” armstrong said. 
armstrong said the strong en­gineering community at notre dame helped her reach her level of success. as a graduate stu­dent in mechanical engineer­ing at the university of illinois, armstrong said she hopes to continue to incorporate this collaborative spirit in her school and work environments. 
“everyone tried to help each other,” armstrong said, describ­ing the notre dame engineer­ing department.  “we did a lot of group work and it was a really collaborative environment. … i know i couldn’t have done any of [this] without all of the great friends that i made in the pro­cess and also my fellow Tau beta pi members.” 
Contact Aline Irihamye at  airihamy@nd.edu 

lecture explores medieval empire’s reputation 
By CLARE KOSSLER 
news writer 
professor emeritus of the university of california, berkeley, and notre dame class of ’59 alum­nus Thomas brady said in a lecture Friday that the holy roman empire 
— which at its height stretched from eastern France to the baltic lands — has until recently been misconstrued and misrepresented by academics and non-academics alike. 
specifically discussing the period between 1450 and 1650, which scholars often term the long 16th century, brady said the empire’s loosely defined borders and obscure political construc­tion both contribute to the “tradi­tional western european image 
paid adverTisemenT 

of german backwardness ver­sus progressive Franco-british civilization.” 
“This view of german cul­ture was famously enshrined in a very pretentious comment by the French philosopher François arouet, known as voltaire,” he said. “he sneered at what he called ‘this agglomeration which was called and which still calls itself the holy roman empire [and which] was neither holy, nor roman, nor an empire.’” 
however, brady said the tradi­tionally negative portrayal of the holy roman empire is unfair and inaccurate, and that historians over the last 40 years have increas­ingly viewed the empire in a more positive light. 
he said his own interest in the holy roman empire arose during his undergraduate years at notre dame, where he experienced an intense “pedagogical pressure in favor of europeanism.” 
in this environment where european studies figured promi­nently, brady said he began to struggle with the issue of under­standing the complex political dy­namics of the holy roman empire. 
unfortunately, he said, relatively few american scholars at that time displayed interest in the topic ow­ing to the empire’s intricacy and its clear contrast to the countries of France, england and spain. 
“The greatest difference be­tween these lands, and the more consolidated kingdoms of France, england and spain, was that the empire so long preserved its con­figuration into many relatively small, secular polities ruled by princely dynasties, bishop and archbishops, abbots and abbess­es, free knights and self-governing peasant communities,” brady said. 
having spent a major portion of his academic career attempting to understand the holy roman empire, brady said the focus of his research has concerned the empire’s communal institutions, as opposed to the legacy of its un­stable member states. 
he said he believes the com­parative resilience of the empire’s communal institutions depended on several distinct characteristics. 
First, he said, spanning from the 13th to 18th centuries, the empire’s imperial high courts and regional parliaments helped to some degree to unite its dispa­rate principalities. Furthermore, he said state-building took place in a regional rather than national setting, which allowed central european principalities to retain “far more control — local con­trol — of their institutions and [bear] far less crushing burdens of taxation for military and imperial purposes.” 
Finally, he said the church op­erated as a stabilizing force in the cultural and political life of the empire, and that there was a “re­markable interpenetration of sec­ular and ecclesiastical institutions of authority.” 
however, he said because dif­ferent church dioceses preserved different languages and dialects, the empire as a whole was un­able to maintain linguistic — and therefore political — unity. The result, he said, was that the holy roman empire could never fully imitate the consolidation and cohesiveness of other western european states. 
brady’s lecture introduced li­brarian Julie Tanaka’s new ex­hibit of texts from the holy roman empire, which is currently on dis­play in the rare books and special collections room of the hesburgh library.  after brady concluded his speech, Tanaka offered some re­marks concerning the inspiration behind her three-year-long project collecting manuscripts and imag­es from the long 16th century. 
“behind this exhibit is my own fascination with this period that claims to be a century … and my fascination with an entity which is this german thing — germany 
— almost having somewhat of an identity crisis,” she said. “was it an empire? was it a kingdom? maybe it was just a loose grouping of lands.” 
Contact Clare Kossler at  ckossler@nd.edu 



The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Lecture 
conTinued From page 1 
accounts of the murder of dr. cronin and wondered why i didn’t know more about him. i thought that i’d go read a book about it because i thought someone would have, but i discovered that nobody had. six books had been written about it, but all in the after­math of the murder and the trial.” 
during o’brien’s lecture, she said her book was largely the story of two individuals: the victim, dr. cronin, and alexander sullivan, the leader of an irish-american organi­zation, clan na gael, and the man who may have instigat­ed the murder. reading from “blood runs green,” she said that sullivan was a dynamic and changing individual and a “master of reinvention.” 
“between 1865 and 1895, he was, variously, a respected businessman, the owner of a shoe store, a tax collector, a newspaper editor, a journal­ist, city official, postmaster, the leader of a secret revolu­tionary society, a lawyer, an abolitionist, a republican, a democrat, the president of the irish national league of america, a gambler and a murderer.” 

The lecture included a sum­mary of what was known about cronin’s murder, as well as an explanation for why this was found in all the newspapers, not just in chicago, but across america and in europe as well. 
“For the editor of a news­paper, this story had every­thing,” o’brien said. “you have a naked man found dead in a sewer [cronin]. it’s not a bar brawl or a domestic dispute. it involves secret societies. it involves police incompetence at a very high level and it in­volves a number of very promi­nent men who were publicly known.” 
The author also discussed the case’s after-effects, specifi­cally how it affected anti-im­migration propaganda. while showing a picture of the origi­nal “american melting pot,” she noted how it portrayed the irish as not mixing in properly and even included a “clan na gael” flag, directly referencing the clan’s probable involve­ment in cronin’s murder. 
o’brien said cronin’s murder was often used as an anti-irish propaganda angle in america. 
“For an american public who was opposed to immigrants, the cronin story added fuel to their fire because it showed the irish were killing the irish in america,” she said. “They made a lot of it.” 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 
Civil War 
conTinued From page 1 
of the civil war, and each section has four move­ments with a similar layout of quote, poem, hymn and instrumental movement, he said. 
“you probably think of the civil war perhaps first as the tragic loss of hundreds, thousands, of men,” averitt said. “but when we think of war, we don’t necessar­ily think of the women. me, being a sort of contrarian, i begin each of the three sections with a quote by a woman of commemorable endurance during the civil war era.” 
The quoted women in­clude the abolitionist harriet Tubman, red cross founder clara barton and abolitionist harriet beecher stowe. during the perfor­mance, solo soprano laurel Thomas sang each quote, accompanied only by piano.
 “The first movement deals with leading up to the war,” averitt said, “beginning with the clara barton [sec­ond] section, we deal with the tragedy, wounded and death itself that came so frequently. ... The third sec­tion deals with the after­math and focuses really on the dirge [for Two veterans] by walt whitman.” 

each section has a poem, 
“You probably think of the Civil War ... as the tragic loss of hundreds, thousands, of men. But when we think of war, we don’t necessarily think of the women.” 
William Averitt 
composer 
with the first being herman 
melville’s “The portent,” fol­lowed by melville’s “shiloh 
— a requiem” and finally whitman’s “dirge for Two veterans.” The poems are meant to be the centerpiece of each section, averitt said. 
The piece ended with all the musicians together per­forming isaac watts’ hymn, “o, were i like a Feathered dove.” 
“i don’t know if ‘enjoy’ is the right word, but i hope you find things that move you,” averitt said. 
before the start of “From These honored dead,” flut­ist Frances lapp averitt and pianist david eicher performed averitt’s piece “darkling light.” averitt said the piece was writ­ten right before the com­position of “From These honored dead.” 
saint mary’s college ju­nior gabrielle Janson said she found the arrangement of the main piece to be unique and touching at the same time. 
“it was a great perfor­mance,” Janson said. “it definitely moved me. in a way, you felt more of the emotion behind the war and all the sad things ... which brought back thoughts that can be applied to this his­torical modern day.” 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 

paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2015 | The observer 



EROC 
conTinued From page 1 
phase of the complaint the two women had no legal training, and as a result had to learn as they went. 
“we really just learned from the books that we had read in our classes,” pino said. “ … i was taking a women’s and gender studies course and also a political course that looked at feminist political theatre. it was only looking at catharine macKinnon that i realized that i had rights from Title iX. it was actually written in my course material, and i was like ‘cool.’” 
she said that the two only became involved in “The hunting ground” through a coincidence when the film­maker visited unc’s campus to promote his documentary “The invisible war.” 
“Kirby dick was actually do­ing a tour with his previous movie on military sexual vio­lence, and one of my residents when i was an ra went to the screening and said, ‘you have to listen to what’s happening to my ra. she’s in the [new york Times], you should read it.’ and he actually reached out that same evening,” pino said. “it was only a few weeks after we had filed our complaint, so we’ve been working with Kirby since the very beginning. … we were working on the film for two years, so from when i was a junior in college up until sundance.” 
both women emphasized, however, that the documen­tary was not the extent of their advocacy work, but rather an instrument through which to bring the issue of campus sex­ual assaults to the forefront of the public’s minds. 
“[The documentary] is a great tool, but it’s not the only one,” she said. “we have differ­ent organizations and also this film, but that doesn’t mean the work is over. and so we don’t want it to just be screened on campuses and then just to say that’s the end, but it needs to be a conversation starter” 
professor abby palko, as­sociate director of the gender studies department, said she as a faculty member and her students felt unsure of how to best go about combatting a campus culture that allows sexual assault to happen. 

“what can they do to impact campus culture so that every­one understands — and buys into — the idea that rape isn’t tolerated?” she said. 
playing off the fairly unique residential life at the university, clark said ending rape culture begins with sup­porting all members of the community. 
“This seems very obvious, but supporting one another and supporting people when they come forward,” she said. “i know there’s some tensions or rivalry i guess between saint mary’s and notre dame, but making sure that if a saint mary’s student comes and shares something with you that you support that person, and doing the same with your fellow students here at notre dame. 
“we’ve heard a lot of survi­vors in the time we’ve been here say that as soon as they’ve come forward they’re quickly shamed or ostracized. They don’t want to go by certain [dorms] because they’re made to feel uncomfortable. i really think that supporting survi­vors when they come forward, and also doing little things every day to have this conver­sation, to engage in preven­tion. even if there’s somebody who just makes a rape joke in one of your classes — it’s call­ing that out,” she said. 
speaking again to campus cultures, clark spoke to the im­portance of support networks that extend beyond simply the current student body — par­ticularly alumni of university because of the financial rela­tionship they have with the institution. 
“alumni have a lot of power, particularly with schools like saint mary’s and notre dame where there’s such a tie,” clark said. “There are sometimes families who just keep go­ing. They have a responsibil­ity, too, to hold their school accountable.” 
To that end, pino she said she saw a vital connection be­tween students but also faculty and staff, whose institutional memory far exceeds that of students who only spend four years on campus. The com­munication of past and pres­ent individuals involved in the university community would allow for expedited change and a sense that victims are not alone in what they have ex­perienced, she said. 
“i’d like to add to that the importance of mentor-ship between older students and younger students, fac­ulty and alumni is so impor­tant and valuable,” she said. “oftentimes we don’t see that. … it’s very difficult to hold the institution that you love ac­countable. but it’s even more difficult if you don’t know what’s going on, what has been going on. it’s looking beyond the four years. it’s looking at what happened eight years ago. 
“we have much more of a knowledge because we had each other’s experience, we had those that had come be­fore us. so we knew it wasn’t just a problem for us, we knew it would continue to be a prob­lem because it had already continued. 
“sexual assault preven­tion requires a community of students that are on the ground, but also those who have left and have much more experience.” 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 
Schools 
conTinued From page 1 
works primarily with local Title i schools to strengthen the schools and local commu­nity. Two primary partners are harrison primary center and the state of indiana’s rates, payne said. 

“in the state of indiana only 41 percent of students receive free or reduced lunch in south bend that number is 60 percent. in addition to that, in the state of indiana, 75 percent of stu­dents are achieving at or above 
paid adverTisemenT 


grade level and in south bend it is 60 percent.” 
payne said it is important to focus on the strengths of saint mary’s students and share those strengths to make the lo­
cal  schools  and  community  
stronger.  
Juniors  Jade  Johnson,  

miranda reed and sophomore alexis stigler have participated in the caT program and shared their unique experiences. 
Johnson said participants in the caT program serve as con­sistent and positive influences in the students’ lives. 
“you know that the consis­tency you’re giving them makes them hopeful,” Johnson said “i tutored the same girl over the course of a year, and when she started coming in she was un­able to finish any homework be­forehand. i saw a drastic change in her ability to learn. by the end of the year, she was completing a majority of her homework on her own and was even on the honor roll.” 
reed said the best part of the experience was being able to see how much the kids come into themselves, develop confidence and focus on their risk taking abilities. 
“i was a teacher’s assistant last year, and i loved being able to give kids who need it one-on­one attention,” reed said. 
stigler, who helped tutor and read to local fourth graders, said it was one of the most rewarding experiences of her life. 
“The kids are so excited, you wouldn’t believe how happy they are just to see us walk in the door. For me, the best moment was when a girl said she wanted to go to college because we were there,” stigler said. 
payne said the volunteers have a lot of fun in the caT program, but also all come to­gether to discuss problems they might be facing. 
“all of the caT program par­ticipants come together to talk about their experiences, cel­ebrate, vent and think about different issues that might be affecting their students,” payne said. “it is not just about pro­viding resources. we also talk about what more we can do to impact change.” 
payne said saint mary’s wom­en should consider how they can create long-lasting, sustainable change and also focus on consid­ering how to best help students who need immediate help. 
The Justice Friday lecture se­ries takes place every Friday from 12 p.m. to 12:50 p.m. in conference room a and b of the student center. 
Contact Allison Sanchez at asanch01@saintmarys.edu 
nevarre intermediate center. 
“we seek to provide resources through tutoring and teacher assistants, a pen pal program with fourth-graders and donat­ing uniforms and school sup­plies,” payne said. 
in the south bend area, there are more students in need than 




The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

entitled to reform 
Matthew McKenna 
news writer 

it’s time to have a serious and realistic discussion about entitlement reform. everyone agrees entitlement pro­grams, which refer to governmental aid programs such as medicare, medicaid, social security and unemployment benefits, will have long-term effects on our economy and society. nonetheless, this consensus isn’t able to keep en­titlement programs from halting discussion for political reasons. if, as a country, we take a step back, we’ll find no one is as far away from a compromise as it can sometimes appear. 
entitlement reform is not a sexy topic for anyone who is currently campaigning or plans to do so in the future. if a candidate or official includes it as a speaking point, they run the risk of alienating moderates who may read it as cruel or irresponsible. no one wants to make grandma have to work until she’s 80. no one wants the government to subsidize laziness. These are both obvious injustices that should not be instituted. why do people still propose them during any discussion about unemployment benefits and social security? The problem stems from the way we think about differences of opinion among ourselves and among our leaders. 
as informed, morally conscious voters, we all want what’s best for the country, both in the present and the future. if entitlement programs continue in their current form, it is estimated the social security trust funds will run out by the year 2037 and medicare will run out as soon as 2026. These programs must be tailored to shoulder the costs of a country with an aging population. at the same time, these programs should not be cut altogether. i don’t want to live in a society that deprives the needy of the aid they sorely need. 
The political discussion need not be framed as a struggle between two factions fighting for financial recklessness and the deprivation of basic needs for the less fortunate. we as a society must first prioritize reaching an ideological consensus about what we want our entitlement programs to provide to those that need them. while differences in opinion exist in this area as well, they are smaller than it initially appears when one undertakes a discussion of entitlement reform. morally conscious individuals must support legislation that helps those who are less fortunate as long as this legislation is practical. 
it is ill-advised to enact aid programs so abstract they cannot benefit people with real needs. Funding should always be a consideration. however, money should not be the primary consideration when crafting aid programs. only after reaching a consensus about the intent of the reform should the debate turn to an examination of what is practical. experts have valuable information to contribute to the formation of the entitlement programs of the future. it’s nonsensical to say we need to cut entitlement programs because they’re going to fail or we can’t pay for them. There is an intersection between the ideological and the practical where true good is possible. we must first consid­er the abstract and then the practical, or we risk eliminat-
English major in the real world 
Courtney Phelan 
viewpoint columnist 
moving into a new dorm, starting classes, and going to the ever-present “syllabooze week” parties make syllabus week a time full of new people and new connections. in honor of making new connections — and possibly new romantic connections — this column is written for all the students out there who are about to send that first flirty text. 
believe it or not, i have received one or two flirty texts in my day. some texts that i’ve opened have led the way to wonderful con­versations and strong feelings. others have made me regret that i ever spoke to a person who would text another person like that. while there are plenty of possible things that you can send to a girl to make her throw her phone across the room, one of the easiest ways to incite that reaction is to send a text with bad grammar. 
i’ve spoken with many female and male friends about this, and even those who aren’t english majors agree that someone with aw­ful grammar — meaning they ignore or mis­use punctuation and capitalization and/or spell things completely wrong — often isn’t someone you want to text back. why? because when you’re communicating exclusively though words and letters, every symbol counts. whether or not the sender or receiver is aware of it, letters and punctuation marks affect the tone and meaning of the message and will af­fect how well it is received. and usually, a mes­sage “were u talk like this lol,” will be poorly received haha. The sender seems lazy. The sender seems stupid. The sender seems like he doesn’t even care enough about the recipi­ent to re-read his text before he sends it. The sender seems like someone you don’t want to talk with. 
(before i go too far, i want to make a brief clarification. This column is not directed at people without smartphones whose keypads are difficult to type full sentences with. nor is this column directed at people with dis­abilities, people who genuinely struggle with grammar and spelling, people who speak and write in a non-standard english dialect, people who make occasional mistakes and typos, english language learners, or any other person who has a valid reason for using shortcuts or not typing perfectly. This column is directed at people with iphones or samsung galaxies, who know how to employ proper grammar, use it consistently in their academic or other writ­ings, who had a quality education that includ­ing language arts classes and Type-to-learn software, and who still make the active choice to type like they don’t know how to. in short, this column is directed at the students of notre dame.) 
back in they day, when flip phone keypads were awkward to type on and some carriers charged per symbol, texting shortcuts were useful. some common ones included “u” in­stead of “you,” “b4” instead of “before,” “y” instead of “why,” as well as acronyms like “brb” for “be right back,” “g2g” for “got to go” and the now-devoid-of-meaning “lol” for “laughing out loud,” as well as simply leaving out vowels or punctuation. “snding a text 2 some1 like this was ttly ok bc every1 had a flip phone n it was harder 2 type all the letters.” 
but according to pew research, two-thirds of americans reported owning a smartphone in 2015. The most popular smartphones, such as the iphone and samsung galaxy lines, now come with a full QwerTy keyboard on the touch screen that easily allows users to type full words and add in punctuation. They also come with autocapitalization, autocorrection and spellcheck turned on. This means that people who send a text from and iphone that reads “hey bby wassup? u going 2 go out 2nite?” have actively changed their phone’s settings so that they can talk like that. 
grammar is not an arbitrary set of rules imposed on english speakers to give us some­thing to do in third grade or make non-native english speakers feel bad. it simply facilitates sentences to make the meaning clear. any student who attends the university or notre dame, saint mary’s college or holy cross college already knows this, and has already had to demonstrate a thorough understand­ing of grammar, writing and communication to gain entry into one of these institutions, as well as remain in good academic standing. 
so when you send someone “hey gurl, u n you’re friends wanna come over 4 some fun 2nite lol,” you might as well erase that text and say, “hey, i just want to let you know that i’m someone who thinks trying to write properly is below him. i don’t try my best.” 
or  “i’m the type of guy who can’t make the effort to type out ‘you’ instead of ‘u,’ so you can definitely trust that i won’t make a genuine ef­fort in this friendship.” 
or “i’m the type of girl who choses to do things incorrectly when i know how to do the right thing. i’ll probably keep this attitude when we’re having a fight. won’t that be fun?” 
or “hey, i can’t remember the difference between your and you’re. i probably won’t re­member your birthday or your favorite food either lol.” 
or “hey, last semester i spent weeks re­wording my central arguments and checking my punctuation to submit a beautifully-written essay for a professor i really respected. but i definitely don’t respect you. lol.” 
Courtney Phelan is a junior English major living in Le Mans Hall. She can be contacted at cphela01@ saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
ing a solution that will help those in need. cost should only constrict aid under the most necessary conditions. 
The government should have avenues to help those who can’t help themselves. it is our obligation as a society to de­termine the most aid we are able to provide in a financially responsible manner and then enact policy thwat is consis­tent with this discovery. something must be done, and it falls on our shoulders to do it. while real world problems call for solutions that apply to  the real world, we cannot allow financial consideration to dominate the discussion and prevent meaningful reform.reform and prevent mean­ingful reform.
     Contact Matthew McKenna at mmcken12@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Fighting Irish fighting NTDs 
i came to campus [last] weekend excited for a football came; i left uplifted by the spirit of the Fighting irish that extends beyond notre dame stadium. 
after taking Fr. Tom streit’s common human diseases class freshman year, i co-founded nd Fighting nTds, the first university club dedicat­ed to supporting the global effort to control and eliminate neglected tropical diseases — parasit­ic and bacterial diseases that disable and disfig­ure 1.4 billion people worldwide despite costing just pennies to treat and prevent. after gradu­ation, i joined the team of the end7 campaign at the global network for neglected Tropical diseases to bring new universities into the fight against nTds. i’ve presented at more than 50 schools over the past two years, but there’s noth­ing like a trip back to nd — and a presentation to the newest class of common human diseases students — to remind me what got me into this work in the first place. 
i’ll always be grateful to my notre dame edu­cation for instilling in me “a disciplined sensi­bility to the poverty, injustice and oppression that burden the lives of so many,” as our mis­sion statement decrees. “The aim is to create a sense of human solidarity and concern for the common good that will bear fruit as learning becomes service to justice,” it continues, and i can say with gratitude that i’ve seen this “bear fruit” in hundreds of notre dame students who have supported the effort to end the unneces­sary suffering caused by nTds through research, education, advocacy and fundraising over the past six years. The 96 students who signed up to get involved after my presentation in their class monday make me confident this is an irish tradi­tion that will continue until we’ve won the fight against nTds. 
my time as a student here is over, but i am privileged to work closely with students lead­ing nd Fighting nTds into the future. i invite all current students interested in global health, international development and social justice to join them at their club meetings. i also encour­age notre dame students to take end7’s advoca­cy action urging the united nations to prioritize nTds in the sustainable development goals at www.end7.org/nd-action 
attending a club meeting, signing a petition, organizing a fundraiser — these are small steps that could lead you down a path towards a new passion. you might not know where your notre dame education will lead, but i hope you bring the Fighting irish spirit with you. 
go irish. 
Emily Conron 
class of 2013 sept. 10 

notre dame Football needs a hail mary 
i had the pleasure of enjoying last saturday’s vic­tory over the longhorns from a seat inside notre dame stadium. while it was my first home game in the Kelly era, i’ve been attending games since my first campus visit as a high school senior in the fall of 1984. The experience of a high profile game at notre dame is one of a kind. 
upon further reflection in the ensuing days, there is one noteworthy element that is missing from the game day experience — a pregame prayer. The game day public address programming covers many bases, including honors to our country, other notre dame athletic teams past and present and traffic safety via sgt. Tim mccarthy. last saturday, recognition was also appropriately heaped on Fr. Ted hesburgh and our military through aircraft flyover, yet nowhere was even a brief prayer offered other than those undoubtedly spoken in silence by faithful fans and players from both sides. in fact, the acknowledgement of hesburgh involved the secular “moment of silence” rather than a heartfelt prayer from one of his holy cross brothers. 
i am typically not one to stand on a soapbox at all, regarding public prayer or anything else. however, in this case, i sincerely request 
that the administration consider the inclusion of a pregame prayer at all future games. i am in­trigued to see Fr. John Jenkins express in recent days that the Fighting irish teams will always re­tain their amateur status in the face of mounting pressure for collegiate athletics to shift to a semi­pro structure. i would love to see Jenkins exercise that same leadership in his professional status as priest to spread the gospel from notre dame’s greatest stage. 
Dan Janick 
class of 1989 sept. 11 

STUDENT CARTOON | emily KoyKKa 

The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By ERIN McAULIFFE 
senior scene writer 

girls and pop music are no longer here to arouse visions of pillow fights and sleepovers; they are here to arouse. The genre no longer pertains to tweens kissing posters of Jesse mccartney or people turning their spotify profile to private whilst they “indulge” in ra­dio singles. pop music is becoming an all-encompassing genre as artists ex­periment with electronic synths, col­laborations and contentious lyrics. 
This discovery phase of pop music has artists bringing personal discovery to their music as both an outlet and ve­hicle to challenge conventions around female eroticism. artists are address­ing topics like female self-love and mu­tual pleasure in their verses and setting them to classically catchy but explor­atory beats. as a result, these empow­ering self-mantras are getting radio rotation. 
Five songs currently topping the pop charts, all by female artists, involve this process of self-discovery enabling self-worth and vice versa. although each artist fittingly approaches this all-encompassing ideal in her own way, they all push the limits of what is “o.K. for radio.” it is easy enough to censor cuss words out of rap songs with dele­tions and homophones; however, delet­ing lyrics from these songs, not because they involve vulgarity, but because they are overtly sensual would be a contro­versy in itself. The climaxes of theses anthems require the necessary build­up and full address of their desires. 
it’s sort of like how miley cyrus — hot off the power move of dropping the surprise free album “miley cyrus & her dead petz” — deserted her “goody two-shoes” pop star persona to become a controversial and provocative pop star and the entire genre evolved with her into this stage of experimentation and boundary pushing. 
Demi Lovato — “Cool for the Summer” 
when demi lovato’s single was ac­cused of ripping off Katy perry’s “i Kissed a girl,” she responded perfectly. 
“i think more than one female artist can kiss a girl and like it,” she tweeted, along with the winking face emoji. 
The accusation and response show that although some may not be ready for it, mainstream pop music is ventur­ing into new (yet not new) territory. 
“There’s nobody in the pop industry that says, ‘don’t f**k with me,’” lovato told ryan seacrest. “There’s rihanna and nicki minaj. Those two women, they’re like, ‘i’ll kick your f*****g a**.’ and that’s the thing. i’m totally that, but in pop music. not that they’re not pop music, but it’s just kind of a differ­ent world.” 
The mantra in “cool for the summer” of “Tell me if it’s wrong, tell me if it’s right, i don’t care” encour­ages communication, mutual consent and the removal of embarrassment or offense at the idea of speaking up. it is empowering and a great message that should never have been called into question or thought of as “controver­sial” when singles like “Freak of the week” frequent my local stations. 
Selena Gomez — “Good for You” 
“i’m 14 carat.” selena gomez does not mess around: she knows her self-worth and she straight up tells you she is pre­cious gold. however, she will dress up and look good if she wants to. not even beyoncé can “wake up like this” and feel fulfilled everyday — there is value in celebrating your appearance if you should feel inclined to get gussied up. she wants to look nice, she wants to be admired and she wants to be wanted. she doesn’t need any of that, but she’s proud to be yours because, hey, you’re a$ap rocky. 
Hailee Steinfeld — “Love Myself” 
“i love me,” hailee steinfeld belts out. she is not insecure or looking to others for approval, validation or even to get down. “i know how to scream my own name / gonna love myself, no, i don’t need anybody else,” echoes the rallying cry of which every teen girl should take heed. 
lena dunham acknowledged this in an instagram post: “i love this song [...] and i wish it had existed for teenage me. it would have eradicated so much shame.” 
steinfield’s mantra of not needing anyone else leaves room for her to want somebody, but also acknowledges her freedom to feel loved “anytime that she likes” — and that in it of itself is highly underrated. she also states that she is going to put her body first, something women don’t always feel like they can or should do — but is something they should always do. 
The fact that her first single, hot off her role in “pitch perfect 2,” tackled female self-love shows where the in­dustry is heading if it stays fronted by fearless, young pop stars like steinfeld. 
Fifth Harmony — “Worth It” 
“give it to me i’m worth it.” The mot­to. The group’s music video depicts the five women in a spice girl-esque fash­ion. They are all staged in separate lo­cations with one man who acts either as an equal or their shoe shiner, assis­tant, driver, etc. This is interspersed with cuts of all five members dancing to the “i’m worth it” chorus in front of scrolling stocks on a wall street tele­screen because they can. 
The lyrics echo the empowerment they feel from their recognized sense of worth: “i might give me to you,” “i don’t wanna waste my time,” and “i’ll tell you what to do.” These girls are it. Follow their lead. 
Carly Rae Jepsen — “Run Away With Me” 
Jepsen repeats, “oh baby, take me to the feeling,” repeatedly during this song, demanding what she desires. she also lets us know, “i’ll be your hero, i’m winning.” which is true and also speaks to the state of pop music. whereas “call me maybe” was over­played and over-parodied, pitchfork awarded Jepsen’s recent release — col­laborated on by the likes of vampire weekend’s rostam batmanglij, sia and Jack antonoff — a 7.4 and The observer’s scene writer matt munhall’s current bio reads, “carly rae Jepsen and ‘inherent vice’ are the only things he likes.” 
in an important move, i took all the lyrics i pulled from each song and formed this gloriously empowering conglomerate: 
“Tell me if it’s wrong, tell me if it’s right, i don’t care. i’m 14 carat. i love me. i know how to scream my own name. gonna love myself, no, i don’t need anybody else. give it to me, i’m worth it. i might give me to you. i don’t wanna waste my time. i’ll tell you what to do. oh baby, take me to the feeling. i’ll be your hero, i’m winning.” 
yas. we’re all winning. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 

SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 


 NOTRE DAME 34, VIRGINIA 27 | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2015 | NDsMcObsERVER.cOM 
Undefeated, not unscathed 
Irish steal last-second win from Virginia, but Zaire lost for season with fractured ankle 

CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 

Irish junior receiver Will Fuller hauls in the game-winning touchdown reception with 12 seconds left to push Notre Dame past Virginia 34-27 at Scott Stadium in Charlottesville, Virginia, on Saturday. The Irish twice led by double digits but needed a late-game drive led by sophomore quarterback DeShone Kizer to top the unranked Cavaliers. 
Defensive mistakes against Cavaliers need to be addressed 

Brian Plamondon 
sports Writer 
cHARLOTTEsVILLE, Va. — After surviving Virginia, a lot of questions surround the Notre Dame offense, most notably its inefficiency on third down, the new face at quarterback and the inability of the offensive line to give the quarterback, whoever that may be, much time in the pocket. At the end of the day, however, the offense put up 34 points. The defense is the biggest question mark for the Irish moving forward. 
After holding Texas to just 153 yards last week, the Irish defense looked like an entirely different unit saturday, allow­ing the cavaliers to put up 416 yards. The squad’s showing against Virginia brought back memories of the second half of the 2014 season and Notre Dame’s defensive struggles without leader Joe schmidt. schmidt is back, and so is every key player except the injured 
see MIsTAKEs PAGE 3 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports Writer 

cHARLOTTEsVILLE, Va. 
— It didn’t matter that No. 9 Notre Dame had blown a 12-point fourth quarter lead. It didn’t matter that its start­ing quarterback was going to be sidelined for the rest of the season. All that mattered was that, for the moment, Notre Dame’s season was saved. As dusk settled in at scott stadium in charlottesville, Virginia, on saturday, back­up quarterback Deshone Kizer’s pass found receiver Will Fuller’s arms as the Irish avoided an upset in the last seconds to beat Virginia, 34-27. 
Kizer, a sophomore who came on in the third quar­ter when junior Malik Zaire left the game with an injured ankle, led the Irish methodi­cally down the field during the last 1:54 of the game and capped the drive with a 39­yard strike to the junior Fuller with 12 seconds remaining on the clock. Emotions were not all positive for Notre Dame, however, as head coach brian Kelly announced after the game Zaire would miss the remainder of the season with a fractured ankle. 
“We’re happy we won, but we lost Malik who’s a very im­portant guy to us,” Kelly said. 
“I know our kids are celebrat­ing a win and they’re happy, but they lost a kid that they feel really strongly about in the locker room. 
“Deshone’s now got to run our football team, and we feel good about it.” 
Notre Dame (2-0) will now turn the offense over to Kizer, who actually threw his first career touchdown pass for the Irish in the first quarter as the holder for a fake field goal. Kizer connected with junior tight end Durham smythe on a shovel pass for a seven-yard score, opening the scoring at the 9:29 mark. 
see EMOTION PAGE 2 

PLAYER OF THE GAME QUOTE OF THE GAME 
Kizer steps up after Zaire injury to lead Notre Dame to win 
By MARY GREEN 
Assistant Managing Editor 
cHARLOTTEsVILLE, Va. — After saturday’s game, Notre Dame’s victorious quarterback stepped to the podium to meet with the media. He answered reporters’ questions with ease and poise, as if he had gone through this process a hundred times before, and his responses revealed a confidence that was difficult to doubt. 
The problem for Notre Dame was the man speaking wasn’t junior Malik Zaire, the undis­puted starter headed into the summer, the one who knew the reins were his before fall camp even opened. 
Instead, it was sophomore Deshone Kizer, the player who will have to step in for the Irish now that Zaire is out for the season with a fractured ankle. 
After sitting out his fresh­man year behind Zaire and for­mer Irish quarterback Everett Golson, Kizer saw the first plays of his collegiate career sept. 5 
see KIZER PAGE 3 
WILL FULLER 
IRISH JUNIOR RECEIVER 

When the Irish needed a big play most, down 14-12 in the third quarter and 27-26 in the closing seconds, Fuller delivered, getting behind the cavaliers defense to haul in 59- and 39-yard touchdown receptions. 
“He has a fractured ankle and is out for the season.” 
Irish head coach brian Kelly detailed the extent of junior quarterback Malik Zaire’s third-quarter injury before naming sophomore Deshone Kizer the new starter. 


REPORT CARD 

QUARTERBACKS 

Even before his injury in the third quarter, Malik Zaire was hardly having a solid game, completing just seven of his 18 pass attempts for 115 yards, a far cry from 19-of-22 and 313­yard performance against Texas. Deshone Kizer struggled in his first series but came through when it was needed most with a 39-yard bomb to Will Fuller to take the late victory. 


RUNNING BACKS 

c.J. Prosise generated most of Notre Dame’s offense in the early part of the game, his first career start at running back. The senior collected 155 yards on 17 carries, including a touchdown right after Kizer entered the game. Zaire also provided a spark for the run game, picking up 90 yards on 10 carries. 
RECEIVERS 

Will Fuller twice returned the advantage to Notre Dame when Virginia led, first in the third quarter with a 59-yard touchdown from Zaire and then with 12 seconds left on the 39-yard throw from Kizer. However, too many dropped passes kept the corps as a whole from a higher score. 



OFFENSIVE LINE 

The line started strong at the beginning of the game as the run game flourished. However, rush production dwindled later in the game, and Notre Dame failed to convert a single third down on 10 attempts, even on short-yardage situations. 
DEFENSIVE LINE 

The Irish defensive line gave up just 127 rushing yards but also two scores on the ground, the final two that propelled Virginia to its lead late in the game. After four sacks last week, Notre Dame managed just one saturday — and that came from a cornerback. 
LINEBACKERS 

It wasn’t a bad performance for the linebackers, but it wasn’t a good one either. Jaylon smith led the game with 11 tackles, two-and-a-half for loss, but stark mismatches burned the Irish at times. 
DEFENSIVE BACKS 

Elijah shumate and KeiVarae Russell combined for 20 tackles and Notre Dame’s lone sack, but the secondary also got burned by cavalier receivers for 289 yards, 122 in the crucial fourth quarter, and two receiving touchdowns. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

Tyler Newsome boomed seven punts for 427 total yards — a 61-yard average that backed the cavaliers up well inside their own territory and kept them off the board at times. The return game was far from stellar, but c.J. sanders returned a third-quarter punt 30 yards to help set up a three-play touch­down drive. 
COACHING 

However brian VanGorder prepared for the game, the Irish defense looked like it had no clue what it was doing in the second half, leaving wide-open targets and setting up blatant mismatches. However, credit goes to the playcalling trio that directed to Deshone Kizer’s strengths late in the game to earn the victory. 
OVERALL GPA: 2.85 (B/B-) 
The Irish got off to a hot start in what looked to be a second straight blow­out win. However, the cavaliers pulled together to expose huge problems in the Notre Dame defense that almost cost the team its second game of the season. While the trio of c.J. Prosise, Will Fuller and Deshone Kizer ultimately teamed up to steal the road win, the Irish were hardly un­scathed, losing Malik Zaire for the season with an ankle fracture. 
PLAY OF THE GAME 
DESHONE KIZER THROWS A 39-YARD TOUCHDOWN TO WILL FULLER 
Irish fans were prepared to put their trust on the right arm of sophomore quarterback Deshone Kizer, and he delivered with 12 seconds left, find­ing junior receiver Will Fuller for the game-winning, and potentially season-saving, touchdown to beat the cavaliers. 

Emotion 
cONTINuED FROM PAGE 1 
“We felt pretty good as long as we were in the right position,” Kelly said of the fake. “It was in our strike zone area where we could run it.” 
Virginia (0-2) struggled mightily to move the ball in the first quarter. The cavaliers were out-gained 154 yards to 28 by Notre Dame, while only picking up one first down compared to nine for the Irish. Notre Dame had troubles of its own, stalling in cavalier territory and set­tling for two field goals to push its lead to 12-0 after 15 minutes of play. Moving the chains on third down became a consistent problem for Notre Dame, as it finished the day 0-for-10. 
“some credit goes to Virginia,” Kelly said of Notre Dame’s fu­tility in that department. “I thought they did a good job of defending us on third and short, but it is unacceptable to be that ineffective on third downs.” 
The Irish passing game was stagnant for most of the first half, too, with Zaire totaling 38 yards on 5-of-13 passing. Virginia junior quarterback Matt Johns, on the other hand, looked comfortable all game as the Irish lacked much of a pass rush. Johns was 26-of-38 for 289 yards on the day, including a 42-yard pass to junior receiver Keeon Johnson on a trick play that had Johns originally line up at receiver. That score gave the cavaliers their first lead of the game at 14-12 with 3:04 left to play in the first half. 
“We were frustrated with some things that happened out there with the pass defense that we’ll have to clean up,” Kelly said. “but it’s correctable things. We just didn’t play the ball very well in the air, and we made some really silly mistakes.” 
The Irish were first on the board in the second half, with Zaire finding Fuller for 59 yards, the duo’s second touchdown pass of more than 50 yards on the season. That would be Zaire’s last long completion, though, as he went down on the next Irish offensive possession while being tackled after a quar­terback draw. 
The loss of Zaire now leaves the Irish without their start­ing quarterback as well as their starting running back, as junior Tarean Folston tore his AcL in last week’s rout of Texas. Despite those injuries, Kelly says the Irish still have the depth to con­tinue to pursue their goals. 
“Heck yeah,” Kelly said when asked if his team could still be successful. “Those are difficult injuries [to Folston and Zaire], no question. but we have a lot of really good players around [Kizer]. Deshone doesn’t have to win it himself. so as long as we can continue to support him. 
“ … If we can play better defense and we can support Deshone, we can be the kind of football team we hope to be.” 
The pressure on Kizer was mitigated with the help of se­nior running back c.J. Prosise in the backfield. On the first play following Zaire’s injury, Prosise scampered 24 yards vir­tually untouched to put the Irish up 26-14 near the end of the third quarter. The Petersburg, Virginia native had a career game in front of more than 30 friends and family members, finishing with 156 yards on 17 carries. 
“At this point I feel like I can do anything in the position,” Prosise said regarding his tran­sition from slot receiver. “I have been very comfortable in it now. At first it was hard moving into something new, but now I think I’ve got what I need to succeed in the position.” 
While Prosise was the focal point of the Irish offense, Johns led the cavaliers. He responded to Prosise’s touchdown with a rushing score of his own from four yards out. Two possessions later, he found sophomore re­ceiver Ryan santoro on third­and-15 for a 34-yard strike that set Virginia up at the Notre Dame two-yard line. Junior run­ning back Albert Reid polished off that drive, giving Virginia a 27-26 lead and setting the stage for Notre Dame’s game-win­ning drive. 
On the final drive, Kizer was 5-for-7 passing for 76 yards and also picked up four yards in a fourth-and-2 situation. No play was bigger, however, than the game-clinching bomb to Fuller, who found himself behind the secondary for the second time in the game. 
“Hopefully they keep play­ing me this way, and I’m going to keep taking advantage of it,” Fuller said. 
The Irish will return home to face their first ranked foe of the season when they welcome No. 14 Georgia Tech to Notre Dame stadium on saturday at 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 


NDsMcObsERVER.cOM | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2015 | THE ObsERVER 

Kizer 
cONTINuED FROM PAGE 1 
against Texas, when Zaire’s 19­of-22, 313-yard and three-score performance helped open up a virtually insurmountable lead over the Longhorns. In that game, the home crowd and the score were on Kizer’s side, the type of environment any coach would want his quarterback to have for his first snaps. 
but saturday’s environ­ment against the cavaliers was far from that. Though Notre Dame held a 19-14 lead, Virginia was starting to find holes in the Irish defense and make a comeback in a game that at first looked like another blowout win. 
Then, in the middle of an Irish drive in the final minutes of the third quarter, officials called for time as Zaire lay on the ground, his teammates gathered around him, and Kizer hastily began to warm up on the sidelines. As the junior was helped off the field and later carted away to the locker room, the sophomore came in and handed the ball off to se­nior running back c.J. Prosise for a 24-yard score, and Notre Dame padded its lead at 26-14. 
However, the fourth quar­ter was all Virginia as the cavaliers scored two consecu­tive touchdowns while the Irish collected just one first down in their two drives. 
The crowd at scott stadium was raucous, and the students had lined up on the lawn, ready to rush the field, when Kizer led the offense out for one final push with 1:54 left and down 27-26. 
“Not much went through my mind, it was kind of funny,” 
Mistakes 
cONTINuED FROM PAGE 1 
Jarron Jones. After a perfor­mance like this against a mid­dling Virginia offense, there aren’t many excuses for the Irish. 
The majority of Notre Dame’s struggles saturday centered on its pass defense. It starts up front, where the Irish didn’t have a single quarter­back hurry all game compared to eight against Texas. Their lone sack was on a cornerback blitz courtesy of KeiVarae Russell that resulted in a fum­ble recovered by Notre Dame. 
Even if a team has a stout secondary, there needs to be pressure generated up front. Notre Dame boasts bona fide NFL prospects in pass-rushers sheldon Day and Isaac Rochell, and yet neither could get to junior cavaliers quar­terback Matt Johns with any consistency. That doesn’t bode well for a defensive line that has to go up against the likes of stanford tackle Kyle Murphy and usc center Max Tuerk later this season. 
The defensive line shouldn’t shoulder most of the blame, Kizer said. “I go to bed the night before a game prepar­ing for that to happen, and I just kind of blanked. It was time to play football, and that’s the only way I can look at it. I wasn’t going to be the guy to come in and lose a game for the Irish. I prepare way too much for me not to give my all during a game.” 
Right before the new quar­terback entered the game, sev­eral teammates and coaches talked to him to pump up his confidence. However, he said one conversation in particular stood out, and not from a play­er he’d be lining up with. 
“[Junior linebacker] Jaylon’s [smith’s] words really stuck with me. He said he trusted me,” Kizer said. “Jaylon doesn’t say too much. He came up to me and said he trusted me and that we have to go win a game. We didn’t get the stop we needed and it was time for me to take over. With that in mind, there was no stopping the Irish.” 
Kizer began the drive with an eight-yard pass to junior re­ceiver Will Fuller but followed it with two incompletions to bring up fourth-and-two. The Irish called for time, and Kizer came out of the break with a quarterback draw straight up the middle for four yards to keep Notre Dame’s hopes alive. 
“I knew it was going to be tough,” he said of the play. “Those guys came out to play today. I knew it was going to be a tight hole. It wasn’t necessar­ily the longest run in the world. I knew if I just fell over I could hopefully get to the mark.” 
The Irish pushed down the field with passes to ju­nior receiver corey Robinson and Prosise before facing 
however. Notre Dame’s sec­ondary could not make plays, looking lost at times and let­ting receivers behind it on multiple occasions. 
cole Luke, Max Redfield, James Onwualu and Russell all blew coverages for the Irish. 
A lot of times this didn’t hurt Notre Dame, as Johns overthrew receivers on his fair share of pass attempts. Against a better team, howev­er, those kinds of mistakes in the secondary will come back to haunt Notre Dame. 
Irish head coach brian Kelly called the mistakes “correct­able” and thinks they can be cleaned up in time for the up­coming game against Georgia Tech. If you’re an Irish fan, you had better hope so. 
In addition, Notre Dame struggled against any and all forms of trickery the cavaliers threw its way. Virginia ran multiple jet sweeps that net­ted good chunks of yardage, including one that went for 25 yards. The most head-scratch­ing play for Notre Dame’s de­fense was failing to recognize when Johns lined up at re­ceiver — the cavaliers quickly pitched it to Johns, who found receiver Keeon Johnson wide second-and-nine from the cavalier 39-yard line with 19 seconds left. 

At that point, however, Kizer said he was just think­ing about getting in field-goal range to help Notre Dame to three points instead of seven. However, he found Fuller in stride breaking outside along the left sideline for a deep bomb that all but secured the win for the Irish and broke the hearts of the cavaliers. 
“With 20 seconds left you ex­pect guys to play deep, you ex­pect them to keep everything in front of them, so I didn’t necessarily think that was go­ing to be the right way to go,” Kizer said. “I keyed on the cor­ner, and the corner drove the route, and Will Fuller’s speed is just unreal. He left the guy, and I put the ball out there for him.” 
After the game, Kelly re­vealed Kizer had become his new starter as a result of Zaire’s injury, and he expressed con­fidence in a quarterback with just over a half of game experi­ence under his belt. 
“certainly Deshone Kizer doesn’t have the experience that Malik has, but we can run our offense through Deshone,” Kelly said. “He has a lot of weapons around him, and we saw that tonight. He has a run­ning back and receivers. We just have to balance the of­fense and do the things that he is capable of doing. Teams have to overcome injuries. 
“It is unfortunate, but it is what it is, and we will find a way to put it together so we can win games with Deshone Kizer as our starting quarterback.” 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
open near the end zone. 
And yet, all is not lost for the Irish defense. The unit held its own when Virginia tried to run in between the tackles and forced Notre Dame’s first turnover of the young sea­son. Junior linebacker Jaylon smith, for his part, continues to impress. 
This Irish defense has the talent and the leadership necessary to compete for a championship. Maybe holding every opponent to three points and 163 yards like Texas is un­realistic, but it can and should play better than it did against Virginia. 
With Texas as the blueprint, the Notre Dame defense needs to forget all about Virginia and move on. With the of­fense facing questions of its own, the veteran defense must step up and show that week one wasn’t just a mirage. If not, the Irish could be in for a long season breaking in a new quarterback. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SCORING SUMMARY 






1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  TOTAL  
12  0  14  8  34  
0  14  0  13  27  

NOTRE DAME 6, VIRGINIA 0 
Durham smythe 7-yard pass from Deshone Kizer (2-point conversion failed) 
9:29 remaining 

Drive: 13 plays, 75 yards, 5:31 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 9, VIRGINIA 0 
Justin Yoon 32-yard field goal 
3:09 remaining 

Drive: Nine plays, 55 yards, 4:21 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 12, VIRGINIA 0 
Justin Yoon 45-yard field goal 
0:03 remaining 

Drive: Six plays, 34 yards, 1:41 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 12, VIRGINIA 7 
Evan butts 2-yard pass from Matt Johns (Frye kick) 
10:54remaining 

Drive: Eight plays, 75 yards, 4:13 elapsed 
VIRGINIA 14, NOTRE DAME 12 
Keeon Johnson 42-yard pass from Johns (Frye kick) 
3:04 remaining 

Drive: Seven plays, 75 yards, 3:33 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 19, VIRGINIA 14 
Will Fuller 59-yard pass from Malik Zaire (Yoon kick) 
7:04 remaining 

Drive: One play, 59 yards, 0:08 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 26, VIRGINIA 14 
c.J. Prosise 24-yard run (Yoon kick) 
0:54remaining 

Drive: Three plays, 45 yards, 1:02 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 26, VIRGINIA 21 
Matt Johns 4-yard run (Frye kick) 
13:42remaining 

Drive: Six plays, 75 yards, 2:12 elapsed 
VIRGINIA 27, NOTRE DAME 26 
Albert Reid 1-yard run (2-point conversion failed) 
1:54 remaining 

Drive: 13 plays, 80 yards, 6:01 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 34, VIRGINIA 27 
Will Fuller 39-yard pass from Kizer (Torii Hunter Jr. pass from Kizer for 2-point conversion) 
0:12remaining 

Drive: Eight plays, 80 yards, 1:42 elapsed 
STATISTICS 

RUSHING YARDS 
253 127 
PASSING YARDS 
207 289 



THE ObsERVER | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2015 | NDsMcObsERVER.cOM 


CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 

Irish junior quarterback Malik Zaire is surrounded by trainers after fracturing his ankle during Notre Dame’s 34-27 win over Virginia on Saturday at Scott Stadium. Zaire threw for 115 yards and a touchdown in Charlottesville,Virginia, before going down with the season-ending injury near the end of the third quarter. 
Thanks to a 39-yard touchdown from backup quarterback DeShone 
Kizer to junior receiver Will Fuller with 12 seconds left, the Irish escaped Charlottesville, Virginia, with a 34-27 win over the Cavaliers. 
NEARLY A CAVALIER 
But Notre Dame lost junior starting quarterback Malik Zaire for the season to a broken ankle and twice squandered double-digit leads 
CATASTROPHE 
against Virginia after entering the matchup as the heavy favorites. 




The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By KATHY MINKO 
scene writer 

among a chain of restaurants just outside university park mall, the american comfort-food restaurant granite city sets its own precedence. 
serving meals within only 14 of the 50 states, granite city presents itself as the ideal example of a “rare” res­taurant chain. aside from its food, the joint exudes a casual, yet pristine, at­mosphere that any consumer can en­joy. personally, i have waltzed into the establishment wearing a nice skirt to eat dinner with my roommate’s fam­ily. other instances, however, have called for worn jeans with a short-sleeved t-shirt. no matter what the occasion, granite city’s environment welcomes all, much like a cheesecake Factory or houlihan’s. 
The first time i ate at granite city, i had a difficult time deciding what to order from the large menu. displaying options from a variety of food “genres,” the menu adheres to people with all sorts of diets. From gluten-free options — including the “granite city reuben” and chopped salad with chicken — to vegetarian alternatives and unique salad choices, granite city offers fresh food for all to enjoy. what’s more, they offer a kid’s menu, which affords more than the simple cheeseburger or chicken strips. rather, it offers platters such as rigato­ni pasta and the pepperoni flatbread pizza. 
offering american, asian, italian and mexican food choices, the restau­rant provides its customers with differ­ent tastes. of these varieties, though, i prefer the flatbread pizzas. These fire-roasted beauties come in an as­sortment of options. The restaurant’s menu prides itself on its maple pep­per bacon and tomato flatbread. personally, i enjoy the margherita pizza, with a blend of cheeses, fresh tomatoes, basil and vinaigrette. 
aside from its pizzas, the restaurant prides itself on a plethora of options for all palates. serving tasty sandwich and burger options, including its “big show” burger, topped with pulled pork and barbeque sauce, granite city appeals to those with a meatier taste. similarly, it offers an array of steak, toppings or sides and a list of other meats. its specialties include the rib-eye, as well as the meatloaf — made on ciabatta bread with sweet onion sauce. Furthermore, the restaurant allures seafood lovers, with options including grilled salmon and — my personal favorite — the fish taco trio. This mexican-american treat consists of three tilapia-filled tacos, along with a bowl of sweet corn and salsa. 
while granite city offers excellent food choices and a warm atmosphere, the restaurant prides itself most on its drinks. with a selection of handcrafted beers and ipas, granite city does not disappoint its consumers. although i have yet to try the beverages — i’m not 21, people — the restaurant is sure to quench its customers’ thirsts. 
all in all, granite city’s vast array of fresh food, authentic drink and al­luring atmosphere draws the people of south bend in each afternoon and night. open for lunch, dinner and drinks after that, the restaurant pro­vides a clean, fun place for bonding. whether with a roommate’s family or a first date, granite city will surely de­light all who visit. 
Contact Kathy Minko at kminko@nd.edu 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

A certain beauty in individual sports 

Alex Carson 
associate sports editor 
it was all planned out perfectly. 
i’d come in here today and sound off on the weekend at the u.s. open, where the greatest women’s tennis player the world has ever seen had completed her most impres­sive accomplishment. 
except Friday afternoon, while i labored through the end of the day, a funny thing happened: serena williams lost. 
The fact she lost maybe isn’t the shocking part: she’s 33, plays a sport that’s moderately fluky, and had all the pressure in the world on her shoulders as she pursued tennis’ first calendar grand slam since german steffi graf did it in 1988. it was the perfect sce­nario for a let down. 
instead, she lost to un­ranked italian roberta vinci in a three-set shocker. 
had it been older sister venus who took serena out, or perhaps second-seeded simona halep, we wouldn’t have batted much of an eye. sure, it still would’ve been a little surprising to see the world’s greatest player come so close to completing his­tory without grabbing it, but it at least would’ve felt like a proper result. 
vinci entered the tourna­ment with 300-to-1 odds of winning it. a $10 bet on vinci on the morning of the semi­final would’ve netted you a nice $150 return. when you factor in that women’s ten­nis is a three-set game, rather than the five of the men’s one (hence “moderately fluky”), those are astronomically long odds of winning a match. 
yet Friday’s tennis in new york reminded us of the beauty of individual sport: on any day, at any place, any one competitor can rise up, high enough to knock off the world’s best — and it’s what will forever remain so intrigu­ing about individual sport. 
Think back to 2008, when we watched american swim­mer michael phelps pursue a record haul at the beijing olympics. entered in eight races, we watched on the edg­es of our seats, more waiting to see if anyone could beat the greatest talent the world had to offer, rather than waiting to see if he could beat them. 
or think about in a year, when we’ll be checking in on the 2016 summer games from rio de Janeiro. sure, we all want to see usain bolt go faster than anyone ever has before, but we’ll also be seeing if anyone could be faster than the man himself. i mean, think about it: what if some­one’s quicker than usain bolt next year? For a time period that seems just quicker than the blink of an eye, someone could have it in them. 
at the end of the day, no matter the specific discipline, individual sport is incredibly compelling. as a kid, it was about watching Tiger woods walk to the 18th, looking to finish off another major final, or seeing roger Federer cruise to another win on the world’s biggest stage, that remained so mesmerizing. 
That’s what this weekend was supposed to feel like — college football on one Tv, his­tory at the tennis on the other. serena was going to complete her slam, at 33, and cement her status as the greatest play­er to ever compete. 
but of course, that didn’t happen. whatever it was, the stage, the pressure, her op­ponent or, well, simply drake’s appearance in the crowd, there was something Friday that kept serena from what seemed like a date of destiny. 
give full credit to vinci. despite losing saturday’s final to Flavia pennetta, she booked her spot in history forever with a stunning upset and a great post-match interview, where her simple response of, “no,” was the perfect one when asked what made her think she could get the job done. 
it was a result beyond words. 
regardless of what happens from here, serena’s the great­est player women’s tennis has ever seen. period. while she didn’t complete the calendar grand slam, she still sits atop women’s tennis at 33, under­going her second reign at the top of the sport. after winning wimbledon this summer, she held all four grand slam titles concurrently for the second time in her career, 11 years after doing it the first time, completing the “serena slam” once more. 
her power and dominance over the game is remarkable, and that doesn’t get into the off-the-court obstacles she’s always faced. 
but she’s human. That’s what Friday reminded us. 
on one day, she wasn’t the best tennis player in the world. and that’s all it took for history to be dashed. 
don’t you love that? 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NFL | pacKers 31, bears 23 
packers defeat bears behind rodgers’ three Tds 
Associated Press 
chicago — aaron rodgers saw James Jones go up for a one-handed touch­down catch and experienced a few flashbacks. 
like they had stepped back in time. 
rodgers threw for three touchdowns, two to Jones, and the green bay packers beat chicago 31-23 to spoil John Fox’s debut as bears coach sunday afternoon. 
The packers got all they coulwd handle from the rebuilding bears but took control down the stretch to beat them for the 10th time in 11 games, including the postseason. 
rodgers improved to 13-3 lifetime against chicago. The 2014 mvp completed 18 of 23 passes for 189 yards. 
Jones, who spent seven seasons in green bay be­fore signing with oakland last year, caught four passes for 51 yards. That included a one-handed grab on a 13­yard score late in the first quarter that left rodgers flashing back to 2012, when Jones led the league with 14 Td catches. 
he added a 1-yarder in the third — a good start after be­ing released by the raiders in the spring and by the new york giants on the final ros­ter cut. with Jordy nelson (knee) out for the season, the packers were quick to bring back Jones. 
“no disrespect to James, but i don’t think it was that out of character,” rodgers said. “like many other guys that have gone elsewhere and come back, there is a comfort in this offense for guys who have flourished in it at times. and i think that Jones is one of those guys that really feels comfortable on offense.” 
randall cobb, hampered late in the preseason by a sprained right shoulder, had 38 yards receiving. he caught a 5-yard touchdown that made it 24-16 early in the fourth quarter, and clay matthews sealed the win by intercepting Jay cutler at the green bay 20 and returning it 48 yards. 
eddie lacy ran for 85 yards and a late touchdown. Julius peppers chipped in with 1 1/2 sacks for the four-time defending nFc north champions. 
“This is our starting point. This is who we are as a team today,” coach mike mccarthy said. “a lot of good things to go off of, a lot of things we can learn from.” 
The bears, essentially starting over under Fox and new general manager ryan pace after a five-win season, kept this one close though cutler had a rough 
afternoon. he was 18 of 36 for 225 yards, with that late 
interception  by  matthews.  
he  also  threw  a  24-yard  
touchdown  to  martellus  

bennett with 34 seconds left, but green bay recovered the onside kick. 
“green bay is a pretty good football team,” Fox said. “we were going to have to be near flawless to beat them and we didn’t quite reach that. i think there was a lot of posi­tive things that we’ll be able to build on as a football team moving forward as we get ready for arizona.” 
matt Forte ran for 141 yards 
— 105 in the first half — and a touchdown. alshon Jeffery caught five passes for 78 yards after missing the pre­season because of a left calf injury. robbie gould kicked three field goals to give him 246 to surpass Kevin butler as chicago’s all-time leader. 
green bay, which out­scored the bears 93-31 over two games last season and beat them at soldier Field for their 700th win, trailed 13-10 at the half. rodgers finished a third-quarter drive with a 1-yard slant to Jones and gould answered with a 44­yard field goal, cutting it to 17-16. 
rodgers made it 24-16 early in the fourth when he hit cobb with a 5-yard pass, capping a 16-play drive. 

NFL | bills 27, colTs 14 
colts open season with  dud in loss to bills 
Associated Press 
orchard parK, n.y.  — andrew luck didn’t mince words after rex ryan’s buffalo bills defense opened the season by putting the clamps on the indianapolis colts’ high-pow­ered offense. 
“That’s a heck of a front four and they beat us pretty badly,” luck said. 
The bills kept the colts off the scoreboard until the final minute of the third quarter, and indianapolis turned the ball over three times — including two interceptions by luck — in a 27-14 loss on sunday. 
“They threw everything but the kitchen sink at us,” said colts coach chuck pagano. “we knew it was coming.” 
and yet they couldn’t stop it, as the bills began unveiling the bully ryan vowed to build when he took over in January after doug marrone stepped down. 
Karlos williams and boobie dixon each rushed for touch­downs as part of a ground-and­pound attack that combined for 147 yards. and luck was out-played by Tyrod Taylor, who went 14 of 19 for 195 yards, in making his nFl debut at quarterback. 
getting off to a bad start is nothing new for indianapolis, which is off to an 0-1 start for the fifth time in six years. 
The trouble this time around is questions are already be­ing raised over pagano’s job security a year after lead­ing indianapolis to the aFc championship game, which it lost to eventual super bowl champ, new england. 
For the second time this week, pagano faced questions about entering the final year of his contract, and whether there’s a rift between him and general manager ryan grigson. 
“it’s out there all the time,” pagano said. “we’re all on one-day contracts.” 
colts owner Jim irsay said suggestions of there being any discontent “couldn’t be further from the truth”. 
what isn’t up for debate is that the colts’ retooled offense still needs refinement. 
luck finished 26 of 49 for 243 yards and two touchdowns. both scores — donte moncrief’s 2-yard catch and dwayne allen’s 6-yard score — came in the second half after the colts fell behind 24-0. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2015 | The observer 

MEN’S GOLF | rod myers inviTaTional 
Irish unable to avoid trouble in Durham 
By SEAN KILMER 
sports writer 
at the rod myers invitational this past week­end, the irish finished 12th out of 14 teams on an unfor­giving course. 
wake Forest earned a one-stroke victory over duke, and penn state rounded out the podium 13 strokes back of the demon deacons. irish head coach Jim Kubinski said he had expected the weather to be a huge obstacle, yet in­stead he said the speed of the course was the biggest chal­lenge for his players. 
“weather was not a huge factor overall,” Kubinski said. “The wind today impacted scores some. The firmness of the greens and overall speed, especially with the hole loca­tions, had a more significant impact. The average score over the entire field of com­petitors was 77 today. That’s very, very high for college golf. seventy-four was a good score.” 
despite the tough condi­tions, freshman ben albin shot a 227 (78-75-74) to finish 41st overall, the top among all irish golfers. he bounced back from a birdie-less first round with a birdie on the first hole in the second round, and that set the tone for his improved play over the course of the weekend, Kubinski said. 
Fellow freshman miguel delgado finished fifth for the irish and tied for 65th overall with a 236 (74-85-77), mostly because of the 85 he shot in the second round. Kubinski chalked that score up to an alignment issue, and it has since been fixed. 
“i think our fresh­men learned a great deal,” Kubinski said. “ben played pretty well throughout but didn’t make the putts he nor­mally does. he’ll bounce back this weekend. miguel had an alignment issue for a long stretch this weekend, but we figured it out. he finished up making eagle on his last hole which should put a smile on his face and have him ready for our home tournament this weekend.” 
The difficult course pun­ished the irish upperclass­men too, but Kubinski said he did not think they played as badly as some of their scores reflected. after finishing tied for second overall in the tour­nament last year junior matt rushton shot a 228 (73-76­

79) to claim a share of 42nd place. Kubinski noted he was probably too aggressive given the course conditions. 
Junior blake barens and se­nior corey sciupider finished tied for 54th and 64th, re­spectively. on a course where a missed shot was especially costly, they just missed a few too, Kubinski said. 
“each player has his own reasons for not playing the way he can,” Kubinski said. “i think matt would tell you that he was a little too aggres­sive, given the conditions. our two freshmen needed some time to settle in, to get comfortable. ben’s 74 today probably beat two-thirds of the field. cory and blake can play a lot better. The course magnified the little bit they were off in stretches, mak­ing it seem they were way off their games when it was more of any miss leaving a player in a tough spot.” 
The irish are playing in the Fighting irish golf classic this weekend, which will be held at notre dame’s warren golf course. 
Contact Sean Kilmer at  skilmer@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 

ND WOMEN’S GOLF | mary Fossum inviTaTional 
nd claims title at Fossum invite 
By RYAN KLAUS 
sports writer 
notre dame’s 2015 sea­son started strong over the weekend, culminating in a victory at the mary Fossum invitational, named in hon­or of former michigan state hall of Fame coach mary Fossum, in east lansing, michigan. 
in the two-day event, host­ed by michigan state, the irish found themselves at the top of the leaderboard at the end of both days. Two rounds of golf were played on saturday while the final round of the invitational was played sunday morning. 
“it’s a big boost of con­fidence heading into what is going to be a difficult part of our schedule,” irish head coach susan holt said of the win. “it was a really good team win. everyone played well, and i think that’s a good sign. we have depth this year that we re­ally haven’t had the last few years so i’m excited and very pleased.” 
Throughout the weekend, the irish were led by senior captain Talia campbell, who shot a combined 218 (two­over-par) and finished in second place overall. 
“Talia’s our best return­ing player,” holt said. “she was an all-acc selection last year and she’s on track to have the lowest stroke aver­age in the history of our pro­gram. it was a great start for her. she played really solid golf for three rounds. she really likes that golf course and has played it for the last three years and had the ex­perience that you need on that course to post three sol­id rounds like she did. i look for her to build on this.” 
outside of campbell, notre dame brought fresh­men isabella dilisio and maddie rose hamilton, sophomore Kari belville and junior Jordan Ferreira to the tournament. dislisio ended sunday tied for fifth place with a score of 221 (five­over-par). emma albrecht competed for the irish as an individual competitor and 
finished  in  a  tie  for ninth  
place.  
“i  think  they’ve  transi­ 

tioned well into the college game,” holt said of her three freshmen that competed in their first event. “They got a feel for it this weekend and they now know how every­thing works, so i think now it’s going to be a good thing to see them keep playing, competing and doing well.” 
during notre dame’s daz­zling saturday afternoon performance, every player for the irish shot 74 or low­er to end the second round with a four-shot lead over Tulane after two rounds. 
The irish finished with an overall score of 887 (23-over­par). The host spartans end­ed up being runner-ups to notre dame, 12 shots back. 
notre dame’s victory at the mary Fossum invitational defended last season’s tour­nament title, and was the third consecutive year in which it had won the event. 
“i felt really good about how we finished all of our rounds,” holt said. “The back nines were really solid both days, and i liked seeing that. i think that shows that they’re competing and play­ing until the end, which is a good sign.” 
The irish will return to action next weekend at the schooner Fall classic at the university of oklahoma. The tournament will span three days and is set to begin Friday and finish sunday. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus@nd.edu 




M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
head coach bobby clark, one of which was sophomore mid­fielder blake Townes. Townes explained clark had also seen a weakness in clemson’s defen­sive scheme during the first half the team managed to exploit for the only goal in the contest. 
“our coach told us to press high and come out strong,” Townes said, “he told us that their team can’t really handle the high pressure, so we came out of the gates in the first 20, put it on them and got our goal.” 
From there, the irish sim­ply needed to maintain their lead — and they did so with an excellent midfield possession game that never let the visiting Tigers close enough to manage a good shot, Townes said. 
“it’s really important,” Townes said.  “we work on it at practice day in and day out — the defensive shape, ensuring that they can’t get any chances [in the box]. i feel like we did a really nice job in the last 15 minutes to keep the lead.” 


indeed, the only shots clemson managed in the lat­ter frame either sailed wide or were forced out by well-posi­tioned defenders. before long, the clock had wound down to zero, cementing the team’s fourth win and irish goalkeeper chris hubbard’s fifth consecu­tive clean sheet. hubbard has yet to relinquish a goal to start the regular season. 
The irish have the opportu­nity to complete the sweep of their four-game home stand on Tuesday as they host Xavier at alumni stadium at 7 p.m. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 




Volleyball 
conTinued From page 16 
starting with a Friday night matchup against southeastern conference opponent mississippi state, the irish and the bulldogs (7­
3) went back and forth throughout much of the match before the irish pulled away late for a hard-fought 3-1 (28-26, 24-26, 25-14, 25-16) victory. 
both the first and second sets of their matchup with the bulldogs required extra points, but the irish dominated sets three and four on their way to victory. 
senior outside hitter haley bonneval led the irish to victory with a career-high 16 kills, while sophomore setter maddie dilfer added 45 assists and three aces and freshman libero Kelly byrne con­tributed with 12 digs and two aces of her own. 
The saturday afternoon match against eastern Kentucky saw the irish cruise to an easy victory, as they won in straight sets (25-20, 25­21, 25-14) over the colonels (1-10). 
while the lady colonels were able to keep it close at times and actually led through much of the second set, the irish were simply too much in the end. 
sophomore outside hitter sam Fry paced the irish in their win over the lady colonels with 17 kills, six blocks and a .433 hitting percentage. 
by starting off the tournament with two wins, notre dame has almost as many wins already (four) as it did all of last season (six). 
“[winning two matches is] part of the return. you work hard, you want to get a return. and that’s im­portant,” mclaughlin said. “and equally as important, i could see that the girls were enjoying playing with each other. This weekend was the first time i saw that, and it’s re­ally good to see moving forward.” 
on saturday night, notre dame welcomed arguably the toughest opponent it will face all season, as the nittany lions (8-0) have won six of the last eight national cham­pionships under long-time head coach russ rose. 
The nittany lions hadn’t even lost a set this season when they met the irish on the court, and that didn’t change saturday. notre dame hung with the top team in the country for a time but was ulti­mately no match for the high-pow­ered nittany lion attack, losing quickly in three sets (25-17, 25-19, 25-16). 
despite losing in straight sets, the irish saw this particular match as a learning experience and as a great opportunity to improve, mclaughlin said. 
“penn state, they do so many things well,” mclaughlin said. “The way they play exposes an opponents inability to do things i well. i think it was good for us. i don’t know if it tells us where we’re at. we know where we’re at, and we have to keep moving forward. but trying to be tested against a team that can play the game at the high­est level allows us to see where we want to be. 
“we’re gonna start studying the tape and see where we were lack­ing and how we can improve even more while we get ready for next weekend.” 
after the conclusion of the tour­nament, both bonneval and fresh­man outside hitter rebecca nunge were named to the all-tournament team, with nunge registering an overall hitting percentage of .339 with 23 kills and nine blocks. 
on both Friday and saturday nights the crowds were electric, mclaughlin said, something he hopes to see more of as the season continues and the irish inch closer to acc play. 
“it was awesome. our students were incredible. The fans were good. The atmosphere in there was great,” mclaughlin said. “but more than that, we feel a responsibility to represent notre dame in the best way possible. it’s notre dame, so it was just fun to be there and to be a part of something special.” 
The irish return to action next weekend when they travel to west lafayette, indiana, where they will meet ball state, south dakota and purdue at the purdue boiler box challenge. notre dame next plays at home when it welcomes louisville to the purcell pavilion and officially kicks off acc play on sept. 25. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 


W Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
the irish a 2-0 lead just 10 min­utes later. with sunday’s goal, gilbertson reclaimed her title as the team’s leading scorer with five goals on the season. 
gilbertson said the goal was due to trusting her coaches. 
“my coaches told me to go out wide,” gilbertson said. “i’d been dribbling inside most of the game and so i decided to take [the defender] on to the outside. [my coaches] were right, they gave me an opening. i thought, ‘might as well just shoot it, get it in on net. Try and test out the keeper.’ and it went in.” 
Though they went into the locker room with the lead, the irish offense sputtered in the second half with the only real chance coming on a disallowed goal by Jacobs. romagnolo said the lackluster second half per­formance was due to a lack of focus from her team in their of­fensive mindset. 
“i think [the second half per­formance] was our lack of com­posure,” romagnolo said. “we would pick the ball off and we would try to transition every single time. ... For us it was a second half of playing defend together and transition game. it’s 2-0, we didn’t need to go to goal every time.” 
The win for the irish marks the end of their nonconfer­ence schedules. starting next Friday, the irish begin to face off against acc opponents. and with six shutouts in the last eight games,  notre dame seem to be in the right spot heading into conference play. romagnolo said she is happy with how her team has been playing. 
“as a coach, you always want more,” romagnolo said. “i’m happy with where we’re at. of course i see things that i want us to continue to get better at. but we’re at a really great point at this stage. i think the area we can improve on is to have the composure to keep the ball when we win it.” 
The irish will begin acc play Friday when they travel to clemson, south carolina, to take on the Tigers at 7 p.m. at riggs Field. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2015 | The observer 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

ACROSS 31 “___ first you 61 Uneasy feeling don’t succeed 
1 Uneasy feeling 62 Hurricane’s 
…” 

6 Timekeeper center 
33 Seaboard 

11 Madrid Mrs. 63 Swarms (with) 
34 Drummer for 
14 “Understood,” 64 “Long time 
the Who 

to a radioer ___!” 
37 Mexican 15 Drug company housesthat makes 40 Slangy assents DOWN Valium 41 Free TV spot, 1 Pinball parlors 

16 Rooster’s mate for short 2 Humongous
17 Randy Travis or 44 Attribute (to) numbers

Travis Tritt 47 Overall profit 3 Lizards
19 Chicken ___ sometimes kept king 49 Arizona as petsN.B.A.’er 
20 Tennis great 4 Past, present Andre 51 Tehran’s land and future 21 “Wing” for 52 Amaze 

Dumbo 5 Crafts’ partner 
53 College 22 Airline that transcript no. 6 Weep doesn’t fly on 54 Period when 7 One who can’t 
the Sabbath 

a computer is catch a break 23 Finished functioning 
8 Groups of eight 24 Minivan since 56 Abbr. on a sale 
9 Alternative to
the mid-’90s item’s tag 

cash or check 27 Material in 57 Clark Kent and 
10 Lead-in to plopan underwear Lois Lane’s or plunkwaistband paper 11 Song syllables 29 Sinks to the 59 Make a sharp in the title of abottom, as silt turn back 1964 hit 

30 ’60s draft org. 60 Binge 
12 Takes a breather 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
13 Brokerage worker 
18 Classic 1955 Jules Dassin heist film 
22 John who sang “Rocket Man” 
25 One-___ (old ball game) 
26 Without any profit 
28 Connects 
32 “___ will be done” (Lord’s Prayer phrase) 
34 Singer Carpenter 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: don’t wait for someone else to make the first move. Take a step forward and turn your ideas into a reality. use common sense and you will find a balance that will allow you to get what you want without going into debt. let your emotions push you to victory, and make your attention to detail turn into your signature. your numbers are 7, 15, 22, 29, 36, 41, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): deal quickly with any health-related matters. exercise, good nutrition and setting up a daily routine that will keep you in tip­top shape will also improve your mental attitude. a little change is good. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): go over plans that need to be updated in order to move forward. a day trip will lead to new developments or lifestyle changes. be willing to replace the old way of doing things with something better suited to current economic trends. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): The logic of your plans will be challenged. your ability to express your wishes will be noted, but the practical application will fall short due to an oversight. Focus more on having fun than on wheeling and dealing. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): you will want to help the underdog, but avoid being taken advantage of. make a point to work on personal prospects as well as the relationships that mean the most to you. Keep in mind that charity begins at home. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): getting together with friends, relatives or neighbors will allow you to find out what everyone is up to and share some of your upcoming plans. The suggestions you get will make it easier for you to solidify your strategy and proceed. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Keeping up with others should not be a problem, but overdoing it will be. pace yourself, especially if you plan to get involved in a physical challenge. emotions will surface due to information that has the potential to jeopardize your reputation. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Take on a new project that will address a concern you have. show your passionate side, but be sure to back up your feelings with innovative solutions based on facts you’ve uncovered. love and romance are on the rise. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): helping someone will raise your profile and ensure greater security and loyalty within your relationship. organize projects that will improve your home and domestic scene. use your intuition and imagination to resolve a work-related matter. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): don’t go overboard when it comes to the promises you make or the challenges and responsibilities you offer to take on. put more time and effort into your personal well-being and future prospects. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): do what you want to do, not what someone tries to guilt you into doing. a last-minute change should not be allowed to have an impact on your day. explore the people, places and pastimes that bring you the most joy. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t sit back if there is something that needs to be done. Taking action and accomplishing your goals will make you feel good and impress others. save some time for romance or family fun as the day progresses. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): your changing interests and plans have the potential to confuse the people around you. not everyone will feel comfortable with the direction you take, but if you don’t satisfy your needs, you will be disappointed. express your wishes avidly. 


Birthday Baby: you are practical, accommodating and artistic. you are open-minded and intuitive. 

JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  
27  28  29  
30  31  32  33  
34  35  36  
37  38  39  40  41  42  43  
44  45  46  47  48  
49  50  51  
52  53  54  55  
56  57  58  
59  60  61  
62  63  64  

PUZZLE BY ALAN ARBESFELD 
35 Restaurant 41 Leftovers after posting peeling 
36 Words after a 42 Shorthaired cat 55 Scheme yell of “Police!” 
43 Actress Bening 37 Flip over, as a of “American 57 Summer hours: 
boat Beauty” 
Abbr. 38 Apt pig Latin for 
45 Galoot “trash” 46 Run out, as a 
58 Band with the 
subscription
39 ___ of God 1983 hit (epithet for 48 Jordache jeans “Owner of a Attila the Hun) competitor Lonely Heart” 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
50 Oregon’s capital 

make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

city      state Zip address 

The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S SOCCER | nd 1, clemson 0 
Irish blank Tigers to remain undefeated 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writer 
The irish extended their un­beaten streak as they complet­ed their fifth straight shutout in front of a raucous home crowd of 1,379 en route to defeating visiting no. 9 clemson 1-0 on saturday night. 
The no. 2 ranked irish (4-0-1, 1-0-0 acc) opened conference play with a convincing defen­sive performance, outshooting clemson (3-1-1, 0-0-1) 9-5 and preventing the visiting squad from registering even a single shot on goal. 
The irish pressured early and often in the first half, with sophomore forwards Jeffrey Farina and Jon gallagher launching a few balls on goal and forcing clemson junior goaltender andrew Tarbell to make saves early. The clemson backfield ran into foul trouble while trying to clear the ball from their end of the pitch, but eventually managed to force a key early corner when clemson sophomore forward diego campos’ shot was blocked and sent out of bounds. clemson’s set piece did itself in as the play ensuing from the corner was called offside. 
clemson maintained pres­sure, though, with a series of fouls called on the irish allow­ing campos two more corner kicks and a dangerous shot from just outside the box that nevertheless sailed wide of the net. with four minutes remain­ing in the half, the irish pres­sured once more, but graduate defensemen max lachowecki’s shot was blocked and the irish failed to convert on the ensuing corner before the half expired. 
The irish broke the 0-0 tie just after the beginning of the second half. notre dame forced a series of four consecutive corner kicks in its favor with a strong possession game, finally breaking through the clemson defense in the 51st minute with a header from just outside the box by junior defender matt habrowski. 
The flurry of offensive pres­sure from the irish to start the second frame was sparked by halftime substitutions from 
see m soccer PAGE 12 


ND VOLLEYBALL | nd 3, msu 1; nd 3, eKu 0; psu 3, nd 0 
notre dame takes two wins at home-opening tournament 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | nd 2, indiana 0; nd 2, michigan 0 
ND sweeps Big Ten opponents 

By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
The golden dome invitational gave the irish plenty to be excit­ed about as the new season gets under way. 
in its first home weekend un­der first year head coach Jim mclaughlin, notre dame (4-5) won two of its three matches, falling only to two-time defend­ing national champion and top-ranked penn state. 
after a couple of road tour­naments to kick off the season, the irish were ready to play at purcell pavilion for the first time this year in the golden dome invitational. mclaughlin said he was happy with the way his team played overall. 

“a little bit more consis­tent. we made some progress,” mclaughlin said. “now we move forward. individuals were more consistent, and that was reflected in the team. i thought we were better. we certainly played better than we did last week.” 
see volleyball PAGE 14 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
The big Ten came and left disappointed as the no. 13 irish bested indiana and michigan over the weekend at alumni stadium. 
The wins lifted the irish to a 7-0-1 record in nonconference action this season before they head into acc conference play from here on out. 
on Friday, the irish handled the hoosiers (3-3-2), 2-0, with goals from freshman forward natalie Jacobs and junior for­ward Kaleigh olmsted. 
defensively it was a lockdown game for the irish as they al­lowed only two shots on goal, and both came in the last 30 seconds of regulation. also showing up defensively for the irish was junior goalkeeper Kaela little who made her first start of the season and made two diving saves to preserve the team’s fifth clean sheet of the season. 
irish head coach Theresa romagnolo said the key to vic­tory for her team was its ability to keep the ball. 
“i didn’t feel like we played very well the first half of that game,” romagnolo said. “we were very individual. i think the second half we came out and moved the ball better. That’s who we are, we want to move the ball and move the opponent around to create opportunities.” 
on sunday against michigan (5-3) the final result was the ex­act same: a 2-0 irish win. The first half was chippy, however, with play being stopped every few minutes due to fouls. irish senior defender brittany von rueden earning a yellow card. 
The irish broke through the stalemate in the 25th minute as Jacobs capitalized off of a loose ball and slammed it into the back of the net for her fourth goal of the season. 
not to be left out of the scor­ing, senior forward anna maria gilbertson took a long pass from junior midfielder emily geyer, slipped past a defender and sent a scorching shot past diving wolverines sophomore goalkeeper megan hinz to give 
see w soccer PAGE 14 




