The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 91 | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Tickets face off in Class Council elections 
Ballots feature two tickets apiece from incoming sophomore, junior, senior classes for election today 
By KAYLA MULLEN and MARGARET HYNDS 
associate news editors 
Two tickets from each class will be competing for the role of ex­ecutive board for the sophomore, Junior and senior class councils. elections will be held today from 8 
a.m. to 8 p.m. 
Seniors 
andrew stoker, shae boguslawski, mia womack and kyle witzigman divided their platform into three parts: a senior speaker series; senior engagement on social, service and spiritual di­mensions; and senior week. 
“we plan to use notre dame’s resources to bring prominent speakers to campus,” stoker, the ticket’s presidential candidate, said in an email. “From entertaining comedians to business leaders, we want to connect students with peo­ple that we could only get access to while at notre dame. i think engag­ing with speakers like this is unique to the college experience and some­thing we should really be taking ad­vantage of before graduation.” 
The ticket also wishes to strengthen seniors’ involvement with each other and with the com­munity as a whole, stoker said. 
“we’ll have social events from a back to school barbecue to study 
see elecTions PAGE 4 





GreeND club goes trayless for Lent 
By CLARE KOSSLER 
news writer 
The university’s environmental club greend is incorporating its cause into the lenten season with a campaign set to launch tonight. Their initiative “go Trayless for lent” encourages students to re­frain from using trays in the din­ing halls in the hopes of reducing food waste and therein, carbon emissions. 
“when you don’t use a tray, you’re just less likely to put five cups of chocolate milk and three spoonfuls of something that you’re actually not in the mood for, just because it’s there and con­venient,” freshman brooke ely, a member of the waste committee of greend and one of the organiz­ers of the campaign, said. 
in addition to reducing food waste and the associated finan­cial costs, ely said the campaign will decrease the amount of dish detergent, water and electricity that is currently used in cleaning soiled trays. 

Freshman initiative collabora­tor Flora Tang, who serves on the waste committee as well, said the goal of the campaign is to alert students of their role in generat­ing waste and to foster a dialogue with students concerning how best to address the issue of waste reduction. 
“one of the other things we’re trying to do is just to make our students more aware of the envi­ronmental impacts of everything that we do,” Tang said.  “i feel like so many of us just take food and use trays without thinking about what is the true cost of the things we are doing.” 
Tang said the campaign’s rec­ommendation to give up trays during lent provides students with an easy way to abate their ad­verse impacts on the environment in the spirit of the lenten season. 
“i think lent is about creating small inconveniences for our­selves in order to get closer to god and better serve others — and it’s 
see greend PAGE 5 


center for spirituality begins series 
By STEPHANIE SNYDER 
news writer 
saint mary’s center for spirituality (cFs) kicked off its lecture series titled “saint Teresa of avila: carmelite mystic and doctor of the church,” Tuesday night. The first lecture, entitled “Teresa of avila: prayer is an adventure in love,” was given by keith egan, the aquinas chair of catholic Theology emeritus at saint mary’s, who has lectured and published extensively on carmelite mysticism and saint Teresa of avila. 
This year marks the 500th 
see Teresa PAGE 3 



campus ministry launches study 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer 
The office of campus ministry is taking initiative to keep up with the evolving spiritual needs of the notre dame community. 
“The spirituality study is campus ministry’s way of in­tentionally engaging the notre dame community, to get to know our students for who they are, and consider ways in which we might support them in their faith, in their life and respond to whatever their needs may be,” senior and hall retreat intern laura gauthier said. 
campus ministry associate director of communications kate morgan said the study seeks to better understand the practices and programs of the notre dame community in or­der to cultivate a better prac­tice of everyday spirituality on 
see sTudy PAGE 5 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 baseball PAGE 16 men’s baskeTball PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite exotic animal? 

Colleen Gudeman 
freshman 
pasquerilla east 
“panther.” 
Cory Castrejon 
freshman 
carroll hall 
“Tiger.” 
Dontae Knox 
freshman 
knott hall 
“komodo dragon.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Eric Prupa 
law student 
off campus 
“orangutan.” 
Sarah Drumm 
freshman pasquerilla east “red panda.” 
Sophie Asah 
freshman pasquerilla east 
“Flamingo.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



News Sports Want your event included here? 
rebecca o’neil renee griffin 

margaret hynds Zach klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com andrea vale rachel o’grady hunter mcdaniel 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Graphics emily danaher Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
maddie daly 

Photo sarah olson Viewpoint austin Taliaferro 
Men’s Boxing Mindful Meditation Graduate Student Vigil Mass Mass in Spanish Joyce Center Coleman-Morse Mass Basilica of the Sacred Dillon Hall Chapel 6 p.m. - 8 p.m. Center Basilica of the Sacred Heart 1:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. 85th annual Bengal 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Heart 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. Worship service. 
Corrections 

Bouts quarterfinals. Open to students, 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Worship service. 
The observer regards itself as faculty and staff. Worship service. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Ross Gay Reading “Do I Have OCD?” Film: “Force Majeure” Third Coast “Cloud Tectonics” 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Hammes Bookstore LaFortune Student DeBartolo Performing Percussion DeBartolo Performing 
however, recognize that we will make 
7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Center Arts Center DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
American poet reading 7 p.m. - 8 p.m. 6:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Arts Center 2:30 p.m. - 4 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
his works. Lecture by Dr. About a family caught 7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m. Theatrical 
we can correct our error. 

Christopher Bedosky. in an avalanche. Live concert. performance. 


students celebrate lunar new year 
By WEI LIN 
news writer 
students of the chinese pro­gram received the opportunity to learn more about the chinese culture outside of class during this year’s annual celebration of the lunar new year. This lunar new year, which begins Thursday, will mark the start of the year of the sheep. 
The event featured various traditional and modern chinese songs, a fan dance and a lion dance. performers comprised entirely of students in the various levels of the chinese language courses. 
assistant professional spe­cialist wei wang spearheaded the event, with help from the chinese program faculty, includ­ing chengxu yin, congcong ma, shiyi lu, weibing ye, Xi Zhang, yongping Zhu, yuming liu and Zijun wang. 
Zhu said hibachi grill buffet catered the chinese food, and the oriental market provided the snacks. The event was spon­sored by department of east asian languages and cultures, college of arts & letters’ office for undergraduate studies, liu institute for asia and asian studies and center for the study of languages & cultures. 
students currently taking a chinese language course were asked to attend the event. international students and a chinese program alumnus, philip hootsmans, also attended the celebration. 
“it was great to see my chinese professors and classmates in an informal setting, celebrating, having fun and getting to know each other outside the class­room,” junior emily bedell said. 

sophomore kelia li performed a fan dance with freshman class­mate sophie spartz. The chinese culture society provided the two set traditional chinese attire, qi paos, and the pair of fans used for the dance, li said. 
“since a lot of us aren’t home with family, having people who learn chinese and speak chinese really adds to my idea of a notre dame family,” li said. “The idea of family is in the spirit of chinese new year, and i was glad to be able to celebrate that. 
sophomore shinaola atoro and junior neil Xue performed the traditional lion dance. atoro and Xue danced in their two-man lion costume, weaved around tables and interacted with the audience. according to the chinese culture, the dance frightens of evil spirits and brings good luck. 
Freshmen dennis Zheng and abigail awodele sang a duet at the end of the event. The chorus com­prised of elementary chinese and first-year chinese students performed a song wishing every­one a happy chinese new year. 
“since we’re in a western soci­ety, we, as asian americans, tend to lose connection with our cul­ture,” Zheng said. “This celebra­tion of the holiday brings us back in touch with our culture and roots. ” 
Contact Wei Lin at  wlin4@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

group hosts discussion of life 
By JP GSCHWIND 
news writer 

notre dame’s center for ethics and culture hosted its semi-an­nual bread of life dinner Tuesday evening in the morris inn. senior erin stoyell-mulholland who helped plan and run the event, said the dinner is an opportunity for undergraduate and graduate students to interact with faculty and have conversations about issues related to the protection and support of life in the con­text of a brief lecture. Tuesday’s lecture featured speaker was erin hoffmann harding, vice president for student affairs, who spoke on the topic of “promoting a culture of life at notre dame.” 
hoffmann harding said she wanted to start by dispelling the notion that notre dame imposes disciplinary action on pregnant students — a myth she said she has heard repeated by many peo­ple across campus from students to hall staff. 
“This issue is one of our biggest challenges and something i am particularly passionate about,” hoffmann harding said. 
hoffmann harding said notre dame offers a wide variety of tools to help with planned and unplanned pregnancies, in 
Teresa 
conTinued From page 1 

anniversary of Teresa of avila’s birth — the inspiration for the theme of this lecture se­ries, cFs associate director michelle egan said. 
“when deciding on a theme, we consider the current con­temporary religious and theo­logical issues, or if there are any significant milestones within the church,” egan said. 
“The 500th anniversary of Teresa of avila’s birth is one such milestone. Teresa is one of four women to be named a doctor of the church.” 
egan said exposing the students of saint mary’s to Teresa of avila is important as they pursue deeper mean­ing in christian theology and spirituality. 
“This lecture series is an opportunity for students to become more familiar with Teresa of avila and how influ­ential her teachings have been to generations,” egan said. “her words, particularly on prayer, may have been writ­ten several hundred years ago, but they are just as fresh and meaningful today to people of all ages.” 
egan said Teresa is an excel­lent example for saint mary’s students living out its mission. 
“They can look to Teresa – her courage, wisdom, accom­plishments and her writing on prayer – to serve as a guide as they become positive influ­ences on today’s society,” egan said. 
particular designated pregnancy support advocates, a pregnant and parenting student assistance fund and educational online resources. 
“as a catholic university, notre dame is committed to life and to offering students resources that support the choice of life,” hoffmann harding said. 
students can anonymously receive pregnancy tests through university health services or the local women’s care center if they are uncomfortable with turning to an official school organiza­tion, hoffmann harding said. she also said that notre dame takes pains to include males in the pregnancy support process, especially since the fathers are often students themselves. 
The question of where stu­dents can find help is crucial, hoffmann harding said, and options range from the emo­tional and spiritual support of saint liam’s counseling services, campus ministry and hall staff to monetary assistance from the of­fice of financial aid. 
“we must be empathetic, non­judgemental and good listeners,” hoffmann harding said. “we want to support the choice of life.” 
hoffmann harding showed a 
egan said Teresa’s desired to help people love god so that they could feel god’s love and “do what needs to be done in god’s kingdom.” 
“when god loves us, god ex­ists in us,” egan said. “when we love god, we exist in god.” 
egan said Teresa described prayer uniquely as a gift. 
“The risk of giving and re­ceiving gifts is an absolutely necessary function of human life. ...  it brings about a com­mitment of love,” egan said. 
egan said Teresa of avila’s video produced by notre dame, which showcased the stories of former students who had unex­pectedly become pregnant while they were undergraduates in school. The students spoke about the initial fear and uncertainty they experienced, but also talked about how they were able to suc­cessfully finish their educations and form families with the sup­port of the university. 
There was an informal ques­tion and answer session after the talk finished and the discus­sion primarily focused on raising student awareness of the issue available help for unplanned pregnancies. suggestions from the audience included plac­ing informational posters on pregnancy support resources in the bathrooms of resident halls in similar manner to how georgetown university adver­tises their own pregnancy assis­tance program. 
hoffmann harding said the university is continually look­ing for new ways to improve their support for pregnant students and she appreciates recommen­dations and ideas from students and faculty. 
Contact JP Gschwind at  jgschwin@nd.edu 
“willingness to venture within herself to find her friend, her spouse, her lord,” led to her greatest discovery of prayer — that, “god is the god of lavish love.” 
“prayer was her greatest ad­venture,” egan said. “she said, ‘in this life there could be no greater good than the practice of prayer.’” 
egan said this is how hu­mans experience god’s love.” 
Contact Stephanie Snyder at ssnyder02@saintmarys.edu 

STUDENT GOVERNMENT SPARKNOTES 



Elections 
conTinued From page 1 
breaks with free pizza right before midterms, service partnerships with the boys and girls club and the robinson center and spiritual opportunities, including a class mass and candlelight prayer,” he said. 
stoker, boguslawski, womack and witzigman also have plans for senior week that incorporate both old traditions and new ideas, stoker said. 
“i’m personally most excited about the senior speaker series,” stoker said. “This kind of event has never been taken on by a class council before and i think it will be an exciting challenge to see how big we can make it. The inspiration for this project came from attending speeches by stanley druckenmiller and alexis ohanian, the founder of reddit. 
stoker and boguslawski have served on class councils since freshman year, while womack and witzigman have been involved with class councils since sopho­more year. stoker is currently the Junior class council’s treasurer. 
The ticket aims to encourage participation among off-campus seniors, stoker said. 
“one of the challenges for stu­dent government senior year is that so many students move off cam­pus. we plan to collaborate heavily with off campus council and other student groups in the planning of events,” stoker said. 
Thomas schneeman, shannon montague, brian cimons and bridget doyle said they hope to make senior year as memorable and meaningful as possible by focusing on bringing together on-and off-campus seniors. They plan to do this is through transportation reforms, the ticket’s candidate for treasurer, cimons, said. 
“one of the first thing that we would like to get started working on is increasing the off campus trans­portation network,” cimons said in an email. “all the construction going on has really limited parking options, and since seniors make up a majority of off campus students, this is a great concern of ours. we also want to work on expanding the existing transportation to down­town south bend.” 
scheeman said the focus will be on ensuring that the seniors, regardless of location, will remain close. 
“senior year is much different than any other year, as it is our last year together, and we will be fac­ing different challenges,” he said. “with so many seniors moving off campus, the event planning shifts from bringing together students from around campus to uniting the off-campus community with the on-campus community. 
montague, the ticket’s candi­date for vice president, said that the ticket has built up a variety of contacts that will ensure their plans will be implemented quickly and effectively. 
“This will allow us to dedicate our efforts and utilize the neces­sary resources and planning at our disposal to make them great and encourage spending time as a class without inviting busy se­niors to events every single week,” montague said. “we know that as seniors, everyone in our class will have busy schedules, so for pro­gramming, we want to hit a couple of big, signature events.” 
Thomas schneeman, the tick­et’s presidential candidate, is the current executive controller for student government, manag­ing the vidal-devine administra­tion’s budget. he has also been a member of Fuel, morrissey Freshman orientation committee, morrissey’s hall council and various departments of student government, including university affairs and constituent services. montague is the chief of staff for the undergraduate student union and has previously served as pasquerilla west hall’s dance and Queen week commissioners, and was a member of the student campus orientation committee. cimons is morrissey’s representa­tive on student senate and helped bring the wall street Journal to campus. he also has served on morrissey’s Freshman orientation committee. bridget doyle, the ticket’s candidate for secretary, is vice-president of howard hall and has served as co-president in the past. she also has been a member of class council and served on vari­ous committees within the council. 

The ticket wishes to continue the great work of this year’s Junior class council, but also expand on it for their senior year, doyle said. 
“we want to make this next year even better, since it is our senior year here on campus … i think that we have a great team and some really good ideas, and we look for­ward to our senior year with the chance to give our classmates the best year yet,” doyle said. 
Juniors 

eva niklinska, katelyn wray, mason Zurovchack and kimmy sullivan intend to introduce sev­eral new events for the class, in­cluding giveaways and service opportunities, the ticket’s candi­date for treasurer, Zurovchak said. 
“events like study abroad send­offs and welcome-backs will pro­vide a perfect opportunity for staying in touch with new friends made around the globe and those you love from under the dome,” Zurovchak said in an email. “Frequent events like berry and einstein bagel giveaways will sweeten your day with a way to destress from the craziness that is junior year. we plan to give back to our amazing class by not only offering them more oppor­tunities to volunteer their time and talent in the community, but also through Junior appreciation week — a new initiative to give ju­niors steals and deals within and outside campus. 
“Finally, we want to start a new signature event aside from the classic Jpw with an annual derby dance, modeled off the vibe and excitement of the kentucky derby.” 
sullivan said that three of the four members of the ticket — niklinska, wray and sullivan — previously served on class council. 
“eva [niklinska] was a member of both Freshmen and sophomore class council as the Freshman class service committee chair, and the current sophomore class secre­tary,” sullivan said. “as an execu­tive this year, she knows what has worked and what changes need to be made in order for the class of 2017 council to get more cohesive and better organized each and ev­ery year.” 
niklinska said sullivan’s expe­rience planning events this year put the ticket at an advantage in terms of expectation manage­ment, and what projects would be realistic. 
“all of our plans are feasible not only within the ability to execute, but also within the budget nor­mally allocated to class councils,” niklinska said. 
elizabeth Fenton, louis 
see elecTions PAGE 5 

paid adverTisemenT 



GreeND 
conTinued From page 1 
about service,” Tang said. 
The idea for “go Trayless for lent” originated from the waste committee, a subset of greend. Tang and ely, along with ju­nior Jessica peck, who is cur­rently studying abroad in paris, designed the initiative in the hopes of continually improving notre dame’s commitment to sustainability. 
“we’ve been working on ways to reduce waste, and one of the ways we came up with was basi­cally to encourage people to use trays because it’s one of the most tangible ways to reduce waste,” Tang said. “one tiny thing that you could do during lent could actually make a huge impact on the environment itself and other people’s lives.” 
although the campaign will ini­tially be associated with the lenten season, ely said the committee’s ultimate aim is for students to de­crease their usage of trays through the duration of the academic school year. 
“There used to be ‘waste-Free wednesdays,’ and we want there to be ‘Trayless Tuesdays’ or some­thing of that nature where on occa­sion people will not use their trays to reduce waste,” ely said. 
Tonight, members of greend will have a table outside of south dining hall to answer questions and raise awareness about the campaign.  ely said the commit­tee’s current emphasis is on publi­cizing the campaign and assessing its reception among the student body. 
“we’re mainly focusing on get­ting the word out there and getting people to start thinking about it and trying to get a lot of feedback,” ely said. 
Contact Clare Kossler at  ckossler@nd.edu 
Study 
conTinued From page 1 
campus. 

“we hope the information collected in this study will help us to recognize what our students need from us and how we can better sup­port them during their time at notre dame,” morgan said. “we’re also very interested in hearing what’s currently working in campus ministry and what’s not.” 
morgan said she and the rest of campus ministry ac­knowledge that the study will not facilitate progress on its own. 
“while we know this study won’t give us all the answers, we do think that learning more about student life will allow us to help students grow in their faith,” morgan said. 
sophomore and Junior retreat intern, senior Jordan russell, said she is excited for an opportunity to exam­ine and critique the current programs campus ministry offers. 
“we want to help students grow in their faith in what­ever ways they need,” russell said. “Therefore, our hope is to uncover what those needs are in order to better aid the current and incoming stu­dents. i think this is a great chance for us to really ask the question, ‘who are our stu­dents?’” russell said. 
morgan said the study is an opportunity to help better understand students and car­ry on the mission of campus ministry. 
“i think it’s imperative for campus ministry to under­stand student interests, con­cerns, aversions,” morgan said. “knowing this will help us to assess our own pro­gramming and determine how we can better tailor it to meet their needs” 
Though the study may en­gender major changes within campus ministry in the fu­ture, the study also serves the present university commu­nity, gauthier said. 
“campus ministry strives to serve its students as christ would serve them, recogniz­ing that every student on this campus is not only important, but beautiful,” gauthier said. “This has been, and will con­tinue to be, our goal. by en­gaging the unique stories that make up individual lives on this campus, we are excited to continue getting to know our students, loving our students and letting christ show us the way to serve them best.” 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 
Elections 
conTinued From page 4 
bertolotti, conor bradley and shannon hodges focused their platform on unity and bringing the class of 2017 together for the last two years of their time at notre dame. 
“This is reflected in our slogan ‘Together, to 2017,’ which we hope conveys the fact that we want to bring everyone together to our telos, or best selves, over the course of our last two years,” Fenton said in an email. 
bertolotti said that the ticket hopes to achieve their goal of class unity through class trips. 
“This is a way to bring the class closer together outside of the ‘nd bubble,’ and we think that it could also just be a great time,” bertolotti said. “First semester, we plan on bringing everyone to the michigan dunes for a beach trip, and second semester, should our budget allow, we hope to attend a cubs, white sox or blackhawks game together. 
“The plans we will work on first are the networking ones like these where 2017ers will be given the op­portunity to get to know each other 
paid adverTisemenT 
better.” 

Fenton is the current direc­tor of national engagement and outreach (neo) and also sits on the executive cabinet of student government. bertolotti is the co-director of Fuel and has helped plan events such as the Freshman networking Fair. hodges and bradley both have leadership experience outside of student government. 
The ticket also wishes to increase cohesiveness within the class of 2017 through signature events, Fenton said. 
“The biggest change that we will have to make next year is working with students who are studying abroad,” Fenton said. “we want to ensure that these students will not feel left out of the nd community while they are gone, and we believe that programs which highlight their friends from back home, such as ‘Junior of the week,’ will help that. 
“we also hope to seamlessly in­tegrate them back into the 2017 family when they come back with events that will allow students who did not study abroad learn from the experiences of others who had the opportunity to spend time in an­other country.” 
Sophomores 
greg perenich, Teresa simunich, patrick rodgers and helena Qu said they based their platform on three ideas: devotion, authenticity and diversity. 
“These three principles are what drive us to serve the notre dame community and the class of 2018,” simunich said in an email. “if elect­ed, we would like to show our devo­tion to our classmates by providing a website tailored to the needs of our class. This website would entail informational links, current news and places where grievances, sug­gestions or comments could be posted for the betterment of our class.” 
once in office, the ticket’s first priority would be to help its class members better use the resources available to them on campus. 
“First, we would like to arrange a fair for pre-professional and pre­medical majors to provide an op­portunity for these students to gain insight into their potential careers in the medical field,” simunich said. “another top priority of ours is to work in collaboration with different cultural groups on campus (such as asian american association, black student association, latino student alliance, etc.) in order cre­ate events would to promote class unity and diversity on campus. we also plan to have a sophomore-specific study abroad information night.” 
according to rodgers, none of the ticket members were involved in this year’s Freshman class council although they were each involved in student government in their re­spective high schools. 
“we think the fact that we were not involved in class council allows us to bring a fresh perspective to the role,” rodgers said in an email. 
Jp bruno, molly knapp, matthew ross and henry long ticket’s agen­da focuses on working with the in­coming freshman executive board. 
“if elected, we would all at­tend the Freshman class council meetings and hold mentorship workshops for the freshmen rep­resentatives in order to create a re­lationship with the future leaders of notre dame,” long said. “we feel that this mentorship would facilitate collaboration between class councils and would create a smoother transition for the fresh­men as they assume their roles as leaders of their class.” 
long said that he, bruno and ross  currently serve on the ex­ecutive board of Freshman class council; bruno serves as president, long as vice president and ross as treasurer. 
“we have all made extensive con­tacts within student government and the administration at notre dame, including ryan willerton, the director of the office of community standards, and paul manrique and peggy hnatusko in the student activities office,” long said in an email. 
given their experience on this year’s council, long said the ticket hopes to increase communication between the class council and the class. 
“if we are elected, we would focus being accessible to the members of the sophomore class,” long said. “open meeting and office hours would provide opportunities for sophomores to discuss concerns, ask questions, and give suggestions for the sophomore class council. online forms will allow feedback and ideas for events to be shared directly with us.” 
Contact Kayla Mullen at kmullen2@nd.edu and Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 

Forty days of fair 
Margaret Hynds 
associate news editor 

i love the musical “how to succeed in business without really Trying” for many reasons. an important one is that it starred daniel radcliffe in its revival three years ago, which was a wonderful thing. picture harry potter in a suit and bow-tie doing incredibly complicated choreography while running around singing with a delightful vibrato. 
more importantly, however, the an­noyingly catchy song  “coffee break” really resonates with me. 
“if i can’t take my coffee break, 
my coffee break, my coffee break… 
if i can’t take my coffee break, 
something within me dies.” 

“if i can’t make three daily trips 
where shining shrine 
benignly drips 

and taste cardboard between my lips, 
something within me dies.” 

no really, something within me really does die. if you’ve ever had the distinct pleasure of running into me early in the morning before i’ve had my (first) daily cup of coffee, then i’m so sorry, because i was probably horribly unpleasant. 
unfortunately, however, the coffee industry that i so rely on is rife with human rights abuse, unfairly low wages and dangerous working conditions. many coffee companies grow their cof­fee beans in incredibly impoverished areas of the world and do little to com­bat that. 
my coffee habit sometimes leaves me feeling guilty. i try to drink fair trade coffee when i can, but that’s only so convenient, and i happen to love starbucks, a company criticized heavily for its treatment of workers in ethiopia. 
The issue presents at the forefront of my mind this week because, in the days leading up to ash wednesday, i’ve been on a quest to decide what i would like to do or give up for lent. i briefly consid­ered weaning myself off caffeine en­tirely, but that seems unrealistic (read: impossible. definitely not happening.) 
instead, i’m going Fair Trade for the next 40 days. completely. Thankfully, there are plenty of places to find fair trade coffee on this campus (waddicks, café de grasta and the huddle, to name a few). 
The way i see it, if i’m going to pump an alarming amount of my flex points and, when i inevitably run out of them, my own money into the coffee industry, i should at least make an effort to en­courage fair trade companies. 
and, since you’ve taken the time to read this, i’m encouraging you — take the opportunity to support human rights while supporting your own san­ity with your daily cup of joe. 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
‘i never meant to start a war’ 
Christopher Newton 
stepping out of The cave 

america’s foremost foreign affairs expert, perhaps the most incisive and lucid since Thucydides, the lyrical genius that is miley cyrus provides us with an analytical framework with which to examine ongoing middle eastern conflict. beyond encouraging reckless weekend behavior, cyrus’ ballad “wrecking ball” may be the most insightful take on american national security policy since george kennan gave us the long Telegram. despite its wide applicability, here we shall utilize it as a starting point for examining president barack obama’s recent request from congress for an authorization of the use of military Force (aumF) in the middle east. 
iraq has once again come full circle and is in danger of com­ing apart at the seams, with talk of civil war and sectarian partition causing many americans to shake their heads in disbelief, anger and resignation. The complete dismantling of the iraqi state during the iraq war not only midwifed the ever so cleverly titled islamic state (is), but subsequently allowed it to reinvade from its syrian bases and occupy large tracts of iraq as well. 
The united states, iran, Turkey, israel and numerous arab league members have all joined the fray, each desiring starkly contrasting outcomes. with the center of the middle east engulfed in turmoil, the regional balance of power and even sykes-picot have been strongly destabilized. The realists of every participating nation-state see not human tragedy, but a rare chance for “a splendid little war” that could restructure the politics of the region for generations. 
The united states is first among these interested parties. as cyrus tells us in “wrecking ball,” although the united states entered iraq in 2003 not intending to ignite a regional confla­gration (see title), its invasion strategy left much to be desired: “i just closed my eyes and swung.” inevitably, this led to a lamentable american response following its 2011 withdrawal, with accusations against iraq that “all you ever did was wre-e­eck me,” followed by repeated admissions that “i came in like a wrecking ball.” with the american public demanding action, obama must now convince the iraqi people and other allies that he means it when he tells them “don’t you ever say i just walked away, i will always want you,” bringing us to the aumF request. 
This request for a formal, potentially unnecessary autho­rization indicates that the president intends to escalate the conflict — a welcome signal to regional partners — and that american ground troops will inevitably become casualties 
—
 requiring a domestic political consensus. domestically, obama’s rhetoric about returning to iraq for the purposes of “degrading and ultimately destroying” the islamic state sounds more akin to shakespeare’s king henry v at harfleur 

—
 “once more unto the breach, dear friends, once more, or close the wall up with our english dead” — than the president 


who had bin laden shot. 

The aumF, as first drafted by obama, aims to accomplish a variety of goals in both letter and spirit, demonstrating that the grey-haired one remains an astute lawyer. most of these goals are political rather than legal, as obama indicated that the aumF is merely a courteous formality in an uncharac­teristically sassy letter to congress. obama has bluntly stated that he has the authority to conduct operations against is through a combination of the post-9/11 aumF of 2001 for fighting al-Qaeda, and his role as commander-in-chief of the american military. while this requires the legal acrobatics typical of the war on Terror, it is suffice to say that obama will carry on with the campaign against the islamic state regard­less of what congress says. 
instead, the aumF is primarily a political tool, its debate a reflection of struggles between not only democrats and republicans but also the executive and the legislature. it can­not be overlooked that the aumF currently has a three-year sunset clause, meaning that it is set to expire during election season of the 2018 midterms. That election will thus in part be a referendum on the next administration’s, and congress’, progress against the islamic state. 
more immediately, the ongoing effort against the islamic state in iraq and syria presents congress with a fait accompli, placing the onus on its republican leadership to join in the na­tional effort. The war is on and the american people want the islamic state destroyed. congress cannot be seen as imped­ing this effort, for to do so would hand obama two victories 
— congress would again be seen as useless compared to the executive and republicans would come off as obstructionist. 
yet, obama also did not include a repeal of the controversial 2001 aumF, a tactical masterstroke. congress must approve military action, but to do so it must amend the proposed aumF. Thus the aumF will not be purely a product of the ad­ministration, but of a republican congress as well. whatever the results of the coming conflict, it will have the stamp of both obama and boehner come 2018. 
The document is also rife with semantic nuance, particu­larly one crucial phrase. it does not authorize “enduring of­fensive” action, in turn allowing actions that are long-term yet billed as defensive or neutral — such as any humanitarian or advisory initiatives — or offensive yet short — including any special forces raid — potentially granting obama and the next president a deceptively wide mandate for action. 
as the political battle gathers speed, the physical battle rages on. regardless of who wins the contest at home, let us all hope that our elected officials remember who the actual en­emy is, the islamic state itself. 
Chris Newton is a senior formerly of Knott Hall. He is a political science major and international development studies minor. He can be reached at cnewton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

A Lenten journey 
To me, the beginning of lent was always met with the constant question, “what are you going to give up this year?” as a little kid, that meant giv­ing up mac n’ cheese, fruit snacks, or, as my sister did once, onion rings (okay, she was a junior in high school when she did this … last year). as i got older, these sacrifices became larger. chocolate, Tv time, even eliminating all sweets, as i’ve done the past few years. These sacrifices were also met with comparisons, the “oh you’re giving up chips, i’m giving up all chocolate” comment. lent became a challenge of who could give up the most difficult and delicious food. lent had basically turned into a spring break diet. 
This year, i’m taking a different approach. not be­cause i’m giving up on cutting junk food (but let’s be honest i couldn’t go more than 40 days without dark chocolate anyways), but instead because that’s not what lent is about. The purpose of lent is to begin a 40-day journey of prayer, fasting and alms-giving to deepen and strengthen our relationship with christ. lent isn’t about trying to fit into that bikini or about giving up something more difficult than your friend, lent is about doing something for your faith and for others. 
when i heard about the crs rice bowl initiative, it brought me back to the true meaning of lent. The crs rice bowl is catholic relief services’ response to hunger in africa, which started 40 years ago. This year there will be many of the cardboard rice bowls in each dorm to collect any donations to raise money for impoverished areas. each rice bowl also comes with a calendar with each day of lent in­cluding a simple reflection to join in solidarity and prayer for our brothers and sisters. 
another unique quality about the crs rice bowl is that the focus is not solely on global solidarity, but on local communities as well. of the money raised, 75 percent goes to helping global hunger, but another 25 percent is used to help local issues. here in this “notre dame bubble” we may not re­alize all the support that those in our community may need. how can we show those around us this solidarity? There are so many ways we can do this, especially on our own campus. a simple acknowl­edgement or word of thanks to the service staff on campus can foster this overall sense of community and help us reach out to others. with many com­mitments in our schedule, it can be difficult to slow down and take a step back to remember what is truly meaningful, our relationships with one another. Those who work to provide food in the dining halls, clean the dorms and protect our cam­pus work hard for our benefit; the least we can do is show our gratitude for their meaningful work. if someone is looking for a way to serve others by put­ting their words into actions, the center for social concerns in geddes hall provides many service opportunities for students to join in solidarity with our brothers and sisters here on campus and in the surrounding south bend and mishawaka area. The crs rice bowl represents an opportunity to join in solidarity with one another and to promote the community to which notre dame aspires. 
and, like everything, there’s an app for that. The app, entitled “crs rice bowl” comes equipped with alarms for reminders for lenten promises, opportunities to donate and my personal favorite, daily reflections. so this year, instead of just giving up all sweets (difficult as that is), i’m going to use this app to read the daily reflections on my walk to classes. instead of spending my walks checking yik yak or Twitter, i’m going to spend them in reflection and prayer. 
i realized that giving up all sweets or chocolate or Facebook was a challenge, but it was a challenge for only myself. i didn’t find myself building on my faith or sharing in solidarity with others, i was just constantly craving chocolate and eating lots of peanut butter to appease my sweet tooth. This year, i won’t focus my lenten journey around “40 days without sweets” but instead “40 days for solidarity.” i encourage everyone to do the same. The next time you see a crs rice bowl, i hope you stop to say a quick prayer or donate if you wish, but i really hope you think. what does lent mean to you? and what does your lenten promise mean for others? 
please check out crsricebowl.org and download the crs rice bowl app for more information! 
Kallie Renfus 
junior pangborn hall 

Justice for muslims 
dear muslim notre dame Family, 
it is with deep sorrow that we reach out to you in shock of the events that occurred at chapel hill. The violent taking of the lives of three loving, striving, innocent muslim students is a disgusting reminder of the hatred towards islam which we unfortunately see living among us in america. 
as black, largely non-catholic students, we know all too well the stressors of attending a predomi­nantly white, primarily-catholic institution. as the targets of hurtful backlash at the end of last semes­ter for affirming that our lives matter, we recognize the often anonymously-voiced acrimony toward us, particularly on social media, as just another symp­tom of the myopic worldview that afflicts many on our campus and throughout the country as a whole. as the murders in chapel hill demonstrate, the inability to acknowledge the humanity of mar­ginalized groups, whether racial or religious, can only beget suffering and division. we believe that if we are not part of the solution to this schism in our society, we are part of the problem. we know that the solution is to love one another. Thus, we reach out to you in a spirit of love and support. 
To watch members of one’s larger community attacked because of who they are is an extremely painful, often frightening experience. The fact that these students lost their lives on the basis of faith 
— the way in which they chose to worship god — is outrageous. due to the unreliable nature of many media outlets, this tragedy can and will be spun in many ways. however, from our perspective, this appears to be an act of terrorism. 
indeed, islamophobia is a form of bigotry that some consider a form of racism — we see this connection clearly when the terms “arab” and “muslim” are conflated and when even non-mus­lim arabs are attacked and discriminated against for their phenotypical appearance. To be sure, these acts of spiritual, emotional and physical violence begin with the corrosive fear and igno­rance deep within the souls and minds of the ag­gressors. all racism does. all discrimination does. islamophobia is no different in this regard. 
we are deeply saddened to see such heinous violence against muslims occur yet again in our country, let alone on a college campus. we are all students, just like the three young people who were slain. Though all the details are not yet accessible to the public, it is our opinion that this incident falls into the realm of hate crime. 
The root of hate is fear. as the opposite of fear is love, we intend to continue to construct a loving community, on notre dame’s campus and beyond, to counter the fear and ignorance toward your community, dear muslim brothers and sisters. 
we love you. we appreciate you, and your notre dame family is not ignorant of the issues you face. we see you. we bear witness to and condemn big­otry in all its forms and we affirm that your lives 
are precious. #JusticeFormuslims is a human right. 
Niclah Petrovic 

senior president of naacp of notre dame 
Andre Smith 
senior president of wabruda 
Preston Igwe 
junior vice president of wabruda 
Jas Smith 
junior president of bsa 
Alex Rice 

junior president of africana studies club 
Ihuoma Nwnogwugwu 
senior president of asa 
Ray’Von Jones 
junior president of shades of ebony 





By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 

Time, we assume, passes the same way for all us. a year for one person is the same as a year for another; certainly, some days may seem to go by more quickly than others, but that is a matter of perception and not a reflection of actual reality. 
or so we assume. in José rivera’s “cloud Tectonics,” the playwright questions our basic assumptions about time and space with a dreamlike, tragic love story. as part of their spring line up, the department of Film, Television and Theater will present “cloud Tectonics” at the regis philbin Theater in dpac beginning Feb. 19. The play is di­rected by senior professor of directing and playwriting/ Theater and social concerns anton Juan. 
“cloud Tectonics” is an exploration of magical realism. it begins with a pregnant woman standing in the rain in los angeles. she is eventually picked up by a passer-by and goes with him to his house. once there, his clocks lit­erally stop, and the play begins to mess with our assumed truths about time and space. 
By KELLY McGARRY 
scene writer 

There have been speculations that netflix is working with nintendo on a new series based on the seeming­ly immortal video game series “The legend of Zelda.” neither has confirmed the series, but there are number of questions that will need to be answered in order to convert this fantasy adventure game into a live-action series. 
a similar task has been undertaken before. Though we’d like to forget, The legend of Zelda was turned into a cartoon comedy series in 1989 featuring an angsty teen link’s frivolous adventures in hyrule. netflix appears to be taking a totally different approach. according to ru­mours, the new Zelda series is aimed at a family-friend­ly version of game of Thrones. This seems to suggest a story that it deeply heroic and somewhat dark, with characters strongly developed from the many names throughout the game series. 
The play only features three characters. celestina de la sol is the name of the woman, and she claims to be 54 years old and to have been pregnant for two years. anibal de la luna is the man who picks her up, and nelson is his brother. The three move about in the same physical set­ting but different time frames, complicating their rela­tionships as they navigate the events of the past and how much time has passed for each of them. 
The play posed particular problems in terms of set design, which were presented to various FTT classes to solve in time for the play’s production. The “torrential rainstorm” that begins the play and the floating bed in anibal’s house were particularly challenging for the set designers. 
like many FTT plays, “cloud Tectonics” asks the audi­ence to leave the theater questioning their own percep­tions and assumptions about life. like “six characters in search of an author” from the fall, there is no reason to believe that the end of the play will bring any further clarity to what has happened. 
riviera was nominated for a 2005 academy award, a baFTa award and a writers guild of america award for 
one issue that immediately comes to mind is link’s speech. in the game, his vocabulary consists of excla­mations along the lines of “uh eh ooh!” leading some gamers to believe that link isn’t even able to talk. nevertheless, i have trouble imagining a Zelda series with a mute protagonist. Though the huge fan base that already exists for the Zelda games will definitely be an advantage for the success of the new series, it might be difficult to write lines for link that live up to the expec­tations of his fans. The game series also provides an in­credible soundtrack for the netflix writers to work with. it seems that fans would appreciate an adaptation of classic Zelda songs over an entirely new soundtrack. 
The lore of Zelda could provide a complex framework for the show, and it would be a surprise if the plot did not at least attempt to follow it. even a strict interpretation leaves all the details to be filled in and a lot of freedom to develop the characters. one important question is the time-frame: will the show feature link as an adult or child, or both? Throughout the game series, things get his screenplay “The motorcycle diaries” and received two obie awards for playwriting. “cloud Tectonics” premiered in 1995 at the 19th annual humana Festival and was then produced at the la Jolla playhouse and at playwrights horizons in new york city. 
The FTT department has described the play as one that “explores human relationships, the impermanence of time, the possibility of miracles and asks, ‘what if there are people born who don’t have that inner clock — who don’t progress through space and time the same way you do?’” The very question reveals that this is a play with no easy conclusions, though it will certainly instigate some interesting academic pondering. 
The first performance of the FTT version of “cloud Tectonics” is Thursday at 7:30 p.m. The play will run through march 1, with performances at 7:30 p.m. from Friday to saturday and Feb. 24-28. There will be sunday matinee performances at 2:30 p.m., Feb. 22 and march 
1. Tickets are $7 for students, $12 for seniors and $15 for regular admission. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 
complicated. with the family-friendly angle, it seems that the protagonists will be played by young adults. a series with so much anticipation is sure to be filled with fresh faces, but for the main characters some ideas come to mind. 
when i think of a real-life version of link, Jojen reed from game of Thrones immediately comes to mind, and that’s why Thomas brodie-sangster would the perfect mild-mannered yet intensely heroic character to play link. expecting a tough and spunky version of princess Zelda, there’s no one more fit for the role than chloë grace moretz, best known for her role as hit-girl in “kick-ass” — she’s already proven herself a sassy ac­tion hero with a very Zelda look. 
whether the Zelda games are a current pastime or a fond childhood memory, we can look forward to the fantasy and adventure of the legend of Zelda brought to life. 
Contact Kelly McGarry at kmcgarry@nd.edu 

EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 




By MADDIE DALY 
associate scene editor 

do you ever feel like you were born in the wrong de­cade? That perhaps you were meant to be wearing bell-bottoms or hoop skirts instead of leggings and skinny jeans? maybe you would rather be jamming to The beatles than Tswift? well, there still aren’t any time machines that i’m aware of, but this Thursday you can transport back to the '60s and experience beatlemania right here in south bend. 
“leT iT be: a celebration of the music of The beatles” will be playing at The morris performing arts center to bring the music of The beatles to our country and our generation. over 800,000 fans have already seen the show worldwide, from venues in the u.k., Japan, moscow and now the u.s. The show includes over 40 of the most popu­lar songs from The beatles, including “help,” “yesterday,” “hey Jude” and, of course, “let it be.” even if we weren’t alive during their reign, The beatles are still very much relevant to our generation today. 
i had the opportunity to chat with performer chris mcburney who portrays ringo starr, The beatles’ drum­mer, in the show and is from the original broadway cast. when describing the structure of the show, mcburney said it goes through the entirety of The beatles’ musical career. 
“it’s kind of like a retrospective of The beatles,” mcburney said. “it’s a culmination of their whole career, mostly music based, and starts chronologically with The beatles playing in the cavern club in liverpool in 1962, then there’s a scene with the ed sullivan show, all the way up until they broke up in 1969.” 
The show also provides historical context so the audi­ence can feel as if they are reliving the era of The beatles, mcburney said. 
“we have three multimedia screens where the audi­ence sees what’s going on at the time. in between or dur­ing the songs, things like the JFk assassination, martin luther king [Jr.] and the civil rights movement, the hip­pie movement — to give the audience a full experience of the culture and the impact The beatles had,” mcburney said. 
when asked about the demographics of the audience, mcburney said that people of all ages come out to the show, enjoying the songs whether or not they are huge beatles fans. 
“The beatles were a band that pretty much spanned across generations,” mcburney said. “everyone pretty much knows The beatles, whether or not they listen to them, they usually realize they actually know a lot of the songs. mostly what we have [at the concert are] beatle freaks as well as casual listeners. it tends a family affair, so we have grandparents, parents, kids and grandkids 
— it’s a thrill for us to see an eight year old singing along with their grandparents, and that’s what’s so cool about The beatles, they span generations.” 
in order to prepare for the show, mcburney studied starr through video footage and close listening. 
“i started really studying [the songs], like a student might study history or something,” mcburney said. “it’s not just getting up there and jamming. it’s really about the attention to detail — really trying to recreate not only the music but the mannerisms of who i’m portraying. i spent hours and hours watching footage of ringo. i’m trying to get the essence; he has very specific movements, i had to change the way i approach drums — he usually tended to sit pretty high. also listening to isolated tracks, going over them with a fine-toothed comb. it’s one of those things that’s a never-ending journey.” 
The fact that this show has been such a success across the world for all different age groups gives testament to the ever-present popularity of The beatles, mcburney said, and attributing the success to the pure musical tal­ent of the original band members. 
“i think first and foremost [The beatles’ popularity] would have to come down to the song writing of [John] lennon and [paul] mccartney,” mcburney said. “They were really musical geniuses, and i consider them our sort of modern day classical composers…like mozart, bach and beethoven. also just their creativity, their level of experimentation; they were seekers, trying to change up music and trying to do different things in the studio. They were just very creative influences, and they influ­enced each other in that way too.” 
whether you can name all 40 of The beatles songs on the concert’s set list or you barely recognize “here comes the sun,” mcburney is confident you will enjoy the show. he describes it as two hours of rock music, and listeners from all backgrounds will enjoy it in their own way. 
The show will take place Thursday Feb. 19 at 7 p.m. at The morris performing arts center, located in down­town south bend. Tickets can be purchased online at morriscenter.org or by calling 800-537-6415. prices range from $37.50 to $60.50, depending on proximity to the stage. Find more information about the show at letitbelive.com. 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 

EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

NHL trade deadline looms 
Brian Plamondon 
sports writer 
in just a few weeks one of my favorite sports days of the year will take place: the national hockey league trade deadline. 
Falling on monday, march 2 this year, the deadline is a fun and exciting day that can make or break your team’s season. unlike the nFl, or even the nba, the nhl trade deadline is an incredibly busy day (or couple of days leading up to it) 
—
 in 2014, there were 30 deals completed in the two days leading up to the deadline. 

This year there is no short­age of possible moves. below you’ll find a few of potential trades — most a stretch, but hey, i could look like a genius 

—
 that i think would benefit both clubs as i try my luck at armchair gm. 


Maple Leafs trade RW Phil Kessel, 4th round pick to Sharks for C Joe Thornton, 1st-round pick 
The leafs are officially in rebuild mode. They are bound to deal kessel and defenseman dion phaneuf, whether it hap­pens now or in the offseason. kessel, in the midst of his seventh-straight 20-goal sea­son, would immediately be­come a top-line threat for the sharks and pair well with cen­ter Joe pavelski. it also allows the sharks, who have a glut of centers (logan couture is only 25), to get rid of one. The sharks need to make a glitzy move as they fight for a playoff spot. The leafs also come out happy in this scenario—they free up plenty of cap space for their rebuild, as kessel was in year one of an eight year, $64 million pact. They gain an always-valuable first round pick in addition to a proven locker room leader who can mentor their younger guys. 
Capitals trade D Mike Green, C Brooks Laich to Bruins for LW Milan Lucic, 2nd-round pick 
it’s no secret that the bruins are looking for a defense-man. There were discussions, though, that any move might coincide with the departure of shut-down d-man Zdeno chara. in this scenario, the b’s would hold onto chara and add an offensive defense-man in green, whose contract is up at the end of the year. They also would get laich in the deal, a longtime cap who is not far removed from four consecutive 40-point seasons. injuries have hindered laich, who could use a change of scenery. 
it’s also no secret the caps are interested in moving green, already with upwards of $20 million tied up to de­fensemen for next year. They would get the power forward lucic, who has been their worst enemy in the past and could provide the hard-nosed hockey that has eluded the caps in the playoffs. 
Three-team trade: Blackhawks receive D Keith Yandle (from Coyotes); Flames receive LW Patrick Sharp (from Chicago); Coyotes receive C prospect Sam Bennett (from Flames) 
what?! The hawks are get­ting rid of sharp? yup. he’s a great hockey player, with 31 points in 43 games, but he has seen his role in the top six diminish to the point that his production could be replaced. it’s not the best-case scenario, but the hawks are competing every year and need help on the back end. yandle has one more year on his contract, so he’s a bit more than a rental — and he’s a risk the hawks are going to have to take if they want to win a second stanley cup in three years. 
The Flames have plenty of room under the salary cap and get a bona-fide scor­ing threat. They currently sit 7th in the west, so they need something to secure them a playoff spot and give them a chance to finally compete in the postseason. 
lastly, the coyotes. They’ve been an over-performing team for years, and it finally got the best of them. it’s time to reload with young prospects and draft picks, as yandle has no role in phoenix in the next two years. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

Technology aids players preparing for Combine 
Associated Press 

marTinsville, new Jersey — The big-screen tele­vision hanging on the wall at TesT Football academy has various colors, numbers and other data flashing across the screen, all vital information for the trainers preparing a group of college players for this week’s nFl combine. 
science and technology have become a big part of sports in recent years. 
one of the latest examples is a heart-rate monitor that TesT sports club trainers use to take tracking workouts to another level. 
“it’s remarkable,” said kevin dunn, the ceo and owner. “This shows the ac­tual work. science shows the end result. it tracks every minute of every workout in the facility.” 
players wear a strap around their chest and the plastic monitor picks up the impulses from the heart. it measures heart rate, perfor­mance percentage, calories burned and more. 
as a player’s heart rate goes up, the corresponding color tile on the screen changes from yellow to blue to red or whatever. all the information is stored and sent to trainers and the individual athletes. 
“we set goals each day based on how long workouts are, how intense workouts are and we can pinpoint if we need to back down on volume of their workout if they’re overworked or sleep deprived,” dunn said. 
“we used to guestimate how many calories they were burning. now i can run a re­port on my laptop and list these guys and it will tell me everything.” 
Four of the 22 players who worked out with dunn and director geir gudmundsen at TesT are in indianapolis this week. They are: wide receiver Justin hardy (east carolina) and offensive linemen austin shepherd (alabama), laurence gibson (virginia Tech) and mark glowinski (west virginia). other play­ers are preparing for their pro day. 
nFl organizations put varying emphasis on a play­er’s combine results de­pending on a team’s draft philosophy and needs. For some players, combine per­formance is a deal breaker. For others, it opens up new opportunities. 
“The heart monitor definitely helps me out just by looking at the number of calories i burn so i know how much i have to take in to maintain my weight,” said hardy, a walk-on who set the career catches record for bowl subdivision history. 
lsu fullback connor neighbors wasn’t sure what to expect when he first wore a heart monitor. 
“i just assumed it moni­tored your heart rate, but it helps with everything from recovery to diet to how hard you’re working and that alone sets the schedule for when you rest,” neighbors said. 
Joe Flacco, patrick peterson, demario davis and other nFl stars have also trained at TesT. last year, lsu quarterback Zach mettenberger spent several weeks here following recon­structive left knee surgery. 
Trainers helped mettenberger return to the field for his pro day just four months after repairing his acl. mettenberger was draft­ed by Tennessee in the sixth round and started six games. 
“we called him wolverine because of how fast he recov­ered,” dunn said. “he was in here every day at 7:30 a.m. and worked hard till 5 p.m.” 
NFLW 

Bradshaw pleads not guilty to possession 
Associated Press 

cincinnaTi — an indianapolis colts running back pleaded not guilty Tuesday to a marijuana possession charge after being stopped this month by state troopers on an inter­state highway in western ohio. 
preble county court officials said a dayton attorney filed the plea for ahmad bradshaw, who also played for the super bowl-winning new york giants. a pretrial hearing is scheduled for Feb. 25. 
The ohio state highway patrol said bradshaw, 28, was stopped for a traffic violation on interstate 70 on Feb. 5. he was 

FOR SALE 

Well maintained ranch in Granger. 3BR, 2BA, beautiful sun-room. Open House Feb 15, 2-4. Call Janessa Traylor 574-340-1651 
charged with a misdemeanor count of possession of a small amount of marijuana and with following another vehicle too closely. 
Trooper J.a. barhorst said in a statement that he “smelled the strong odor of raw mari­juana” coming from inside the cadillac driven by bradshaw af­ter he pulled it over for a traffic violation. 
he said both bradshaw and his passenger denied marijuana was in the vehicle. barhorst said while patting down bradshaw, he felt a small container in his pocket. he said bradshaw agreed to let him remove the container, which the trooper said contained a brown sub­stance. The trooper said after being read his rights, bradshaw said he had found the container in the vehicle, which he had bor­rowed for his trip. 
Troopers then searched the vehicle and found in a back­pack two medical marijuana containers: one empty and one with about 1.5 grams of mari­juana, according to barhorst’s report. he stated that other items including rolling papers and two medicine bottles with unknown liquids were found in two backpacks. barhorst re­ported that the items were sent to the highway patrol crime lab for analysis. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
It’s a new soundtrack I could
FOR RENT 
dance to this beat, beat forever-

Nice house for rent. 905 more. The lights are so bright, but Stanfield. 3 beds, 2 baths. Sun they never blind me, me. Welcome porch, rec room. Available now. to New York. It’s been waiting for 608-658-6910 you. Welcome to New York. 



NBA 

Trade deadline nears for playoff contenders 
seeking a spark that could sling-
Associated Press 
shot them past others down the 

new york — The east was bottom of the playoff ladder. a two-team race at last year’s bird promises to be as aggres­trade deadline, and larry bird sive as when his team on top. made the move he thought “we’re always looking to im­would win it. prove the team and obviously 
when the indiana pacers there’s a lot of improvement acquired evan Turner from that needs to be done,” the rebuilding philadelphia, they pacers’ president said recently. hoped it would provide the “so we’ll look around the league scoring punch to beat out and talk to a lot of different peo­miami and reach the nba ple and see what’s out there and Finals. it didn’t, and Turner is hopefully we can do something now in boston. that makes us better.” 
now the pacers are trying if not, he said, he’ll wait until to get in the postseason, two the summer. games out of eighth place and That’s what every nba team 
paid adverTisemenT 

has to decide in the next couple of days. 
The trade deadline is Thursday afternoon, and with many teams in contention, the question is whether that makes them more conservative or cautious. 
help could be found in the hours before the nba returns from its all-star break. but some will be hesitant to tinker with so little time left in the sea­son. The Turner deal, in which indiana traded popular veteran danny granger, certainly didn’t help its locker room chemistry. 
plus, teams can plug holes by simply opening their wallets, without costing any assets. 
houston signed Josh smith after he was waived by detroit, amare stoudemire is head­ed to the mavericks once he clears waivers, and other vet­erans could be bought out and become free agents after the deadline. 
one of the most intriguing moves could involve ray allen, who will have contending suit­ors if he opts to play after sitting out all season. 
The teams most motivated to deal might be the disappointing ones. brooklyn probably can’t find a taker for deron williams 
paid adverTisemenT 
with all his injuries and dollars left on the $98.5 million con­tract he signed in 2012, but was close to moving brook lopez earlier this season. denver’s rocky season should have con­tenders calling to inquire about arron afflalo, Ty lawson or wilson chandler. 
The right move can help someone surge through spring. The wrong one could mean an early start on summer. 
don’t count on top stars changing teams — none has at the deadline since utah sur­prisingly sent williams to the nets on the eve of the 2011 one. Teams more likely trade at this point to clear cap space for the summer, which is why the new york knicks could seek a deal for Jose calderon after already shipping out guards J.r. smith and iman shumpert. 
cleveland acquired them and, along with getting Timofey mozgov from denver in a sepa­rate deal, perhaps proved the best moves for this season were already made. 
dallas acted quickly to ac­quire rajon rondo from boston in december, not long before memphis capitalized on the celtics’ youth movement to deal for Jeff green. 
For golden state and atlanta, the current nba leaders, their winning moves maybe came long ago. 
The warriors got andrew bogut from milwaukee at the 2012 deadline to provide some muscle in the rugged west. Five months later, the hawks acquired kyle korver from chicago, and he could be head­ed for the best perimeter-shoot­ing season in nba history. 
“when i got traded to atlanta i was coming from chicago and i wasn’t really all that ex­cited about it, to be honest with you. but all the people that danny Ferry kept on bringing in, they’ve been not just good basketball people, but good people,” korver said. 
“when i was a free agent two summers ago, i chose to come back. we had some opportuni­ties to go to some teams that already were more established and could win, but i just really believed in what atlanta was building and what they were doing. i could see my role in it and i just wanted to be a part of that. i never thought that it would come together this quickly.” 
That’s the lightning in a bottle every team is hoping to catch. 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

SMC BASKETBALL | calvin 96, smc 62 
smc falls to unbeaten calvin 

By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 
saint mary’s lost its final home game of the season to undefeated no. 7 calvin on monday night, 96-62, in a game that was supposed to be played on saturday after­noon but was postponed due to severe weather. 
calvin (23-0, 14-0 miaa) scored 11 of the game’s first 13 points to take an early 11-2 lead. The belles (3-20, 1-13 miaa) responded with an 8-2 run to cut the defi­cit to three with just un­der 13 minutes left in the first half. after the knights and the belles exchanged baskets, the knights went on a 12-0 run over the next three minutes to take a 27-12 advantage. 
The belles clawed back with a 7-2 run, however, calvin quickly widened its lead again, as a 9-1 run brought the score to 38-20. The belles made all five shot attempts they took in the fi­nal two-and-a-half minutes of the first half, as five belle players combined to score 
10. at halftime, the score was 44-30 in favor of calvin. 
The knights scored the first eight points of the sec­ond half to extend their lead to 52-30. saint mary’s made an effort to get back in the game with an 11-6 run to make the score 58-41 with 13 minutes left in the sec­ond half. The belles’ renew­al of hope was short-lived, though, as the knights went on a 21-6 run to take control of the game for good. 
The belles had a total field-goal percentage of 40.3 per­cent in the game, while the knights shot 53 percent from the field. saint mary’s had 40 rebounds to calvin’s 38. The belles had 18 offensive rebounds and the knights had 11. 
“we out-rebounded a very tough calvin team,” belles coach Jennifer henley said. “i thought we handled their full court press a lot better than the last time we played them. we still had too many turnovers. That needs to change as we prepare to close out the season this week.” 
henley said the last-min­ute schedule change did not change the outcome of the game. 
“i don’t believe the post­ponement of this game had an effect on our perfor­mance,” henley said. “now we have three games in one week, so we need to try and save our legs as we hit the road for the last two games.” 
senior guard ariana paul was the belles leading scor­er with 16 points, one as­sist and nine rebounds. The belles’ lone senior, paul is only 30 points away from scoring 1,000 points in her career. Junior forward krista knapke was the only other belle to reach double-digit points with 13, and she added one assist and five rebounds. Junior forward eleni shea was the next highest scorer, recording nine points to go along with one assist and four rebounds. 
The belles’ next game is a conference game against albion on the road on wednesday night at 8 p.m. 
Contact Michael Ivey at         mivey@hcc-nd.edu 
FENCING 

Irish prep for ACC tourney after Junior Olympics 
By CHRISTINE MAYUGA 
sports writer 

coming off an eventful run at the Junior olympics last weekend in which two notre dame fencers medaled, the irish will travel to chapel hill this weekend for the acc championships, with the men competing saturday and the women competing sunday. 
Twelve irish fencers partici­pated in the Junior olympics in richmond, virginia, which lasted from Friday to monday. seven of the 12 finished in the top 15 in their respective events, highlighted by a gold-medal win by freshman epee amanda sirico and a bronze-medal win by freshman sabre Jonathan Fitzgerald. 
with the women’s team ranked no. 2 in the collegeFencing360.com na­tional rankings and the men’s team coming in at no. 4, the irish head into the confer­ence championships as seri­ous contenders. notre dame has had a slew of impressive performances this season as the women’s team enters the championship season with a 29-2 record, while the men’s carry a 23-6 record. 
“The entire team’s strength is definitely its cohesiveness,” freshman sabre Francesca russo said. “we all under­stand each other’s weaknesses and strengths and know when to pull someone out and put someone else in. in addition, we have all been working on our cheering and support. we may be the loudest team at acc championships.” 
russo is one of several play­ers who have won accolades in the 2014-2015 season. The irish swept the acc male and Female Fencers of the week awards three times, with the most recent winners being Fitzgerald and junior foil lee kiefer. senior epee ashley severson and freshman sa­bre Jonah shainberg took the honors in January while russo and sophomore foil hazem khazbak swept the awards in november. 
russo said the team’s packed schedule at the end of the sea­son makes every weekend chal­lenging, as notre dame will participate in the us Fencing association (usFa) national championship the weekend after the acc competitions. 
“individually, i am try­ing to push myself even more every day because we have competitions coming up 
paid adverTisemenT 
every weekend leading up to ncaas,” russo said. “as a team we are all coming to­gether to keep training hard, fencing-wise and strength and conditioning-wise.” 
Following notre dame’s performance at the confer­ence championships and usFa competition, the team will travel to evanston for the ncaa midwest regional Qualifier on march 7, ultimately lead­ing up to the ncaa national championships on march 20. performing under pressure will prove crucial for the irish as they move forward, russo said. 
“our biggest struggle go­ing into this competition would have to be dealing with the nerves,” russo said. “personally, i think i am pretty good at staying calm, and my team definitely helps me to stay grounded, but considering the importance of this competi­tion, it could be be a bit nerve wracking. i think we will all be fine though.” 
The irish will look to come out on top at the acc championships in chapel hill, north carolina, starting saturday. 
Contact Chirstine Mayuga at cmayuga@nd.edu 





in 31 games with the irish 
Lidge 
last season, recorded a .985 
conTinued From page 16 
fielding percentage and only 

committed four errors in 42 run i’ve hit in my career, just games with the growlers. to do it for my team is really lidge said his defensive special.” success is mainly a byprod­
lidge’s offensive produc-uct of his comfort behind the tion didn’t stop with his plate. dinger Friday night. in three “i’m very confident in the starts over the weekend, he running game; i think i can went 5-for-11 with three rbis throw everyone out,” lidge and two runs scored, hitting said. “blocking, framing, well above the .264 clip at whatever it be, i’m just ex-which he hit last season. tremely confident.” 
lidge’s opening weekend in addition to his defense, success at the plate resulted lidge said a key area of fo­largely from the barrington, cus for him this season will illinois native simplifying be working on developing his approach, notre dame strong relationships with head coach mik aoki said. the irish pitching staff. he 
“i think he’s gotten more said he learned the impor­mature, just from an emo-tance of pitcher-catcher trust tional and mental stand-from his cousin, brad lidge, point, and i don’t think he who pitched at notre dame worries as much about where from 1995 to 1998 before he is in the lineup, or ‘did i embarking on an 11-season 
all had at least a year together,” you’ve played with before is defi­get a hit?’ or ‘i need to do major league career as a re-
Sullivan 

sullivan said. “our defense spe-nitely more of a comfortable feel-this,’ or whatever,” aoki said liever for the houston astros, 
conTinued From page 16 

cifically – [senior defender] leah ing,” sullivan said. “i guess this 
of lidge. “i don’t think he ob-philadelphia phillies and gallagher, [junior defender] steff year three-fourths of the team is 
sesses about that to the de-washington nationals. “our number one goal is to peragallo and i – have all been the same, but that extra fourth 
gree that he did last year. “in 2008, [brad] had a win a national championship,” playing together for years. we all changes things up. i think a lot 
“i think he was able to just catcher, carlos ruiz, and i sullivan said. “our team is one of know our roles. whoever else is of people are being themselves. 
go out there and understand remember whenever i’d call the closest teams i’ve ever been back there and our [sophomore] i think we’re appreciating each 
that, ‘you know what, i’m [brad], he would just say he a part of. i and my fellow seniors goalie liz [o’sullivan], we all have other and bringing out each oth­
good enough to play at this trusted him so much, and want to make it special by win-our specific roles and we can com-er’s strengths. we just love being 
level, and i’m good enough to he loved throwing to him,” ning a championship, and we municate with each other well, around each other, and we love 
be a really good player at this lidge said. “what i took from know we’re good enough to do it.” and that makes it so much easier.” playing lacrosse.” 
level.’” that was getting the trust of in 2014, the irish were seeded sullivan recognized the value of sullivan and the irish will 
lidge, who will split time my pitchers, forming rela­no. 8 in the ncaa tournament new incoming players as well, and travel to california for a game 
at the catcher position with tionships with them, really and fell to duke in the second said overall team camaraderie Friday against their first ranked 
graduate student Forrest try to get to know who they round. all of notre dame’s start-is at a high, which bodes well for opponent of the season, no. 19 
Johnson, credited much of are outside of baseball, as ers this year were on that team, their ability to play together and stanford. 
his off-season growth to his well as in baseball. and sullivan believes the experi-win together. 
experience playing with the “if you have your pitcher ence will also be key to winning. “having new blood is amaz-Contact Renee Griffin at         
kalamazoo growlers of the throwing to someone they “our entire starting lineup has ing as well but having people that rgriffi6@nd.edu 
northwoods league, a wood-care about, they know, they en bat summer ball league, trust, it’s going to help them shortly after last season much more in game situa­ended. tions, in intense situations.” 
“This summer for me was while the season is only a big learning experience, four games old, lidge said playing around 70 games,” he this year is shaping up to be a said. “it teaches you a lot be-special one for the irish, who cause you’re on your own. … finished last season with a i would say the biggest thing 22-31 record. i took from this summer was “most importantly, there’s maturing as a baseball play-great chemistry, everyone er, knowing it’s just a game, gets along, everyone hangs and there’s a lot of failure in out with each other,” lidge it.” said of his team. “There’s 
during his stint in something special brewing kalamazoo, lidge was select-here, and it feels really good ed to the northwoods league to be part of. we’ve just got all-star game and named to trust in our confidence, one of rawlings “Finest in the trust in our process and good Field,” the league’s equiva-things will happen.” lent of a golden glove award. lidge, who boasted a spot-Contact Brian Hartnett at less 1.000 fielding percentage bhartnet@nd.edu 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
notre dame went on to lead for the rest of the game, push­ing the lead up to 19 points. sophomore forward austin Torres, who contributed five points and six rebounds, lifted the energy level of the crowd and the team when he hit an emphatic dunk in the second half during an 11-2 run. 
“whenever he comes in, he plays with a lot of energy,” grant said. “i know he’s al­ways running the floor with his hands ready, so when he’s running the floor i know i can give it to him.” 
because junior forward Zach auguste was in foul trouble early on in the game, coach mike brey was forced to play freshman forward bonzie colson and Torres throughout the game to match up against wake Forest junior forward devin Thomas, who scored 26 points and grabbed 11 rebounds. 
“we threw multiple bodies at him,” grant said. “he’s a big body. he gets in there and gets his position, so we had to throw multiple bodies at him.” 
The difference in the game came from the free-throw line, where the demon deacons shot 9-for-9 in the first half but hit just 2-for-6 in the sec­ond half. notre dame, on the other hand, converted 12 of its 13 free throws and made all 15 of its chances in the second half. 
“we have been shooting a lot more free throws in prac­tice,” sophomore forward 
v.J. beachem, who added 10 points for the irish, said. “i think that’s really helping our percentage. our 3-point shots were falling in the first half. i think that’s why guys starting attacking the rim more.” 
while the team received contributions from several players, most of the praise went to grant’s performance, which earned him the player of the game on the night 
“every night you know he’s going to score around 20 with 10 assists every game,” sopho­more guard steve vasturia said. “he’s a heck of a guard and really fun to play with.” 
grant is coming off a 22-point performance against clemson last Tuesday. beachem said grant’s presence makes the whole team better. 


“it’s a great feeling [to be playing with grant],” beachem said. “he makes the game a lot easier for us.” 
looking towards the road game against boston college, beachem said the team knows it’s going to have to be ready to play, since the contest against the eagles on Feb. 4 was a close one in which the irish lost a 25-point lead to end up winning by just eight points. 
notre dame will travel to the silvio conte Forum this week­end to play boston college on saturday for the second time this season. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 





CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


DOME NUTS | aleXandria wellman 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: learn from past experiences and you will reach your goals. increased discipline will help you overcome any obstacles and guide you to a brighter future. keep your plans to yourself until you are ready to make a flawless presentation. don’t be fooled by someone offering something different or unfamiliar. stick to what you know works best for you. your numbers are 7, 10, 16, 24, 30, 36, 43. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): keeping a low profile will make it easier for you to implement the changes you want to make. reconnecting with someone you have worked with in the past will lead to an interesting opportunity. don’t settle for less than what you are worth. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): problems will result if you let your emotions take over, leading to indulgence and poor financial and emotional choices. you are best to take a conservative approach to both work and partnerships. safety must be maintained in all aspects of life. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): share your ideas and plans. don’t just think about what it is you want to do -- take action. consider a trip if it will help resolve an issue you face or bring you closer to an answer you are searching for. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): legal, medical and financial matters will surface. don’t be too quick to invest in someone else’s venture. offer advice and your time, not your cash. an idea you have should be developed, put into play and marketed. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): do your own thing, but don’t expect everyone else to pitch in and help. The changes you make may not be welcome by everyone, but those who oppose you will eventually recognize your reasoning. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): concentrate on your health, diet and monetary gains. a good healthy lifestyle coupled with a less-stressful financial situation will ward off future problems. don’t look for a quick fix when you should be striving for security and greater stability. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): you have knowledge and good ideas, but if you become lazy, scattered and confused, you will make little progress. Focus on whatever will bring you the greatest returns. use your insight and past experience to guide you. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): look in the mirror and size up your situation. don’t let anyone manipulate you by making you feel guilty. it’s important to follow your dreams. re-evaluate a love affair. don’t lead anyone on. approaching your job differently will pay off. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): be careful what you say and how you react. a misunderstanding of a personal nature will unfold, leaving you with a dispute to deal with. make positive personal improvements instead of trying to change or criticize someone else. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): limit what you are willing to spend or do when it comes to joint ventures or endeavors. you have to have a cutoff if you don’t want to end up in a compromising position. don’t feel you have to pay someone else’s way. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): ease in to any situation that develops. listen, observe and consider all options before you make a move. use your head, collect information and summarize the facts carefully. a false sense of security will lead to overspending or overdoing. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): you have plenty to offer, but you are best to channel your energy into something that will benefit you, not someone else. working quietly on your own until you have mastered what you want to present will have the biggest impact. 


Birthday Baby: you are ambitious, practical and organized. you are focused and goal-oriented. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip MEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 88, wake ForesT 75 

Grant, Irish take down Deacons 
By MANNY De JESUS 
sports writer 
senior guard Jerian grant led no. 10 notre dame to an 88-75 victory over wake Forest with his 10th game of at least 20 points this season Tuesday at purcell pavilion. 
after a six-day break, the irish (23-4, 11-3 acc) returned to their home court to take on the demon deacons (12-15, 4-10 acc), who had previously defeated notre dame in all three of their meetings. most recently, the irish fell 81-69 in the opening round of last season’s acc tournament to wake Forest. 
Things were drastically dif­ferent this time around. The first half was a back-and-forth battle between the irish and the demon deacons with 15 lead changes, but after grant converted a layup to end the half, notre dame never gave wake Forest a chance to come back. 

“we had some uncharac­teristic turnovers [in the first half],” grant said. “we were upset at ourselves, but we felt like we were going to get it going.” KAT ROBINSON | The Observer 
Irish senior guard Jerian Grant shoots for a layup against Wake Forest on Tuesday at Purcell  see m bball PAGE 14 Pavilion. Grant scored 24 points in the game. 

FOOTBALL 
report: denson new rb coach 

Observer Staff Report 
Former irish star running back autry denson is expected to be notre dame’s next running backs coach, a source confirmed to The observer. 
denson, notre dame’s all-time leading rusher, spent the 2014 season as the running backs coach at miami (ohio) and was hired in January for the same role at south Florida. 
Former irish running backs coach Tony alford left notre dame earlier this month for a position at ohio state. 
From 2011 to 2013, denson coached running backs at bethune-cookman. 
denson piled up an irish record 4,318 rushing yards from 1995 to 1998, breaking the previous record set by former irish running back allen pinkett. denson’s 43 rushing touch­downs are second in notre dame his­tory behind pinkett’s 49. 
multiple reports Tuesday afternoon said denson is expected to join the irish staff. 
notre dame is scheduled to begin spring practice march 2. 
ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

sullivan returns healthy as senior 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
Team captain barbara sullivan entered her junior year in 2014 with high expectations, coming off a sophomore season in which she was the youngest player in school history to be named a first-team all-american. however, she only played in the first six games, as back injuries forced her to watch and lead from the sideline. 
now, the senior defender is back on the field and ready to make a mark in her final year at notre dame. 
“This season is definitely dif­ferent for me,” sullivan said. “i only played six games last year, so the rest of the year i sat on the sidelines and watched. i learned a lot, but [an injury] taking away something that you love so much makes you really value and ap­preciate the opportunity that you have. i wasn’t able to do it the way i wanted to last year because of my injury. anyone coming in as a senior wants to make the last season the best, so when you add in how i was injured last year, there’s a huge motivation that i haven’t had before.” 
sullivan has been a starter for the no. 12 irish (2-0) since her freshman year, serving as an anchor on defense and a force at center with 121 draw controls and 69 caused turnovers in 41 games. 
after being named to the preseason all-acc team this year, she has already recorded a career-high six turnovers in sunday’s 17-5 win over detroit, plus six draw controls. 
“i try not to focus on stats while i’m playing,” sullivan said. “honestly, i’m just trying to get back to where i was after being injured for so long, and i can’t do anything without my team­mates. i wouldn’t be able to get turnovers or anything without my teammates having my back like they do.” 
sullivan emphasized the sig­nificant role team chemistry plays in the notre dame’s 
see sullivan PAGE 13 
BASEBALL 

Lidge starts season strong 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
managing editor 
by the end of notre dame’s season opener Friday, sopho­more catcher ryan lidge had already surpassed his total from last season in one statistical cat­egory: home runs. 
lidge connected for his first collegiate four-bagger off southern illinois-edwardsville senior right-hander brett Thomas in notre dame’s 7-6 vic­tory Friday afternoon. 
“i knew it was gone right off the bat,” he said. “right as i hit it, it felt really good. i knew it had the trajectory, and i kind of let it be known that i knew it was gone.” 
more important, lidge’s two-run home run, hit in the seventh inning with the irish down 6-5, proved to be the eventual game-winner in the victory over the cougars, jump starting an open­ing weekend in which notre dame won three of four games. 
“being down by one in the sev­enth [inning], big situation, and hitting a home run in that situ­ation is pretty cool,” lidge said. “… it’s probably the no. 1 home 
see lidge PAGE 13 






