ThE INdEPENdENT TO uNCOVEr NEWSPAPEr SErVINg ThE TruTh NOTrE dAME ANd ANd rEPOrT SAINT MAry’S IT ACCurATELy 

VOLuME 48, ISSuE 74 | FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 2015 | NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM 
‘It’s On Us’ raises sexual assault awareness 
White House initiative comes to Notre Dame, promotes dialogue on sexual assault 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
News Writer 
Thursday evening, the Notre dame student gov­ernment hosted a training session for those interested in volunteering for the “It’s On us” campaign on sex­ual assault awareness and prevention. 
“The ‘It’s On us’ campaign is a campus-wide movement to change the way we view sexual assault on our cam­pus,” sophomore Kristen Loehle, student government’s director of gender issues, said. “It calls all members of our community to actively create a positive environ­ment that prevents sexual vi­olence by looking out for one another, intervening when 




SMC revives music course 

By NICOLE CARATAS 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s College start­ed the new semester off with the reintroduction of an old course in the music depart­ment: global music. 
Assistant professor of musicology and ethnomu­sicology Emily McManus reimplemented the class, which is open to both music majors and students in other fields. 
“It is fascinating how much we can learn about other people and cultures through the music and dance that they perform,” she said. 
McManus said the class, through music, discusses different cultures and plac­es across the globe each 
see MuSIC PAGE 5 




Professor earns research grant 
By GABRIELA MALESPIN 
News Writer 

Mayland Chang, a pro­fessor in the department of chemistry and biochemis­try, received the American diabetes Association’s Accelerator Award for her research project on chronic diabetic wounds. 
According to a university of Notre dame press re­lease, the Accelerator Award is a $1.6 million research grant that will fund Chang’s project, “A Strategy to Accelerate diabetic Wound repair,” over the course of five years. 
Chang’s project investi­gates the causes and mo­lecular inhibitors of chronic wounds in diabetic patients. Chang said traditional treatments such as debride­ment remain ineffective for many diabetic patients. 
“There are 73,000 ampu­tations of lower limbs in diabetic patients in the u.S every year,” Chang said. 
“We’ve been trying to un­derstand why the chronic wounds in diabetic patients do not heal.” 
Chang said a key focus of the project is identifying and isolating MMP8 and MMP9 enzymes, also known as matrix metalloprotein­ase enzymes. She said one of these biological agents is critical to the healing pro­cess of diabetic wounds. Chang said a challenge the team will face is detect­ing and differentiating the three enzymes. 
“It turns out that these enzymes are involved in the pathology and the ef­fort of the body to heal the wounds ... The challenge is how to distinguish between the three enzymes. Current methods cannot differenti­ate between the three, and only one is involved in the pathology of the disease. ” 
The team will also fo­cus on activating and 
see dIABETES PAGE 5 


Women’s club rugby grows, thrives 
By ABIGAIL PIPER 
News Writer 

Although varsity sports are a big aspect of the Notre dame experience, club sports also have a large impact at the university. The Notre dame women’s rugby football club, which is growing both in numbers and competitively on cam­pus, is one example. 
“We’re a division I club sport [in the Midwest rugby union] and we play in the Big Ten,” senior Colleen Tigani, president of the club, said. “We usually play local teams like Michigan or Michigan State, but then we also travel to Penn State and Ohio State. We are a very competitive club. We have regular prac­tices twice a week, meet­ings as well, run-throughs on Friday and games on 
see rugBy PAGE 5 

Photo courtesy of Notre Dame women’s rugby 

The Notre Dame women’s rugby club plays in a tournament at Ohio State. The club competes against other Midwest teams. 

NEWS PAGE 3 VIEWPOINT PAGE 6 SCENE PAGE 9 MEN’S BASKETBALL PAGE 16 WOMEN’S BASKETBALLPAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, Notre dame, IN 46556 024 South dining hall, Notre dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Ann Marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                Brian hartnett  Alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: Isaac Lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin Song Asst. Managing Editor: Samantha Zuba 
News Editor: Lesley Stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela Leskur Sports Editor: Mary green Scene Editor: Allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: Wei Lin Graphics Editor: Keri O’Mara Multimedia Editor: Brian Lach Advertising Manager: Elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine Park Controller: Cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 
dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant 
Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 

Post Office Information The Observer (uSPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South dining hall Notre dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices POSTMASTEr Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. Box 779 024 South dining hall Notre dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Where would you go on your dream Spring Break vacation? 

Aaron Collier 
freshman Fisher hall 
“Prague.” 
Annie Crider 
senior 
Farley hall 
“The holy Land.” 
Beverly Kyalwazi 
sophomore 
Lyons hall 
“California.” 


Jessica Wang 
junior Pasquerilla East hall 
“The Bahamas.” 
Maddie Wrobkewski 
sophomore howard hall 
“yosemite.” 
Shayna McCarthy 
senior Lyons hall 
“hawaii.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Emily McConcille Zach Klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Madison Jaros Manny de Jesus Peter durbin Marek Mazurek 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
Erin rice Miko Malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 
Graduate Student Tennis Match “National Gallery” Undergraduate Snite Salon Series 
Wei Lin Mary Kate Luft 
Mass Eck Tennis Pavillion DeBartolo Performing Workshop: “Crafting Snite Museum of Art Basilica of the Sacred 2 p.m. - 4 p.m. Arts Center a Strong Grant 5 p.m. - 5:45 p.m. Heart Men’s tennis plays 3 p.m. - 5 p.m. Proposal” A collegial exchange 
Corrections 

5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Oklahoma State. Film about London’s Brownson Hall of ideas about a great 
The Observer regards itself as Worship Service. National Gallery. 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. work of art. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
“Ronald K. Brown/ Vigil Mass Rejoice! Mass Sustainability Film: “Rashomon” 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
Evidence” Basilica of the Sacred Dillon Hall Chapel Undergraduate DeBartolo Performing 
however, recognize that we will make 
DeBartolo Performing Heart 8 p.m. - 9 p.m. Research Expo Arts Center 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
Arts Center 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. Worship service in Hesburgh Library 8 p.m. - 10 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
7 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Worship Service the African-American 7 p.m. - 8 p.m. Classic Japanese film. 
we can correct our error. 

Dance performance. tradition. 

NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM | FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 2015 | ThE OBSErVEr 

McGlinn Hall hosts annual Casino Night for charity 
By PETER DURBIN 
News Writer 
Students can put all their cards on the table this Saturday at Mcglinn hall’s signature event, the Mcglinn Casino Night. 
The event will take place from 10 p.m. to 1 a.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Student Activities Office (SAO) will provide food, according to the event’s Facebook page. 
Junior Evelyn huang, who organized the event along with sophomore Emily Shira, said the money raised will benefit St. Adalbert Catholic School in South Bend. 
St. Adalbert was chosen be­cause of a sustained relation­ship between the school and the girls of Mcglinn, who tu­tor in after-school programs at the school on weekdays. 

huang said the event will be action-packed and stu­dents will have the potential to win a plethora of prizes. 
“After paying a $5 entrance fee, students are given a bag of paper money. They are then free to use this money to play unlimited rounds of black­jack and roulette,” huang said. “At the end of the night, they can trade in the money for raffle tickets. These raffle tickets can win them many different door prizes.” 
huang said the event will also include a Texas hold ‘Em poker tournament, open to the first 65 people who enter. 
“The winner will get a $100 gift card to the bookstore, and second place will received a $50 gift card,” huang said. 
huang said she got involved because of the multitude of benefits this particular event offered. 
“I think that it is a really unique and fun way to raise money for a great cause and help our local community,” huang said. 
Although volunteers are not needed for the event, huang said she hopes students from Notre dame, Saint Mary’s and holy Cross participate. 
huang said she hopes for 400 guests, who would con­tribute an expected $2000 for charity. 
“It is a great event for a great cause,” huang said. “I am hoping to break a record for the money raised this year.” 
Contact Peter Durbin at pdurbin@nd.edu 

ND researcher joins international consortium 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
News Writer 
Notre dame professor of bio­logical sciences Edwin Michael, an epidemiologist and member of the Eck Institute for global health, was recently invited to join a new consortium of se­lect individuals who will create mathematical modeling tech­niques for factors affecting the spread of neglected tropical dis­eases (NTds). The university of Warwick, u.K., has been awarded an $8 million grant from the Bill and Melinda gates Foundation to establish and support the work of the consor­tium, which ultimately hopes to reduce the burden of infectious diseases amongst the poorest billion people in the world. 
“We are one of the leading groups that are building math­ematical models for vector-borne diseases, and I’ve worked on lymphatic filariasis since my postdoctoral research times,” Michael said. 
Michael, who is well-known in the mathematical modeling field for his work with the lymphatic filariasis, a parasitic infection that results in the disease called elephantiasis, said his original 
PAId Ad 


modeling work focused on elim­ination of the disease through mass drug administration. 
“[Modeling] showed that us­ing mass drug administration would be a way forward to break transmission, so in short we were the first people to actu­ally model lymphatic filariasis,” he said. “That is one of the rea­sons that we were chosen to be a member of this consortium.” 
Although Michael has not di­rectly worked with the Bill and Melinda gates Foundation in the past, his prior work experi­ence includes interactions with the National Institute of health (NIh), the Wellcome Trust and Medical research Council. 
“This is a very complex, dy­namical system,” he said. “The tools that you have are math­ematical models, ultimately, be­cause those thresholds for which the [disease] will be eliminated or transmission will be broken can only be derived using math­ematics. you cannot do this us­ing sensical methods.” 
A few of the key questions Michael said members of the new consortium are asking are whether the World health Organization’s goals of eliminat­ing lymphatic filariasis can be met by 2020, and if not, what re­medial measures can be taken. 
Michael said models may aid in determining when to combine programs such as mass drug ad­ministration with vector con­trol, or they may inform global health workers to switch from annual to biannual treatments. 
“I think in many ways it’s lym­phatic filariasis that puts [the possibility of] elimination back on the map,” he said. 
In creating these models, Michael said it is also important to take into account the benefits of economic development, in­cluding housing situations and nutritional factors, in helping combat the prevalence of NTds. 
“What we’re also trying to do is to pull all this data in and build this kind of socioeconomic model that allows us to also look at these other things that are go­ing on in development and how does that impact the control of diseases,” he said. 
The goal is to take a holistic approach to combatting NTds, Michael said, including struc­tural programs aimed at water provision and sanitation, micro-finance and overall governance. 
“At Notre dame, what we’re trying to do is to push the mod­eling, aid the modeling into the next generation of models, which are actually not going to simply look at biology and bio­medical interventions but also at how does this world [work] in the context of broad scale devel­opment,” he said. 
The poor are the ones who face the burden of NTds, Michael said, which means an innovative strategy is necessary to manage the various factors these affected populations face daily, to bring all of these per­spectives together in order to find a solution. 
“At heart, people at Notre dame are interested in poverty at the core, and I’m hoping that we can put together a team as epidemiologists, as modelers, congregational people as well as economists and development people,” he said. 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 

Saint Mary’s replaces Le Mans doors 
By OLIVIA JACKSON 
News Writer 
A new set of doors will wel­come students and faculty this semester in Le Mans hall at Saint Mary’s. Notre dame alum robert O’grady and his wife Beverly, a grad­uate of Saint Mary’s, donat­ed the doors. 
Special assistant to the SMC president Susan dampeer said she worked with the O’gradys through­out the process of creating the doors. 
“[Mr. O’grady] loved Le Mans hall but was very up­set about the condition of our front doors,” dampeer said. “he and I had talked about doing something about them but then he died unexpectedly. his widow Beverly, who knew about those plans, wanted to com­plete them in his honor.” 
dampeer said robert O’grady was born and raised in Argentina. It was there that his family be­came acquainted with rev. Theodore M. hesburgh, C.S.C., who convinced the O’grady family to send their son to Notre dame and their five daughters to Saint Mary’s. 
dampeer said O’grady was a renaissance man with an extensive knowl­edge of art. he and his wife were donors to both Saint Mary’s and Notre dame, particularly to projects at the Snite Museum. 
A valued tradition for Saint Mary’s graduates is exiting Le Mans through the front doors at the be­ginning of the graduation ceremony, dampeer said. 
O’grady especially wanted the doors to shine during that important occasion for the graduates. Senior Kelsie Plesac was excited to hear about the new doors for commencement. 
“I think it is a very nice indicator of the Notre dame and Saint Mary’s fam­ily, that this is something [O’grady] felt he needed to do for Saint Mary’s stu­dents,” Plesac said. 
The old Le Mans doors were original to the build­ing and had been in use since 1925. 
“Weather had taken a ma­jor toll on them and they could not be repaired ad­equately for outdoor use,” dampeer said. “The old doors are being repaired and we hope to put them in haggar hall in the parlor if they can be retrofitted for that space.” 
The new doors were hand-carved by Verlin Miller, a local woodworker who has restored doors for Notre dame in the past. Susan dampeer said the new doors were constructed in the exact same way as the old doors were in 1925 — by hand and with the same tools. 
“The building has an old look to it, so an exact repli­ca is nice because it doesn’t take away from the charac­ter of the building,” Plesac said. “It just revamps it.” 
Beverly O’grady resides in New york and will be re­turning to Saint Mary’s in April to see the doors for the first time, dampeer said. 
Contact Olivia Jackson at ojacks01@saintmarys.edu 


CAITLYN JORDAN| The Observer 

The old Le Mans doors were taken from the entrance to Le Mans Hall and will be placed in the parlor of Haggar Hall. 


ThE OBSErVEr | FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 2015 | NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM 
Ten junior faculty win science research awards 

on being our brothers’ and sisters’ keepers and aimed to reach out to all differ­ent voices that make up our community.” 
Loehle said beginning Monday, student volunteers will distribute pledge cards to dorms and in facility build­ing across campus, similar to those distributed during the “One Is Too Many” campaign last year. She said the pledge cards will hang in the dorms as a demonstration of Notre dame’s support for sexual as­sualt awareness. 
“I’m excited for this very visible commitment that we will all be making to one another, and hope it drives participation in sexual as­sault education, a culture of respect in our dorms and an understanding of the report­ing and support structures that exist on campus,” ju­nior Bryan ricketts, a gender relations Center FIrE Starter and participant in “It’s On us,” said. 
rickets said the initiative is a way for students to become involved in sexual assault prevention on an individual level. 
“The ‘It’s On us’ cam­paign is a way to bring the can do to protect our friends, classmates and peers,” he said. “It’s about creating a culture of love and respon­sibility where respect for others, intervention in dan­gerous situations and support for those who are victims of sexual assault are the norm.” 

ricketts said he hopes the university and its students will support the initiative. 
“We want to attend school at a place that helps to change entitlement into re­spect, harm into help and victims into survivors,” he said. “Notre dame, both as an institution and as a student body, will need to take fur­ther steps, such as increas­ing resource accessibility, but this campaign is an im­portant part of the transition from education to action.” 
Loehle said while the cam­paign is national, the issues still remain local. 
“There is overwhelm­ing support for this cause at Notre dame and it has been inspiring to see such a strong response throughout this process,” she said. “We want to make sure that every stu­dent and every place is safe here at Notre dame.” 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 
By Alex Cao 
News Writer 

A record number of eight ju­nior faculty from the university of Notre dame won Early Career Awards (CArEEr) from the National Science Foundation (NSF), and two faculty mem­bers won the young Investigator Program (yIP) Award from the Army research Office, accord­ing to a university press release. 
According to the NSF’s web­site, the organization provides approximately $220 million per year to approximately 600 scholars who “exemplify the role of teacher-scholars through outstanding research, excel­lent education and the integra­tion of education and research within the context of the mis­sion of their organizations ac­cording to the National Science Foundation,” according to the NSF website. 
yIP Awards are given to out­standing researchers in the fields of science and engineering, ac­cording to the press release. 
At least two faculty mem­bers have been recognized for the CArEEr Award in each of the past five years, the press release said. The recent spike is due to an influx of young tal­ent at Notre dame, associate professor of mathematics and CArEEr award recipient gábor Székelyhidi said. 

“If you looked at all the fac­ulty when I first came here 
— then, I think there was only one other non-tenured person,”Székelyhidi said. “The faculty was generally older. There was a huge gap in hir­ing. Then a couple of years ago, [the university] started hiring younger faculty, so then you’ll be more likely to get grants specifi­cally designed for them. There’s just more people, at least, for the math department.” 
diogo Bolster, an assistant professor in the department of civil and environmental engi­neering and earth science, also received a CArEEr award. he said aggressive hiring despite the economic downturn and initiatives from the university to prepare faculty for research helped sponsor success of the junior faculty. 
“One of the things you have to remember here was that we were at the peak of the recession,” Bolster said. “I remember the first time I applied for a job. I ap­plied for 36 jobs, and I got almost 30 letters back saying the jobs were just canceled because of the recession, and Notre dame was one of the only schools that interviewed me.” 
Bolster said the resources the university offers to junior faculty also contributed to his 
PAId AdVErTISEMENT 

recognition. 
“The Office of research hired a couple of consultants that helped junior faculty write proposals,” he said. “Most of us, the first few proposals we wrote aren’t very good … and I have had active mentoring in that from consultants that the university hired. . . . resources like that have been very helpful to me. Those two things have been what worked for me, and I have seen similar things from other young faculty.” 
Jill Lany, assistant professor of psychology and another re­cipient of a CArEEr award, said the awards help fund outreach to more graduate students, un­dergraduates and scholars from different universities or institu­tions who want to participate in research. 
“One of the things that’s re­ally great about the grant is that it provides funds for my case to support graduate students,” Lany said. “I can really add to the pool of talented students that we train in psychology and also have funds to bring in visiting scholars and building bridges in the intellectual community. … That is really important and is the heart of what we do as scientists.” 
Contact Alex Cao at acao@nd.edu 

NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM | FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 2015 | ThE OBSErVEr 

Diabetes 
CONTINuEd FrOM PAgE 1 
Chang said the project has primarily used mouse mod­els (diabetic mice) to ana­lyze the MMP8 and MMP9 proteins, but she hopes the project can take further steps to determine wheth­er or not these proteins are found in human patients. 
“right now we have identi­fied that an enzyme called MMP9 is involved in the 

pathology of the disease,” Chang said. “We have iden­tified that MMP8 is what the body uses to heal. Our strategy would be to inhibit the bad enzyme [MMP9] and leave the good enzyme [MMP8] untouched.” 
Chang said activating and deactivating the enzymes would be facilitated by a set of inhibitors her team has been able to identify. Chang said these inhibitors are “small molecular com­pounds that selectively in­hibit the bad enzyme and do not inhibit MMP8.” 

There is a lack of research and pharmaceutical interest in diabetic wounds, Chang said, despite the chronic health problems these pres­ent. She said she hopes her research will be able to translate to human trials. 
“We do want to see our work translated into a therapeutic tool that will help patients with diabetic wounds,” Chang said. “We want to analyze the [diabet­
ic] tissue to see if we see the enzymes that are present in animals are present in hu­mans. If we find them, this will give us more confidence that whatever will cure the wounds in mice will trans­late to humans.” 
Contact Gabriela Malespin at  gmalespi@nd.edu 
Music 
CONTINuEd FrOM PAgE 1 
semester. 

“This class prepares stu­dents to engage with an in­creasingly globalized world and to recognize and think critically about navigating cross-cultural interactions and communications,” she said. 
The course, which has currently only has four students enrolled, has two components, McManus said. The first focuses on case studies from around the globe. 
“Case studies range from the Aymara indig­enous community in Peru/ Bolivia/Chile to global hip-hop, and from music and nation formation in Israel to music as form of politi­cal resistance in the Islamic republic of Iran,” McManus said. 
McManus said the sec­ond component involves learning research methods and writing case studies on music in South Bend. 
“Part of this project is realizing that this kind of research can be conducted anywhere and that our local communities are increas­ingly globalized,” McManus said. “Ideally, students will leave this course with a 
greater  understanding  of  
the  cultural  diversity  of  
South Bend.”  

Senior rachel Schwartz, who is taking the class to finish her music minor, said the small class size helps facilitate discussion and opens the door to all stu­dents to get a word in. 
“I’m hoping to come out of this course having learned more about music from oth­er cultures and other parts of the world, as well as just learning about music from a more academic point of view,” Schwartz said. 
Julia Crant, a junior psy­chology major taking the class as an elective, said the course helps her think in a more global context and de­velop a better understand­ing of music and cultures from across the globe. 
“[The course] makes me think of music in a differ­ent way,” she said. “I wasn’t aware of all the different styles of music each culture has. 
McManus said the course does not require any previ­ous experience with music, since many of the cultures that the students examine do not use the same musi­cal system Saint Mary’s stu­dents learn. 
“Non-majors and majors will all be starting in the same place and will need to learn techniques for ana­lyzing music that are not culture-specific,” McManus said. “These are methods that can easily be applied to the music of your daily life. More importantly, I think non-majors will gain a great understanding of the ways in which music and dance function in their own daily lives, as well as the lives of people across the globe.” 
Contact Nicole Caratas at ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 
Rugby 
CONTINuEd FrOM PAgE 1 
weekends.” 
Senior Claire Kozlowski, the team’s field captain, said they originally played only a version of rugby that had fifteen-member teams, but it added a team of seven in order to go to Philadelphia for the Collegiate rugby Championship this May. 
“This is our first year start­ing a sevens team, which is actually the type of rugby that is going to be in the Olympics in 2016,” she said. 
Kozlowski said the team aspect of rugby is what moti­vated her initially to join the club. 
“When I was a freshman one of the upperclassmen in my dorm, who I played flag football with ... was like, ‘you should come play rugby.’ and I said, ‘No thank you, I don’t want to die.’” Kozlowski said. “I went to a practice and never played rugby in my life … but fell in love, and everybody was super encouraging [and] su­per welcoming, and that’s how it has been the past four years.” 
Tigani said the team, which also includes Saint Mary’s students, has im­proved her entire experience at Notre dame. 
“For me right now, it’s kind of like a second family.” she said. “you run into girls on the team outside of practice, and it’s like, ‘Oh I know you!’ And it’s weird to explain, but it’s kind of like you always have a person on the team that’s going to be there for you in your classes or out­side of sports, then you also have that bond of coming together and playing as a team.” 



Kozlowski said rugby teams have a camaraderie that makes the sport less in­timidating than it seems. 
“rugby is one of those games that unless you play it it’s really hard to explain,” she said. “Literally every single moment, you lay your body out on the line for your teammate … and you know that your teammate is doing the same thing for you.” 
Tigani said the team will host events this semester in order to fundraise, including Breakfast Bingo on Friday at 10 p.m. in LaFortune Ballroom. 
“There will be breakfast food, and there’s going to be a bingo tournament and dif­ferent style bingo games and prizes,” Tigani said. “But I think our biggest event will be the weekend of April 12, our Charity day. We do pink jerseys and pink socks, and we raise money for breast cancer awareness and re­search. It’s actually going to be paired with our alum­ni game this year, so some friendly faces will be back to play us.” 
Looking forward, Kozlowski said she would like to see an increase in membership. 
“The less they know about rugby the better, we like to say,” she said. “We really like to teach people. That’s how every single one of us started.” 
Tigani said she encourages those interested in joining women’s club rugby to email her at Colleen.M.Tigani.1@ nd.edu. 
Photo courtesy of Notre Dame women’s rugby 

Players run down field in a tournament at Ohio State University. The team will host Breakfast Bingo on Friday at 10 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom as a fundraising effort. 
Contact Abigail Piper at  apiper2@nd.edu 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Wemust keep moving 

Mike Ginocchio 
Sports Writer 

he would have turned 86 this year. 
Monday was Martin Luther King day. Every year it is a day to celebrate a man who did more than any of us can imagine, and if it wasn’t for his assassination it is more than reasonable to think he would still be working today in the name of equal rights for everyone. 
One of the more famous photos con­nected to Notre dame is of dr. King stand­ing alongside Father hesburgh, arms locked in brotherhood and solidarity, as they sang “We Shall Overcome” during a 1964 civil rights rally at Soldier Field in Chicago. It’s a rather ubiquitous photo, located all around campus. 
The prevalence of this reminder is much more important than one might think. 
It can be easy to see the accomplish­ments those brave men and women made 50 years ago and assume that they accom­plished the lion’s share of the work. The “hard” part is over. 
While, in a way, that is true, one only needs to look at the news to see that there is still plenty more that needs to be done. The “hard” part may be over, but the jour­ney is far from over. 
The reverence given to the memory of dr. King and all those who have struggled for civil rights is an absolute necessity because they struggled for a right: that all human beings deserve to be treated as a human. 
human society and progress is not about reaching a destination and then resting on the laurels of those who came before us; rather, it is a continuous journey. It’s about striving to meet the great iniqui­ties of our time and working to overcome them. It doesn’t have to be one grand event of great and mighty pomp and circum­stance; if, like a wise man once said, at the end of the day we’ve done to the best of our abilities something to make others a little happier and ourselves a little happier, then we’ve done something to be proud of. 
That requires taking the step to do something in the first place. 
If dr. King were alive today, I’d like to think that he’d be flattered at the height­ened place he holds in our collective conscious for the things he did during his lifetime. But, at the same time, I get the feeling that he wouldn’t take too much time to be flattered before getting back to work. And neither should we. Working for civil rights and happiness for all people no matter what their skin color, personal or religious creed or orientation, is something we can all do. 
It can be scary to push for these things. And it certainly won’t be easy. But it is the right thing to do. 
At the end of the day, it’s better to do right and risk the consequences, than to not do anything at all. 
Contact Mike Ginocchio at mginocch@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Taking on MLK Jr. Day every day 

EDITORIAL 
Instead of worrying about whether we have Martin Luther King Jr. day off each year, we should focus on how we can take the day on and follow King’s example. 
At a panel held this week to discuss black students’ experiences at Notre dame over the past 70 years, alum­nus Azikiwe Chandler expressed that knowing what he knows now about Notre dame’s race relations, he prob­ably would not have decided to come here. 
his is not an uncommon opinion; many students of color who have attended Notre dame have shared this sentiment. As mentioned in a Letter to the Editor pub­lished earlier this week, some students of color feel so discouraged by race relations here that they consider transferring and sometimes ultimately decide to do so. 
This is an enormous problem. For one person on this campus to feel disrespected or unloved is an unaccept­able failure for our entire community. 
As a university rooted in Christ’s love, we have a re­sponsibility to our fellow students and to ourselves to make Notre dame a more welcoming home for all. While none of us can solve the problem of racism com­pletely, we must do everything in our power to build a better community for current and future students. 
The student body must actively seek out opportunities not only to discuss but also to listen to the experiences of minorities. Though students rarely act out of hostil­ity, racism still exists here. It exists in the aggressions at off-campus parties and in microaggressions that appear on whiteboards and posters in O’Shaughnessy. Being aware of these incidents is just one of the first steps in combatting racism at Notre dame. 
As panelist Olevia Boykin noted, many white stu­dents feel uncomfortable facing issues of race relations. 
however, as Pope Benedict XVI said, “you were not made for comfort. you were made for greatness.” To tru­ly achieve greatness as a university, no student should avoid things that make him or her uncomfortable. No Notre dame student should ignore racism occurring on campus or beyond. We all must appreciate and ac­knowledge the experiences of our peers, even if their words are difficult to hear. We must never stop listening to each other, realizing that every Notre dame experi­ence is different and offers insight into how we can work to make our community a more loving one. Further, we must realize that no matter how much we listen to our friends and love them, there will always be gaps in our understanding of experiences other than our own — es­pecially since our experiences vary so greatly. 
If we as a student body are to make Notre dame a more welcoming place for all, we must stand together and support each other. We must speak out when we hear racist remarks and support each other when we are called to speak out against racism. We must help those who want to speak on race issues find a forum to do so. We must work to have the Notre dame minority experience — whether it is our own experience or the experience of others — be acknowledged, respected and accepted. 
Instead of taking Martin Luther King Jr. day off, we can encourage faculty members to take on issues of race and racism in their classes and encourage minority students to share their experiences. Instead of taking the day off, we can call on the administration to lis­ten and learn from the experience of black students at Notre dame over the last 70 years. Instead of taking the day off, we can all join hands in a sign of support, just as university President Emeritus Fr. Ted hesburgh did with King himself. Instead of taking the day off, we can take it on — not only on that day, but every day. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



ThE OBSErVEr | FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 2015 | NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM 
Je suis ND women’s basketball 
Gary Caruso 
Capitol Comments 

Notre dame women’s basketball forward Taya reimer launched a moral benchmark for her team by convincing the Irish to don “I Can’t Breathe” warm-up shirts during a game in mid-december. The gesture was intended to show support for the family of Eric garner, a Brooklyn man who gasped that he could not breathe before he died in July after a New york City police officer placed him in a chokehold while trying to arrest him. The team wore their shirts a week after pro­tests erupted in New york when a grand jury refused to indict the officer involved with garner. 
If reimer’s effort ends with that one poignant mo­ment, then she and the women’s team have failed to stand solidly on their social principles. The sophomore indicated that her inspiration arose after witnessing a “die-in” demonstration on campus — dramatizations intended to vividly convey recent incidents of alleged police brutality nationwide. While some participate to call attention to what they believe are pervasive and indistinguishable abuses throughout all of law en­forcement, others participate to express support for the people who face prejudice, racism and police brutality daily in our nation. 
Notre dame was the first women’s basketball team in the nation to join a growing list of both amateur and professional teams wearing similar shirts to express a social statement while standing in solidarity for eq­uity, restraint, compassion and justice. Importantly, reimer’s own words quoted in uSA Today describe her gesture not as anti-law enforcement. “A few of us talked about it,” she said, “and we thought wearing these shirts for the game would be a cool way to show our support and give our condolences to families that have lost someone.” 
For that exact reason reimer and the team must also express strong support for NyPd officers rafael ramos and Wenjian Liu who were assassinated as pay back for garner’s death while sitting in a marked patrol car in Brooklyn. Their assassin, Ismaaiyl Brinsley, in his own warped way also protested excessive police force by arbitrarily slaying two men wearing police uniforms 
— men faithfully dedicated to their families and to the welfare of the public. reimer and the team must universally commit to constantly stand in solidarity for equity, restraint, compassion and justice. 
I applaud but strenuously caution reimer and the team going forward. For their civil voices to be one and done on the matter makes their previous effort look merely like a stunt regardless of how genuine their intentions. respect and justice are not values upon which to bestow selectively and with whimsy. Therefore, at an upcoming game the team should wear warm-ups bearing some manner of slogan dem­onstrating that mindless revenge is not an American value — or the Christian character Notre dame is well known for living by example. Their shirt slogan should honor life and the rule of law all of us must fol­low — something in the vein of “Blue Lives Matter” or “remember Slain NyPd.” 
Like the Nd women, but on a larger collect scale, the French citizenry recently embarked on publicly establishing their own moral yardstick after 12 people were massacred early this month at the Paris offices of the satirical newspaper Charlie hebdo. Coining the slogan, “Je suis Charlie,” or “I am Charlie,” they stood up against a senseless ideology of murder conjured by Muslim extremists who attempt to force their twisted brand of justice through acts of terrorism — in this instance in response to their profit Mohammed ap­pearing in a cartoon. Ironically, the Islamic extremists gunned down a Muslim police officer along with 11 newspaper employees. 
More than 3 million people paid tribute to the vic­tims by marching through Paris while grieving for those dozen killed, and by extension, expressing sup­port of freedom of speech and resistance to armed threats or violence. Social media sentiment exploded globally. The “I am Charlie” slogan adopted by sup­porters became an international icon. 
In late december on the day Officers ramos and Liu were killed, my email exploded when one of my more politically conservative college classmates in New Jersey took offense to the Notre dame women basket­ball team’s decision to wear the warm-ups the previous week. his blast email to us former Lyons hall residents criticized the “liberal” Notre dame administration 
— hardly a label us real liberal Catholics would ever use to describe the Nd leadership style. But another classmate, originally from Ohio, reminded us of how committed and excited we were while students on campus during our unified outspoken opposition to the Vietnam War. 
Moving forward, reimer and the team need to be cognizant of how enduring and how steady their com­mitments must remain. Anyone from my generation knows that in our youth we count our achievements one at a time, but as we age and accomplish more, we count them in lots of dozens. Once reimer and the team exercised their civic speech and civic participa­tion on a national scale, they are required to become Charlie in support of all who suffer senseless sacrifices. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legisla­tive and public affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s administra­tion. His column appears every other Friday. Contact him at: GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Strength in forgiveness 
Think back to the last time you were hurt by someone. I mean really hurt. Whether you were angry, sad, insulted, disappointed or some ugly combination of all of these, you felt wronged. Maybe it was your fault, maybe it wasn’t – what matters is that you were hurt. 
In moments like these when we feel attacked or offended, it’s almost second nature to imme­diately put up a wall and shun the other person, while firing our own arrows over our defenses. you choose the direct route and fire thorned text messages like a Mongolian warrior or maybe you choose the indirect route and post an incredibly passive-aggressive Facebook status directed to no one in particular, yet very specifically target­ing that certain someone. Like a savage instinct, we shut down the critical thinking centers of our brains and focus instead on distancing ourselves from the vulnerability we feel by thinking about how we can get even. We internalize what was said or what was done and how it made us feel. We resent whoever caused us this pain and some­times we shut them out of our lives altogether. 
As these bridges burn, we vow never to repair them. It seems inconceivable to forgive. In a world that has always valued strength, the idea of forgiving seldom comes to mind as an act of for­titude. yet, forgiveness is one of the strongest ac­tions a human can take because it’s tough. It goes against our instincts to forgive. Nobody jumps to forgive someone after a serious conflict, the same way you jump to block an incoming dodgeball in gym class. It’s just not our first reaction … or our second, and if we never make the deliberate ef­fort, the bridges we burned will remain as they are, broken down remnants and relics to some­thing that was once meaningful. 
The toughest things in life often mean doing the opposite of what we would want to do. The oft-cited gandhi is a great example; his non-violent resistance techniques were counter-intuitive, but were ultimately what was best. As Civil rights fighters allowed themselves to be hurt and of­fended strategically, they knew that there was a greater purpose in the end. The importance of doing this kind of tough work can be seen in our own lives. When your joints hurt and you are out of breath, it’s hard to say that running is fun, yet we want to be in shape. When you study long hours and miss out on doing other things, it’s easy to pity yourself but it generally pays off. you do it because you know it’s what is best, even if it’s the opposite of what you want in the moment, be­cause you know it will be worth it. 
Such is forgiveness. Perhaps one of the biggest reasons why this is true is because the thought of forgiving the person who has offended us seems like a sign of weakness. As a defense mechanism, we often want to prove our strength by showing just how well we can get on without them. yet, forgiveness implies an even greater strength than grudge-holding. It’s hard to open our hearts to forgiveness because it makes us feel vulnerable. Nevertheless, forgiving someone is a beautiful display of love, kindness and peace. 
Forgiveness looks different based on a variety of factors. For one, you can forgive someone even without letting them know. This can happen when the offender is deceased – even after their death, they can still be forgiven. Even if they are still with you, you do not necessarily need to let them know – you can always forgive them quietly in your own heart. The point is to replace enmity with love. 
It’s easy to let those burnt bridges remain the way they are, derelict and crustier than the din­ing hall’s re-heated macaroni and cheese. On the other hand, it’s much tougher to revisit those bridges and try to build something new. If noth­ing else, you can simply wipe the ashes away, qui­etly forgive them and feel that weight leave your body. It’ll be worth it, I promise. 
Eric Villalpando 
junior Siegfried hall Jan. 22 


ThE OBSErVEr | FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 2015 | NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM 

By ISAAC LORTON 
Assistant Managing Editor 

Tucked into the side of The State Theater, South Bend Brew Werks is unassuming and dwarfed by the large theater sign. Once inside, a completely different identity comes together. Combined in a small area is a clash between rustic and mod­ern, harkening back to South Bend’s working-class identity, while looking toward the future growth of South Bend. The L-shaped bar is polished pine wood reclaimed from an old bowling alley lane, the barstools are all made from wood pallets, the tap handles are varying-sized chunks of wood with the South Bend Brew Werks’ cog logo carved into the han­dle, hand-crafted ceramic mugs hang from the back wall behind the bar, blackboard chalk menus are framed by pallets. 
“It’s hard to find a place that is more South Bend,” drew Elegante, Maestro of Brew Werks, said. “Almost everything in here is repurposed from some historical part of South Bend, or we have local artists, or lo­cally sourced food items, or locally crafted beers that we make here.” 
Local modern art work decorates the walls, surrounded by more wood-en-pallet frames. All art is for sale: 50 percent goes to the artist, while 50 percent goes to a local charity or­ganization. The air vents are visible hanging from the ceiling, while the floor is polished and a dr. Seuss­esque mural of brewing equipment is painted on the cement. reds, grays and blacks grace the walls, giving the small room a modern, yet comfort­able feel. 
There are 65 unique ceramic mugs behind the bar. 
“We have the original Founders Mug Club, which were the people who during the crowdfunding cam­paign donated to the mug club,” drew said. “So those were the people who essentially invested with us from the beginning, so they will always hold ERIN RICE | The Observer 
a special place in our heart. We sold out that mug club and we limited it because we wanted to have a close relationship with those people.” 
Next to the stone mugs are han­dled-glass mugs, designating the second-tier mug club. 
“A lot of people were almost an­gry that they couldn’t get in the [Founders] Mug Club, so we created a second mug club,” drew said. “It’s still a larger pour ... they get a T-shirt and 25-percent-off merchandise. Our mugs are an annual renewal, but when you renew it you get another T-shirt and an additional mug club refill.” 
Above the stone and glass mugs sits a golden chalice. drew said this is the ultimate reward given out by South Bend Brew Werks, and of course it in­volves good deeds in South Bend. 
“The third tier is the golden chal­ice,” drew said. “That’s something you can’t buy, but have to earn. We wanted to be able to celebrate peo­ple — maybe undersung heroes — who were doing great things for the community and this was our way of saying thanks and say here is a mug, come and drink. So the first one we did Mayor Pete [Buttigieg] be­cause he was just coming back from Afghanistan and doing a ribbon cut­ting. I wouldn’t say Mayor Pete is an undersung anything, but for us it was a great marketing opportunity to get the idea and concept out. It’s just an­other opportunity to talk about really good things going on in South Bend.” 
The beer color spectrum sat be­fore me in liquid form. Ten miniature glasses, collectively known as a flight (the flights at Brew Werks are served on old curving desktops, the ones that look like a curved pizza peel, with holes cut out where one would write), were lined up in front of me: the 9 Aye, Mr. Elegante, Juniper IPA, IPA #002, Colonel Eddy, Cascading Wheat, Nut Brown, Midwest Session, Pale Ale #001 and rye Stout. All were uniquely colored — ranging from the golden blonde color of the Cascading Wheat to the warm glow of the Nut Brown to the thick choco­late ink of the Mr. Elegante. It was all of the beers Brew Werks made — for now. There are five house beers (9 Aye, 1865 Amber, Cascading Wheat, Colonel Eddy and Mr. Elegante), which are always on tap, while the five remaining are on rotation and are whatever the master brewer Jason comes up with in the basement. 
I tasted each of the ten beers. The black IPA, «9 Aye» was the best beer I tasted. There were hints of tanger­ine with touches of spice, and the beer was surprisingly light for being a dark beer. The Nut Brown tasted like savory-liquid Nutella, while the Juniper was subtle with the juniper flavoring, which made for a nice, interesting tasting IPA. The Colonel Eddy would be a good beer to finish a meal with, as the oatmeal stout tasted of chocolate and coffee. Mr. Elegante was the most interesting beer I have tasted in a while, with a smoky and bacon-y flavor. Mr. Elegante was the brainchild of drew’s tastebuds and the original brewers’ beer savvy. 
“My favorites are darker beers,” drew said. “you can see Mr. Elegante on the menu. It’s a smoked porter, it has a little bit of bacon flavor in it from the malt. It’s probably our most distinctive beer. It’s some­thing that you will not find anywhere else. A lot of people come in and try it; some people love it, some people hate it. There are very few people in between.” 
The other five beers on the menu were less impressive. IPA #002 seemed weak and not fully formed, while the Cascading Wheat lacked the crispness and zing wheat beers usually have. The stout/IPA combo Midwest Session failed to bring the two together successfully and the Pale Ale #001, although an APA, tast­ed too similar to IPA #002. The rye Stout was smooth but lacked flavor. Overall, the uniquely-flavored beers stood out and the others were unas­suming in the background. 
South Bend Brew Werks is more than beer, though. Charitable giving is a large part of Brew Werks’ iden­tity in the form of a “beer-for-good” program. 
“The beer-for-good program with the donations is something I think is out of the ordinary here,» drew said. «I’ve heard talk about the downtown dining Alliance, which is all of the downtown restaurants and bars, doing something similar at each lo­cation, which I think would be ex­traordinary because then it does become part of the South Bend cul­ture: ‘When you go to South Bend you always give back.’” 
depending on the size glass a pa­tron buys, he or she will receive a col­ored bottle cap designated 10 cents, 25 cents or 50 cents. It is then up to the customer to decide which of the three community organizations he or she will donate to. On the central pillar there are three green-glass ma­son jars waiting for the uniquely col­ored bottle caps. Behind each glass are pamphlets for each respective or­ganization: Neighborhood resource Center, La Casa de Amistad and The Music Village. I donated three of my 10-cent bottle caps to both NrC and La Casa de Amistad and four to The Music Village. 
Through everything Brew Werks does, the aim is always “Building a stronger community, one brew at a time,” as its motto says. “I think the way craft breweries im­pact identity is by creating really good memories for people of a city and a region, or by promoting the brand of that city,” drew said. “It’s one of the ways in which to market and brand your city and right now craft beer is super popular. So it’s a really good way to get people to come and visit. It contributes to the identi­ty and it’s a part of carving out more space for South Bend to be South Bend.” 
Contact Isaac Lorton at                                 ilorton@nd.edu 


ThE OBSErVEr | FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 2015 | NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM 

By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
Scene Writer 

reunion albums are typically met with a deserving degree of cynicism. The conventional narrative in rock is that it’s music for and by young people; bands that stay together over multiple decades are believed to be on an inevitable downward slide. So many reunion albums are more an excuse for the band to go on tour and play the hits than to contribute anything new to their discography. 
Enter Sleater-Kinney, a band that has built a career out of subverting rock conventions. “No Cities to Love,” the trio’s eighth studio album and their first in nearly a decade, honors their legacy as one of the most important rock groups in the world. It’s the rare reunion album that sounds just as ur­gent as the band’s earlier work. 
Coming out of the Olympia, Washington riot grrrl scene, Sleater-Kinney quickly became one of the most 
By MADDIE DALY 
Scene Writer 

Listen up, y’all: Legends of Notre dame is once again going country. Courtesy of SAO, Joel Crouse will be coming to Legends on Friday at 10 p.m. If you missed the impressive perfor­mance by Cole Swindell before break, this is your second chance to catch an up-and-coming star before he makes it big time. however, don’t get me wrong: Crouse has already succeeded quite a bit in the country music industry. 
Even if you haven’t heard the name Crouse yet, odds are you are familiar with country stars Taylor Swift, Toby Keith, The Band Perry and darius rucker. Crouse is familiar with them vital bands in indie rock. The combi­nation of Corin Tucker’s howl, Carrie Brownstein’s angular guitar work and Janet Weiss’s expert drumming was electric, but they were driven by rest­lessness to never become stagnant. The group went on to release seven albums between 1995 and 2005, each succes­sive release building on their sound in inventive ways. Their self-titled debut was a sparse punk record, but by their last record, 2005’s “The Woods,” they were working with The Flaming Lips producer dave Fridmann and explor­ing classic rock and psychedelia. 
during their decade-long hiatus, Tucker released two solo records, Weiss played with Stephen Malkmus and Bright Eyes and Brownstein co-created the IFC sketch comedy show “Portlandia” with Fred Armisen. despite their individual endeavors, «No Cities to Love» makes the case that the three women work better together than they do apart. «We win, we lose / Only together do we break the rules,» 
as well, as he has toured with all four headliners. he toured with Swift on her red Tour, Keith and The Band Perry in 2011 and is currently on the road with rucker. Every musician has to make their start somewhere, and touring with these household names is not a bad start; this country cowboy has the talent and the drive to make a sure name for himself. 
If this remarkable resume isn’t im­pressive enough, how about adding on the fact that Crouse is only 22 years old (scarily the same age as me) and has already accomplished all of these im­pressive acts? Like many before him, he is getting his start young with the hopes of capturing the hearts of fellow young country fans around the world. 
Tucker belts in the chorus of the trium­phant «Surface Envy.» The second time she sings the line, it becomes «Only together do we make the rules.» It›s a great summary of Sleater-Kinney›s ethos as a group that has continually redefined what it means to be a punk band. 
What’s remarkable about “No Cities to Love” is how alive it feels — it’s a re­cord that is deeply human, both in its sound and its politics. Opener “Price Tag” explores working class anxiety in the post-recession years, with its angst channeled into Brownstein’s explosive guitar riff and Weiss’ fren­zied drumming. The poppy “A New Wave” expresses the band’s refusal to be pigeonholed by their gender, with Brownstein emphatically declaring that “no outline will ever hold us.” On “hey darling” Tucker gives a phe­nomenal vocal performance, as she voices her concerns about returning to Sleater-Kinney after so much time away. “It seems to me the only thing 
Coming to a college campus is there­fore ideal, as we are the target audi­ence for such a singer. 
Crouse had a big year in 2014, as it marked the release of his first album, “Even the river runs. In 2011, he signed with Show dog-universal Music, a la­bel founded by Keith. The album was released in August and contains sin­gles such as “If you Want Some,” “Why god Made Love Songs” and “don’t Tell Me.” The album reached no. 183 on the Billboard top 200 and no. 20 on the Top Country Albums list. 
unlike many country stars, Crouse was born and raised on the East coat, in holland, Massachusetts, albeit in a rural area. he prides himself on tell­ing stories, saying that, “deep down, that comes from fame’s mediocrity / how could you steal the thing I love and keep it from me just out of touch,” she roars, her voice full of uncertainty and doubt. 
“I still feel like there really just isn’t a settled version of this band,” Brownstein said in an interview this week. “This is an entity that, for me, re­ally encompasses a constant sense of agitation at the world.” That refusal to settle more than justifies the existence of “No Cities to Love;” it’s the kind of thrilling record that feels like it re­quires another hundred listens to com­prehend in its entirety. Sleater-Kinney have not only met but exceeded expec­tations of what these three women can create together 20 years into their exis­tence as a band. On “No Cities to Love,” Sleater-Kinney rip the rock playbook to shreds, making and breaking the rules together once again. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at                 mmunhall@nd.edu 
country music is about the story.” he was inspired by his grandfather, born in Alabama, and began writing his own music by the age of 16. Since then, he has been writing and performing his songs in the hopes of being “dis­covered,” a goal that has clearly al­ready been achieved. 
Crouse is a young singer with heart and passion for country music, so it is basically a guarantee that his show at Legends will be worth your while. The show begins at 10 p.m. and is fol­lowed by a “Legends goes Country!” party at midnight. Entrance is free for students. 
Contact Maddie Daly at                           mdaly6@nd.edu 
ERIN RICE | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Manning’s time has come 
Daniel O’Boyle 
Sports Writer 
you may have almost missed it among all the te­dious stories about deflated footballs, but on Wednesday, a piece of NFL news that actu­ally matters came out: Peyton Manning plans to return to the denver Broncos in 2015. 
Manning, 39 years old and coming off a quad injury that seriously affected his form late in the season, will have to undergo a physical before the denver Broncos decide to keep him on for another year, but sources close to the quarterback claim he hopes to come back. 
At first, I was elated. I love to watch Peyton Manning play, and I’m usually a huge fan of watching older players continue on even if their best is behind them. Every time a team’s starting QB goes down, I kind of hope Brett Favre will get a phonecall. I’d still like to see Terrell Owens return to the league for one last ob­noxious celebration. When a 52-year-old herschel Walker said he could still play in the NFL last year, I hoped to see him try. But for Manning, the time has come to say goodbye. 
Sure, Peyton’s stats over the course of the season would still put him firmly among the top 10 quarterbacks in the league. Before he strained his quad in week 14, he was arguably in the top 5. And sure, great players sometimes just have a blip in form: Tom Brady and Aaron rodgers both had shaky starts, and both turned it around. And sure, maybe you don’t want your last memory of Peyton on a football field being the disap­pointing, overthrow-ridden performance he put in against the Colts, but for the sake of Manning, the Broncos and NFL fans everywhere, it is best if his team decides to go on without him. 
First, Manning is owed $20 million next year if he isn’t cut by March 9th, compared to just $5 million in dead money if the Broncos move on. Even with the way quarterback con­tracts have grown recently, that’s a lot of money. With 17 contracts set to expire at the end of the season, including both Julius and demaryius Thomas, John Elway could do with freeing up that kind of cap space to lock down the younger players on his team long-term. 
But can the Broncos re­place Manning? It’s obviously an important question to ask. Not every team moves from hall-of-Famer to hall-of-Famer like the Packers did. denver fans can’t have forgotten that three years ago their quarterback was Tim Tebow, and no one wants to go back to that. But what the Broncos do have is a young player with incredible raw tal­ent and one of the best nick­names in football in Brock “Brock Lobster” Osweiler. 

Osweiler will be entering his fourth year in the league and for the sake of the Broncos’ fu­ture, it’s time they know what they have in him. A 6’8” mon­ster with a huge arm, Osweiler could be lethal with the right coaching, but the Broncos need to find out before his contract’s up and make a huge decision. denver will need a quarterback soon whether Manning stays or goes — it needs to start the search now. 
regardless of whether or not Osweiler works out, if the Broncos care about winning a Superbowl, they should move on from Manning because ultimately he’ll never win another. “Peyton can’t do it in the playoffs” has been said for years, but now it’s undoubted­ly true, and not because he’s “not clutch”. Manning simply doesn’t have the body for 19 games. he can start a season well, like he did this year, but between his neck surgeries and the rest of his aging body he just can’t keep it up. he was already in a decline before his quad strain this year, and if he comes back, he’ll find it even harder to keep his early-season form up next year. 
And let’s not forget the long-term effects of Peyton’s health. his neck remains a risk, not just to his hopes of playing pro football, but to his quality of life in the future: one bad hit could cause seri­ous harm. you can’t ignore the effect of concussions in the modern game either — Manning singing advertising jingles to his chicken parm may soon be depressingly close to reality. 
At this point, it’s inevitable he’ll go soon. you just have to come to terms with Peyton exiting the league: with 4.6 yards per attempt in a 24-13 playoff defeat. Maybe it’s not perfect, but if he has to retire on a bad note, at least it was against Indianapolis. Let Peyton’s last pass be the torch to Andrew Luck, who can lead the Colts and dominate the NFL the way Manning once did. 
Contact  Daniel  at doboyle1@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NASCAR 

Jeff Gordon announces retirement next season 
Associated Press 

Jeff gordon, with a nagging back injury, a young fam­ily he wanted to spend more time with and a phenom wait­ing in the wings at hendrick Motorsports, knew midway through last season that he had one more year in him. 
NASCAr’s most charis­matic driver, the man behind the wheel of the famed and sometimes feared No. 24, had decided it was time to call it quits on one of the most suc­cessful careers in motors-ports history. The four-time champion conferred with rick hendrick, the only team own­er he has had over 23 years of Sprint Cup racing, and settled on a date. 
The 43-year-old gordon an­nounced Thursday that 2015 will be his final season as a full-time driver, saddening legions of fans, fellow drivers and others who watched him became the face of stock car racing as the sport exploded in popularity a generation ago. 
In an interview with The Associated Press, gordon said he reached his decision last summer. he had seen other drivers embark on distracting farewell tours, and he didn’t want to be that guy. Although he told his crew chief of his decision after narrowly miss­ing out on shot at a fifth cham­pionship, it took time to settle on the day to tell the world. 
It started with a conversa­tion with his two young chil­dren when they woke up for school. They worried they won’t go to the race track any­more, that other kids might think of them differently if their father is not a famous race car driver. 
The conversation with Ella and Leo made the decision a reality for gordon — and he wept. 
“Ella just stared at me, she’d never seen me cry like that be­fore,” gordon told AP. “After that, I seriously broke down. It hit me like a ton of bricks, and I got so emotional and thought, ‘how am I going to get through this day?’” 
gordon said he sobbed dur­ing the entire 30-minute drive to hendrick Motorsports, where he tearfully informed his team and his longtime employees of his decision. gordon choked back tears yet again during his interview with AP when his mother sent him a text message that he read aloud: “I never knew watching SportsCenter could be so emotional.” 
cover of a gQ magazine.” 
gordon became such a household name that he even hosted “Saturday Night Live” and was name-dropped in a Nelly song. he did it all while dominating at the track as the “rainbow Warrior,” teaming with crew chief ray Evernham to collect checkered flags at a record pace. 
gordon, who debuted in the final race of the 1992 season in Atlanta, won championships in 1995, 1997, 1998 and 2001. he also has three daytona 500 victories and a record five Brickyard 400 wins. gordon told AP that his 1994 win in the inaugural Brickyard 400 — NASCAr’s first race at historic Indianapolis Motor Speedway 
— was easily the highlight of his career. 
GOLF 

Mickelson returns at Humana Challenge 
Associated Press 

LA QuINTA, California  — Phil Mickelson got most of the attention in his return to compe­tition after a four-month break. Blake Adams got a lot more out of his comeback round. 
Mickelson shot a 1-under 71 on Thursday in the humana Challenge in his first event since the ryder Cup, leaving him eight strokes behind leader Michael Putnam. 
“Even though this score is the worst I’ve had in a long time, in months, I’m excited about my game and getting back out tomorrow,” Mickelson said. “I can’t wait to get started again, because I just feel like I played a little tight today, kind of steered it a little bit.” 
Adams had a 64 on PgA West’s 

FOR RENT 

COMMENCEMENT RENTAL ­Prime location on ND Ave and within walking distance of everything. Please email nd-house@sbcglobal.net for photos and additional info. 
Jack Nicklaus Private Course in his return from hip replacement surgery. he last played a PgA Tour event in March and had surgery in July. 
“Very, very blessed to be back out here,” Adams said. “It’s been a long road to get back. you never know what you’re going to get when you have total hip replacement.” 
The 39-year-old Adams had six straight birdies from No. 14 to No. 1, added three in a row on Nos. 5-7 and closed with a bogey. Playing on a major medical ex­tension, he has 16 events to earn $497,044 to keep his tour card. 
“If the putts fall, great, if they don’t, so be it,” Adams said. “I had a great day today. I’m going to go out there tomorrow and do my best and if I shoot 64 again, great. If I shoot 74, so be it.” 
Mickelson opened at tree-lined La Quinta Country Club. he made a 12-foot birdie putt on the par-3 third, holed out for birdie from a greenside bunker on the par-4 fourth and made a 15-foot birdie putt on the par-5 sixth. After dropping shots on Nos. 12, 14 and 16, Lefty hit a wedge to 2 feet for birdie on the par-4 17th. 
“It was the first round in four months and I’ll loosen up,” Mickelson said. “hopefully, the way I’m playing will show in the score. But today, it just didn’t.” 
The 44-year-old Mickelson, the 2002 and 2004 champion, is winless in 27 PgA Tour starts since the 2013 British Open. he has lost weight and gained strength working with trainer Sean Cochran during the long break from competition. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
“I told all my friends I was just gon-
WANTED 

na come up here and say ‘thank you’ and walk off. I can’t. There’s no way. I SALES ASSOCIATE: Snyder’s got too many people I gotta thank. In Men’s Shop, a men’s clothing store all the videos, you never just saw me; is opening in Granger and looking for you also saw Scottie Pippin for everyy sales associates. Flexible hours, part-Championship won.” - Michael Jordan time. Call 574-533-5630 had a lot of questions over the last four 

NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM | FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 2015 | ThE OBSErVEr 

NBA | CLIPPErS 123, NETS 84 

Griffin scores 24, Clippers blow out visiting Nets 
Associated Press 
LOS ANgELES  — The Clippers built a double-digit lead and then turned things over to their reserves, who kept pummeling the Nets. 
Blake griffin scored 22 of his 24 points in the first half, when the Clippers led by 33, and Los Angeles went on to its largest victory ever over Brooklyn, 123­84 Thursday night. 
J.J. redick and reserve Jamal Crawford added 17 points each, deAndre Jordan had 14 points and 12 rebounds, and Chris Paul had a season-high 17 assists for the Clippers, who have won nine of their last 12 and three in a row. 
Coach doc rivers credited the bench for keeping the pressure on the Nets. 
“It was their defense that got us going,” he said. “Two things they’ve done better is they start with defense and get the ball movement. The bench is alive and that hasn’t been the case all year. It’s called growth and it’s good for our team.” 

With Kevin garnett resting, the Nets were led by Mason Plumlee with 16 points. darius Morris and Jerome Jordan had 11 points each, and Jordan grabbed 11 rebounds. They have lost nine of 11. 
“It was unfortunate for us, very embarrassing, consider­ing it was a nationally televised game,” Jordan said. “The only thing that counts is that it was only one game, and now we’ve got to move forward.” 
The Clippers put the game away in the first half, when they shot 66 percent and Jordan had already secured his double-double. They were especially dominant in the second quarter, outscoring Brooklyn 36-14. 
“We had tried to stay with them, but it just didn’t work out that way,” Nets coach Lionel hollins said. “The game plan was just obliterated by their play.” 
Los Angeles’ reserves con­tinued the offensive mo­mentum from late in the first quarter, when the Clippers used a 19-4 run to go up 34-21. Led by Crawford, the second unit over­whelmed the Nets 14-4 to ex­tend the lead to 48-27. Crawford scored nine points, including six straight, to start them off. 
“This is what we’ve been talk­ing about all year, finding that consistency,” Paul said. 
griffin, Jordan and Paul re­turned halfway through the sec­ond quarter and put on a show. Jordan had back-to-back dunks, powering over Brook Lopez on the second one, while Paul hit a 3-pointer. griffin scored their fi­nal six points, hitting a 22-footer, to give the Clippers a 70-37 lead at the break. 
NBA | CELTICS 89, TrAILBLAZErS 87 
Turner’s late 3-pointer lifts Celtics over Trailblazers 
Associated Press 
POrTLANd, Ore. — Evan Turner was confident from the moment the shot left his hands. 
With just 1.9 seconds left and trailing the Portland Trail Blazers 89-87, Turner launched a shot from about 23 feet out. It fell, giving the Boston Celtics the 90-89 victory on Thursday night. 
The victory snapped a three-game losing streak for the Celtics, who had four starters in double figures paced by Avery Bradley with 18 points. Jared Sullinger added 17 points and nine rebounds. 
“I was able to shoot it high enough so it felt good,” Turner said of the game-winner. “I kind of prayed to make a big shot and it happened.” 

Boston’s victory also snapped a four-game losing streak to the Blazers. 
damian Lillard had 21 points and seven assists to lead Portland, which has lost five of their last six as the team struggles with injuries to their front line. Already without cen­ter robin Lopez and forward LaMarcus Aldridge, fellow start­ing forward Nicolas Batum left the game with a wrist injury that has been nagging him. 
“Everybody knows what Nic can bring and what LA brings, so we have to figure out diffident ways of scoring and sometimes different ways of playing,” said Blazers coach Terry Stotts. “The differences are fairly obvious.” 
Lillard’s 3-pointer put Portland up 87-81 with 4:44 left, but the Celtics answered, pulling 
PAId AdVErTISEMENT 

within 87-85 on Bradley’s pull-up jumper before Sullinger’s put-back layup tied it. 
Wesley Matthews missed one of two free throws to give the Blazers the edge, and a turnover gave Portland the ball on the other end. But the Blazers strug­gled to score and settled for Thomas robinson’s free throw to lead 89-87 with 26.6 seconds left. 
Scrambling on the floor, Sullinger flipped the ball to Turner for the go-ahead 3-point­er, and Lillard couldn’t get a shot off before the buzzer. 
Turner said he loves taking those critical shots. 
“Oh yeah, for sure,” he said. “I like them even more when they go in. I’ve missed a couple this year, but I’m glad this one went in and most importantly I’m glad we won.” 
The Blazers were hit before the game with the news that Aldridge had torn a ligament in his left thumb and would need surgery. The 6-foot-11 power forward is expected to miss from six to eight weeks. 
Aldridge was injured in Monday’s 98-94 victory over the Sacramento Kings. he leads Portland with averages of 23.5 points, 10.4 rebounds and 1.18 blocks per game. 
“It’s tough,” Aldridge told reporters in Portland’s locker room before the game. “I defi­nitely didn’t want to have any­thing like this going on right now.” 
NFL 

Pro Bowlers debate ‘Deflagate’ 
Associated Press 
gLENdALE, Ariz. — Indianapolis Colts line­backer d’Qwell Jackson says he noticed nothing wrong with the football he intercepted against New England in last week’s AFC championship game. 
Talking after his Pro Bowl team practiced at Luke Air Force Base on Thursday, he said he mere­ly wanted to keep the ball as a souvenir. 
“Some guys, you make a big play, you want the ball,” Jackson said. “That was my intention.” 
he said he took it to the 
sidelines,  hasn’t  seen  it  
since  and  probably  never  
w ill.  

“I’ll do my best to try to get ahold of it,” Jackson said. “But right now it’s in the middle of, what do they call it, ‘deflategate.’” 
The normal procedure when a player wants to save the ball, he said, is for it to go to the equipment staff “and you have it in your locker come Monday morning.” 
“I don’t know how it got to this point,” Jackson said, “but somehow I’m in the middle of it.” 
Jackson said he doesn’t handle the ball enough to know whether it was prop­erly inflated or not. 
“The deal about me say­ing that I noticed anything about it, that’s totally false,” he said. 
Baltimore’s John harbaugh, who will coach Team Carter at the Pro Bowl, said that it would be “an unfair advantage” to play with a deflated footba ll. 
harbaugh’s ravens lost at New England the previ­ous week. he declined to discuss any specifics of the Patriots’ case, refer­ring questioners to what he said at a news confer­ence in Baltimore earlier in the week. 
“I will say that I think the league is on it,” harbaugh said. “They’re going to do whatever is right and prop­er. They’re going to make sure the game is played with integrity and it’s played the right way — it’s fair and there are no un­fair advantages for either side in any game. 
“That’s what sports is all about. That’s what football is all about. That’s their obligation and I’m confi­dent that they’re up to that responsibilit y.” 
harbaugh said it’s not for him to say “what another coach would be thinking about or what he would 
k now about.”  
Asked if  he  would  be  
awa re  of  the  condition  
of  his  tea m’s  footba lls,  

harbaugh said, “I would be aware of a lot of things.” 
“I try to be aware of as much as I can,” he said. “I think any coach would. But I can’t say what another coach would be aware of.” 
Wide receiver Jordy Nelson of green Bay said he thinks quarterbacks have the ball the way they like it, within the rules. Packers quarterback Aaron rodgers likes the ball filled to the max. 
detroit quarterback Matthew Stafford said he knows equipment staffs rub up the ball to get it the way the quarterback likes, but he’s never dealt with how much air is inside. 
“Everybody likes it dif­ferent,” Stafford said. “Apparently, Aaron rodgers likes to throw a beach ball — whatever.” 
While questions about deflated footballs domi­nated the discussions so far this week, there is a football game to be played on Sunday. The game at university of Phoenix Stadium, site of next week­end’s Super Bowl, is sold out. 
Chris Carter and Michael Irvin are honorary cap­tains and chose the play­ers on their teams on Wednesday night, so it will be Team Carter vs. Team Irvin. 
It’s the second time for this setup after the AFC vs. NFC format was scrapped. 
On Thursday, each team had a workout at the Air Force base east of Phoenix, with hundreds of sol­diers and their families surrounding the football field. After each practice, the players signed auto­graphs and posed for pic­tures with fans. 
“It’s an incredible scene,” harbaugh said. “It’s neat to be a part of it. We drove up and the place was ringed with military personnel and the fighter jets were taking off over the top of us. To me, that’s what it’s all about, the sac­rifices their families make all across this country to keep us safe and keep us free and give us a chance to play a big game like this and be a part of this. That’s A mer ica.” 



SMC BASKETBALL | COMETS 74, BELLES 54 
Belles’ struggles continue against Comets 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s dropped a 74-54 decision to conference foe Olivet on Wednesday at the Angela Athletic Facility on the campus of Saint Mary’s College. 
The score was tied at 13-13 half­way through the opening half. Over the next 90 seconds, the Belles (3-14, 1-7 MIAA) went on a 7-2 run to grab a 20-15 advantage with eight-and-a-half minutes to go in the first half. however, the Comets (9-8, 4-4 MIAA) went on a 19-11 run to close out the half and head into the locker room with a 34-31 lead. 
“I thought we did a really good job on defense in the first half despite losing the rebound ad­vantage,” Belles coach Jennifer henley said. “We attacked them defensively and got to the foul line like we had planned.” 
Saint Mary’s went on an 8-0 run to begin the second half and jumped to a 39-34 lead. Olivet responded with a 16-0 run over the next seven minutes to take a 50-39 lead and they never looked back. 

“The second half Olivet made some adjustments on offense and we couldn’t stop their run like we did in the first half,” henley said. 
Senior forward Carlireid paced the Comets with 23 points and four rebounds and senior center Stefanie Lang scored 19 points to go along with 16 rebounds to re­cord the double-double. 
Junior forward Elani Shea led the Belles with 15 points with seven rebounds, while junior forward Krista Knapke added 10 points and four rebounds. Freshman forward Molly robinson had nine points, fresh­man forward gabby diamond added seven points and five re­bounds and junior guard Maddie Kohler contributed five points and one rebound for the Belles. 
St. Mary’s shot 37 percent from the field in the first half and 
33.3 percent in the second half while Olivet had a 42.1 percent field goal percentage in the first half and a 45.5 percent field goal percentage in the second half. The Belles attempted only three 3-point shots the entire game, making only one. The Comets at­tempted 18 3-point conversions throughout the game, connect­ing on only four of them. Saint Mary’s went 15-of-21 (71.4 per­cent) from the free-throw line while Olivet made eight-of-12 (67 percent) attempts. 
“Saturday starts round 2 of MIAA play,” henley said. “At this point in the season, teams know each other pretty well. We have to really take a stand on defense and look to outwork opponents down the stretch.” 
The Belles will attempt to turn their season around during the second half of conference play, starting with a road game against Alma on Saturday. 
Contact Michael Ivey at mivey@nd.edu 
NBA | BuLLS 104, SPurS 81 

Rose’s 22 points lead Bulls past Spurs 
Associated Press 
ChICAgO — derrick rose scored 22 points and the strug­gling Chicago Bulls beat the San Antonio Spurs 104-81 on Thursday night. 
The Bulls came away with a much-needed win after drop­ping six of eight and handed the defending champions their most lopsided loss of the season. 
The Central division lead­ers broke this one open in the third quarter, outscoring the Spurs 31-20, and snapped San Antonio’s four-game win streak. 
rose, who called out his team after Monday’s loss at Cleveland, backed it up by go­ing hard to the rim and hitting 9 of 16 shots. he led six Bulls in double figures. 
Pau gasol added 12 points and 17 rebounds after being voted to his fifth All-Star game and first as a starter. 

Jimmy Butler scored 17. Taj gibson added 15 points and nine rebounds. Aaron Brooks scored 15, and the Bulls snapped a three-game home losing streak. 
After giving up at least 102 points in six of the previous eight games, Chicago held San Antonio to 37-percent shoot­ing. The Spurs’ Kawhi Leonard scored all of his team-leading 16 points in the first half. 
rose had it going right from the start with 15 points the first half, and Chicago headed to the locker room with a 46-40 lead that was about to get much bigger. 
Tony Snell converted a three-point play with 17.3 sec­onds left in the second quar­ter to start a 14-2 Bulls run that made it 57-42 early in the third. The Bulls stayed in con­trol the rest of the way, putting aside the chaos for at least one night. 
The recent struggles combined with rose’s criti­cism and a meeting between the players and coach Tom Thibodeau painted an ugly pic­ture for a team that was rolling along before the recent slide. 

There is speculation that Thibodeau’s job is in jeopardy and that he is losing the locker room. But Spurs coach gregg Popovich was not buying that. 
“he’s not gonna lose any team,” Popovich said. “I think you guys just have to have sto­ries. So somebody loses a few games, there’s got to be a rea­son. I guess that’s the one that was picked. Sometimes players listen to me. Timmy stopped listening to me a long time ago. I don’t even coach him. you guys think I’m kidding. he just plays. I talk to him once in a while, but sometimes some guys don’t want to hear it. But as far as the team and being lost and that kind of thing, that’s not what’s happening here.” 

FENCING 
Irish resume action in New York 

By BRETT O’CONNELL 
Sports Writer 
The fencing travels to New york this weekend for invita­tionals at St. John’s on Saturday and New york university (Nyu) on Sunday. 
The Irish head into the week­end’s action just a few days af­ter having ranked first overall in the first women’s coaches’ poll of 2015 and second overall in the men’s poll. This ranking follows a 2014 campaign that saw Irish individuals take na­tional titles in the men’s and women’s foil but sixth overall at the NCAA championships. 
Still, the Irish enter 2015 as the only program with a top two ranking in both the men’s and women’s polls, and this marks the women’s squad’s 21st number one ranking. The men have held the first slot in the poll 16 times. 
St. John’s also earned a fa­vorable position in the year’s initial rankings. After a final 2014 ranking of seventh, the red Storm men rise to fifth in the poll, and the women sit at eighth. 
Over the two days of action, Notre dame will see several top-10 squads of both genders from teams like harvard and Columbia. 
“This one is probably the most important before the qualifiers because this one re­ally sets the tone for what’s actually going to happen in the season,” freshman foilist Spicer Emge said. “The tough­est opponents are at this one. Columbia’s there; harvard’s there. All the people that, when we go to NCAAs, those are go­ing to be the people we are go­ing to be duking it out with for the championship.” 
This weekend’s inviation­als mark the debut of new Irish sabre coach Samir Ibrahimov, whose hiring was announced by head coach gia Kvaratskhella on Jan. 15. Ibrahimov joins the fencing team after a three-year stint in hong Kong, where he brought home a number of accolades as the sabre coach of hong Kong’s national team. 
The team most recently saw action last November at the Penn State Open although the Irish were missing ten starters due to international competitions. despite this set­back, the Irish earned three medals in both the women’s and men’s competitions. Sophomore sabreist Allison Barry shared a bronze medal with Pennsylvania sophomore dana Kong. Junior epeeist Catherine Lee and junior foilist Nicole McKee both earned sil­ver medals in their respective weapons. 
In men’s competition, junior sabreist John hallsten proceed­ed to the round of eight until falling to Penn State junior and defending NCAA champion sa­breist Kaito Streets. ultimately, hallsten earned a fifth-place finish on the day. 
Looking forward, the Irish have approximately one month between them and the ACC championship. This marks Notre dame’s first chance to compete in the tournament af­ter having left the Midwestern Fencing Conference to join the ACC in 2014. 
“I think this year, especially since last year we didn’t do that well, and yet we’ve always been one of the top teams in the country, I definitely think this year we’re going to come out pretty strong,” Emge said. 
The Irish continue that push Saturday as their season re­sumes in Queens, New york, at the St. John’s Invitational followed Sunday by the Nyu Invitational in Jersey City, New Jersey. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 

NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM | FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 2015 | ThE OBSErVEr 


Hockey 
CONTINuEd FrOM PAgE 16 
conference. 
The duo looks to continue a run of Northeastern success against Notre dame. The huskies have taken three of the last four games from the Irish over the past three seasons, including handing the Irish a 9-2 drubbing in 2011. 
“They’ve given us fits in the [of­fensive zone] over the last three years,” Jackson said. “They’re very good in the offensive zone and very good on the power play.” 
As a result, Jackson said playing well on the penalty kill will be key and overall team de­fense will be a focal point. 

“We still have to play our game,” Jackson said. “We’ve made progress over the last sev­eral weeks as far as our transition game ... our special teams have been better for us.” 
After capturing his 400th collegiate victory on Saturday, Jackson said he prefers to shy away from the spotlight and fo­cus on the road ahead. 
“It’s about the journey,” Jackson said. “It’s about the people involved in those 400 victories. Coaching is all about moments … they don’t happen enough. But the only win that matters to me is the next one. I would trade all 400 victories if it meant a chance to win a national championship at the university of Notre dame — that’s the ultimate.” 
Notre dame battles Northeastern on Friday and Saturday at Matthews Arena in Boston, with the puck dropping both nights at 7 p.m. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamondon@nd.edu 
PAId AdVErTISEMENT 


MEN’S LACROSSE 
Irish to start year with high hopes 
By GREG HADLEY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Coming off a national cham­pionship loss, No. 2 Notre dame takes the field at Loftus Sports Center for the first time in 2015 this Sunday for an exhibition match against Bellarmine. 
Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said he knows what the pre­season polls predict for Notre dame this season — second in the country, first in the ACC and five All-Americans — but he does not put any store by them. The only things that mat­ter to Corrigan are the mindets of his players and staff, he said. 
“you can’t completely ignore [the preseason hype] just be­cause the guys are aware of it and everything,” Corrigan said. “But listen, what it means is that people think we should be competing at a really high level this year. That’s not anything new to us or anything that’s going to change our expecta­tions of ourselves every day. We try to be demanding on a day­to-day basis because we don’t want our guys feeling any spe­cial pressure on game day. We’ll continue to have high stan­dards ... every day and we’re not too concerned with what other people’s expectations of us are.” 
The Irish returned early from winter break to begin training Jan. 11, but in the weeks since, training has hit some snags, Corrigan said. 
“Practice has been going well,” Corrigan said. “The guys have been doing a good job, but we’ve have had a bunch of inju­ries that have caused a variety of guys to miss practice. But the guys who have been out there have been doing a pretty great job. ... We’ve probably had 10 different people miss time al­ready, which is pretty unusual this early in the year. guys are taking it as a challenge to take on a bigger role, but I think it hurts our overall competitive­ness on a day-to-day basis.” 
Corrigan said that the exhibi­tion this weekend should help spark some of that fire, as well as give him an opportunity to see how his players compete in game situations. 
“To get into the rhythm and pace of what an actual game is like is much different from practice,” he said. “In prac­tice, when you’re working on, say, your half-field offense, it’s really hard to get a feeling for what the value of a possession is. Because if a ball goes out of bounds, you just restart, and in a game, that might be a ball you don’t see again for three or four minutes. So you have to play some whole-field game-type situations just to really get a feel for the tempo of real-action play.” 
The Irish and the Knights are familiar foes, having played each other in several preseason matches and this fall in an exhibition. The two squads also have three programs — Michigan, Ohio State and Air Force — in common on their 2015 schedules. 
“We know that they’re a good team that’s very well-coached,” Corrigan said. “They’ve brought a Canadian influence in the past two years. We don’t do a lot of scouting for a pre­season game, but we expect to get tested in some areas like the two-man game, that will be very good for us. More than anything else, we just want to see someone else.” 
Last season, the Irish won six straight games in the postsea­son before falling to duke, 11-9, in the NCAA title game May 26. Of the 10 starters in that game, the Irish return eight, as well as another eight off the bench who played too. however, a good portion of the Irish bench graduated last spring, and Corrigan said he has used this winter practice to identify sev­eral players whom he expects to see the field often. 
“[Junior defender] Edwin glazener is playing very well for us defensively and is someone who hasn’t had a lot of [playing] time in the last couple years,” Corrigan said. “he could play a lot for us this year. [Junior midfielder] Cole riccardi ... has earned himself some play­ing time right now, and we’re anxious to see how he does. So there’s a couple of guys who have both been working very hard. They’re both juniors, they worked extremely hard to get to where they are right now, and we’re extremely excited to see both of them play this weekend.” 
Notre dame kicks off its exhibi­tion schedule this Sunday at noon against Bellarmine at Loftus Sports Center. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 


ThE OBSErVEr | FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 2015 | NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM 


W Bball 
CONTINuEd FrOM PAgE 16 

to jump on Irish lethargy and earn an upset on the road. 
“We just kept playing hard, and I thought we got some key defensive stops that led to some baskets on our end,” Whiteside said. “But we just never were able to get it all the way down. They just would get a transition bucket, or we would turn it over.” 
Mcgraw said she hoped 
M Bball 
CONTINuEd FrOM PAgE 16 

boards against the hokies (8­10, 0-5) and forced nine turn­overs, which largely led to 15 fast break points. 
“I think when we run, we really have a great feel,” Brey said. “We’re very unselfish, we throw ahead, we’ve got big guys running the floor. 
“We love playing togeth­er, and when we get in our rhythm, we’re really hard to guard.” 
Junior forward Zach Auguste returned to Notre dame’s starting lineup for the first time since Jan. 10. Auguste, the team’s second-leading rebounder and third-leading scorer, didn’t travel with the team to georgia Tech on Jan. 14 due to an aca­demic matter and came off the bench in the team’s win Saturday against Miami. 
Auguste scored eight of Notre dame’s first 14 points, sparking the Irish to an ear­ly 17-8 lead. Virginia Tech thrice closed its deficit to seven points in the first half, but each time Notre dame answered, twice with 3-pointers and once with a layup. 
“I thought it was a big night for Zach Auguste to come back and be that guy for us after a week of some distractions academically,” Brey said. “That was a key for him.” 
After taking a 38-28 lead into halftime, the Irish showed few signs of slow­ing down, as they scored nine of the first 12 points in the second half. Notre dame extended its lead to 20 points on a 3-pointer by senior guard/forward Pat Connaughton with 12 min­utes to go and led by as many as 29 in the contest. 
After scoring 23 points Saturday, senior guard Jerian grant led the team with 18 points and six assists and added seven rebounds. 
“There’s not anybody play­ing better than Jerian grant in the country,” Brey said. “What he is doing, some of the passes he throws … man, does he stir the drink for us.” 
Three other Irish starters ended up with double-figure points. Connaughton totaled 17 points and 10 rebounds for the double-double, mak­ing five of his six shots from 3-point range. Auguste fin­ished with 16 points and eight rebounds, and soph­omore guard demetrius Jackson had 12 points. 
Notre dame will continue its conference road-trip Sunday night when the Irish meet North Carolina State. The Wolfpack (13-7, 4-3) lost to Miami, 65-60, on Thursday and have lost three of their last five games, though they did pick up a victory over No. 5 duke during that stretch. 
North Carolina State has been led by redshirt junior guard Trevor Lacey and red-shirt senior guard ralston Turner, who have averaged 
17. 1 points per game and 
13.7 points per game, respec­tively. The Wolfpack topped the Irish, 77-70, in the teams’ meeting at Purcell Pavilion last season. 
With wins in its first three conference road games, Notre dame is beginning to establish itself as a strong road opponent, Brey said. 
“I think they’re starting to get a little bit of a road swag­ger,” Brey said of his squad. “They’re even starting to use the term ‘road dogs.’” 
Notre dame will look to continue its hot start when the Irish face off against North Carolina State on Sunday at 6:30 p.m. at PNC Arena in raleigh, North Carolina. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
 Though the Irish entered the game coming off tough victories against No. 12 North Carolina and No. 5 Tennessee, Loyd said they need to perform at a high level in every match-up, no matter the opponent. 
“That’s not an excuse,” she said. “We have to be ready for every single game. There are no off days.” 
Irish starting freshman for­ward Brianna Turner played only 17 minutes after pick­ing up two fouls in each half. yellow Jackets sophomore guard and leading scorer Kaela davis also rode the bench more than usual Thursday with foul trouble herself. 
Even without davis on the floor, the yellow Jackets reached their season average of 75.9 points per game as a team. 
“... A win over North Carolina, a win over Tennessee, it’s a huge game; there’s a lot of emotion,” Mcgraw said. “They come out tonight — ‘We’re supposed to win, so let’s give it half the effort.’” 
georgia Tech junior guard Aaliyah Whiteside said her team missed opportunities her team would get in a good workout — “mentally, at least” 

— tomorrow before it faces off on the road with Clemson. 
The Tigers (9-10, 1-5) enter the game with five consecutive losses, two of those at home. 
Mcgraw said Notre dame needs to tap into its focus for the contest with Clemson, the second in a string of 11 straight ACC games. 
“This is a really tough stretch coming up, and we need to be ready every single night be­cause everyone in this league can beat us, and we still, even after the Miami game, are not aware of that,” she said. 
The Irish meet the Tigers on Saturday at 5 p.m. at Littlejohn Coliseum in Clemson, South Carolina. 
Contact Mary Green at                  mgreen8@nd.edu 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL | dEPAuL 64, SETON hALL 60 
DePaul upsets No. 24 Seton Hall 
Associated Press 

dePaul was trailing by eight points on the road to a nationally ranked team with five minutes left and its best player was soon to foul out. 
But Blue demons coach Oliver Purnell gave his team one message down the stretch as they faced No. 24 Seton hall on Thursday night. 
“It’s simple: Just believe,” Purnell said after his team rallied in the closing minutes for a 64-60 win. “These are the things you have to do. The game was not over. I tried to preach to them that they had done it before, coming back from 13 against Marquette and 10 against St. John’s. This was like that. We had experi­ences like that. 
“They had to believe.” 

But not on the road and against a Top 25-ranked team. dePaul had lost 51 straight games against ranked teams dating to 2008 (No. 17 Villanova at home) and 2005 on the road (No. 16 Wake Forest). 
“I wasn’t aware of that, but I’m not surprised,” said Purnell, in his fifth season at dePaul. “A lot of that hap­pened before I got here, but I knew we hadn’t beaten once since I’ve been here.” 
The Blue demons (11-9, 5-2 Big East) are off to their best start in any conference since dePaul left independent sta­tus in 1991. dePaul joined the Big East in 2005. 
The Blue demons rallied after trailing 55-47 with 5:05 remaining. Soon after, the team’s leading scorer Billy garrett Jr., whose father was once an assistant coach at Seton hall, fouled out with 14 points. But the Blue demons didn’t get demoralized. 
“We certainly believe and have confidence that a team can build off things like this,” Purnell said. “We were be­hind, so that made things hard. Billy fouling out made things harder. But we’re in a good mindset right now. We had other guys who stepped up offensively and made big plays. This is a really nice win for us.” 
Myke henry also scored 14 for the Blue demons, who de­feated Seton hall (13-5, 3-3) for the first time on the road after four previous losses. 
darrick Wood (11 points) and rashaun Stimage (10 points) each hit clutch free throws in the closing seconds to enable the Blue demons to get the win. Stimage, who came in averaging just 
1.8 points per game, also grabbed a huge rebound with 
3.9 seconds to ice the victory. 
dePaul outscored Seton hall 17-5 over the final five minutes. 
Angel delgado set career highs with 19 points and 19 rebounds for the Pirates. Khadeem Carrington add­ed 12 before fouling out. Brandon Mobley added 10 points and eight rebounds. 
Leading scorer Sterling gibbs scored just four points, shooting just 2 of 16 shots from the floor and missing all seven of his shots from be­yond the 3-point line. 
“he’s been playing at such a high level and getting a lot of attention, but tonight, he just had a bad night,” Seton hall head coach Kevin Willard said. “It’s a good learning lesson for him. When he’s not making shots, he still has to make plays for his teammates.” 
It looked as if Seton hall had the game won, going on a 10-1 run, thanks to Mobley, who had two free throws, then had a monstrous break­away dunk. Jaren Sina capped the run with a long 3-pointer that pushed the lead to 55-47 with 5:48 left. 
The Pirates held the Blue demons for more than five minutes without a field goal. 



NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM | FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 2015 | ThE OBSErVEr 

CROSSWORD | WILL ShOrTZ 

HOROSCOPE | EugENIA LAST 
DOME NUTS | ALEXANdrIA WELLMAN 
SUDOKU | ThE MEPhAM grOuP 
JUMBLE | dAVId hOyT ANd JEFF KNurEK 
HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | ChrISTOPhEr BruCKEr 







Make checks payable to and mail to: The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre dame, IN 46556


 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
Address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
City State Zip 

ThE OBSErVEr | FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 2015 | NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | Nd 89, gEOrgIA TECh 76 
Win falls flat for McGraw 
Coach praises Reimer but expresses disappointment with team’s overall defensive effort 
By MARY GREEN 
Sports Editor 
No. 6 Notre dame may have come away with a win over georgia Tech on Thursday, but coach Muffet Mcgraw was far from satisfied with her team’s performance. 
“It is about how you play and the attitude that you have, the toughness that you show, and we did not show any tough­ness today,” she said after the 89-76 victory at Purcell Pavilion. “We had no pride in our defense whatsoever. I was extremely disappointed with the defensive effort, the re­bounding effort.” 
The Irish (18-2, 5-1 ACC) jumped out to an 18-point lead over the yellow Jackets (12-8, 2-4) midway through the first half, but georgia Tech gradually cut that advantage to seven points at halftime. 
Notre dame did not strug­gle much offensively, shoot­ing 56.5 percent from the floor, but it did have trouble 

ND offense rolls in road 
Irish travel after 
win against Hokies 
strong home stand 

MEN’S BASKETBALL | Nd 85, VIrgINIA TECh 60 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Managing Editor 
After playing down to the wire in its last five conference games, No. 8 Notre dame gave itself some breathing room on the road Thursday, riding hot 3-point shooting to earn an 85-60 victory over Virginia Tech at Cassell Coliseum in Blacksburg, Virginia. 
With the victory, the Irish (18-2, 6-1 ACC) are off to their best start since the 1973-1974 season when Notre dame won 23 of its first 24 games. Notre dame is also off to its best conference start since the 2002-2003 season, when the Irish jumped out to 6-1 in Big East play. 
“I thought we really fo­cused,” Irish coach Mike Brey said in a postgame interview with uNd.com. “… Our de­fense was great both halves; we were in a really good of­fensive rhythm. 
“… Some of our transition decisions were just beautiful basketball. I just don’t think a lot of teams can play like us.” 
Notre dame shot 49.2 

stopping the yellow Jackets, who shot 50 percent for the game and notched 40 points in the paint. 
“The only reason we won the game was because we out­scored them, and it looked like that was our mental­ity,” Mcgraw said. “We are just going to try to outscore them. We are not gonna try to stop them, and that is not acceptable.” 
Junior guard Jewell Loyd paced the Irish with 29 points, hitting all nine of her free-throw attempts, and seven assists. 
Sophomore forward Taya reimer grabbed eight re­bounds, and Notre dame squeezed by in the battle on the boards, 34-30. 
“I thought Taya reimer did a great job on the defen­sive glass,” Mcgraw said. “No one else did their job. It was extremely disappointing to watch.” AMY ACKERMAN | The Observer 
 Irish junior guard Jewell Loyd drives against two Georgia Tech defenders during Notre Dame’s 89-76 win see W BBALL PAGE 14 Thursday at Purcell Pavilion. Loyd led the team with 29 points and seven assists. 
HOCKEY 

By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
Sports Writer 
Notre dame looks to build off a strong performance last weekend when it trav­els to Boston for a pair of hockey East games against Northeastern. 
Notre dame (10-11-3, 5-2­3 hockey East) is coming off a 1-0-1 weekend in a home­and-home series against Connecticut, in which senior defenseman robbie russo netted four goals and earned hockey East Player of the Week honors. his hat trick, part of a 6-1 Irish victory Sunday, was the first by a Notre dame de­fenseman since 1988. russo’s 24 points now give him the season lead among all defen­semen nationally. 
“I just think [russo] is fi­nally playing up to his poten­tial,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “Sometimes it takes kids a little longer. It’s really about him taking the responsibility of his ability level.” 
percent from the floor and 46.2 beyond the arc. The Irish also 
The Irish now turn their percent from 3-point range, held a 43-29 advantage on the 
attention to Northeastern, a hitting 12-of-26 attempts from 
team looking for its first NCAA see M BBALL PAGE 14 
tournament appearance since 2009. The huskies (8-11-4, 4-7-2 hockey East) return to action after also going 1-0-1 this past weekend against No. 12 Vermont. Jackson said he believes the huskies have got­ten back into the right mind­set after a tough start to the season. 
“I think the biggest thing is that their goaltender [red-shirt senior Clay Witt] is play­ing more like he did last year,” Jackson said. “That’s a big part of it, since preseason he was considered one of the top goalies in the country coming back.” 
Witt, a hobey Baker Award candidate last year after sporting a 2.37 gAA, is just 5-6-2 this year while carrying a 2.75 gAA. 
The huskies strongest play this year has come from their forwards, as sopho­more forward dalen hedges finds himself tied for third in hockey East with 16 assists. Junior forward Kevin roy has been a catalyst as well, adding 12 points on the power play, good for a tie for first in the 
see hOCKEy PAGE 13 




