The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 33 | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Students share experiences with mental illness 
As part of Mental Health Awareness Week, event put spotlight on personal stories and effects of stigma 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
associate news editor 
Editor’s Note: This is the third installment of a five-day series discussing mental health at Notre Dame in recognition of Mental Illness Awareness Week. 
Ten students shared stories of the impact mental illness has had on their lives Tuesday night in the lafortune student center ballroom. “in our own words” was part of the programming for mental illness awareness week 2015, sponsored by the notre dame chapter of the national alliance on mental illness (nami-nd). 
senior haley hoyle reflected on her brother’s struggle with depression and his suicide in may. 
“my brother never graduated. he never got his degree. he never even came close to living a joyful life. he never got a good job; he was never able to follow his pas­sion for playing guitar. he never got married, never had kids,” she said. “There was a lot my brother was never able to do, and above all, the thing he was not able to do was live past the age of 23.” 
living with mental illness is be­come increasingly difficult, hoyle said, because of the seeming lack of physical symptoms 
“The stigma associated with mental illness is absolutely dis­gusting to me. when my brother was still alive, many people were 
see healTh PAGE 4 


SARAH OLSON | The Observer 

Sophomore Brendan Coughlan discusses the devastating consequences of mental illness and possible solutions to alleviate the stigma surrounding it at “In Our Own Words” for Mental Illness Awareness Week. 


particle physics sheds light on models of universe 

By EDDIE DAMSTRA 
news writer 
Tuesday night, associate profes­sor of elementary particle physics Kevin lannon gave the opening lecture to the new public talk se­ries being put on by the depart­ment of physics entitled “our universe revealed.” 
in the series’s opening lecture, lannon speculated about the po­tential future findings of the large hadron collider (lhc) and the possible ramifications they may have for our understanding of the universe. 
lannon highlighted the central questions of the experiments be­ing run by the lhc and other par­ticle accelerators across the world. 
“what is it that we are shooting for in the first place?” he said. “The question we are trying to answer 
see physics PAGE 3 


professor weighs in on nasa’s mars findings 
By SARAH CATE BAKER 
news writer 

despite the news of liquid water on mars last week, professor of civ­il and environmental engineering and earth sciences clive neal said this is not a new discovery. 
“They found water on mars — well, we knew there was water. There had been water on mars from the mariner and viking or­bital images,“ neal said Tuesday. “Quite frankly, what they found [last monday was] reported in a paper in 2000.” 
according to neal, the first pa­per to reveal the presence of wa­ter on the planet identifies what are known as “rsls”, or recur­ring slope lineae. rsls are visible on mars’ surface as dark streaks running down steep craters and mountains, and they appear when temperatures are high and disappear when it gets cold. 
neal said rsls could actually be liquid water. 
after observing the rsls for several years, scientists started constructing a hypothetical martian water cycle, neal said. 

“water will come out of the subsurface, then it will flow for a little bit, then it will sublimate and go to the vapor phase or it will be absorbed into the subsurface,” he said. “it works kind of like a moun­tain stream — ice melts as tem­peratures rise, and small streams run down the slopes. with mars, those streams, the rsls, are likely sourced in underground ice, and 
see mars PAGE 3 



presidential advisor speaks on experience, policy 
By COURTNEY BECKER 
news writer 

abigail wozniak, associate professor of economics, spoke about the fast-paced lifestyle of white house professionals, referencing her time serving as a senior economist for labor economics issues on president barack obama’s council of 
economic  advisors  (cea)  at  
debartolo  hall  on  Tuesday  
night.  

The lecture was sponsored by the notre dame economics club and touched on how to be an economist in politics, as well as her experience serving on the cea. 
according to the council of economic advisors webpage, the cea, established by congress in 1946, “is charged with offering the president objective econom­ic advice on the formulation of both domestic and international economic policy.” 
wozniak said her job was giv­ing the president unbiased eco­nomic advice, particularly in 
see advisor PAGE 4 


news PAGE 3 scene PAGE 5 viewpoinT PAGE 6 fooTball PAGE 12 men’s soccer PAGE 12 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


If you were a character on “Friends,” who would you be? 

Marisa Brigati 
sophomore 
lyons hall 
“first episode rachel in the wedding dress in the coffee shop.” 

Meg McAdoo 
sophomore 
ryan hall 
“probably phoebe on a good day.” 

Analisa Fontana 
sophomore 
ryan hall 
“i relate to rachel, and i have been told i’m rachel.” 



Ryan Hennessy 
sophomore 
duncan hall 

“absolutely chandler. i just make awkward jokes.” 

Lizzie Miggins 
senior pasquerilla west hall 
“100 percent monica, but i really want to be a phoebe.” 

George McCabe 
junior Zahm house 
“chandler.” 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
margaret hynds Kit loughran Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Jp gschwind ben padanilam megan valley molly murphy 

Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
erin rice adam ramos 
Photo Viewpoint 

Fall Reading Series Dante Lecture A “Divine Comedy” Hindustani Concert Women’s Soccer v. 
chris collins bianca almada 

Hammes Bookstore                                 Hesburgh Library Flashmob Hesburgh Library Boston College 
7:30p.m. 4:30 p.m.-6 p.m. campus-wide 8:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Alumni Stadium Four students present Lecture on the 750th 2 p.m.-5 p.m. A blend of Indian 1 p.m. 
Corrections 

as part of the Creative anniversary of Dante’s A lecture will follow the and Western violin The Irish take on the 
The observer regards itself as Writing Program birth. performance. techniques. Eagles. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
ND Men’s Soccer Bonfire, S’Mores and Notre Dame Football Football vs. Navy Softball Exhibition 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

Alumni Stadium Cemetery Tours Pep Rally Notre Dame Stadium Melissa Cook Stadium 
however, recognize that we will make 

7 p.m.-9 p.m. Holy Cross Hill  Joyce Center 3:30 p.m. 12 p.m.-4:15 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 

The Irish take on the 8 p.m.-10 p.m. 5:45 p.m.-6:30 p.m. The Irish take on The Irish take on the 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 

Wolverines in a non-Fr. Neil Wack will lead A home game weekend their rival, the Navy  Loyola Ramblers and 
we can correct our error. 

conference match. the tours. tradition. Midshipmen. the Butler Bulldogs. 

ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2015 | The observer 


professor praises promise of nuclear energy progress 
“if you read his encycli-power is one of the safest 
By SARAH CATE BAKER 

news writer cal works, [the pope] really energy sources available. 
is very concerned about cli-“coal generates 22.5 
Journalist and author mate change,” she said. “he deaths per terawatt hour … gwyneth cravens covered talks often about the neces-natural gas produces 0.053 the the merits of nuclear sity of changes in lifestyle to deaths,” he said. energy in her presentation combat global warming.” burns continued and Tuesday night and spoke cravens argued that these pointed out that the fre­about why the country 
quency of accidents asso­
should transition 
to us­
ing it nearly exclusively. 
according to cravens the 
world is currently facing 
“global energy poverty,” 
in which large parts of the 


ciated with nuclear power  the martian surface. perchlorates  ments for life — bug life, anyway,”  
plants is extremely low.  are small hydrated salts that act as  neal said. “There might be certain  
“here in the  us, we are  sponges to absorb liquid water, and  environments  or  niches  where  
dealing with nuclear reac­ scientists hypothesize that if per- life, bacterial life, could still be  
tors that are fairly old — as  chlorates are found,   liquid water  abundant.”  
much as 40, 50 or 60 years,”  nearby will almost always be found  according to neal, the next step  
he said. “yet their safety re- nearby.  is bringing samples back from  
cord is still very, very good.  director of nasa’s planetary sci- mars.  

world have 
no access to 
electricity. 
cravens said, “1.6 billion people have no access to light, and 80 percent of them live in south asia and sub­saharan africa. healthcare, education, the economy, this all has to do with how much energy you have.” 
after cravens’s presenta­tion, a panel of notre dame experts gave commentary, many of them agreeing with her statements. philosophy professor don howard argued it was a “moral imperative” to make en­ergy available to all people, while still protecting the environment. 
according to cravens, pope francis’ writings on the environment align with her beliefs. 
changes could be brought about very effectively by the expanded use of nuclear en­ergy. she didn’t always think this way and used to believe that nuclear energy was very dangerous. however, once she began doing her own research, she said, the data changed her mind. 
“i learned a couple of things that were very hum­bling. one was the multi­ple layers of protection at a nuclear plant,” she said. “i had no idea. i more or less thought that it was, i don’t know, a dirty cabin sort of place.” 
in fact, according to pan­elist and engineering pro­fessor peter burns, nuclear 
paid adverTisemenT 

i propose it would be even better if we could equip the nuclear reactors with redun­dancy systems that would eliminate [operating] error.” 
cravens agreed, arguing that existing nuclear power plants should be updated to include such safety pre­cautions, as well as the re­cycling of fuel. according to her research, one person living for seventy years off of nuclear energy generates enough waste to fill a soda can. 
“if we recycle our nuclear fuel we can reduce that to about the size of a large tube of lipstick,” she said. 
Contact Sarah Cate Baker at sbaker6@nd.edu 
Mars 
conTinued from page 1 
when it gets cold, they either seep back beneath surface or evaporate into mars’ thin atmosphere.” 
according to a paper published last week in nature geoscience, until recently, the only evidence of this liquid water cycle was photographs of rsls. That all changed last week, when a high-resolution camera on nasa’s mars reconnaisance orbiter identified the presence of perchlorates on — on one hand, humans cannot contaminate mars with microbes from earth, and on the other, they cannot have astronauts acciden­tally bringing back martian bugs as potentially deadly souvenirs. 
That raises a whole new ques­tion about life on mars, neal said. liquid water is required to sup­port life, and the fact that mars has it makes it all the more likely that mars is supporting something oth­er than dust. 
“it’s neat, we get liquid water on mars now. That does increase the possibility for habitable environ­
ence division James l. green said during last week’s news conference that mars is not the dry, arid planet nasa thought in the past. 
rethinking mars’ climate may mean rethinking mars space mis­sions, and that could mean sending astronauts. while that possibility is certainly being discussed, neal said he is skeptical. 
“you have a conundrum with humans going to mars, because of planetary protection,” he said. “if we send them to mars, can we ever bring them back?” 
neal said the issue is twofold 
Physics 
conTinued from page 1 
is: what is everything made of?” 
lannon gave a brief history of the progression of human knowl­edge in the field of particle phys­ics. he said the ancient greek’s understanding of the universe was being composed of “uncut­table, indivisible building blocks,” purportedly a “finite number” of such. 
he then went on to describe the findings of dmitri mendeleev who formed the early version of the periodic table. 
The discovery of elements soon led to the discovery of protons, neutrons, and electrons. 
“we had explained the whole universe in the terms of three basic constituents, and if we had just stopped there we would have a nice, simple picture of how the universe works,” he said. 
“we were also aware that there were particles coming to us from outer space,” lannon said. “and in looking, we found something that didn’t fit in the picture — there was an extra particle.” 
That extra particle was the muon, he said, and its discovery soon led scientists to begin the practice of colliding particles. by the time the 1950s came around, lannon said there was “a whole zoo of particles.” 
There were dozens of funda­mental particles, but scientists spent some time thinking about the properties and were able to make an arrangement, lannon said. 
“along the way, we picked up the photon and neutrinos,” he said. 
with the overwhelming 
“That was the goal of the mars program in the next decade, ac­cording to nasa’s planetary sci­ence division, was mars sample return,” neal said. 
what has changed now is the kind of samples to bring back – with liquid water and the poten­tial for life, the focus has shifted to bringing back samples of ice, of sediment around the rsls and ide­ally of the perchlorates themselves, neal said. 
Contact Sarah Cate Baker at sbaker6@nd.edu 
number of particles present, lannon said scientists were eager to organize their discoveries. 
“we have this drive to find pat­terns,” he said. 
in the 1960s, that drive led sci­entists to divide the particles into three categories — quartz, lepton and photon. 
after this, scientists knew that there were four forces in the uni­verse, and they theorized that there must be a particle for each force. 
They discovered that it was more plausible for there to be six types of quartz and six types of lepton particles. however, lannon said “the theory only works if the particles don’t have mass.” 
That seemingly perplexing idea was the origin of the search for the higgs boson particle — the particle that could explain this phenomenon, lannon said. 
“as of the mid 1970s, there are particles that we hadn’t discov­ered yet,” lannon said. 
gradually more and more of the theorized particles were discovered; on July 4, 2012, the higgs boson particle was found. 
lannon concluded the talk by comparing the continued search for the answers to these com­plex questions related to particle physics to attempting to solve a puzzle. 
“This puzzle could have a pret­ty exciting conclusion,” lannon said. “unlike the puzzles you may be used to, there isn’t a box top with a picture of what the puzzle is supposed to look like when you’re finished.” 
Contact Eddie Damstra at  edamstra@nd.edu 



Advisor 
conTinued from page 1 
labor economics. 
she elaborated on some of the daily tasks she handled during her time on the cea, in addition to the large analysis reports she and her team put together. 
“i personally was involved in things that were very short term,” wozniak said. “when the president gives the state of the union address, the press fact-checks everything that’s in the state of the union address. … Then we’d have to provide the evidence in support of why that statement was made, and that often has to happen su­per, super fast. even though it’s the white house, they don’t have the luxury of saying, ‘i’ll get back to you in a week or three weeks when things calm down.’ The press gets really quick responses.” 
further highlighting the speed at which the white moves on a daily basis, wozniak said, “if someone is going to go out and talk to the press or talk in public, we need to make sure everything they’re saying is correct because it really harms us when it’s not correct. we fre­quently will get requests like, ‘The vice president is giving a speech later today and wanted to say something about the impact of women’s labor force participation on gdp.’ … That’s a very big question. 
“you can imagine some­one might spend a whole ca­reer working on the impact of women and growth, and there are tons of papers on that. we would work fast to condense those and maybe give some sort of realistic, somewhat de­fensible number for what that impact might be.” 
wozniak said because she and the other cea members were not doing their own re­search, she has a newfound ap­preciation for the importance of research. 
“This i think was also eye opening for the value of re­search, for kind of understand­ing how important research can be,” wozniak said. “we would write reports, and we would make statements, and we would rely on having that research to back them up, hav­ing a citation, having some­one who considered this. … without the research, we would really have very little footing, and it made me realize how important that research is.” 
wozniak also said there’s a tension between doing qual­ity academic research and gov­ernment policy advising, and it can be difficult to do both. 
“you kind of have to pick what you’re focusing on,” wozniak said. “The reason for this is partly that they move with different speeds. … you have an event that happens, and that motivates a lot of pol­icy, motivates people to want to do something. it will take research a while to catch up with that. research is going to move slower than the desire to change something and help people.” 
wozniak said while poli­tics did come into her job oc­casionally, she felt free from the burden of having to make any decisions and could sim­ply make an informed recom­mendation from an economics standpoint. 
“one of the things i really en­joyed about the job was it was my job to say what we thought as economists, and it was ev­eryone else’s job to figure out what to do,” she said. “i didn’t have to make the hard deci­sions. … i felt very free, and i think that cea in general is very free to make these kinds of recommendations.” 
wozniak said one of the big­gest things she takes away from her time on the cea is the im­portance of teamwork and a team environment, especially in this sort of setting. 
“it really was pretty differ­ent from academia,” she said. “we had to really rely on ev­eryone having their part of the project and really doing their part. There’s no way that any single person could really do an entire project all by them­selves. we really had to be able to break that down and work as a group to finish that and re­ally kind of depended on each other.” 
one of the final lessons wozniak said she learned dur­ing her time on the cea was the government truly does care about making a positive differ­ence in the lives of americans. 
“people do care,” wozniak said. “They work hard, and they try hard. i didn’t meet a single person who i thought was not there for good reasons.” 
Contact Courtney Becker at  cbecker3@nd.edu 
Health 
conTinued from page 1 
afraid to go near him — they just thought he was crazy,” she said. “mental illness is a mys­tery, it is invisible, it is hid­den from view, and it is only apparent to those who really have eyes to see. 
“so here is my plea to you: have eyes to see the pain of the mentally ill and work with me to fight the stigma. let’s work tirelessly together to fight the stigma surround­ing mental illness, anxiety, depression and anything else that may lead to suicide. let’s work together to prevent any more brothers, sisters, par­ents, aunts, uncles or friends from taking their own lives. let’s work together so that each person will plan to be here tomorrow, and each per­son will always believe that there is still hope.” 
senior desiree san martin said her depression and anxi­
“So here is my plea to you: Have eyes to see the pain of the mentally ill and work with me to fight the stigma. Let’s work tirelessly to fight the stigma surrounding mental illness, anxiety, depression, and anything else that may lead to suicide.” 
Haley Hoyle 
senior 
ety has made typical student life difficult. 
“i tried to fit in and be the normal notre dame student. i’m involved in extracurricu­lars, i have a work-study job, i got myself an internship. but my illness kept getting the best of me,” she said. “on the outside, it seemed that i was just plain lazy. my inability to get out of bed some days was seen as being lazy and want­ing to sleep.” 
san martin said the notre dame community reached out and supported her in her struggles with her illness. 
“multiple professors contacted my rector after i hadn’t been to their classes in three weeks, and all my pro­fessors contacted my adviser to express concern. They had all also contacted me, asking what was wrong and where i had been,” she said. “at a larg­er school, students fall by the wayside all the time.” 



san martin said she has made it a point this year to take advantage of all of the university’s resources in deal­ing with her mental illness. 
“in previous years, i would avoid the counseling center because of the stigma behind counseling,” she said. 
sophomore ally Zimmer, spiritual coordinator for nami-nd, said therapy sig­nificantly helped her deal with depression after gradu­ating from high school. 
“although it took several weeks before i started seeing improvement, my therapist was great and really helped me sort through my issues. she wasn’t afraid to give me the messages that i needed to hear,” she said. “after about a month and a half of weekly appointments, i finally start­ed to smile again.” 
Zimmer said she experienced a second episode of depression after her first semester at notre dame but was able to return to campus after winter break and get counseling. 
“slowly but surely, i once again crawled out from the hole that is mental illness,” she said. “now i’m healthy, my self-worth is where is should be, and i am as much as a goof­ball as i ever was.” 
although mental illness is often treated as the “elephant in the room,” Zimmer said, taking ownership of her de­pression has been important to her. 
“That elephant doesn’t have to be hidden, and it doesn’t have to be an elephant at all,” she said. 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 



By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
scene writer 
perhaps the most revealing moment of drake’s cover story in the current is­sue of The fader, the first interview he’s given since february 2014, is that he has started driving himself places again. in the rest of the interview, he gives a vague reply to meek mill’s ghostwriting accu­sations from this summer and offers some boilerplate answers about mak­ing music to which his fans can relate. but the revelation that the most popular rapper in the world is behind the wheel again seems significant. 
“i’ve been deprived of driving for a long time,” drake explained. “riding to the studio with a driver and security and stuff, you lose something.” 
of course, that anecdote is meant to humanize him, to show that he’s still the same kid from Toronto even if he’s driv­ing a mercedes pullman now. yet, it’s also symbolic of someone not content to merely sit back in leather seats and be driven around — he’s a rapper who is not going to coast on his massive suc­cess. “young, but i’m makin’ millions to 
By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 
for the first time in almost a de­cade, will smith has dropped a new rap single. well it’s not entirely a new single, but rather a remix of colombian electro tropical band bomba estéreo’s “fiesta.” 
you see, there was a time before mr. smith starred in box office bombs like “after earth” and the remake of “annie.” back around the turn of the millennium, after will was no longer in the “fresh prince of bel-air” nor sav­ing the earth in “independence day,” will was one of the coolest rappers around, selling over 20 million albums as a solo artist. how many of you ’90s kids remember “gettin’ Jiggy wit it” or “miami”? 

work the night shift,” as he rapped on “6 man” earlier this year, speaking to his inexorable work ethic. 
drake would have plenty of reason to slow down. it’s difficult to remember the last time a rapper had such a strong chokehold on the culture to the degree drake has in 2015. his two mixtapes — “if you’re reading This it’s Too late” and “what a Time to be alive” with future — had the two best first-week sales of 2015. “if you’re reading This” is only album this year so far to be certified platinum. all this, too, before the release of next “proper” studio album, “views from the six,” which his reps say should be ex­pected “imminently.” 
his current hit, “hotline bling,” is, likewise, shaping up to be the biggest pop hit of his career so far. The song sits at no. 3 on this week’s hot 100, drake’s highest-charting single since his debut single, “best i ever had,” peaked at no. 2 in 2009. on instagram, drake teased that a video for the song is coming soon, which could help propel the song to the top of the charts. such a huge hit would be an achievement for any artist, but it’s even more remarkable considering that 
unfortunately, it may be tough for all you ’90s kids to get jiggy with the fresh prince’s latest track, as this new remix is remarkably #dad. “fiesta (remix)” features will smith spitting verses about Teslas and his dancing skills over thick, latino edm beats. 
This is the sort of song that you know will’s son, Jaden smith, is eventually going to tweet about, telling us how it makes him want to cry in the back of an uber or question the reality of mir­rors. because honestly, how many of us want to hear our dad rap about going to the club and finding their own sofia vergara? 
for now though, Jaden seems to be ignoring this new track entirely and is dedicating his Twitter fingers to his msfTs crew and his own hip-hop ef­forts. it’s going to be tough for Jaden to it began as one of the one-off tracks he regularly uploads to soundcloud and isn’t even expected to be included on “views from the six.” 
“hotline bling” is, in some ways, the most quintessential drake track to date. it flips virginia rapper d.r.a.m.’s tropi­cal “cha cha” into a late-night medita­tion, continuing drake’s penchant for latching onto the styles of rappers even younger than himself. lyrically, too, the song is peak drake, centering on some late-night instagram stalking. “you / started wearing less and going out more … hanging with some girls i’ve never seen before,” he raps, contemplating on an old flame. unfortunately, the track also engages in the good girl-bad girl dichotomy present in so much of his discography. 
more than anything, though, what makes “hotline bling” such a great drake track is the way in which it puts his ear for melody and distinct phrases to work. as lorde wrote on Twitter after first hearing the song, drake “has a total pop songwriter approach to hook words/ titles … using such dynamic hook nouns isolates a song so it’s instantly more 
ignore his dad’s revived music career for long, because in addition to the new song, will also announced this week a world tour and a new studio album. 
(fun fact: a very young Jaden smith was featured on the album intro of “wild wild west” from will’s classic 1999 album “willennium.”) 
while speaking with dJ Zane lowe on the beats 1 radio show, will announced he would be touring with his long­time sidekick dJ Jazzy Jeff, with whom smith worked in the philadelphia mu­sic scene before “The fresh prince of bel-air” was even a thing. 
smith also revealed he has recorded more than 30 songs, with “six or seven that i really, really like.” This will be smith’s first album since 2005’s “lost and found” and will feature a number of unnamed collaborators, with whom memorable than most others.” The hook that begins each verse — “ever since i left the city youuuuuu” — is endlessly catchy, a phrase that works as well as an instagram caption as it does being screamed at a party. 
even if drake is not the best rapper alive, it is this skill for crafting these moments that manage to be universal despite being grounded in his own ex­perience that has made him one of the most popular artists in the world. That drake has managed to churn hits like “hotline bling” out at such a relentless pace, while continuing to innovate son­ically and improve as a lyricist, is what has made his run over the past few years so exciting. as he rapped on the recent “30 for 30 freestyle,” “drastically chang­ing, thank you for all your patience / i’m just in a different space, and i choose to embrace it.” even though drake’s changed a lot over the past decade, luck­ily he has retained the same work ethic of his younger days — he’s still behind the wheel. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at                                mmunhall@nd.edu 
will had been working in between filming sessions of the upcoming dc comics “suicide squad” film. 
hopefully those collaborators in­clude both Jaden and willow smith. if this happens, will can embarrass his kids even more with fun, family-friend­ly songs that all of the other members of the msfTs crew will tweet about. 
even if this dream team collabora­tion doesn’t come to be, you should definitely check out will smith’s latest remix. not because it’s a good song, but rather for the sake of the nostalgia of being a #90skid who was cool before anyone else was. oh, and hearing will smith proclaim he’s still og is kinda great, too. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at                    jkemper2@nd.edu 
LAUREN WELDON | The Observer 



The observer |  WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 
here’s a tip for you 
Ben Padanilan 
sports writer 
Just yesterday, one of my friends was telling me about a time he ordered $100 worth of pizza. while he was not the one footing the bill, he was the one left in charge of the tip. not sure what to tip the delivery man, he gave the poor guy $5 for his troubles. 
This reminded me of another friend who isn’t a very big believer in tipping his waiters or wait­resses. his belief is, “There’s no reason to tip someone to do a job that i can do myself.” he’s held firm on this for a long time, having left a one-cent tip or some other ridiculous amount when we’ve eaten out. 
from these examples, i believe there are two big takeaways. first, maybe it’s time i started to look for some new friends to grab food with. second, and more seriously, you do not want to be that guy or girl who refuses to leave a decent tip. 
working in a service industry is not the most luxurious job. having spent four of my summers as a caddie at a golf club, i feel confident say­ing that. of course, as a caddie, my experience was likely much better than that of many others who have worked in other parts of the service industry. however, i definitely had my share of bad experiences that give me an appreciation for others who often have to deal with a lot worse. 
To those like my friend who believes there is no reason to tip someone for a job he can do himself, the obvious response is, “Then why don’t you?” you could have stayed in and cooked for yourself, but you chose not to and decided to have someone else wait on you for the evening. The fact that you may be able to do their job, but chose not to, should not stop you from tipping them. 
now of course, some service workers are bet­ter than others, and there will be discrepancies in their tips that reflect that. but even if the ser­vice is not great, that does not mean you should not give him or her a tip. 
often times those tips are the majority of the wage that employee makes. for example, waiters and waitresses at the buffalo wild wings near my house make less than $4 an hour for their base salary, and the rest of their pay comes from tips. 
additionally, the job is not always as easy as you might think. There are times when you have to deal with less-than-pleasant people. There are also times when you might look look com­pletely calm on the outside, but on the inside, you have punched the person in the face two or three times. 
it is unfortunate there are people who look down on people just because they work in the service industry, but it does happen. i am not saying it is the norm, but it should never be something an employee has to deal with from a customer. 
The moral of the story: next time you eat out, don’t hesitate to go out of your way to be kind to your waiter or waitress. it goes along way in making their experience better, which in turn will make yours better, too. and please, if you don’t do it already, leave a decent tip. 
Contact Ben Padanilan at bpadanil@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Respect life beyond this week 
Louis Bertolotti 
mr. 2016 

history was made last week when pope francis became the first pope to address a joint session of congress. he stressed that we all have a “responsibility to protect and defend human life at every stage of its development.” This fundamental principle is not just a christian ideal but a founding principle of the west as a whole and more spe­cifically, of our own nation. 
The declaration of independence states that it is a “self­evident truth” that all men are “endowed by their creator with certain unalienable rights, that among these are the rights to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.” 
it is of the utmost importance to note the first of these rights is the right to life. your unalienable right to life is your primary right because, without it, none of your other rights would be possible. 
The declaration of independence goes on to tell us the reason that “governments are instituted among men” is in order to “secure these [aforementioned] rights” and that “whenever any form of government becomes de­structive of these ends, it is the right of the people to alter or abolish it.” 
with these words in mind, we must realize that it is our duty as a people to “alter or abolish” our current form of government. 
since Jan. 22, 1973, the day Justice harry blackmun and his unelected colleagues decided the case of roe v. wade, it has been estimated over 53 million human lives have been lost to abortion. fifty-three million. it is hard to conceptualize that number, but 53 million is nearly 18 percent of our country’s current population. fifty-three million is almost double the population of Texas, and it is almost 570 times the amount of americans we lost to world war ii. 
abortion is legal in all 50 states. in all but two, it is legal to get an abortion up to 20 weeks or later in the pregnan­cy. in seven states, there are no restrictions on the point at which a woman can obtain an abortion. 
This position is simply anti-science when fetal develop­ment is considered. a baby’s heart starts beating around six weeks. he or she develops usage of the eyes at 14 weeks. The baby can hear by week 20. he or she begins to suck the thumb from 20 weeks onward. worst of all, babies in the womb feel pain as early as 17 weeks and no later than 26 weeks into the term. how is it we are looking for unicellular bacterial “life” on mars while we refuse to acknowledge the life of a human being with eyes, ears, a heartbeat and the ability to feel pain? 
The latest studies have found 21 percent of all preg­nancies in america end in the abortion of the fetus. That percent rises to 40 percent of unplanned pregnan­cies. These numbers are staggering. These numbers are unacceptable. 
This past weekend, i was lucky enough to attend a political conference in columbus, ohio, for the young america’s foundation, a conservative organization. Throughout the weekend, nearly all of the students i met, from colleges all across the country, said the issue most important to them was abortion. The more science has revealed to us about the humanity of the fetus, the more we, as former fetuses ourselves, have come to realize we have this wrong. 
The documents that founded america set up more than a country, they set up an idea. The idea of america, that all men are created equal and are deserving of natural rights, did not reflect the reality of its era. it was instead a vision for society — the ultimate telos. Throughout our history, we have fought a number of battles to bring our­selves closer to this goal. one generation took up the fight against the forced bondage of a race. another one battled for civil rights for all americans in all regions of the coun­try. These fights were not partisan, but instead were gen­erational. They were fought because the young people of our country knew the older generation was robbing them of their america. 
our current policies on abortion are more liberal than those of secular europe. They put us on the same grounds as china, north Korea and russia. each generation has its fight. ours must be the fight for life, from conception to natural death. 
abraham lincoln once said, “whenever i hear one arguing for slavery, i feel a strong impulse to see it tried on him personally.” it is time to apply the lessons of abe’s struggle to the modern age. it is time to unite as a genera­tion against the inhumanity and unconstitutionality of the abortion laws of our country. it is time to bring the idea of america into reality. 
fifty-three million is too many. 
i encourage everyone to participate in the events oc­curring for respect life week this week. a full schedule of events can be found at www3.nd.edu/~prolife 
Louis Bertolotti is a junior in the college of arts and letters. He is majoring in political science and history and is from the great state of New Jersey. He can be  contacted at lbertolo@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
The dark side of OCD 
when i was a kid, according to what mom tells me, we were driving on a steep path up the side of the mountain. my mom, always the nervous one, said, “don’t you ever look at those cliffs and want to drive right off them?” 
my dad looked at her in shock and said, “no!” i looked at her with a profound sense of recognition and said, “yes!” 
intrusive thoughts — the urges to do bad things pre­cisely because you know that they are bad — are hard to explain to anyone who’s never had them. They’re thoughts like, “what if i stabbed myself with this kitchen knife?”, “what if i shouted obscenities during church?“, “what if i dropped this baby?” 
often violent or sexual, they take the form of what­ever you’re most afraid of thinking. for some people, they’re a mere annoyance, a minor symptom of de­pression and anxiety disorders. 
but for others, they turn into a horrific form of ob­sessive compulsive disorder. 
primarily obsessional ocd, or pure-o, is what hap­pens when these thoughts torment and terrify you without end. The name is misleading; the sufferer usu­ally does perform compulsions, but they are mental compulsions, such as seeking reassurance, silently repeating a phrase or going over the incident in your head to prove that you’re not “bad.” 
i spent two years suffering from this disorder with­out having any idea that it existed. like many sufferers i’ve met, i believed i was disturbed and dangerous and that if i confessed the content of my thoughts to any­body, i would be locked up. 
This could not be further from the truth. when i finally did confess my thoughts to a therapist, she was compassionate and understanding. she taught me how to recognize these thoughts as just thoughts, not desires, and showed me how to move past them. 
during mental illness awareness week, it’s espe­cially important people be educated on these lesser-known disorders. had i known then what i know now, i could have saved myself years of misery, fear and self-hatred. 
i encourage anyone suffering from these thoughts to reach out for help and to remember you are not alone. 
Hanna Crooks 
senior howard hall 


Inspiration in the rafters 
Ray Ramirez 
The crooked path 
with basketball season just around the corner, i think it’s a good time to discuss commence­ment speakers and inspiration. The connection may not seem obvious, but i promise i’ll get to it, eventually. 
it has only been in the last few decades that colleges began to compete to land “name brand” speakers for commencement. prior to that, most speakers were business leaders or other profes­sionals who could deliver solid, inspirational speeches. The thought was that the same execu­tive who could fire up a sales team to push storm windows could just as well inspire new graduates to succeed in the business world. notre dame also featured a litany of religious leaders and clerics who could be counted on for spiritual inspiration. 
as notre dame gained a reputation as the lead­ing catholic university, it also became a vital stop for politicians, especially presidents seek­ing to burnish their catholic-voter credentials. both presidents bush delivered notre dame com­mencement speeches, as well as Jimmy carter, ronald reagan, barack obama and dwight eisenhower. Quick notre dame trivia: having mentioned the bushes, what is the other father-son duo to address university graduates? That would be ambassador Joe Kennedy in 1941 and congressman John f. Kennedy in winter of 1950. 
in addition to the presidents and politicians who may not have been uniformly admired, a number of other speakers have legacies that are open to debate. 
in 1865, as civil war and assassination echoed across the nation, general william Tecumseh sherman addressed the graduating class. J. edgar hoover scared the beejesus out of the class of 1942, while the class of 1990 continues to handle the increasingly surreal memory of the inspira­tional speech from bill cosby. 

my graduating class was fortunate to have a speaker who was not seeking our votes, but rather wanted us to help others with our talents. vernon 
e. Jordan Jr. at the time executive director of the national urban league, was a civil rights activist, attorney and trusted advisor to presidents, most notably to bill clinton. i have a vague recollection of mr. Jordan’s speech being delivered in a beau­tiful sonorous voice, but my attention began to drift, and i started to look around the cavernous expanse of the acc. 
i thought about how i had been in the acc quite often, mostly to attend basketball games, either as a spectator or playing in the band courtside. from my perch behind an alto saxophone, i had been able to see the players and coaches up close and recognized most of them from a distance as well. as my attention and gaze wandered, i looked into the upper reaches of the arena, and there, sitting in one of the last rows, high up in the raf­ters, was a familiar basketball player. it was bill laimbeer. 
Today, william “bill” laimbeer Jr. is best known as one of the nba champion detroit piston “bad boys” and a winning coach in the wnba. but at the time that i spotted him at commencement, things were not going so well. bill was appar­ently having rough time academically. at the end of his first semester, bill had a gpa that was less than the 2.0 required for eligibility at notre dame (though above the 1.6 gpa allowed under ncaa rules). he played well enough his fresh­man year, with 15 points and 14 rebounds against manhattan in his last game of the year. The coaches expected him to rebound academically in his second semester, but he again posted less than a 2.0. bill’s scholarship was suspended, and he was dismissed from school. 
so that’s where he was when i spotted him in the cheap seats at graduation. plenty of my friends in the dorm worked as student managers, and the word was that bill had “flunked out,” so i was a bit surprised to see him in the stands. he was more attentive than i was, and he appeared to be taking in the speeches and pomp with serious­ness, nodding occasionally at the messages being delivered to the graduates. he left before the cer­emony was over, and i did not see him again that day. 
what i learned later was that then-university president fr. Ted hesburgh had offered bill a deal brokered by coach digger phelps. bill could at­tend a junior college to improve his grades to a gpa of at least 3.0, then attend summer school at notre dame, where he was required to make as in two classes before re-applying. This being notre dame, you can guess the rest. bill got a 3.0 dur­ing his year at owens Technical college in Toledo, ohio, and two as in notre dame summer school. he was reinstated as a student and as a member of the basketball team, and three years later, bill graduated from notre dame with a degree in economics. 
bill’s story of struggle and triumph has been repeated many times on many campuses and is summarized best in a quote from nelson mandela: “do not judge me by my successes, judge me by how many times i fell down and got back up again.” 
Those formal commencement speakers try to educate and inspire, but often that job is handled best by our friends and fellow students. 
Ray Ramirez is an attorney practicing, yet never perfecting, law in Texas while waiting patiently for a MacArthur Genius Grant. You may contact him at  patrayram@sbcglobal.net 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“success is not the key to happiness. happiness is the key to success. if you love what you are doing, you will be successful.” 
— Albert Schweitzer      German theologian, philosopher 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 
wildcats exceed expectations 
Ryan Klaus 
sports writer 
week five in college football certainly didn’t lack interest­ing headlines. Top contenders michigan state and ohio state both survived lackluster per­formances against mediocre opponents, florida suggested for the first time since urban meyer was in gainesville that the gators might be legit, and four top-10 teams fell for the first time. 
amidst surprising sec 
thrashings  and  controver­ 
sial  two-point  conversion  
decision  making  saturday,  

no. 13 northwestern quietly trounced minnesota, 27-0, to move its record to 5-0. 
following the win, the wildcats moved up to 13th in the ap poll sunday. and while the national headlines may be telling you otherwise, northwestern is the most in­triguing team in college foot­ball right now. 
coming into the season, ex­pectations for the wildcats were understandably low. while 2014 featured wins against wisconsin and notre dame, the wildcats failed to make a bowl game and wound up finishing with a discourag­ing 5-7 record for the second straight season. once a hot commodity in any major pro­gram’s job search, wildcats head coach pat fitzgerald started to look incapable of getting his team a spot in even the unremarkable bowls. 
in addition to these short­comings, northwestern had to replace its quarterback with a redshirt freshman, clayton Thorson, who made his first career start in the team’s season opener against stanford. 
despite no reason to believe in them, the wildcats raised some eyebrows with their sea­son-opening 16-6 win against stanford. and while some (my­self included) might have orig­inally attributed the victory to stanford’s offensive inadequa­cies, stanford quarterback Kevin hogan and the cardinal have gone on to score 40-plus in each of the last three weeks against pac-12 opponents (in­cluding usc and arizona), which seems to suggest that stanford’s offense is certainly competent. 
northwestern followed the stanford victory with a win over a solid duke team on the road and, without much publicity, won each of its next three games, culminating with a shutout of minnesota on saturday. 
at 5-0 with a ranking of 13, it’s hard not to be intrigued by the wildcats. This is especially true given that northwestern is sure to be tested in the upcom­ing weeks. next on the sched­ule is a visit to michigan, where Jim harbaugh, unsurprisingly, already has the once-strug­gling program relevant again and in the early stages of what seems to be an inevitable run of dominance in the coming years. following michigan, northwestern faces iowa, which — like the wildcats — has surprised many with a 5-0 start. 
should northwestern win each of those games, it will al­most certainly be in the top 10 and (dare i say it?) a legitimate playoff contender. 
of course, none of this means northwestern is actu­ally for real. Just a week and a half removed from a five-point win over lowly ball state, it’s hard to say the wildcats have been dominant at all times this season. it’s also hard to forget this season’s comparability to northwestern’s season two years ago, when the wildcats won their first four games and were garnering respect in the polls before subsequently dropping their next six games and missing the postseason altogether. 
however, with an electric running back in sophomore Justin Jackson and a defense capable of shutting down stanford and shutting out big Ten opponents, northwestern is definitely able to amplify its early-season success mov­ing forward. regardless, given their quiet ascension up the national polls and matchups against ranked teams in the next two weeks, the wildcats are currently the most intrigu­ing team in college football. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Irish shoot record score at Chip-N Club Invitational 
By DAISY COSTELLO 
sports writer 

The irish continued to make program history with a first-place finish at nebraska’s chip-n club invitational this weekend at the country club of lincoln in lincoln, nebraska. 
notre dame posted a 4-under-par 860 (297-280­
283) to win the tourna­ment, beating no. 2 south dakota state by 30 strokes. This marks the second first-place finish the irish have brought home in 2015, the first being a victory at the mary fossum invitational on sept. 12 and 13. notre dame’s win also put the irish in the lead for lowest team score in the chip-n club invitational record, as it passed Kent state’s 2001 record-low score by 12 strokes (872). 
The irish, who have fin­ished in the top-five of their past two tournaments, opened monday’s play slow­ly before picking up in the afternoon round with an 8-under-par 280, the lowest score relative to par in the program’s 28-year history. during the two-day event, the irish posted 44 birdies, and all six notre dame golf­ers, which included the five starters and one individual competitor, hit par or low­er in nine of a possible 12 rounds and carded three rounds in the 60s. The six each finished in the top 15 of the 75-person field. 
notre dame’s second-round score monday im­proved upon the team’s opening-round score of 297 by 17 strokes, leveraging the its position heading into Tuesday. freshman isabella dilisio lead the charge for the irish on monday with a 2-under 142 (76-66) on the day, tying for first indi­vidually with south dakota state junior megan mingo. dilisio also tied the notre dame’s single-round record with her 66 (-6) on the day’s back 18, winning her sec­ond career top-five finish. 
following closely behind dilisio, sophomore Kari bellville finished monday tied for fourth place and re­corded a career-low 68 (-2) in the second round, while junior Jordan ferreira finished the day tied for seventh with the team’s individual competitor, freshman maddie rose hamilton, at 145 (73-72). 
“playing our second round monday, we felt more comfortable with the course and were able to play more aggressively,” ferreira said. 
The irish went into the second day of the tourna­ment without skipping a beat, as they continued to increase their first-day lead. dilisio continued to build off her strong day one performance, finishing the second round with an even-par 72 and ultimately the tournament at no. 2, just two strokes behind Kansas senior yupaporn Kawinpakorn (72-72-68­212). senior Talia campbell shined in the third round, posting a 66 (-6) for the round, bringing her tour­nament total to 215 (-1). campbell finished in third place at a one-under par 215 (74-75-66), clinching her second top-three fin­ish of the season and her second career 66. campbell had seven birdies and one bogey on the tournament. 
among notre dame’s top­15 finishes, four were in the top four, with hamilton and belville matching career-low scores of even-par 216 for fourth place. ferreira finished in tenth with a 219 (+3), while freshman emma albrecht came tied for 14th (221). 
ferreira said prepara­tion at practice in between tournaments was the key to the irish being able to play so effectively at the chip-n club invitational. 
“we all put in the hours to improve our games since [the schooner invitational in] oklahoma,” ferreira said. “i think our diligence paid off.” 
The irish return to ac­tion at the cardinal cup on oct. 19 and 20 at the cardinal club in louisville, Kentucky. 
Contact Daisy Costello at mcostel4@nd.edu 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

penn state prepares for both indiana quarterbacks 
Associated Press 

sTaTe college, pa. — anthony Zettel is one of a handful of penn state play­ers who’ve lined up against both nate sudfeld and Zander diamont. 
The penn state senior defen­sive tackle and his teammates might have to stop both indiana quarterbacks on saturday — a tricky proposition since their skills are so different. 
“sudfeld, he can sit in the pocket and whip the ball. he’s a very, very efficient passer,” Zettel said. “diamont, the kid’s an athlete. he’s going to set their offense up in the best way he can using his feet.” 
Just like he did last week against no. 1 ohio state. 
diamont nearly brought the hoosiers back from a 14-point deficit in relief when sudfeld, the team’s 6-foot-6, strong-armed starter, was knocked from the game in the third quarter. 
Zettel wasn’t surprised to see diamont’s 76-yard touchdown run with 10 minutes left that cut ohio state’s lead to a touch­down. he also wasn’t surprised to watch diamont lead a nine-play drive to the ohio state 9-yard line before an errant snap sealed the hoosiers’ loss. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Pickwick Lane. $1200/mo + deposit.
FOR RENT 
Call 574-386-0882 

3 BR 2 BA house with pool. “Great moments are born from Georgetown sub. Close to ND. 52162 great opportunity. And that’s what you have here tonight, boys. That’s what you’ve earned here, tonight. One game. If we played ‘em ten times, they might win nine. But not this game. Not tonight. 

ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2015 | The observer 

ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Rohrer brings talent to ND 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
a notre dame roster boasts some of the nation’s top re­cruits. and no, it’s not football or women’s basketball. it’s wom­en’s cross country, led by fresh­man anna rohrer. 
a mishawaka, indiana, na­tive, rohrer was a highly sought after recruit after she was named national gatorade girls cross country runner of the year in 2014-15. she has numer­ous state titles under her belt, and now she looks to extend her talents to the collegiate level as part of the notre dame cross country team. 
and like many other stu­dents at the university, rohrer chose to attend notre dame to balance her thirst for competi­tion with her commitment to academics. 
“i really like the rigorous aca­demics [notre dame offers],” rohrer said. “i knew i was going to get a great education coming here. and i really felt i connect­ed with the team when i did my visit. and i also really liked the coach as well.” 
rohrer was not the only elite recruit to choose notre dame this past spring. freshmen rachel dadamio and annie heffernan committed before rohrer made up her mind, and she said that dadamio’s and heffernan’s decisions helped cement her choice as well. 
“it was just more reassurance that i was going to be a member of a very good and competitive team,” rohrer said. 
while heffernan and dadamio will certainly help, the pressure will heavily rest on rohrer’s shoulders to be the team’s second option behind se­nior all-american molly seidel. however, rohrer said that for her pressure is nothing new. 
“i wouldn’t say i feel the pres­sure of it,” rohrer said. “but i have thought about it and i know it’s going to come up soon. That’s kind of how it was for me in high school. i think it’s kind of a lifestyle now, learning to be a team leader. 
“i think i’ll be able to fulfill the role well.” 
and rohrer has proven she is qualified for the task. in her first two collegiate meets, she posted two top-ten fin­ishes. rohrer took home the title at the national catholic championship on sept. 18, and then battling the flu and a high­ly competitive field, managed to finish eighth at the Joe piane notre dame invite on oct. 2. 
“it made it even more special that it was in my hometown [to compete at the Joe piane notre dame invite],” rohrer said. “i had a lot of fans there for me. 
“definitely not something to take for granted. it was a really neat experience i won’t forget.” 
seeing rohrer’s name atop the leaderboard may be some­thing notre dame fans can take for granted in the years to come as rohrer, heffernan, dadamio and second year coach matthew sparks look to build a consis­tently competitive program. 
“we actually talk about it a lit­tle bit, how excited we are for not just this season but the seasons down the road,” rohrer said. 
“it’s really just the beginning, and hopefully, we’ll get even more really talented runners on the team, and we’ll keep rising up.” 
luckily, the irish do not have to wait for the future. with seniors like molly seidel and danielle aragon to guide rohrer’s fresh­man class, big things may be in store for notre dame come the acc championships. 
“we’re definitely expecting to be toward the top,” rohrer said. “we know what we’re capable of. we definitely have the po­tential to be top-ranked in the nation. 
“and as long as we stay healthy we’ll be able to live up to that.” 
and with healthy, competi­tive players like rohrer, that top ranking may not be wishful thinking for the irish. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



Hockey 
conTinued from page 12 
the season. 
“This year we have a re­turning captain and a re­turning alternate captain [herr], and then i just decid­ed that this class has been so good over the last three years that i just named the entire class basically cap­tain, so there’s five of them,” Jackson said. “which is a little high, but i thought that andy ryan and mario lucia both bring differ­ent elements to the leader­ship. Tommy dipauli is the heart of the leadership, and steven fogarty is the voice. it’s a good combination with the five of them.” 
dipauli said the five cap­tains are a perfect mix of personalities. 
“we’re all best friends, and we’re all very differ­ent,” dipauli said. “we’ve got mario and sam who are a little bit more outgoing and like to have fun. Then you’ve got steve, who’s more of a quiet guy, and it just a great leader and does everything right. i’m very competitive, so it brings together a great mix of everything you need in leadership, and i think that that’s the way we have to lead this team and teach them the right way to do things.” 
one of the challenges facing this year’s captains will be the youth of this year’s team. while fogarty stressed it won’t be an ex­cuse, notre dame’s nine sophomores, who all saw the ice last year for the irish, and six freshmen compose a majority of the roster. 
dipauli said helping the freshmen feel at home has been a priority since the early in the summer. 
“absolutely. That was one of the early goals,” dipauli said. “first day of summer school, we had them over and introduced ourselves and hung out with them. They’re always welcome at our house. we’re right next to campus, so it’s easy to ride their bikes over to our house because we feel that’s important that the seniors hang out with the freshmen.” 
one of the big storylines for notre dame coming into this season is the return of lucia and the departure of center vince hinostroza, who signed with the chicago blackhawks after the end of his sophomore campaign last season. lucia led the irish last season with 21 goals, while hinostroza’s 11 goals and team-high 33 as­sists paced the irish with 44 points. 
lucia said for him the choice to return to campus was clear despite the fact that if he signs with an nhl team at the end of this season, he will only have two years be­fore his second contract, the one that typically earns play­ers a large pay raise. 
“yeah, i might have made a little more money if i would have signed, but re­gardless, i would still have been under contract for the same amount of time,” lucia said. “i think i have the best opportunity here to develop my talents and my skills, and it’s where i wanted to be, so i made my choice.” 
Jackson said he made his pitch to lucia as soon as the season came to an end last year. 
“i actually, believe it or not, on the airplane home from lowell after our last game of the season sat down with mario, and i sat down with vince hinostroza,” Jackson said. “i reached out to mario right away and told him my thoughts.” 
Jackson said he also hasn’t decided who will start in net. sophomore goaltender cal petersen won the job as a freshman with strong play in the second half of last season, but prior to that, he had been splitting time with junior chad Katunar. 
petersen said he was feeling confident to start his second season in an irish sweater, a key for goaltenders. 
“[i’m] coming in with confidence from last year,” petersen said. “it helped to have a strong second half both personally and for the returning guys. personally, it felt like i made a lot of strides during the summer both physically and men­tally and work with our new goalie coach [volun­teer assistant coach brian mahoney-wilson] and be able to tighten up a couple weaknesses we both iden­tified, along with coach Jackson.” 
notre dame will hit the ice for the first time this season friday night in an exhibi­tion game against guelph at 7:35 p.m. at compton family ice arena. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 




of notre dame’s out-of-con-however, the irish fell, 1-0, it’s michigan, marquette, Football M Soccer ference midweek fixtures, to Xavier at home on sept. 15. Xavier, northwestern — 
conTinued from page 12 conTinued from page 12 

which have brought mixed clark said the quality of they’re all very good teams.” 
results for the irish this sea-notre dame’s out-of-con-The nonconference action comes in the wake of “his best in the big Ten, so i think son. a comfortable 4-0 vic-ference schedule means no between notre dame and game since he’s been here” against that’s enough to let us tory over michigan state game can be overlooked. michigan will kick off at 7 clemson. know that they’ve had a on sept. 22 and an impres-“The out-of-conference p.m. wednesday at alumni 
“he was physical, double-digit good season so far,” clark sive 4-2 comeback against games we play are all terrific stadium. tackles, was our highest point said. “They’re a good marquette off second-half teams,” clark said. “every producer,” Kelly said of redfield’s team, and we all know we tallies on sept. 29 rank game is a big game. There’s Contact Daniel O’Boyle at performance against the Tigers. “ lost to them last year up in among the positives so far. no easy games for us, whether doboyle1@nd.edu … That’s the kind of football he’s ann arbor, so we’ve got to capable of, and we need to see see if we can sort things that kind of performance week out again. in and week out. he played very “They’ve got some very well against navy last year, and we good players, they’re well-expect a similar performance on coached, and it’ll be a very saturday.” good game.” 
sophomores Quenton nelson both teams enter the (sprained ankle) and Tyler luatua game following double­(concussion) are listed as the overtime draws over the starters at left guard and tight end, weekend. notre dame respectively. looks to improve upon its 
Kelly said luatua was cleared 1-1 stalemate with north for contact in practice Tuesday, carolina state, while the and nelson will have his walking wolverines fought back boot removed wednesday. from 3-1 behind early in 
“he improved dramatically the first half to tie with from not running that ankle wisconsin, 3-3. The out-around over the last 36 hours, or of-conference rivals are less than 36 hours now,” Kelly said also both unbeaten in of nelson. “our protocol is, any their last four games, hav­type of high ankle sprain, we like ing won three of them. to get you in a boot, keep it im-clark said michigan’s di­mobile. he’s not a wide receiver, rect play style has brought so we feel pretty confident we can them great success this get him back, but we’ll see how he season and stopping it responds tomorrow when we start could be key tonight. moving him around.” “They’re a fairly direct 
nelson suffered the ankle injury team, so we’ll have to against clemson, while luatua handle that,” clark said. hasn’t played since the win over “we’ll have to pick up sec­georgia Tech. ond balls and settle in and 
play our game. They’ve Receivers emerging got players that can play 
Junior Torii hunter Jr. led irish when they get the ball in receivers against clemson with your half. five receptions for 52 yards and “last year in ann arbor, a touchdown, a breakout perfor-if i remember correctly, mance after totaling four catches they had 23 corner kicks. for 57 yards — including a long of They would knock the ball 20 yards — and no scores in the up, get in our half and previous four games. press us very hard, and we 
however, Kelly said hunter’s had a hard time dealing game came as no surprise to him with their pressure. we’ll based off the practices the slot re-have to play quickly and ceiver has had since preseason think quickly this time. camp. They’re a good team, 
“i think he’s done the things though, and this will be a necessary for him to be a feature good challenge. and any player within our offense. i think game between michigan it’s just been a matter of getting and notre dame is al­his chance and his opportunities,” ways a fairly big event, so Kelly said. “amir [carlisle] is play-they’ll be ready for it, but ing at that position, so [hunter]’s i think we’ll be ready too.” sharing a position more so than, Tonight’s matchup will say, will [fuller], where will is out showcase two of the na­there playing 95 percent of the tion’s most prolific young snaps. so i think it’s just getting his goal scorers. sophomore opportunities, and when he gets forward Jon gallagher them, making the best of them. he ranks as the top scorer in clearly at that position had many the acc, while michigan more opportunities based on the freshman midfielder way coverages were being dictated francis atuahene stands in that particular game.” as the big Ten’s lead-
Kelly also said he spoke at length ing marksman. each will with junior corey robinson on have a chance to add to monday. The receiver has strug-his respective seven-goal gled throughout the 2015 season, tally on the season, with grabbing one catch for 15 yards gallagher heading into against clemson and just five re-tonight’s match having ceptions for 60 yards this year. scored four in his last five 
“i believe in corey. corey’s got games and atuahene four to believe in himself, and he will,” in his last four. atuahene Kelly said. “he’s got to go attack the has also chipped in three football. he’s letting the football assists, while gallagher come to him. he’s letting it eat him has two, putting the up a little bit, but i believe in corey.” two midfielders first in 
points in their respective Contact Mary Green at conferences. mgreen8@nd.edu The game is the latest 




ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2015 | The observer 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy 

SUDOKU | The mepham group 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: change is good, but be prepared for a series of unexpected developments. don’t let these obstacles stop you from going about getting what you want. procrastination, expecting others to do things for you, or just being lazy will only lead to dissatisfaction and postponed plans. don’t sit back when your future depends on what you do to reach your goals. your numbers are 6, 11, 23, 27, 32, 38, 43. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t get down when you should get moving. emotions will surface if someone makes a last-minute change or springs something unexpected on you. stay calm and focus on what matters the most to you. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): plan to do unique and interesting things that will make you stand out or impress your peers. concentrate on getting things done, not on wasting time arguing with someone who is difficult to get along with. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Think before you make a move. you are likely to overdo it if you aren’t careful. do your research and don’t let anyone push you in a direction that doesn’t fit your budget, style or future plans. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Try not to let what others do or say bother you. your emotions will be difficult to control due to the changes others make. spend time doing something that you enjoy or that will improve your skills and knowledge. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): financial and legal matters can be dealt with if you approach matters with an open mind. The changes you bring about now will help you get ahead professionally. gather as much knowledge as possible and update your resume. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): favors will be granted if you present what you are working on and collaborate with people who share your interests and concerns. an opportunity will arise if you network or expand your interests to include out-of-the­ordinary events or activities. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): expect to face opposition. stay calm and don’t let your emotions cost you. do whatever it takes to secure your position. pick up information, skills or support from others to ensure you do not fall short of your expectations. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): publishing deals, writing, interacting with peers and expanding your business interests will bring about a multitude of opportunities. a business trip will encourage more commerce and the chance to present what you have to offer firsthand. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): be extremely careful when it comes to business, contracts, settlements or any money matters. you will not be given the information you require to make a good decision. someone will mislead you in order to take advantage of your generosity. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you will accomplish more if you get down to business and physically work toward completing what you start. Too much talk will lead to uncertainty and changes that will be costly emotionally and financially. do your best to avoid interference. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): your imagination will help you stand out and grab the interest of someone who can help you get ahead. don’t let what others do lead you astray or cause emotional mayhem. follow the direction that makes the most sense. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): don’t be shy — share your thoughts and plans for the future. The way you deliver your ideas will encourage others to not only support what you are trying to accomplish, but to physically help you reach your goal. 

Birthday Baby: you are insightful, hardworking and loyal. you are disciplined and helpful. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff KnureK 







make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 
form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

city      state Zip 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Kelly discusses navy game, starters, receivers 
By MARY GREEN 
assistant managing editor 
with his team’s record now blemished with a loss, irish head coach brian Kelly admitted Tuesday he was unsure of what no. 15 notre dame’s future holds. 
“i don’t know,” he said when asked if a one-loss irish team can still make the college football playoff. “but we do know what we can control, and that is winning each week. so what we really talk­ed about is we have no margin for error, and we have to pay attention to every detail. it was really about the focus of this group is one week at a time. 
“each game is the biggest and most important game we play and really focusing on that. it isn’t con­cerning yourself with big picture.” 
notre dame (4-1) will look to bounce back saturday against navy, the second team it will play this season that features a triple-option offense. The irish defeated the first, georgia Tech, on sept. 19, 30-22. 
“preparing for navy is a very difficult chore,” Kelly said. “[midshipmen head coach] Ken niumatalolo has done an incred­ible job, obviously, in developing his program and currently carry­ing an eight-game winning streak. he’s developed not only his of­fense to the point where they com­pete nationally — i voted for them in usa Today Top 25 as a top-25 team. i think they’ve earned that.” 
Kelly said notre dame will have to avoid a sluggish start against navy (4-0) like it did in the loss to clemson, falling behind by two touchdowns after just seven minutes. 
“we started slow. is it the hour and 15 minute bus ride we’re not used to taking prior to the game? i don’t know, but we did start slow,” Kelly said. “believe me, we look at everything when it comes to those things. we can’t have slow starts. our guys know what the mantra is. They know how important it is to get off to a fast start. if we get off to slow starts, we’re going to be in trouble in every game that we play.” 
Starting lineup 
Though he didn’t see the field against georgia Tech, junior max redfield will start at free safety against navy, Kelly said. The head coach added redfield’s start 
see fooTball PAGE 10 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Irish set to take on strong Wolverine attack 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
notre dame plays host to big Ten leader michigan in an out-of-conference clash wednesday at alumni stadium. 
michigan (5-2-2, 2-0-2 big Ten) is unranked but currently sits at the top of the big Ten standings. The wolverines have acceler­ated their attack in the past weeks, scoring 12 goals in their last four games. and while michigan has never won at no. 7 notre dame (7-2-2, 2-1-1 acc), with the irish boasting an 8-0­1 home record and a 10­2-2 record in all contests against the wolverines, the irish lost, 3-2, in ann arbor when the teams met exactly a year ago today. 
irish head coach bobby clark said he is aware of the wolverines’ ability. 
“They’re coming in here as currently the top team 
see m soccer PAGE 10 



senior captains lead young squad 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports editor 
despite 15 underclassmen on this year’s roster, notre dame senior center and team captain steven fogarty said this year’s irish squad is ready to make significant strides from last year. 
“it’s definitely time. last year was frustrating,” fogarty said Tuesday at notre dame’s media day. “we had a long offseason, but i don’t think our youth can be an excuse any more.” 
fogarty said despite un­derclassmen composing a majority of notre dame’s roster, the team is able to reach a higher level this season. 
“all those guys have a year of playing under their belt now, and we have a lot of freshmen who are going to see playing time right away, but like i said, we can’t use youth as an excuse anymore,” fogarty said. “They’re all good hockey players, and at the end of the day, we’re just playing hockey again, so we can’t think of it as a young team. we just need to get out there and play and have fun.” 
irish head coach Jeff Jackson named fogarty the team’s captain for the sec­ond year in a row aug. 26, making the senior from edina, minnesota, the 15th 
two-year captain  in  irish  
histor y.  
“obviously,  it’s  a  huge  

honor,” fogarty said. “To be named a captain as a ju­nior reflects a lot about how your teammates and coach­es think of you. last year, it was a huge honor, and to be able to have that opportu­nity again this year is really cool.” 
Joining fogarty in the irish leadership is the rest of the senior class: Jackson named center Thomas dipauli, left wingers mario lucia and sam herr and de­fenseman andy ryan as the team’s alternate captains for 
see hocKey PAGE 9 




