The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 50 | tuesday, november 10, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
University, College combat violence on campus 
Green Dot programs introduce new prevention strategies to students, faculty and staff 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
The greendot program, a violence prevention strategy following the national green dot campaign, officially launched at notre dame on Friday with information­al booths on campus and an introduction at Friday night’s hockey game, where the irish played minnesota. 
Kate morgan, co-chair of the greendot commu­nications committee and associate director of com­munications for campus ministry, said in an email that although the program has only been officially ac­tive for a few days, the stu­
dent  response  has  been  
impressive.  
“overall,  the  response  
from  students  has  been  
amazing,”  she  said.  “on  

Friday alone we collected over 450 green dots, which means 450 students took the time to listen to a five min­ute overview speech about the program, registered their email addresses or told us what they were person­ally doing online using the hashtag #ndgreendot. our goal is to collect 5,000 green dots in the next two weeks.” 
see noTre dame PaGe 3 

By ALEX WINEGAR associate saint mary’s editor  
The saint mary’s against violence (bavo) is hosting a  belles office green  

dot activism week at the college to encourage stu­dents to take action against sexual violence. 
connie adams, director of bavo, said “green dots” are simple decisions made to make communities safer and can include actions, words, behaviors and atti­tudes that express an utter intolerance for violence and promote safety and support. 
“‘green dots’ are moments when we take ownership over our community and demonstrate that violence is not one of our community values,” she said in an email. 
The ywca will be on cam­pus Tuesday at 7 p.m. in stapleton lounge to share information about how to support a friend or fam­ily member who has experi­enced power-based personal violence, adams said. 
“it can be difficult to know what to do when confronted with a situation directly, es­pecially because we could know the person who was victimized or who 
see smc PaGe 3 


group celebrates native american cultures 
By EMMA BORNE 
news writer 
notre dame is gearing up to celebrate native american heritage month this november. multicultural student programs and services (msps) and the native american student association of notre dame (nasand) have collaborat­ed to sponsor several events throughout november in cel­ebration of native american heritage month, according to iris outlaw, director of msps. 
The first event was a msps “First Friday” event, which invites students to discuss and learn about different topics of diversity, outlaw said. For this particular event kicking off native american heritage month, sacramento Knoxx, a native american community ac­tivist who does social work through the arts, performed his work for the event. Knoxx also performed at the notre dame center for arts and culture. 
outlaw said there will be a heritage dinner nov. 16 
see heriTage PaGe 3 







Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com Which Disney character would be your best friend? 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 

Allison Ayers 
greg hadley 
junior
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
                   Jack rooney                       cristina gutierrez 
le mans hall 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green           Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
“rapunzel.” 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice 


Chrystal Niemeyer 
Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu 
junior 
Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor 
le mans hall 
Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
“ariel.” 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 


Ellen Smithey 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
junior 

Managing Editor 
le mans hall 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
“megara.” 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 


Hannah Donelan 
first year mccandless hall 
“belle.” 

Katherine Smith 
first year mccandless hall 
“mulan.” 

Shannon Zofkie 
junior le mans hall 
“nemo.” 

Want your event included here? Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Photo Desk 
Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574)631-8839 Tai Chi in the Fall Reading Series Staff Mass Cider and Donuts Football vs. Wake Galleries Hammes Bookstore Log Chapel Fieldhouse Mall Forest 
Policies 
Snite Museum of Art 7:30 p.m.  10 a.m. 1 p.m.-3 p.m. Notre Dame Stadium 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
4 p.m.-5 p.m. Professor John Yau Staff chaplain Fr. Jim Part of StaND Against 3:30 p.m. 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, Relax in the Transitory reads as part of Creative Bracke will preside. Hate Week. Notre Dame takes on including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
Waterscapes exhibit. Writing Program the Demon Deacons. 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as “Cause of Death” Baraka Bouts Finals Iron Sharpens Iron Trumpets under the “Disabusing possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
Eck Visitors Center Joyce Center Coleman-Morse Dome Disability” 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
4:30p.m.-5:30 p.m. 6 p.m. Center Main Building Jordan Hall of Science 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not Marie Reimers will Women’s boxing 10 p.m.-11:30 p.m. 4:10 p.m. 11 a.m. necessarily those of The observer. 
discuss end-of-life tournament benefitting Weekly praise and A home game weekend Part of the Dooley 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
issues. Holy Cross missions. worship service. tradition. Society Lecture Series. 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
Visiting professor links 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 
architecture, community health 
024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: than change the environment we’re liv-and clean water were just a few fac-
By SELENA PONIO 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 news writer ing in,” he said. tors among many that could improve 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 he said the stratification caused by so-america’s national health, and urban 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. The state of national public health has cioeconomic status contributes to obe-planning must be approached with the been influenced by a surprising factor: sity and, for many people, obesity is out of intention of designing a city that encour­the architecture of america’s cities. their control, as the food deserts in their aged its citizens to engage in physical ac­

richard J. Jackson, pediatrician and neighborhood provided them with inad-tivity, such as walking. professor at the university of california at equate and unhealthy food options. “we have removed 60,000 square miles los angeles, spoke monday night about “The more we stratify popula-of photosynthesis just in the united states the correlation between america’s infra-tions, the less people grow up better to meet the needs of cars,” he said. “every 
News Sports 
catherine owers renee griffin structure and the diminishing state of equipped for the diversity of the world,” city in america puts huge amounts of andrea vale Zach Klonsinski 
health most americans are experiencing. he said. ”economic diversity is equally money in roadways and lets sidewalks 
nicole caratas 
buildings are “agents of health,” he important.” starve.” 
Graphics Scene 
said, and effective urban planning can Two factors have had a larger impact after finishing medical school, Jackson 
eric richelsen miko malabute 
promote physical, mental and social than medical care when it comes to in-said he focused on combining his desire 
Photo Viewpoint 
health. creasing life expectancy in the united to engage in social issues with his belief 
sarah olson austin Taliaferro 
“architecture is the hardware of build-states, he said. that the community could be empowered ing communities, the software are the “we think that medical care is what’s with science. he said his main fear with festivals and the culture and the pro-really prolonging life span in the united public health was that the issue was be-
Corrections 
grams,” Jackson said. “if you want people states, but actually only five years of the ing dealt with at the end of the pipeline as 
The observer regards itself as to be physically active, you have to create 30 years of increased life expectancy can opposed to the root cause of the problem. a professional publication and 
environments that entice them and that be attributed to medical care and the “it is the right time to have a vision,” strives for the highest standards 
support them.” other 25 years … come from immuniza-he said. “i think what’s happening is sus­
of journalism at all times. we do, 
The fixation on emergency care meth-tion and infrastructure,” he said. “we’re tainability and health are now merging, 
however, recognize that we will make 
ods has trumped preventative measures, underfunding prevention over and over and they are common threads of what we 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
he said. again.” need to be doing.” 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so “we’ve essentially medicalized envi-under the category of infrastructure, 
we can correct our error. ronmentally induced diseases … rather Jackson said cleaner air, better ventilation Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 


“what’s different is that said. 
smC a global problem, we over­
notre dame 
greendot invites the notre “i think students welcome look that we have an indi­
conTinued From page 1 conTinued From page 1 
vidual responsibility and 
dame community to recon-this approach to sexual as-perpetrated the act,” she opportunity to reduce vio­
events and promotions sider their roles in preven-sault prevention as it doesn’t said. lence in our community. ... 
similar to those at the hockey tion by doing their part, no force one person to do every-a “green out” is scheduled green dot is a form of social 
game will occur at the men’s matter how small,” she said. thing, but rather, encourages for wednesday, adams said. responsibility, a core com-
and women’s basketball “a ‘green dot’ could be strik­“it’s a simple act to wear ponent of our [college’s] 
games nov. 17 and nov. 18, re-ing up a conversation with 
“What’s different 
spectively, morgan said. a friend or family member green to demonstrate the mission and captures what 
is that GreeNDot 
fact you care about this is-it means to be an empow­
“student fans receive free about how much violence sue, but imagine how pow-ered woman.” 
giveaways, including pens prevention matters or put-
invites the Notre 
erful it will be to see green students should feel em-and T-shirts, and have the op-ting an awareness post on 
Dame community 
everywhere,” she said. powered by this week’s portunity to sign up for an up-Facebook.” 
to reconsider their 
adams said nationally-coming bystander training,” The first step of reaching 
roles in prevention 
known speaker Tom santoro she said. “The green dot vid-people through greendot is 
“While these 
will be on campus Thursday eo is also shown at the sport-the overview speech, which 
by doing their emotions are 
at 7 p.m. in rice commons ing events and, at the hockey serves as an introduction and 
part, no matter 
game, the players even wore invites participants to attend to deliver a presentation on 
understandable, how small. A 
dating violence and warn-green jerseys in honor of the a bystander training ses­
the truth is that ‘Green Dot’ could 
program.” sion. according to morgan, ing signs. 
we all have 
morgan said greendot is 55 groups from the university “mr. santoro has been 
be striking up power. When 
not intended to replace older have had or have signed up for touring the country for 
a conversation 
programs at the university, overview speeches, reaching nearly two decades, and 
we think of the with a friend or 
he is retiring from this such as the ‘one is Too many’ over 2,500 students and 250 
issue as simply a family member 
work,” she said, referenc­campaign but is intended as faculty and staff members. 
global problem, 
an extension. morgan said the next by­ing santoro’s public speak-
about how we overlook 
ing on his and his family’s “greendot is being utilized stander training sessions 
much violence 
in conjunction with existing are nov. 23 and 30, for three traumatic experience with 
that we have prevention 
dating violence. “we are programs at notre dame also hours each, and dec. 5 for the 
an individual matters or putting 
his final presentation of used to prevent and report six-hour session at once. 
responsibility 
‘dear lisa.’ he also shares power-based violence, such “The bystander training is 
an awareness post and opportunity 
a powerful personal story.” 
as sexual assault, sexual ha-a six-hour training that helps 
on Facebook.” 
other events this week rassment, dating violence, students learn about the dif­
to reduce 
Kate Morgan 
include signing a pledge domestic violence and stalk-ferent types of power-based 
violence in our 
co-chair 
to be an active bystander ing,” morgan said. “it should violence and equips them 
community.” 
GreeNDot Communications 
and frosting a cookie in the be viewed as an important with the motivation, knowl-
Committee Connie Adams 
dining hall, adams said. 
continuation of the efforts of edge and skills they need to “we will also have a dis-
director 
many, including the programs take action,” morgan said. “it play of red solo cups in 
facilitated by the university-is composed of individual re-everyone to do something,” the student center atrium events and find new ways to 
wide committee on sexual flection, large group activities she said. “The notre dame demonstrating the number make an impact, she said. 
assault prevention (csap) and small group interaction.” community is committed to of students impacted by “it’s not about everyone 
and student government.” greendot has been so suc-ending violence on our cam-sexual assault based upon doing the same thing but 
greendot is distinct from cessful so far because it takes pus, and greendot provides the national statistic,” she finding the right action for 
the other programs in that a daunting task, sexual as-us all with a way to help.” said. “These are the ‘red each person. ‘no one has to 
it emphasizes small actions sault prevention, and makes it dots’ we want to change do everything, but everyone 
contributing to a change in more manageable to address Contact Megan Valley at  and can change.” has to do something,’” she 
culture, morgan said. as an individual, morgan mvalley@nd.edu 
adams said it is easy to said, quoting a green dot become overwhelmed, mantra. frustrated and helpless “when everyone asks 
people tend to forget are the different tribes, and a cel-
Heritage 
when thinking of issues [themselves], ‘what is my native americans and the ebratory bonfire nov. 20. 
conTinued From page 1 
such as sexual assault, re-green dot?’ and discov­
contributions that they made depaola said this month lationship violence and ers the difference they can 
… you would almost say that will educate students on the stalking. make, then we will see a 
to commemorate the his-native americans are the native american culture. “while these emotions dramatic reduction in vio­
tory and significance of invisible minority,” outlaw “what we want to do is are understandable, the lence. i have no doubt.” 
this month. The dinner said. “also, appreciation [is share our culture with mem­truth is that we all have 
will be at legends, where important] because mainly bers of the notre dame com-power,” she said. “when we Contact Alex Winegar at 
traditional food from dif-… what we perceive native munity but try to do it in think of the issue as simply awine01@saintmarys.edu 
ferent native american na-americans to be like are defi-a way that everybody can tions will be served, and nitely negative stereotypes, understand,” depaola said. marcus winchester, a histo-or just aligning them with ca-“sometimes it’s a little bit rian for the pokagon band of sinos. but native americans difficult to translate our cul­potawatomi, will be the key-have done so much more and ture for everybody … a lot note speaker. so that’s why it’s really im-of people don’t really think 
additionally, msps portant that we celebrate and about us as normal college will be tweeting “did you acknowledge what they’re students. when you think of know” facts about native doing.” a native american you think americans all month, ac-senior rosalie depaola, of the headdress and pow cording to outlaw. co-president of nasand, wows, which is part of our 
outlaw said this is an said other events will include culture, but we also want to important month for the an indigenous crafts night emphasize … [that] we’re university to celebrate, and Tuesday night in the notre just normal people in society, all students are welcome to dame room in laFortune too.” celebrate and attend this student center, where stu­month’s events. dents can learn how to make Contact Emma Borne at  
“one of the things that three crafts from three eborne@nd.edu 



The observer |  tuesday, november 10, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
InsIde Column 
Being ‘too serious’ 
Matthew Munhall 
scene writer 
at the democratic primary forum Friday night, moderator rachel maddow asked bernie sanders about the biggest public misconception of him. “well, people think i’m grumpy,” he respond­ed, as the crowd erupted in laughter. “people think i am too serious. but i think what people don’t see is i have seven beautiful grandchildren who are the joy of my life.” 
That sanders would need to refute claims that he is “too serious” speaks to the huge emphasis placed on personal­ity in u.s. presidential elections. The new york Times published a piece last week asking whether it was a problem that sanders doesn’t engage in much of the schmoozing expected of presidential candidates: “as effective as his policy-laden speeches may be in impressing potential supporters, mr. sanders is missing opportunities to lock down un­committed voters face to face in iowa and new hampshire, where campaigns are highly personal.” 
democratic frontrunner hillary clinton has also repeatedly faced the question of “likability” — a critique which is frequently gendered. clinton’s campaign strategists have acknowl­edged making a conscious effort this fall to show her humor and heart. in her tour of the late-night circuit over the past few weeks, she has been easygoing and affable, willing to show that she’s in on the joke. clinton’s campaign even tweeted a link an onion editorial that parodied her attempts to prove that she is fun: “i have been fun on multiple so­cial media platforms, wherein i can also be witnessed taking a carefree approach to life.” 
The expectation that candidates be personable is by now an ingrained part of the american political process. images of presidential hopefuls kiss­ing babies and visiting small-town diners have become part and parcel of the campaign trail. inevitably, the media will ask that ridiculous question designed to gauge charisma: “which candidate would you rather have a beer with?” 
however, likability is, frankly, irrele­vant when it comes to running the coun­try. while this campaign cycle often seems like an absurd joke (see: donald Trump and ben carson), we are electing a president, not a late-night host. The issues facing our country are gravely im­portant — urgent climate change, rising income inequality, student debt, police brutality, racial discrimination, among countless others. when the stakes are this high, can a candidate really be “too serious”? 
Contact Matthew Munhall at   mmunhall@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
don’t forget the bomb 
miles away, had a shockwave that circled the earth three Louis Bertolotti times, and a mushroom cloud that was seven times taller 
mr. 2016 
than mount everest. 
dropping such a bomb on a heavily populated city today 
does the name vasili arkhipov ring a bell to you? The would cause millions of deaths in an instant, and the retali­odds say that you have no idea who this man is, although he ation would likely lead to the extinction of mankind. recent most likely saved your life on a fateful day 53 years ago last studies have shown that as few as 100 nuclear detonations week. would be enough to block much of the earth’s sunlight, de­
arkhipov was a soviet naval officer aboard the b-59 nucle-stroy our ozone layer and cause a sudden drop in worldwide ar-weaponized submarine during the cuban missile crisis. temperature — all of which would be likely to destroy many at the start of the crisis, this ship had sunk to deep waters in land and sea-based ecosystems, probably causing world-order to avoid its u.s. navy pursuers. after a number of days wide famine. with no contact from the outside world and no idea whether all of the above facts are too often overlooked in today’s war had broken out or not, the submarine found itself being society. nuclear weapons make humans an endangered spe­bombarded with explosives from a group of 11 u.s. navy cies. we live, literally, just one decision away from complete destroyers. extinction. 
mistaking these non-lethal warning shots asking for sadly, i think this has become part of the human condi­identification with actual live explosives, both the soviet tion. nuclear weapons serve as an important deterrent in political officer on board and the captain of the b-59 voted our national security arsenal, and complete proliferation, to move forward with a launch of their nuclear weapons on in a world in which states cannot truly trust each other, is the u.s. homeland. soviet policy mandated that in order to seemingly impossible. would we really give up our biggest launch these weapons, all that was needed was approval safeguard against attack in the hopes that north Korea from the two of them and from the ship’s second-in-com-abides by the same rules? mand — in this case, vasili arkhipov. nuclear weapons are here to stay, at least for the time be­
arkhipov was not convinced that war had broken out and ing. and yet, it seems as if the american people do not take refused to authorize the launch, much to the chagrin of his this seriously enough. it is true that our world has been fellow officers. despite their attempts to persuade him of spared a nuclear attack throughout the lives of nearly ev­the necessity of defending the interests of his motherland, eryone alive today, but that does not guarantee the same arkhipov would not give in, and the submarine surfaced, outcome forever. saving the planet from nuclear annihilation. as shown above, we have been just one wrong decision 
This was not the only nuclear close call during the cold away from nuclear war on a number of occasions. luck, and war. There was the 1979 norad computer glitch that in-maybe a bit of intervention from above, saved us. yet, be-formed and convinced the u.s. military that a barrage of cause the threat seems so far removed from us now, we have soviet icbms were in route towards north america. There become too complacent. was the 1983 soviet urgent alert that lieutenant colonel now that we are less than one year away from the election stanislav petrov chose not to report to the soviet high com-to decide our next commander in chief, we must rid our­mand, instead (correctly) hoping it was a false alarm. The selves of that complacency. we must realize the seriousness list goes on and on. that is the position of the leader of the armed Forces of the 
The point is that on a number of occasions, the fate of united states. civilization, even the fate of mankind itself, was left to the as you consider the nominees for president in the 362 days decision of one person. ahead, i hope that you will remember the gravity of the po-
There are over 15,000 nuclear weapons in existence in the sition for which they are running. our next president, and world today. They are distributed amongst nine countries: every one thereafter, controls the fate of our world. your vote the united states, britain, France, israel, india, pakistan, is not a decision to take lightly. china, north Korea and russia. almost all of these weap-and so i ask you, whose finger would you like resting upon ons are incredibly more powerful than the ones dropped the launch button? your answer literally means the world. on hiroshima and nagasaki in world war ii, and many are ready to be launched within minutes of a warning. Louis Bertolotti is a junior in the College of Arts and  
The most powerful nuclear weapon ever detonated was Letters. He is majoring in poltiical science and history and the Tsar bomba, a test bomb dropped by the soviets in 1961 is from the great state of New Jersey. He can be contacted at over northern russia. The King of bombs, as it translates, lbertolo@nd.edu had a power output equivalent to 1.4% of the sun, caused The views expressed in this column are those of the author third-degree burns 62 miles away, shattered windows 560 and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

letter to tHe edItor 
True Domer 
one saturday afternoon, i found myself a little south of the stadium with thousands upon thousands of other domers when i encountered an elderly gentleman near mendoza who asked for directions to the grotto. 
This gentleman was having a hard time following my direc­tions so i walked with him a bit and then pointed him toward the basilica once we got close to o’shag. he thanked me and assured me that he could make it from there. i wasn’t so sure so i watched as he headed in the right direction. a couple young men were winding down a concession stand near by and one of them was standing close enough to overhear. 
i observed the young man offer to walk with the elderly gen­tleman to the grotto and then did so. 
what an amazing display of faith and cooperation by one of our students. 
it is nothing short of a miracle to be able to see the dome every day. 
Jamie O’Brien 
class of ‘88 and ‘93 assistant chair department of accountancy 

What to know about the apparel industry 
Katherine Smart 
guest column 
The recent debate over the university’s pilot program to allow selected factories in china to manufacture university-licensed products has caused me to think of my own apparel choices. as a college student, how many times have i walked into the bookstore (or any clothing store for that matter) and shaken my fist at the ridiculously high prices? in the moment, i am certainly not thinking of how inexpensive apparel actually is when compared to the amount of labor used to create it. at the same time, the university is pursuing a way to affect change in the arena of worker rights violations, i am wondering how aware we as a student body are of our contribution toward this cycle of exploitation. 
so, as college students, what should we know about the workings of the apparel industry? 
There is no such thing as a “good” deal. 
being a college student means counting every penny, finding every coupon and searching desperately for the words “two for the price of one.” since these deals are good for us, the consumers, as well as the retailers, the question can be raised: “From where does the profit margin originate?” 
The answer is from outsourcing production to na­tions with limited labor laws. in fact, the united states only produces two percent of its total apparel domesti­cally. “Fast fashion” retailers, such as Forever 21 and walmart, are able to turn out such inexpensive and unique products by outsourcing their labor to foreign subcontractors that are responsible for the condition and safety of their workers. according to a 2012 study conducted by free2work.org, popular companies received a below-average rating on their protection policies against child and forced labor. For example, walmart received a c, Forever 21 received a d, and Fruit of the loom received a c. more shockingly, walmart received an F grade in the study’s “worker’s rights” category. Quality of clothing doesn’t always match workers’ quality of life. so if purchasing inex­pensive clothing is not the answer, is buying expensive clothing the solution? 
not always. while some more expensive brands, like patagonia and maggie’s organics, pride themselves in providing transparent supply lines and fair wages for all employees, many high-end designers are not inflat­ing their prices to benefit their workers. in the category of “worker’s rights,” abercrombie & Fitch and american eagle both received a d grade, while aeropostale and express received an F. victoria’s secret has also come under fire for paying workers four cents per $14 bikini created. 
it’s a long jump from the bandwagon. 
unfortunately this seems to put us in a lose-lose situation. on top of these economic considerations, the social pressure to have a large variety of quality clothing forces students to seek both “fast fashion” and quality retailers. while wearing high-end brands is by no means a social requirement at this university (thank god), showing up to a presentation in worn clothing can give evaluators a negative first impression, even if it is completely unjustified. Therefore, we have to ask ourselves if we are truly willing to spend the time and energy to only purchase highly regulated clothing. if we do make this choice, will our contribution be signif­icant enough to make a difference if the entire system is so corrupted? 
while its is impossible to ask college students on both a limited budget and schedule to completely alter their purchasing habits, the knowledge of how the apparel industry has promoted the exploitation of numerous people around the globe is the first step to finding a solution to this issues. in the words of david Foster wallace, “The really important kind of freedom involves attention, and awareness, and discipline, and effort, and being able truly to care about other people and to sacrifice for them, over and over, in myriad petty little unsexy ways, every day.” 
as a college student, i am proud to attend a univer­sity that is taking such an interest in this issue. while other institutions are mainly focused on cutting costs for consumers, notre dame is truly seeking to find the most effective means of change for production-line workers in china. whether that is completely cutting off business or leading by example in the form of facili­ties that promote equality, the results of this pilot pro­gram will, no doubt, be useful to other institutions that are also battling with similar moral issues. 
i highly encourage readers who are interested in these issues to view the april 26, 2015, episode of “last week Tonight” and read free2work.org or the huffington post column about victoria’s secret. 
Katherine Smart is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters. She can be reached at ksmart@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
letter to tHe edItor 
response to ‘chalk wars for life or choice’ 
hello from the other side, a side whose voice is not being heard. last week was “respect life week” and the belles For life group wrote their views across the saint mary’s campus. i want to make it clear that i respect people’s right to state their opinions; however, social change is not reached through hearing the stance of a single group. different perspectives are beneficial to dis­cussion and progress; there are always at least two sides to every issue. i do not agree that the ideas of a single group should represent the entire campus community, even if it is a catholic institution. This led me to take matters into my own hands. i identify as pro-choice and i was involved in writing on the sidewalks. why? because even though i am not pro-abortion, i support the right for others to have the option to receive an abortion if they so choose. 
let’s remember that this is an all-women’s college. women should empower each other. we pride our­selves in being educated, well rounded and informed individuals. i believe this includes being supportive of every aspect of women’s rights. it is evident that there is plenty of information and even entire weeks dedicated to the pro-life movement in our community. recently, there have been wonderful displays of activism in sup­port of planned parenthood and their services. however, pro-choice events are significantly disproportionate in comparison to pro-life events. There should be opportu­nities for equal representation of each side on campus; this includes the opportunity for the pro-choice side to have a week in order to showcase their own perspec­tives on campus. until then, i will feel as though pro-life ideas are being forced upon the campus community. we should not force our stances upon each other. especially if these stances include information that are skewed and inaccurate. during the respect life week, the belles for life group brought in individuals that provided informa­tion based on slanderous accusations about planned parenthood’s services. They presented this organiza­tion in a negative light instead of focusing on the many positive services they provide which are only meant to benefit us. 
based on what has been presented by the pro-life side, i believe this movement will eliminate many of our rights, the same ones we have worked so hard to receive. Taking these rights away will surely cause more harm than good. how does the pro-life movement plan on stopping women from doing what they want with their own bodies? women will continue to seek out abortions whether it is legal or not. it would be better to provide a safe and healthy environment for these procedures than for women to perform them on their own and harm themselves in the process. 
as for the criticism i have received in the article “chalk wars for life or choice” written by Jennifer vosters, thank you and i appreciate your input. however, i do not be­lieve that women’s rights are defined solely by our right to choose. The pro-choice and pro-life issue is just the beginning of a long list of adversities we face. This is one particular subject at saint mary’s that has recently been in the spotlight, which is why we responded in the way we did. i would love if both sides could find a way to com­promise. in order for this to happen, not only the stu­dents but also the entire saint mary’s community must be willing to be open to each other’s views. an email sent by a saint mary’s staff member, Janielle Tchakerian, stated that we must “… be civil and respectful of others, their opinions and work. … what is not acceptable is to harass or deface another person or their work simply because it is different than yourselves.” 
but how can we respect each other’s opinion when only one opinion is being actively promoted? pro-choice viewpoints need to be represented as well. i found this to be very contradictory and hypocritical. For the record, those who were involved in writing the pro-choice chalk messages did not vandalize, personally attack individu­als or erase any existing pro-life messages including what was written on the windows of the dinning hall. all we did was exercise our freedom of speech by writing positive messages and logical arguments on sidewalks in addition to what was previously written by the belles for life group. 
whoever helped me write opinions on the sidewalk would like to stay anonymous at this moment, but i choose not to because i take pride in taking a stance. in order for positive change to happen, we must challenge the issues that we believe need to change. in the words of my partner(s) in “crime,” “how can one be pro-life but support capital punishment, oppose helping the hungry, the poor, minorities and the lgbTQ community? That makes absolutely no sense.” how can you identify as a feminist if you don’t support the right for individuals to make their own personal choices? 
Finally, in the response to “chalk wars for life or choice” by gabrielle Jansen, she mentioned that “pro-life does not equate to anti-abortion.” if that is true, then why wasn’t that written on the sidewalks in the first place? she also wrote, “being pro-life means support­ing the dignity of all human beings from conception to natural death.” again, why was that not written on the sidewalks? if “being pro-life is being for women,” then why was this not stated on the sidewalks by the belles for life group? if “pro-life includes being for women during crisis and difficult pregnancies while still supporting them and their unborn children,” then why wouldn’t you also support them with the choice of having an abortion in a difficult pregnancy if it means saving her life? Jansen stated, “yes, women should support other women so long as they are pursuing the good, but i have no obligation to support another woman promoting something that violates my conscience.” how do you know that receiving an abortion is not for the good of the woman? what if an abortion is the best option for her situation? what if her life is in danger? The objective of women having the right to choose does not revolve around violating other peo­ple’s conscience, it’s about choosing what is best for them and their situation. people make it seem as though these decisions are easy, but it is far from the truth. it could be one of the hardest choices they ever have to make; that fact alone deserves support and respect for their brave decision. with that being said, i am open to hearing dif­ferent perspectives on the issue including those from the other side of this issue. 
Denisse Mendez Bautista 
political science and spanish saint mary’s ‘18 
The observer | tuesday, november 10, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Dakota Connell-Ledwon 
scene writer 
if you don’t live under a rock or in a deep, dark hole, you’ve heard that Zayn malik has left one direction. you may also have heard that louis Tomlinson is having a baby. or the big news that the band is going on hiatus starting in 2016 in order to pursue solo projects. 
how do you know this? especially if you’re not a hardcore one direction fan, it’s puzzling when you stop to think about how much the band has infiltrated your life. 
you see their faces everywhere. somehow you know the words to “what makes you beautiful.” you weren’t surprised when half of the campus population went to see them 
By MATT MUNHALL 
scene writer 
in a conversation facilitated by The Fader earlier this year, vampire weekend’s ezra Koenig and carles, the writer behind the blog hipster runoff, discussed the state of indie music and the concept of authenticity. “i think ‘indie’ was about romanticizing ama­teurism in music and media,” carles explained. Koenig concurred: “The amateur/professional dichotomy is just about destroyed now.” 
perhaps no artist of the past five years embodies the blurring of those lines more than grimes, the project of canadian electro-pop musician claire boucher. she became an indie sensation on the strength of her excellent 2012 al­bum “visions,” which she recorded in her bedroom and produced herself on garageband — the epitome of the digi­tal age notion that any art-school kid with a laptop could potentially become a pop star. grimes’ sound on “visions” was equally “post-internet,” an iTunes library pastiche that filtered influences as eclectic as mariah carey, marilyn manson and enya into a dark electronic template entirely her own. 
after nearly four years, grimes has finally returned with its follow-up: “art in chicago last year. 
you’ve been bombarded with one direction merchandise — posters, T-shirts, singing toothbrushes — all covered with the faces of five boys who happened to be smashed together into a band by simon cowell on “The X Factor” five years ago. 
you have their fans — directioners 
— to thank for the band’s incredible intrusion into your life. 
directioners are dedicated, to put it mildly. To put it not-so-mildly, they’re fanatical. and it’s not just innocent fun or questionable personal choices. dirty fan fiction featuring the band mem­bers, giant tattoos of harry styles’ face and fans breaking into the boys’ hotel room to steal a pair of boxers are all normal occurrences in the directioner group. 
angels,” a brilliant genre-defying mas­terwork about retaining your human­ity online in the face of those trying to reduce you to a million pixels. it’s an album that retains the diy spirit of “visions” — boucher once again played every instrument herself and produced the entire album — even as its songs are coated in a much glossier sheen. The al­bum is, by far, her best work as a produc­er to date, maintaining her weird streak even as it refines her pop sensibilities. 
“art angels” is even more of a collage than “visions,” embracing a kitchen-sink approach to pop production. The album’s first proper track, “california,” pairs twangy guitars and near-yodeling over the drums from rihanna’s “pon de replay.” boucher described the track as being “sonically as uncool as i could make it,” and indeed, its sound often ap­proximates rednex’s “cotton eyed Joe.” it is followed up by “scream,” which blends together surf guitars, guttural screams and verses from the Taiwanese rapper aristophanes. 
The songs often recall the bizarro­world bubblegum of pc music, the london-based pop music collective whose high-concept eurodance ex­periments push the artificiality of pop music to its extreme. grimes, however, remains deeply human even in the 
in the documentary “crazy about one direction,” a fan reveals that she got braces just because one of the band members also wore braces. There was also a Twitter incident in which a girl threatened to kill her dog if the mem­bers of one direction didn’t follow her (although it turned out to be a hoax, and the pup was safe). 
in the wake of the mania — which hasn’t slowed despite Zayn’s departure or the band’s impending hiatus — we’re left wondering: what could possibly merit this level of dedication from fans? 
“i think one direction is popular because they were the next cute boy band that came along and teenage girls couldn’t help falling for them,” junior arianna rominski said. 
it’s true: this isn’t the first time fans have gone above and beyond for their 
midst of her more maximalist tenden­cies. These songs are always coming from a deeply emotional place — no­where more so than on the pulsing highlight “realiTi,” on which she stares death in the face. 
boucher has said the album contains “a lot of diss tracks” and that newfound sense of aggression is one of the most ex­hilarating aspects of “art angels.” it of­ten feels like the soundtrack to a fantasy video game — one in which you can in­habit any number of characters and act more threatening than you ever would in real life. on the cover, boucher has drawn herself as an anime three-eyed space elf, while on the closing track she sings as an amazon butterfly affected by deforestation. The cheerleader-gone­assassin jam “Kill v. maim” is from the pov of a gender-switching, space-trav­eling michael corleone. she goes from chanting letters to delivering a ferocious rallying cry: “you gave up being good when you declared a state of war!” 
boucher also grapples with the dark side of internet fame: constant harass­ment on social media and conscrip­tion into the clickbait cycle (“grimes takes one-day hiatus from veganism!”). lead single “Flesh without blood” is her most blatant play for a Top 40 hit, but its verses echo comment-section chosen obsession. every generation of fans has its obsession — after all, “beatlemania” was just as crazy. 
one direction filled a niche that was left open after the departure of boy bands like nsync and the backstreet boys. in a way, pop music was just waiting for the next group of good-looking guys with voices to come along. 
you don’t have to be a directioner to find the band’s music catchy, but you do have to thank a crazy, dedicated fan base for elevating the next big boy band to the point where you can jam to “drag me down” with little to no embarrassment. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.  
    Contact Dakota Connell-Ledwon at dconnel5@nd.edu 
critics decrying her moves toward the mainstream: “your voice, it had the perfect glow / it got lost when you gave it up though / ‘cause you want money, you want fame.” on the defiant “venus Fly,” she teams up with r&b cyborg Janelle monáe to rail against objecti­fication. “why are you looking at me?” boucher and monáe growl, before the track gives way to an equally menacing violin solo. 
with “art angels,” grimes has made a defiantly bizarre pop masterpiece, indie rock’s ideas of coolness and authentic­ity be damned. she herself puts it best on the album’s closing track: “if you’re looking for a dream girl / i’ll never be your dream girl.” 
Contact Matt Munhall at                   mmunhall@nd.edu 
“Art Angels” 
Grimes 
Label: XXX Tracks: “REALiTi,” ” Venus Fly” If you like: PC Music, Enya 


ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 


Crossword | will shorTZ 
Just add water | eric carlson & John roddy 

flInG by sPrInG | riley mccurie 


sudoku | The mepham group 

FOR SALE 
Executive family home in the country on 10 acres, fin­ished pole barn, 5 bed 3 ½ bath Edwardsburg schools, 68620 Leet Rd. Niles, MI 269-684-0885 $354,900 
George Washington’s yielding his power and stepping away / is that true? / I wasn’t aware that was something a 
HorosCoPe | eugenia lasT 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take care of business. update your resume. don’t be afraid to let others know what you are capable of doing. address emotional issues. you can make changes, but do so for the right reasons and with a thoughtful attitude. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): communication and sharing thoughts and ideas will help you find solutions. look at the big picture and prepare to take action. an opportunity will develop if you attend a meeting, networking event or trade show. give your best effort. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Keep life simple. don’t overspend or get into a dispute with someone you don’t agree with. concentrate on being your best and making personal changes that will make you feel good. love and romance look promising. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): be open and receptive when dealing with friends and family. you will accomplish a lot more if you have the help of others. Take care of your health and emotional well-being. a unique idea will turn out to be marketable. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): a short trip or visit to a place you haven’t been before will spark your enthusiasm and help you see things differently. avoid a confrontation with someone you live with or interact with every day. you’ll be fighting a losing battle. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): open up about the way you feel and what your expectations are, and you will get a good response. be forthright and willing to go after your goals with or without help. your dedication will encourage others to pitch in. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): offering to help others will bring you satisfaction and good fortune. an emotional situation at home will change based on a decision you make regarding your profession. don’t keep secrets or someone will become suspicious and critical. make physical improvements. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Flaunt what you have to offer. mingle, network and make the most of any opportunity you get to present and promote what you have to offer. you will interest someone who wants to collaborate with you. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you’ll have plenty of choices, but if you insist on doing everything yourself, you will fall short. pick what you feel is the best fit for you and give it your all. be honest about what you can and cannot do. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t let your emotions come between you and common sense. compromise will be required in order to keep the peace. The more you do to appease the people around you, the more you will get in return. concentrate on professional gains. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): discussions aren’t likely to go as you anticipated. Take a step back, take care of your responsibilities, and give yourself a little time to rethink your strategy regarding partnerships that may need adjustments. offer affection, not criticism. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): you can expect a financial reward. investment opportunities are apparent and will open up doors to a bigger and better future. connect with people who can help you turn your goals into a reality. don’t just talk; take action. 

Birthday Baby: you are relentless, courageous and insightful. you are unique and mindful. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
BREEL  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
TOGAL  

RALDIZ SSALPH  
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

Print answer here: 

(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: SPELL RATIO POUNCE GROOVYYesterday’s 
Answer: An important way to compensate our veterans is to — PAY RESPECT 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
person could do / I’m perplexed / Are they gonna keep on replacing whoever’s in charge? / If so, who’s next? / There’s nobody else in their country who looms quite as large ... John Adams?! / I know him / That can’t be / That’s that little guy who spoke to me / All those years ago / What was it, eighty-five? / That poor man, they’re going to eat him alive! / Oceans rise / Empires fall / Next to Washington, they all look small / All alone / watch them run / they will tear each other into pieces / Jesus Christ, this will be fun! – ‘Hamilton‘ 
To receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. 
make checks payable to and mail to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
enclosed is $75 for one semester 
name 
address 
city state Zip 

sPorts autHorIty 
we know who holds the power 

Zach Klonsinski 
sports editor 
i used to think this was an end-all sort of statement: when [human feces] hits the fan, heads will roll. 
yet, it feels a bit outdated after the events of the past couple weeks, so i’ll try to bring it into the modern day vernacular: 
even when (literal) human feces are used to draw a swas­tika on a wall, it takes a college football team threatening to boycott the rest of its season before heads will roll. 
i guess i should explain, al­though if you don’t immediately understand my reference, you should probably at least try go­ing online once a day to check up on the rest of the world. 
yesterday, Tim wolfe, the president of the university of missouri system, announced his resignation after different minority groups from the sys­tem’s main campus in columbia had been calling for it since late september/early november. university chancellor r. bowen loftin will also step down, the university of missouri’s board of curators said yesterday evening. 
The charges leveled against wolfe were this: he was too slow to respond to racially-charged events on or around campus and, when he did respond, he was insensitive and blamed the victim. 
For the full list of grievances against wolfe, as well as a very fair perspective on the whole situation from someone in­volved in it every day, i’d suggest checking out bill connelly’s piece for sportsnation. not only does it provide great perspective and a comprehensive look at the entire situation, but it also one of the best pieces of journalism i’ve read in a long time. 
That said, here’s my sparknotes version: there have been a number of racist actions taken against black students at the university, and while the ac­tivist groups didn’t blame wolfe for the actions of individuals who may or may not have been affiliated with the university, they did find fault with his lack of or very delayed responses in defending them on almost every occasion. eventually, the frus­trations boiled over into active sit-ins around the university as well as two different groups pro­testing during the homecoming parade, one of which actually stood in front of wolfe’s car in the middle of the procession. 
wolfe never moved from his vehicle to speak with the protestors, which angered the activist groups around campus, although some sources claimed the activists were acting very hostile and never actually in­vited him out of the car to talk. 
one activist, graduate student Johnathan butler, then began a hunger strike nov. 2 until wolfe was removed as president of the university, claiming to be will­ing to die for the cause. 
it’s clear these rising ten­sions have been going on for some time, perhaps even dating back to the events in Ferguson, missouri, but the coverage and story only blew up last weekend because of actions taken by another group on campus. This group, by definition, doesn’t have anything to do with social statements, activism or any political agendas. 
apparently, however, what it does have is power: enough power to force the president and chancellor of the university to resign, either on his own or, more likely, with the help of some pressure within the uni­versity hierarchy. 
This group was the missouri football team. 
in response to the hunger strike by butler, a number of the student-athletes decided to boycott the football team until wolfe resigned, and they were eventually joined by most of their teammates and backed in their decision by the coach­ing staff, including Tigers head coach gary pinkel. 
The Tigers have three games left this season, including one saturday against byu at arrowhead stadium in Kansas city, which reports have said would have cost the university at least $1 million in buy-out pen­alties if the game wasn’t played, plus much more in other forms of lost revenue. 
in the midst of the modern debate about whether or not college football and basket­ball players are truly student-athletes, this weekend clearly demonstrates that these athletes hold a lot of power on campuses nationwide; enough power, as i’ve said, to be perhaps a driv­ing force behind the resignation of their university’s top two officials. 
more power, it also appears, than the student body president (and missouri’s payton head seems like a good one) and even the most outspoken of campus activists and other students combined. 
it’s an interesting dynamic to consider in the debate over the rights and classification of cur­rent student-athletes as it ramps up in the next few years. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at  zklonsin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
bouts 
conTinued From page 12 
dominated for most of the first round, but powers con­tinued to fight. after a back­and-forth battle, wilson appeared to take the lead. in the second round, however, powers was able to close the gap, using her quick hands to get in several punches on her opponent. 
The third round featured the two noticeably exhaust­ed competitors trying to prove who deserved to be crowned the winner. both fighters were able to fin­ish out strongly, but, in the end, wilson was awarded the victory. 
kelly “I don’t think you’re ready for this jelly” smith def. meg “Hunt” mclean  
lyons junior Kelly smith defeated pasquerilla east sophomore meg mclean in a tough fight decided by a unanimous decision. 
smith, wearing blue, started the first round with several strong blows to mclean’s head. however, mclean followed with a big move, knocking down smith with a strong punch towards the end of the round. 
as the fight continued into the second round, both boxers got in multiple body blows, and neither slowed down in round three. mclean did not back down, but it was smith who came out of the matchup with the hard-fought victory. 
Caroline skulski def. Carrie “scary” Christmann 
in the match between lewis junior caroline skulski and pangborn fresh­man carrie christmann, experience had the upper hand as the junior skulski won by a unanimous decision. 
skulski was able to take advantage of her signifi­cantly longer reach to re­peatedly land punches to the head and upper body. christmann was forced to stay on the defensive for much of the match and struggled to land punches. The punches christman was able to land lacked the power of those thrown by skulski, especially after she became fatigued in in the later rounds. 
shannon martin def. Holly o’brien 
in a battle of seniors, shannon martin defeated holly o’brien in a unani­mous decision. 
The match got off to a quick start with a lot of ac­tion and movement right from the opening bell. martin quickly became the aggressor, forcing her op­ponent to move around the ring. martin used a combi­nation of a left jab followed by a right hook to o’brien’s head. o’brien tried to fight back, but by lowering her gloves to throw punches of her own, she opened her­self up to more shots from martin, ultimately allow­ing martin to claim a clear victor y. 
katie “swerving” Irving def. keenan white 
senior Katie irving de­feated freshman and south bend native Keenan white in a split decision. 
The match was fairly even early with a significant number of punches thrown by each side. white’s strat­egy of changing levels by punching high then low was successful early, but by the third round, a fatigued white lost some of her pow­er and technique, lowering her gloves and exposing herself to punches from irving. irving maintained her power throughout the duration of the fight, ulti­mately enabling her to be victorious. 
maria aranguren def. melissa budicini 
in a matchup between two sophomores, maria aranguren defeated melissa budicini in a split decision. 
aranguren came out of the gate with a lot of ener­gy, throwing a significant amount of punches early in the first round, though she landed only a small per­centage. The taller budicini aimed high with her punch­es, focusing on the head of aranguren while aranguren focused on landing punch­es to the body of budicini. 
aranguren’s tenacity and rapid-fire punching tech­nique gave her the upper hand in the match as she was able to push budicini around the ring, espe­cially in the third round. aranguren came out swing­ing in the third ultimately allowing her to take the victor y. 

erin bradford def. Jenna “navi” Ivan 
in the match between sophomore erin bradford and senior Jenna “navi” ivan, experience did not determine the victor as bradford won in a split decision. 
The first round was even, with neither bradford nor ivan throwing more than a few punches before sepa­rating. ivan appeared to have the upper hand early in the second round, but bradford went on the attack with a furious rally which shifted the tide of the fight. bradford continued to at­tack in the third, but ivan held her ground maintain­ing her form and power un­til the end. it was bradford however who was ultimate­ly victorious thanks to her aggression near the end of the match. 
mariana “make them sor­ry” tumminello def. meg lloyd 
in the match between ju­nior mariana Tumminello and freshman meg lloyd, the junior had the upper hand as Tumminello won in a unanimous decision. The first round was high energy and evenly matched with both boxers landing punch­es early. Tumminello start­ed to take control late in the first round as she became the aggressor and forced lloyd around the ring. but lloyd did not go away easily as both boxers continued to land powerful punches to the head until the final bell of the last round. however, Tumminello was declared victorious and will advance. 
kaley “let’s Go” Cohen def. erin bishop 
in the fight between se­nior erin bishop and junior Kaley cohen, bishop was victorious in a unanimous decision. 
right from the start of the first round, it was clear 
see bouTs PaGe 9 


bouts 
conTinued From page 8 
cohen planned to be aggres­sive. using an effective left jab-right hook combination, cohen was able to land sever­al punches early. bishop was forced to spend much of the fight dodging and blocking cohen’s attacks. bishop strug­gled to land punches of her own and spent a majority of the fight trying to fend off the aggressive cohen. ultimately, cohen’s strategy paid off as she was declared victorious. 
serena Chan def. emily derubertis 
The bouts commenced in ring a as lewis freshman emily derubertis from pearl river, new york, faced off against cavanaugh senior serena chan from hong Kong. 
with high energy, both landed blows on the other, especially to the head, in the first round. round two was back and forth, with neither fighter looking like she had the upper hand. The third round saw less action as both fought more conservatively, neither giving the other a chance to land powerful hits. 
chan pulled out the victory by unanimous decision. 
Casey “burn the bouts” 
Gelchion  def.  Patricia  
fernandez  de  Castro  
samano  

casey gelchion of badin and patricia Fernandez de castro samano fought in the second bout in ring a. 
although gelchion dom­inated the first round, samano redoubled her ef­forts to take control of the second round. The third round held a little less action and could have gone either way. 
gelchion won on a split decision. 
renee “rage Cage” Griffin def. mary Grace lewis 
in the third match, pasquerilla west freshman 


paid adverTisemenT 
mary grace lewis from belleville, illinois, clashed with Farley junior renee “rage cage” griffin. 
griffin dominated the ring the whole match, but lewis put up a hard fight and nev­er backed down. neither let up, though, and as the third round neared its end, the ref­eree paused the match due to lewis’ bleeding nose. 
griffin won the match by unanimous decision. 
(Editor’s note: Renee Griffin is a sports writer for The Observer) 
kiley Cox def. sharon Chiang 
badin senior Kiley cox from western springs, illinois, exchanged blows with welsh Family junior sharon chiang from north potomac, michigan. 
both girls passionately began the fight, landing punches on each other but negated many of the blows with defensive technique. cox’s headgear popped off at the end of the first round, causing a delay as the train­ers fetched a new one, and 
w soccer 
conTinued From page 12 
took down in a 2-1, double-overtime victory on the road earlier this season. should they emerge from their re­gion victorious, the irish would be set for their first appearance in the college cup since 2010, when the program last won a national championship. 
romagnolo said she be­
lieves her team has  a  chal­ 
lenging  yet  exciting  road  
ahead of it.  

“in this field of 64, there 
the second round continued with gusto. chiang landed a strong sequence in the sec­ond round and forced cox to stay on her toes and duck from punches most of the round. with a boost of en­ergy, cox kept chiang on the defensive for the third round and came away with a victory by unanimous decision. 
Contact Dominic Ianelli at  rianelli@nd.edu, Anthony Zappia at azappia@nd.edu and Victoria Llorens at  vllorens@nd.edu 
are so many great oppo­nents, and every team is a great team,” romagnolo said. “every game is win or go home. i like our bracket, and i think we have a great opportunity. but there are no easy games for us, so we have to show up and give our best performance every game from now on.” 
The irish will begin their postseason run Friday, when they play host to the golden grizzlies at 7 p.m. at alumni stadium. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 


The observer | tuesday, november 10, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

for notre dame. after being 
volleyball 
down 20-14, the irish defense 
conTinued From page 12 
forced four attack errors and 
received help offensively with our game.” kills from Kuhn and freshman The irish committed 22 er-outside hitter rebecca nunge 
rors to virginia Tech’s 18 errors. to trim the opponents’ lead to eleven of the 22 errors came one. notre dame was a point on serves. in addition to their away from forcing extra frames serving issues, notre dame’s after sophomore outside hitter offense struggled mightily, hit-sam Fry converted on a kill to ting just .084. sophomore out-bring the score to 23-24, but side hitter sydney Kuhn led the Kullerkann fended off notre irish with 13 kills, three digs dame’s comeback with a kill to and a couple of blocks. complete the sweep. 
against the pittsburgh “i think [falling short of panthers (20-6, acc 10-4) on finishing sets] is just our in­sunday, notre dame did its experience, as our team is best to stay competitive in comprised of mostly freshmen each set but ultimately fell and sophomores,” Johnson 3-0 to push its losing streak to said. “we’re still getting used nine games. in the first set, the to playing at the collegiate irish struggled to contain the level. we need to learn how to panthers’ high-octane offense. maintain consistency in the of pittsburgh’s 20 kills in the entirety of matches. starting first set, graduate student out-strong and finishing strong side hitter Kadi Kullerkann tal-is what we need to work on in lied nine kills. practice and need to carry into 
after being tied at nine points our matches.” each, the panthers scored eight despite the recent string of of the next 12 scores to sit com-losses, Johnson believes that fortably on a 17-12 lead. The the players have kept a posi­irish cut the lead down to 18-tive mindset throughout their 19 with kills contributed by struggles with hopes of car-four different players, but the rying over their experience panthers took the set, scoring this season to next year’s six of the next seven points and campaign. winning the match 25-19. “we remind ourselves ev­
pittsburgh controlled the ery day that we’re working on second set going up by as building this program up,” dominating player like a dialogue and has built a 
football 
many as eight points. while Johnson said. “it’s not a sprint. Jaylon smith where you’re strong relationship between 
things looked bleak for the it’s a long battle to be the top 
conTinued From page 12 
irish, both the offense and de-team in the conference, which the field, [we] really didn’t Zaire has traveled with not going to take him off the two.” 
fense picked up the pace, scor-is our ultimate goal. it changes against georgia Tech on consider that because he’s the irish to each road game 
ing 13 of the next 20 points to perspective a little bit for us, sept. 19. just so important to our de-since his injury. 
cut the panthers’ lead down to thinking about the next game “i think each and every fense,” Kelly said. in other injury news, ju­
just two. eight of the 13 points but also thinking about build-week has been one where “ … we know Jaylon can nior offensive lineman 
scored during notre dame’s ing in the long run. it takes he’s gaining more and play running back, he can mike mcglinchey suffered a 
comeback were a result of at-small steps to reach our final more confidence in dif-play wide receiver, he can sprained ankle in saturday’s 
tacking errors by pittsburgh. goal.” ferent things,” Kelly said. play tight end, a number of win over pitt, but Kelly said 
Kuhn also contributed a couple The irish look to put a halt to “different throws that he different positions. but it he isn’t concerned. 
of kills in notre dame’s run. their nine-game losing streak struggled with, he’s not never was a thought that we “it shouldn’t be anything 
despite those last-ditch ef-Friday at 7 p.m. as they travel struggling with. different had.” that prohibits him from 
forts, pittsburgh scored the to Tallahassee, Florida, to take reads that may have not practicing on Tuesday,” 
final point on a kill to win the on no. 20 Florida state. come as easy. i think just Zaire’s progress Kelly said. 
second set 25-22. overall there’s growth in so Kelly said malik Zaire’s 
The final set featured anoth-Contact Manny De Jesus at many different areas.” return from a broken ankle staying focused 
er failed attempt at a comeback mdejesus@nd.edu suffered sept. 12 against notre dame will learn Hunter’s defensive reps virginia is going well and this week’s college Football 
Junior receiver Torii that the junior quarterback playoff rank Tuesday at 7 hunter Jr. became notre has even seen limited prac-p.m. and faces two three-win dame’s first true “two-way” tice participation. squads — wake Forest and player in nine years saturday “[Zaire’s] moving along boston college — the next when he saw limited action very well,” Kelly said. “he’s two weeks. in the irish secondary at got two more weeks, and however, Kelly said his nickelback, and Kelly said then the boot comes off. he’s irish squad isn’t looking hunter was a prime candi-been throwing in practice. ahead to a nov. 28 matchup date to play both ways since some of our drills where against fellow one-loss team, he doesn’t play every down there’s not a lot of move-no. 11 stanford. when the offense is on the ment, he’s in there already “Those things will take field. throwing. he already feels care of themselves when 
“Torii hunter shares reps part of it again.” we get there,” Kelly said. offensively, so we felt like while Zaire hasn’t been “They’ve done a great job of he was a great fit to do some on the field for the irish staying in the moment, stay-work on defense,” Kelly said. since the second game of the ing in the present. we’ve “i’m more in that vein than season, his impact is still got great leadership. They i am taking a dominating being felt, especially as he clearly understand it’s about player off of one side of the works with his replacement preparation from week to ball.” as starter, Kizer. week. 
Kelly was asked about “he’s been great in the “Their focus is on this week whether or not junior line-meeting rooms, on the side-because it’s the seniors’ last backer Jaylon smith could line in games,” Kelly said. home game. There’s a lot that make a similar move to the “after [Kizer] comes to the goes into that. so our guys offensive side of the ball; he sideline … i’ll say a couple are really excited about play-said while smith could have things to him, then he talks ing at home, playing wake success with the ball, the to coach sanford on the Forest. That really preoccu­irish staff didn’t want to dis-phone, then he goes over pies all of our guys.” rupt a “special” defender’s to malik and gets the recap play. and any information he’s Contact Alex Carson at  
“when you have a seen. it’s been really good acarson1@nd.edu 




up by six. 
Interhall 
stanford was unable to re­
conTinued From page 12 
spond on its ensuing posses­sion but held morrissey to out the clock to finish off a three-and-out in the sec-the game and secure its spot ond quarter. senior griffins in the championship. linebacker dan babiak said 
The ryan captain, senior his team put its experience erin clark, said she was dis-against morrissey in last appointed with the result, year’s semifinal to good use. but she said it wasn’t all bad “we came out a lot better for the wildcats. [this year],” babiak said. “we 
“it’s tough losing, but we came out with the mentality had a great season,” clark that our line has to be better said. “This was our first loss than their line, and that freed on the season, but the girls up our linebackers, and on of-played their hearts out, and fense, it gave us time to pass.” i couldn’t be prouder.” griffins sophomore quar­
peterson, on the other terback andrew Foster led hand, expressed great ex-a balanced offensive at­citement that her team made tack and went 8-for-9 in the it to this championship air, finishing the half with game. a much-needed touchdown. 
“our motto since the be-stanford’s successful extra ginning has been ‘stadium point set the score at 7-6. or bust,’ so we’re extremely Zidar said morrissey made happy to have reached this some adjustments during point,” peterson said. “we’re halftime. not finished though, and we “we tightened up the cov­plan on coming home cham-erage a little bit,” Zidar said. pions next week.” “Then we held them to seven. 
howard will take on no. 1 counted on the defense in the welsh Family next sunday end and it worked out.” at 2 p.m. at notre dame That morrissey defense welsh family 28, farley 7 proud of my team’s perfor-in momentum,” Koller said. stadium with the title on the came up with a big inter-mance this year — our of-“That’s three points. They 
By JOE EVERETT 
line. ception in the third quarter sports writer fense carried us and our would have won with that.” 
courtesy of freshman Jarod defense always came up with dillon’s strong pass-Contact Alex Bender at  luedecker. Zidar then capi-no. 1 welsh Family left no big stops.” ing game continued when abender@nd.edu talized on the turnover with doubt about its goal sunday buersmeyer also thanked it scored the game’s first the winning touchdown, his afternoon, downing no. 4 the Farley coaching staff, points on a pass to o’leary. morrissey 12, stanford 7 second of the day. Farley 28-7 to make it back to which consisted of multiple Koller said the big red of­babiak said the griffins are the women’s interhall cham-notre dame football players, fense was difficult to defend. 
By MAUREEN SCHWENINGER 
sports writer sorry to see the season end, pionship at notre dame including irish captain and “They got a lot of yards but he is proud of how they’ve stadium. safety matthias Farley. on us,” Koller said. “we 
no. 3 morrissey came out improved. The whirlwinds executed “our coaches were so great were playing conservative, on top in a 12-7 win over no. “This has been the best at will on both sides of the — we had the best possible deep defense and they took 2 stanford on sunday, clinch-team so far,” babiak said. “i’m ball. Junior captains sharon coaches,” buersmeyer said. advantage.” ing a spot in the interhall going to remember the guys chiang and rachel wimsatt welsh Family has now made another difference-mak­championship game for the i played with. everyone gave said their team is playing it to notre dame stadium er in the game was dillon’s second year in a row. 100 percent the whole year, their best football at the right for two straight years and is missed extra point. Keenan 
The manor opened the and that’s what really counts time. hungry for redemption after recovered with a touchdown game with a 75-yard drive for me and the other seniors “i think a lot of stuff is falling to pangborn last year drive, scoring on a pass from featuring standout senior here.” clicking for us, both offen-in the championship. Knights’ senior quarterback, running back hunter white. morrissey moves on to sively and defensively, so we “we’ve got a great group of aaron digenova, to fresh-For the first time this season, battle Keenan for the men’s love how we’re playing right girls this year,” wimsatt said. man lukas cepkauskas, white did not tally a touch-interhall title in notre dame now,” chiang said. “i love how we’re playing so who also caught the win-down, but he finished the stadium this sunday at 3:30 wimsatt, the whirlwinds’ cohesively.” ning touchdown in Keenan’s game with 138 yards on 21 p.m. quarterback, picked apart no. 1 welsh Family will last win. The extra point by carries. sophomore quarter-the Farley defense, throw-look to complete its mis-kicker andrew deye gave back declan Zidar dove into Contact Maureen Schweninger ing four touchdown passes sion against no. 2 howard Keenan a 7-6 lead, which the end zone to put morrissey at mschwenin@nd.edu of 49, 23, 10 and 15 yards. on sunday at 2 p.m. at notre was met with a rendition 
her receiving corps aided dame stadium. of enrique iglesias’ “hero” her by making several tough from Keenan’s fans. catches, highlighted by se-Contact Joe Everett at  despite the season-ending nior wide receiver catherine jeveret4@nd.edu loss, dillon sophomore cap­michels, who caught two tain John walsh said he is passes for touchdowns. keenan 7, dillon 6 not disheartened. 
on the other side, the “we had a good year,” 
By ELIZABETH GREASON 
Finest lacked the offensive sports writer walsh said. “Today came firepower to keep up with down to a few plays. The fu­the whirlwinds, continually Keenan bested dillon 7-6 ture looks bright and we’ll relying on the legs of junior in a tightly-contested battle be back next year.” quarterback lizzy moulton sunday afternoon. looking toward the finals, to gain yardage. dillon almost scored in the Koller said while the Knights 
Farley did sustain a long first half after the big red of-need to improve their time drive near the end of the fense, led by junior running of possession, his team is first half, capped by a one-back Tyler dale, marched ready. yard quarterback sneak by down the field. a pass to se-“we’ve been to the finals moulton, to cut the lead to nior receiver sean o’leary, a few times in the last five 14-7 at halftime. however, who was tackled short of the years, so we want to bring it the Finest were frequently end zone, put dillon in field home,” Koller said. “it’s re-hurt by penalties the rest of goal range with seconds left ally cool playing in the sta­the way. senior captain ali in the half. dium, but you’ve got to focus buersmeyer reflected on her Keenan junior ben evans on the game. our experience team’s performance after the managed to block the field will help.” game. goal attempt, leaving the big Keenan will play morrissey 
“i mean, the outcome is red scoreless. Keenan junior at 3:30 p.m. sunday at notre obviously disappointing,” captain michael Koller em-dame stadium. buersmeyer said. “however, phasized the importance of it’s just great to be out there the block. Contact Elizabeth Greason at with my team. i’m really “it gave us a huge change egreason@nd.edu 



The observer | tuesday, november 10, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
football 
Kelly praises Kizer’s progress at quarterback 
By ALEX CARSON 
associate sports editor 
sophomore quarterback deshone Kizer ran his record as a starter to 6-1 in saturday’s 42-30 win over pittsburgh, accounting for all six of no. 5 notre dame’s touchdowns at heinz Field — and irish head coach brian Kelly said he saw further improvements from his signal caller. 
“i think in terms of all things, from the run game to protections, it was a very good game [for Kizer],” Kelly said during his sunday tele­conference. “i’ll just say his pocket presence, moving in the pocket, escapability, i graded him out very, very high. i would probably say right now that he did some things in this game that he hasn’t done all year.” 
Kelly said he felt Kizer’s game saturday was his best yet for notre dame (8-1). 
“i think that probably is be­cause he’s gaining so much more confidence and seeing some things that he feels re­ally comfortable with that has allowed him to now ele­vate his game to the level that it is right now,” Kelly said. 

Kelly said he’s seen that confidence growth in vari­ous areas from the sopho­more since his first start 
see FooTball PaGe 10 
nd volleyball | virginia Tech 3, nd 0; piTT 3, nd 0 
nd suffers ninth loss in a row 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
notre dame’s struggles con­tinue as the season nears its end, with the team dropping two straight games over the week­end against virginia Tech and pittsburgh at purcell pavilion. 
on Friday, the irish (6-20, acc 1-13) failed to keep the lead dur­ing their 3-0 loss against the hokies (15-11, acc 6-8), who were losers of three straight be­fore the contest. The irish were ahead for the majority of the first set with a 23-20 lead, needing just two more scores to take the first set of the match. 
however, virginia Tech junior outside hitter amanda mcKinzie scored on two straight kills, and an attack error committed by the irish tied the set at 23. soon afterward, hokies junior outside hitter lindsey owens tacked on a couple of kills to help give her team a 1-0 lead on a 27-25 victory. 
in the second set, after being down 3-4, notre dame held the lead despite virginia Tech tying the game three different times. both teams traded blows until the hokies finally pulled away after being tied at 18 points. virginia Tech went on a 7-2 run to win the second set 25-20. owens converted two straight kills to end the set in the same fashion as the first set. 
in the final set, notre dame kept the match close, never down by more than four points until the very end. The irish were down 19-20 late in the match be­fore the hokies went on a six-to­one run to sweep notre dame on the road. 
“one thing that we’ve been trying to work on in practice is limiting our errors,” sophomore libero natalie Johnson said. “we struggled a lot with serv­ing, which is usually one of our strengths. it set the other teams up to succeed. it took us out of 
see volleyball PaGe 10 
nd women’s soCCer 
Irish seeded third in NCAAs 
By BEN PADANILAM 
sports writer 
no. 11 notre dame learned its fate for the upcoming ncaa division i women’s soccer championships on monday, earning a three-seed draw and a first-round matchup against oakland. 
when the selection com­mittee released the 64-team bracket, the irish (13-4-1, 6-4-0 acc) found out they will play host to the golden grizzlies (8-5-7, 7-1-3 horizon) in the first round of the ncaa championship at a alumni stadium on Friday. This marks the pro­gram’s 23rd straight ncaa championship appearance. 
after the matchup was announced, irish head coach Theresa romagnolo said she is very excited with her team’s draw in the tournament. 
“i feel great about it,” romagnolo said. “i’m just excited about our team and what i think we can do. we have a lot of potential.” 
despite failing to qualify for conference postseason play, the irish grabbed a no. 3 seed in the tournament. in fact, notre dame was one of seven acc teams to be seed­ed in the tourney, as Florida state (no. 1), virginia (no. 1), clemson (no. 2), duke (no. 3), north carolina (no. 
3) and virginia Tech (no. 
4) all earned high seeds as well. boston college also re­ceived a bid to round out the eight acc teams in the field. 
notre dame’s first op­ponent, oakland, is com­ing off of a run that led them to a horizon league championship victory over wright state on saturday. despite dominating horizon league play this season, the golden grizzlies finished the year with a 1-4-4 out­of-conference record. They shared three opponents with the irish early on this season 
— Toledo, western michigan, and michigan state — and the irish held a record of 2-0­1 in those games, while the golden grizzlies went 0-2-1. 
notre dame’s portion of the bracket also features no. 2 seed rutgers, who fin­ished second in the big Ten this season, and no. 1 seed virginia, whom the irish 
see w soccer PaGe 8 
baraka bouts | semiFinals 
Bouts final matchups set 
By DOMINIC IANELLI, ANTHONY ZAPPIA and VICTORIA LLORENS 
sports writers 
Jessica wilson def. kyra Powers 
in the first bout of the day in ring b, ryan soph­omore Jessica wilson defeated mcglinn sopho­more Kyra powers in a competitive fight decided in split-decision fashion. 
wilson, wearing gold, 
see bouTs PaGe 8 

InterHall | semiFinals 
ducks upset wildcats 
Howard 18, ryan 6 
By ALEX BENDER 
sports writer 
sunday at labar Fields, howard achieved its sea­son-long dream of reaching notre dame stadium with an 18-6 victory over ryan in the semifinals. 
each team saw its offense stall on its first drives, but ryan got things go­ing on its second drive, which was capped off with a touchdown run by junior quarterback shawn hall, giving the wildcats a 6-0 lead. 
howard was unable to an­swer back on the next drive, but good starting field posi­tion on its last drive of the half set the ducks’ offense up well. howard took ad­vantage with a touchdown pass from senior stephanie peterson to senior maria ianni, tying the game 6-6 at halftime. 
To start the second half, howard sustained a long drive that was eventually finished off with another touchdown from peterson to ianni, giving howard the 12-6 lead. on its next drive, ryan had a costly turnover as howard junior marissa browne nabbed a pick that set up yet another score from peterson to ianni. 
ryan was unable to make much of its next drive, turn­ing the ball over on downs and allowing howard to run 
see inTerhall PaGe 11 



