The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 41 | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Athletics transitions to free student tickets 
In order to boost attendance, students can get free tickets for men’s basketball and hockey on new online system 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer 
in response to low student attendance at games despite winning seasons, the notre dame athletics department announced all student tickets for men’s basketball and hock­ey will be free for the 2015-16 season. 
assistant director of athlet­ics brian pracht said the de­partment is hoping free tickets will draw more students to the games. 
“ ... the early results, based on the past couple days, have been unbelievable. so now, our hope is that the show rate for those students is going to be higher than it was in the past,” pracht said. 
pracht said that in the past, student ticket plans for basket­ball have been made available for purchase in the months leading up to the season. 
“men’s basketball had a sea­son pass, which we sold to pro­vide admission to all the home games. if tickets were still available on game day, students could still walk up to the box office and buy a ticket for the game that day,” pracht said. 
despite high ticket sales, however, many of these passes went unused during the regular season. 
“The challenge we were hav­ing is the low percentage of use 
see TicKeTs PAGE 4 

MICHAEL YU | The Observer 
The student section celebrates an Irish goal during a home game at Compton Family Ice Arena. In order to improve student attendance at home games, the atheltic department has made tickets free. 


Jenkins honored in ny 
Observer Staff Report 
university president fr. John Jenkins received the spirit of francis national award at the metropolitan club in new york on oct. 22, according to a university press release. Jenkins was honored “for his role in sup­porting and encouraging future leaders of the catholic church throughout his career at notre dame,” the release stated. 
The award was given by catholic extension, a national fundraising organization which support catholic dioceses throughout the united states, the release stated. catholic extension has partnered with the university on a variety of initiatives. 

“since its founding over a cen­tury ago, catholic extension has served the most isolated and poorest places in america, and now most ably under the lead­ership of its president, fr. Jack wall,” Jenkins said in the release. 
“notre dame is proud of its asso­ciation with catholic extension and honored to be recognized by so revered an organization.” 
according to the catholic exchange website, the award was established in 2014 to honor individuals and groups that have significantly aided the catholic church in the united states, “in the spirit of st. francis of assisi, pope francis, and the founder of catholic extension, fr. francis clement Kelley.” 



Talk explains physics of stars 
By SARAH CATE BAKER 
news writer 
professor and astro­physicist vini placco gave a lecture Tuesday on the chemical composition of stars and how scientists can determine it. 

The talk was the second in a new lecture series titled “our universe revealed.” according to the series’ homepage, the talks intend to “make physics accessible to all” by explaining EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 
Professor Vini Placco discusses how scientists study the chemical see universe PAGE 5 makeup of stars Tuesday night in Jordan Hall of Science. 




Student group runs bra drive 

By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
saint mary’s editor 
This week, saint mary’s women in healthcare hosted its inaugural bra drive as part of breast cancer awareness month. The group planned to hang the bras across the lake marian bridge in the cen­ter of campus to draw attention to women’s health. 
co-president of the club, alayna frauhiger, said saint mary’s women in healthcare is a stu­dent organization that serves as a resource for women interested in medical graduate programs. Throughout the year, it usually sponsors an alumnae panel for women interested in healthcare and provides academic support. 
frauhiger said she first heard of the “bras across the bridge” idea online through the feel 
see drive PAGE 4 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 fooTball PAGE 16 men’s Tennis PAGE 16 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green 
Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu,  wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 


What was your favorite childhood TV show? 

Allie Kroehler 

Maggie Pacana 
junior 
junior 
le mans hall 
holy cross hall 
“arthur.” 
“comfy couch.” 

Jasmine Salazar 

Marie Mastellone 
junior 
junior 
le mans hall 
le mans hall 
“cyberchase.” 
“full house.” 

Lauren Zyber 

Maureen Daday 
junior 
junior 
le mans hall 
le mans hall 
“Zoboomafoo.” 
“arthur.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 
margaret hynds renee griffin 


Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 



THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Jp gschwind ben padanilam megan valley alaina anderson 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
lauren weldon adam ramos 
Photo Viewpoint 

Food for Thought Mindful Meditation Labor Cafe Religion Seminar All Saints’ / All Souls’ 
caitlyn Jordan bianca almada 
Dalloway’s Clubhouse, Coleman-Morse Geddes Hall McKenna Hall Day Mass Saint Mary’s College Center 5 p.m.-6 p.m. 9 a.m.-12 p.m. Dillon Hall 8 a.m.-10 a.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. Explore social justice Discover links 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. 
Corrections 

Discuss possibilities Meditation practice for issues with the Higgins between religion and Spanish Mass and Day 
The observer regards itself as for education research. those of all faiths. Labor Program jazz in America. of the Dead celebration. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Guided Mindfulness Artist Lecture ND Women’s Soccer Saturday Vigil Mass Evening Vespers 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Meditation Riley Hall of Art and vs. Virginia Tech Basilica of the Sacred Basilica of the Sacred 
however, recognize that we will make 
Snite Museum of Art Design Alumni Stadium Heart Heart 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
4 p.m.-5 p.m. 7 p.m.-8:45 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 5 p.m.-6 p.m. 7:15 p.m.-8:15 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Engage in Thomas Berding will The Irish take on the Celebrate mass with Evening prayer in the 
we can correct our error. 

contemplation. discuss his exhibition. Hokies. fellow students. Lady Chapel. 

ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2015 | The observer 

Saint Mary’s student interns with acclaimed author 
By ALEX WINEGAR 
associate saint mary’s editor 
saint mary’s senior hannah drinkall interned this summer for a college 
alumna,  bestselling  au­ 
thor  and  director  adriana  
Trigiani,  class  of  1981.  

Trigiani released her new movie based on her novel, “big stone gap,” on oct. 9 and a new book titled “all the stars in the heavens,” on oct. 13. 
drinkall said working for Trigriani was a “dream come true.” 
“i got to see firsthand how a writer not only works day­to-day, but also how a writer works under highly stress­ful times,” she said. “This summer adri was preparing for two major releases in the fall ... both expected to come out in october, only a few days apart, and both she worked extremely hard on.” 
aside from directing the 1996 documentary film, “Queen of the big Time,” this was Trigiani’s first time 
“I got to see firsthand how a writer not only works day-to­day, but also how a writer works under highly stressful times.” 
Hannah Drinkall 
senior 
directing a movie for the big screen, drinkall said. Trigiani was a theater ma­jor when she was a student at saint mary’s. 
“i know she felt far too passionate about [‘big stone gap’] to not direct the movie,” she said. 
Trigiani has incorporat­ed saint mary’s values and the campus into her works, drinkall said. 
“in the novel, big stone gap, it is mentioned that the main character, ave maria, is an alum of saint mary’s,” she said. “as for the movie, from what i can tell, i think adri tries to reflect some smc values in ave maria’s character. for example, her latest book, that was re­leased on october 13, ‘all The stars in The heavens,’ features a prologue that describes the beauty of the saint mary’s campus. it is a really beautiful piece.” 
drinkall said she worked directly with Trigiani and her assistant, sarah, while learning what happens be­hind the scenes including social media, emails and book clubs. 
“adri’s fan base is incred­ible and she does so much for them, and i had so much fun sending out signed books all summer, corre­sponding in emails about book clubs and library vis­its, and maintaining the so­cial media accounts, which adri loves to always have updated,” she said. 
drinkall said there was al­ways something new for her to research during her in­ternship, and that Trigiani was more of a mentor than a boss. 
“adri was always ask­ing what i thought about an idea,” she said. “adri is never not working, even when’s she’s relaxing, her mind is always writing and that was amazing for me to see. i think that’s what a real writer is, an observ­er of everything, so you’re constantly writing in your mind. adri was the most generous, caring and help­ful mentor i could ask for. i say mentor because her role as ‘boss’ was so much more for me.” 
drinkall had the opportu­nity to be a part of the ed­iting process for Trigiani’s newly released book, “all the stars in the heavens.” drinkall said it was the first time in her life she felt truly successful and legitimately helpful in something other than school. 
“adri, sarah, and i sat to­gether for hours, reading the manuscript and pass­ing around the pages to each other in this awesome system we had mastered,” she said. “The red pencil in my right hand was shaking each time i saw a word that needed to be fixed, or when i had a suggestion of my own. i was nervous because who am i to make such deci­sions, but each time a page i had marked got around the circle to adri, she was al­ways pleased and admired my catches.” 

“from what i can tell, adri doesn’t do anything half-heartedly,” drinkall said. “she puts her all into each novel and works tire­lessly. she values the opin­ions of others and when it comes to editing her novel, she kindly incorporates her 
“Adri is never not working, even when she’s relaxing, her mind is always writing and that was amazing for me to see.” 
Hannah Drinkall 
senior 

team full on, such as her editor, her assistant sarah and me. i was so honored to help adri edit ‘all The stars in The heavens’ and couldn’t believe she val­ued my opinion so much. it was awesome. so i know it means the world to adri to make her novel come to life.” 
Trigiani’s movie “big stone gap” is in theaters now and she is currently on a book tour for “all the stars in the heavens.” 
Contact Alex Winegar at awine01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

smc holds first ever on-campus career fair 
By MEGAN UEKERT 
news writer 

wednesday afternoon from 2 p.m. to 6 p.m., saint mary’s will host its first ever on-campus career fair in rice commons. 
stacie Jeffirs, director of the career crossings office said wednesday’s fair would host the largest group of em­ployers the career crossings 
office had  ever  brought  
together  on  the  college’s  
campus.  

“we have employers from all different industries look­ing for full time, internship and summer opportunities,” she said. “The employers are nonprofit, for profit and from all different industries.” 
Jeffirs said the fair is open to all saint mary’s, holy cross and notre dame students and is intended for all majors and all class years. first-years are strongly encouraged to come to experience a professional setting, she said. 
Jeffirs stressed that stu­dents who had attended notre dame’s career fair earlier in the year should still consider attending this wednesday. 
“you should take advantage of all opportunities to meet with different employers, re­gardless of what time of year it is,” she said. “we wanted to have ours a little bit later in the semester to give stu­dents who didn’t go to notre dame’s fair another oppor­tunity. we wanted to do one that was a little bit smaller a little bit more focused on the employers who we have more relationships with. it is a smaller more intimate ca­reer fair. 
“i’m hoping that by hosting it at saint mary’s, it will feel a little less intimidating,” she said. “we also didn’t want to front load everything at the beginning of the year.” 
Jeffirs said that the saint mary’s career fair is meant to supplement — not replace 
— notre dame’s fall career expo. 
“we still have a really good relationship with the notre dame [fall career expo], and we will continue to pro­mote those opportunities,” she said. “we’ve been getting the requests from students to have our own career and internship fair, so this year we just said let’s make this happen. we decided to take a leap and do it and see what we can add on to it this year.” 
James stano, assistant di­rector of the careers crossings office, stressed that students should come to the career fair prepared and should research the organizations and com­panies extensively. 
he said one of the benefits of the college’s career fair is that it will provide a smaller forum for students to talk with potential employers. 
“you’ll be able to spent more time talking with employers,” he said. “part of saint mary’s institution is much more inti­mate in the work that we do. They won’t have as many peo­ple to remember.” 
Contact Megan Uekert at muekert01@saintmarys.edu 



board of Trustees elects new chairperson 
Observer Staff Report 
Editor’s note: A version of this story ran online Oct. 21. 
effective July 1, John J. brennan, chairman emeritus and former chief executive officer of the vanguard group, will serve as the chair of notre dame’s board of Trustees, according to a oct. 16 university press release. 
brennan, who was elected friday by the board of Trustees, has served on the board since 2009 and has also served as a fellow of the university, a 12-member group charged with electing Trustees, amending bylaws and “maintain­ing notre dame’s catholic charac­ter,” according to the release. 
university president fr. John Jenkins praised brennan’s prow­ess in the business world as well as his generosity. 
“as one of the nation’s most re­spected and trusted business lead­ers, Jack brennan’s advice is sought by everyone from heads of state to financial regulators,” Jenkins said in the press release. “his guidance and generosity have helped notre dame immeasurably since he joined the board in 2009. Jack suc­ceeds [richard] dick notebaert, who as chair presided over a 
Drive 
conTinued from page 1 
your boobies foundation; she brought the idea to other com­mittee members, and they de­cided to begin a new tradition. 
“i thought we could do [the bra chain] on a smaller scale since we are an all women’s campus, and it’s important to know the risk factors for breast cancer,” she said. 
The main idea behind the slo­gan “bras across the bridge” is that bras support women each day, and together women can support each other, frauhiger said. 
she said each bra will have 
“I thought we could do [the bra chain] on a smaller scale since we are an all women’s campus, and it’s important to know the risk factors for breast cancer.” 
Alayna Frauhiger 
co-president 
Saint Mary’s Women in 
Healthcare 
a pink ribbon pinned to it for breast cancer awareness. 
“it’s humbling, too, to see decade of tremendous advance­ment in notre dame’s facilities, benefaction, research capacity and international reach.” 

brennan, who attended darmouth college as an under­graduate and harvard business school, has had three children graduate from notre dame. he said the university has played an important role in his life. 
“from the first moment we stepped onto campus, we were taken with the mission of the university and the passion and quality of the people,” brennan said in the press release. “notre dame is an integral part of our family, and we consider that a tremendous gift. i’m honored to be selected by my fellow Trustees to chair the board of one of the world’s great institutions of higher learning and to follow an out­standing leader like dick in the role. 
according to the press release, brennan joined vanguard in July 1982. he served as the investment firm’s president beginning in 1989, ceo from 1996 through 2008 and as chairman of its board from 1998 to 2009, according to the press re­lease. he has also served on the boards of a number of non-profit and for-profit organizations. 
[the bras] up there, because it’s something we take for granted, because we wear bras each day, but some people have that taken away,” she said. 
The bras were hung in the student center atrium on Tuesday night due to rain, but frauhiger said the importance of hanging the bras from a bridge is really about awareness. 
after hanging the chain of bras, the club hosted a yoga class charging either $2 or bra dona­tion, frauhiger said. 
“we wanted to do something in october for breast cancer awareness, and we didn’t want to ask for money. so [our event] is really about awareness,” she said. 
some of the donations have come from people affected by breast cancer. she said that should be important to students, because women of all ages are being diagnosed with breast cancer. 
frauhiger said in addition to raising awareness, bras from the event will be donated to the local ywca. 
“students should want to be a part of something bigger,” she said. “it’s really about wom­en supporting other women, whether or not you know some­one affected by breast cancer or not.” 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hemse01@saintmarys.edu 
Tickets 
conTinued from page 1 

on those tickets we sold. so last year, we had probably about 30 percent use by those students who had purchased tickets,” he said. “now ob­viously that left a pretty big void. some of those games were full, some games it was less than 30 percent. That average was actually just 30 percent, so you can imagine those big swings in tickets that left those huge blocks of seats open.” 
The athletics marketing department faced a similar challenge with hockey as well. in past years, students could purchase season passes for hockey games to ensure tick­ets, or show up on game day and get a limited number of student tickets for free, pracht said. 
while this system worked well for the students, pracht said it created a challenge because more students relied on day-of tickets than season passes, so there was no way of knowing how many students were planning on attending the game on any given day. 
“sometimes we exceeded capacity and had to turn stu­dents away, which is not a great thing to do. other times, we had a bunch of empty seats that we could have, quite frankly, sold to the public, had we known that students weren’t going to use them for that particular night,” he said. 
he said the athletic de­partment’s ultimate goal was to create a system that would maximize student attendance. 
“our first and top priority has always been trying to get as many students in the door as possible, so that was always our goal. as we started hav­ing those meetings with focus groups, that really remained our central ideal,” pracht said. 
after several weeks of try­ing different ideas, the ath­letic department ultimately decided to eliminate the sea­son pass altogether and make tickets complimentary across the board for both sports. 
“but that only solved one of the problems,” pracht said. 
The other challenge the department faced lay in an­ticipating student attendance numbers, he said. 
“The athletic department was very willing to give up the season ticket revenue for the students to make [tick­ets] free, but we still needed to know — ‘are the students coming?’” he said. 
pracht said in order to have accurate estimates of attendance prior to games, students must claim their free tickets online roughly two weeks in advance of a block of games. 
“we decided to allow stu­dents to claim tickets on the website, so then they can re­quest those tickets, and then we can distribute those tick­ets electronically, which we’ve been doing anyway,” he said. “ ... we wanted to set these deadlines far enough out so that we could know, with some certainty, how many students were coming to each game. so we’re putting these games in blocks, and that gives us some time to figure out the demand for each game.” 
pracht said the numbers so far have been encouraging but that it would take several months for the department to see if and how well the system was working . 
“The demand is so much higher already that we feel re­ally good that ultimately, our new system is going to put more students in the student section, which was our goal,” he said. “we haven’t seen it in action yet, with the excep­tion of fall break, but the first games coming up, we’ll see if it’ll work out.” 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 



Universe 
conTinued from page 1 
phenomena of our universe in language that is easy to understand. placco’s talk focused on the phenomena of stars, and specifically, on what they are made of. 
“There are 20 billion tril­lion stars in the universe,” he said. “ … That’s roughly 10 thousand stars for every grain of sand on our planet. so when you think about our place in the universe and how big and how small the universe really is, think about that number.” 
placco said determining what exactly those stars are made of is difficult because they don’t give scientists much to work with. 
“The only piece of infor­mation we can get from stars is light,” he said. 
according to placco, nu­

ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2015 | The observer 
shines through as the light we see,” he said. “ … so the next part is, how do you de­termine the chemical com­position by analyzing only light?” 
To answer that question, physicists and astronomers use stellar spectroscopy — placco said this works exact­ly like a rainbow. 
“what’s happening [in a rainbow] is the white light from the sun comes and hits some water droplets, and we have reflections and refrac­tions and light phenome­non happening inside those droplets,” he said. “The light gets dispersed, and we see the different colors of light bend different ways and form this really nice rain­bow. … That’s exactly the principle we use in stellar spectroscopy to determine the chemical composition of stars.” 
except instead of using 



“What’s happening [in a rainbow] is the white light from the sun comes and hits some water droplets, and we have reflections and refractions and light phenomenon happening inside those 
droplets.”  
Vini Placco professor of physics  
clear reactions occurring in the center of stars convert hydrogen to helium, and re­lease energy as a by-product. “[That energy] interacts with the atmosphere and  water droplets, scientists use prisms inside of massive telescopes. according to placco, these prisms reflect the star’s light, and spe­cialized equipment inside  
paid adverTisemenT  

the telescope records the resulting rainbow as an ab­sorption spectrum. 
“There are some black spots [on the spectrum], and they are actually fin­gerprints of the chemical elements present in a star,” placco said. “so we know from physics and nuclear physics that each and every one of those black spots are traces of chemical elements. … if you are able to measure and identify which ones are which, we can actually de­termine the chemical com­position of the star.” 
The position of the spots on the spectrum can in­dicate what elements are present in a star, and the thickness of the spot can indicate each chemical’s abundance, according to placco. 
“That’s what we did for the sun, and that’s what we do for all the stars,” he said. 
placco said all the ele­ments in the periodic table are found in the sun. These elements aren’t generated by the sun itself, but rather they were created during supernovas, when massive stars explode. 
“most of the elements are newly formed in that ex­plosion, and when they are formed, they are just thrown into the interstellar media,” he said. “Then a gas cloud will come together and form the next generation of stars, like our sun.” 
placco ended his presen­tation with a quote from astrophysicist carl sagan: “for small creatures such as we, the vastness is bearable only through love.” 
“our universe revealed” lectures occur every oth­er Tuesday. The next talk will feature dr. daniela carollo on nov. 10, discuss­ing “galactic archeology: stellar fossils reveal the an­cient past of our universe.” 
Contact Sarah Cate Baker at sbaker6@nd.edu 


congress, obama reach budget deal 
off their complaints, declaring 
Associated Press 

that he intended to make good 
striving to end a cycle of crisis, on his promise to leave a “clean congressional leaders and the barn” for his successor, paul ryan white house united Tuesday be-of wisconsin, who is set to get the hind an ambitious budget and gop nomination for speaker on debt deal aimed at restoring a wednesday and win election on semblance of order to capitol hill the house floor the day after that. and ending the threat of govern-“i didn’t want him to walk into ment shutdowns and defaults un-a dirty barn full of you-know­til well after a new president takes what. so i’ve done my best to try office. to clean it up,” a good-humored 
The outgoing house speaker, boehner told reporters after a republican John boehner of closed-door gathering of house ohio, prepared to push the deal republicans, his last such weekly through his unruly chamber on meeting after nearly five years as wednesday as his last act before speaker and a quarter-century on departing congress at the end of capitol hill. the week. during the meeting, 
all but forced to resign under republican lawmakers had a conservative pressure, boehner parting gift for boehner: a golf was nonetheless going out on cart with ohio license plates his own terms. The budget deal reading “mr spKr”. stands as an in-your-face rebut-boehner told them he had a gift tal to his hardline antagonists, on in return: the budget deal. capitol hill and off, who angrily The deal would boost military oppose spending increases and spending as sought by defense compromises with democratic hawks, even as it would take president barack obama. away the threat of “fiscal cliffs” 
They seethed but acknowl-by a gop-led congress in the edged they were powerless to middle of a campaign season stop an agreement all but cer-where republicans are aiming tain to pass with votes from for the white house and trying democrats and a fair number of to hang onto their slim senate republicans. boehner brushed majority. 

Frienships past 
Nicole Caratas 
news writer 

week friendship is very strange. i’ve had countless best friends in my 19 years, and even after i learned that my ex-best friend wasn’t the nicest person around, i still find myself thinking about that time we were six years old, and we put a sprinkler under my trampoline and slid off on accident. 
or how my longest best friend’s mom is the only person who has ever given me a time­out because we put the Tv on louder than the “m” in volume when we weren’t supposed to, so we had to sit on opposite sides of the couch for 20 minutes instead of finishing that episode of barney. 
The other day, i was shopping in banana republic, and i got a facebook notification that said someone who was one of my best friends from age three to 12 had tagged me in a picture. i assumed she had gotten hacked and it was one of those “tag 12 people to win a new car” type deal, but i opened it anyway. what it actually said was, “do you remem­ber who your best friend was when you were ten years old? Tag them if you’re facebook friends.” 
so that was weird. i haven’t spoken to her since maybe junior year of high school, and even then we only talked about who our favorites were on that season of The glee project. we had friend-broken-up in middle school because i made new friends, and then realized my previous best friend was a dra­ma queen, to put it nicely. 
after that, i would always reflect on the way she embarrassed me in third grade by telling the boy i liked that i liked him, or how she did it again in sixth grade. with her clearly cut out of my life, i saw everything about her that was not very nice. but for some reason, after the initial confusion wore off, i was honestly happy to have been tagged in that picture. 
now, i’m remembering the time we were in the talent show in third grade, and how we were in it three times a year by the time we were in fifth grade. i remember how she introduced me to Tim burton and the games on yahoo’s homepage. she was the first per­son i went to the movies with without an adult. she taught me how to do eyeshadow when we were too young, and we even hit puberty (to put it nicely) within three days of each other. 
like i said, i’ve had a number of best friends, and i’ve definitely had a number of bad best friends. 
and now, i have really cool friends who are all genuinely good people. and if i ever befriend someone who is not that great of a person, i have years of experience and can easily identify that before i waste my time with the situation. 
but even with the worst people, i’ve made some pretty cool (and often embarrass­ing) memories that, with time, are great to remember. 
Contact Nicole Caratas at   ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Louis Bertolotti 
mr. 2016 

in response to my last column, associate professor of the romance languages and literatures department, ben heller, wrote a letter to the editor chiding The observer for “unconscionably” publishing the piece. i, however, be­lieve that it is “unconscionable” that he would even sug­gest this and find it insulting to our beautiful democracy which he claims to hold so dearly. 
The first amendment to the constitution of the united states avows that “congress shall make no law … abridg­ing the freedom of speech, or the press.” This declaration of right was put before all others for a reason. without free speech, america as we know her today could not exist. 
put simply, democracy could not survive without the freedom of speech. The idea of democracy is based upon the notion that political differences can be solved by the ballot rather than the bullet. while seemingly normal to most of us today, throughout the large majority of human history, “might made right.” The powerful got what they wanted while the weak were forced to abide by the rules set up by those in authority. 
Those in power would therefore fight to the death to hold onto their power and advance their own interests, knowing that any non-appointed successor would de­stroy all their efforts. There was no such thing as peace­ful conflict resolution or a peaceful turnover of power. democracy turned everything on its head by introducing a way to channel disagreements into the political pro­cess. This channeling became known as the freedom of speech. 
yet, there is today a dangerous movement on college campuses across the country that aims to eliminate this essential freedom of speech in order to “avoid offending anyone.” can you imagine what type of country we would live in today if our founders had decided not to write the declaration of independence in fear of “offending” the crown? or if franklin delano roosevelt had decided not to declare war on the germans so that he didn’t “offend” any german-americans? 
at many public universities across america, there are “designated free speech zones.” within these zones, and only within these zones, students are allowed to exercise their first amendment rights to free speech and to protest. you are only allowed to exercise this constitutional right, however, if the university approves of your actions and gives you a permit to do so. 
as one could guess, this leads to a number of terrifying repercussions. last month, a student group at penn state was approached by a police officer and told to “cease and desist” from one of these free-speech zones. Their crime? 
handing out copies of the constitution without a permit. The fun, of course, doesn’t stop there. last march, the university of california-irvine voted to stop the flying of the american flag in their main lobby. Their reasoning? old glory apparently represents “oppression,” “colonial­ism and imperialism.” They decided that any decoration that any student finds at all offensive would be removed from the lobby, so long as one student make the request. 
This trend of political correctness is one of the most threatening challenges to our democracy today. even barack obama said last month that students shouldn’t be “coddled and protected from different points of view.” he smartly argued that “you shouldn’t silence [people that disagree with you] by saying … ‘i’m too sensitive to hear what you have to say.’” Quite simply, that is not how we learn. 
Thankfully, notre dame seems to understand this and has been spared from much of the speech chilling that has developed as a result of this movement. our university has invited speakers from both sides of the aisle to speak and has allowed students to express them­selves through protest across campus. heller’s letter, how­ever, affirms that there is a branch of people on campus who subscribe to the irresponsible idea that all offensive speech should be prohibited. 
The fact of the matter is that america is not a conform­ist nation. conformity, whether to liberal or conservative principles, is not one of our ideals. we believe in the free expression of all of our citizens because we know that it is when all beliefs become a part of the marketplace of ideas that the best ones survive and improve our nation. 
The true exceptional nature of america’s marketplace of ideas is that it derives from a nation of immigrant stock. each generation seems to witness to a new wave of immi­grants from a new area of the world who bring with them their new ideas, customs and traditions. 
america is great not because we force these immigrants to conform to our own ideas, customs and traditions, but because we listen to the newcomers and merge their best ideas with our best ones to create an even better american culture. what is great is that the american melting pot is always brewing and always improving. This is because The observer, and newspapers like it, choose to publish controversial speech that may ruffle a few feathers. 
but hey, that’s just part of the beauty of democracy. 
Louis Bertolotti is a junior in the College of Arts and  Letters. He is majoring in poltiical science and                history and is from the great state of New Jersey. He can be contacted at lbertolo@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
make a difference: go trayless 
This Thursday, the Junior class council and greend will be partnering to bring the first Tray inconvenient day to notre dame’s dining halls as a part of make a difference week. universities across the country are shelving the trays in order to cut food waste, conserve water and save money. 
going trayless may be somewhat inconvenient, but it makes a difference immediately. The food we save will be donated to the south bend center for the homeless. cost savings can be reallocated to locally sourced produce, such as the berries we all love so much. 
The trayless trial will take place the entirety of Thursday (all three meals) at both north and south dining halls. Trays will be made available for students who personally require a tray in the rec room at north and at the oppo­site card swipe entrance in south dining hall. 
why does going trayless reduce waste? Trays allow stu­dents to take more food than they can realistically eat, creating a tendency to generate significant amounts of food waste. did you know we waste 1.2 tons of food daily? 
why should we care about food waste? food produc­tion takes 20 percent of our land, 4 percent of our energy and 25 percent of our water. after the plates are cleared, the food in the trash must be hauled to a landfill, costing more land and energy, where it ultimately breaks down into methane, a highly potent greenhouse gas. 
by going trayless, notre dame could save 768 pounds of food and 70 gallons of water every single day, as well as reduce food costs by approximately 5 percent (based on a study by the Journal of hunger and environmental nutrition, which projects that eliminating trays from university dining facilities reduces food waste by 32 per­cent and water usage by 27 percent, and by food services estimates). 
we thank the notre dame community for their willing­ness to join our effort to have a positive impact. 
Eva Niklinska 
president Junior class council 
Tessa Clarizio 
president greend 

dancing in the dark 
Ray Ramirez 
The crooked path 
“everything takes time. bees have to move very fast to stay still.” —david foster wallace 
work-study was a great way for me to supplement my student income and an opportunity to work close­ly with memorable faculty and staff at notre dame. my first assignment was assisting dr. harald esch. if you are not familiar with the work of esch, it is my extreme pleasure to introduce him and his work with honey bees. 
as a teacher and faculty member, esch has a great reputation. he is a past recipient of the shilts/leonard Teaching award, given annually to a faculty member of the college of science selected by a committee of former awardees for overall excellence in teaching. The award is named in part for the late fr. James shilts, who taught physics and astronomy and left hundreds of students with an appreciation for the (ap­parent) retrograde motion of mars. 
most of my work for esch was not glamorous, and i was never asked to retrieve brains or send kites into electrical storms in attempts to re-animate the dead. Typically i helped to clean animal cages and set up experiments, most of which involved running small animals through a maze or keeping large tanks of fish available for observation. 
while preparing mississippi mud turtles for reac­tion tests, i picked up what i initially thought were leaves sticking on my hands — though these turned out to be leeches, which hastened my decision to switch majors from biology to english. i just got a “willies” flashback. 
his experiments “on the wall-seeking behavior of small rodents” still come to mind every time i see occupants of an elevator align themselves along the sides of the traveling cube. 
esch was already something of a science rockstar when i worked for him, based primarily on his follow­up on the research of Karl von frisch into the com­munication of food sources by scout bees to the rest of the hive. 
von frisch had determined that bees communicate through a series of “dances” consisting of circular movements and wiggles and waggles, combined in a way that tell the bees in the hive there is food, in which direction it is and how distant it is. you are probably familiar with von frisch’s work as reflected in a series of iconic biology-textbook illustrations showing bees dancing on a well-lit diagram of circles and squiggles. 
von frisch’s theory of bee communication was not questioned until esch and some colleagues asked a simple, but now obvious, question: how were the bees able to see the dance inside of the darkened hive? esch and other researchers learned that bees recog­nized the dance of the scout bee by hearing and sens­ing the dance in the dark. vital information could be communicated through vibrations. 
esch specifically wanted to know how the bees were able to judge distances between the hive and the food source and communicate that in a meaningful way (well, to other bees). bees have compound eyes, and esch guessed that they were able to judge distances by the flickering motions caused by vegetation and ter­rain reflected into their eyes as they flew. 
This “flicker effect” served as a proxy for knowledge of actual distances: the bees did not communicate “50 feet to the flowers,” but rather “50 flickers to the flowers.” it was the number (and perhaps intensity) of flickers that the dance conveyed. 
To test this theory, dr. esch set up tubes marked with vertical stripes for the bees to fly through, and the bees reported distances based on the width and frequency of the stripes rather than the actual mea­sured distance. not only had esch determined how bees relayed data on distance, but he could feed bees misinformation and control their actions. 
as i recall, esch is a good man, and i am fairly confi­dent he will not use this knowledge to unleash his bee army on the world. 
esch had more secrets of bee language to pry from these cagey little hoarders and investigated whether dancers produce scents distinct from non-dancing bees. he found that dancers produce four unique hydrocarbon-based chemicals. reproducible in the lab, these scents were blown into hives and increased foraging behavior. 
as in their human counterparts, dancing bees pro­duce scents that affect the behavior of their fellow for­agers; perhaps in the case of humans, to move as far away from the scent-producing dancers as possible. 
researchers also recently demonstrated that bees seek the buzz offered by caffeine-laced nectar, which amps up their dancing — so much that they tend to overestimate the quality of the food source. social animals have a lot in common. 
esch’s discoveries are still inspiring researchers. a recent paper in bee culture magazine (seriously) titled “waggle-dancing bees emit body odors: new evidence of an important role for scent in bee foraging communication” reports additional odor cues, citing esch as one of the leaders in the field. 
his entire career has been marked by a willingness to recognize the efforts of his predecessors, patiently toil on new ideas and ask questions that challenge orthodoxy; to see through the darkness and ask, what might be? 
so consider the bee when you need to simply shut up and dance. 
Ray Ramirez is an attorney practicing, yet never perfecting, law in Texas while waiting patiently for a MacArthur Genius Grant. You may contact him at  patrayram@sbcglobal.net 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Join the bipartisan debate watch 
The third republican presidential primary debate airs wednesday night on cnbc. entitled “your money, your vote,” it will pit the gop hopefuls (who meet the three percent polling threshold) against one another. The candidates who failed to meet this threshold will debate in the junior varsity pregame at 6pm. 
we in college democrats are excited because we watch these debates just as attentively as we do our own debates. we readily agree that the united states needs republicans. we needed them in congress just this week to, in speaker John boehner’s words, “[clean] out the barn” and pass a federal bud­get. moving forward, we need the cooperation of republicans in both houses of congress if we are ever going to meaningfully address our most pressing na­tional problems. 
in the past few years we have needed this same bipartisanship to be able to host various events on campus. we face certain restrictions on sponsoring partisan events, which are understandable but can sometimes make things difficult. all political clubs on campus can attest that it is often challenging to get the enthusiasm and agreement needed to co-sponsor events. 
we have learned in three years as college democrats officers that it is impossible to make other clubs receptive to bipartisan events if they simply have no interest in being involved. The most we can do is extend an invitation and wait. but we know that it is worth it, because our successful partnerships with clubs that do not necessarily share views with all of our members (such as right to life and bridgend) has been our most gratifying work as officers. 
as such, it is with great excitement that college democrats can promote a debate watch at 7:45 p.m. with the college republicans, bridgend and the Knights of columbus patriotic committee. we feel so strongly about bipartisanship because it allows us to strengthen and explore our own convictions. 
coming to notre dame from more uniformly liberal hometowns was an unexpected ideological bootcamp for both of us. we quickly found ourselves explaining our opinions on topics that were rarely challenged back home. it caused us to question our beliefs and our reasons for them, and we are all the better for it. 
so please, make use of the political diversity of notre dame and come watch the debate with us in the Knights of columbus building. There’s a conversa­tion to be had here, and it’s much more fun with two sides. 
if that’s not enough incentive, the Knights of columbus are graciously catering the event with food from J.w. chen’s. feel free to come talk to us. you will probably find us near the garlic chicken. 
Christa Watkins 
co-president college democrats 
Andrew Galo 
secretary college democrats 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By  ROBERT WOZNIAC 
scene writer 

obsessions are the new obsession. as pop culture continues to control much of the media and capture the atten­tion of the nation, it has become com­mon practice to be a part of a cultural obsession revolving around an item or, more often, another human being. as strange as it sounds, a majority of the “obsessors” have never met nor made eye contact with the person they’re obsessing over. but don’t think for a second that this would stop them from creating countless fan pages, starting fake social media accounts and legiti­mately dedicating their every ounce of being to someone they will never speak a word to in their (slightly sad) lives. as we live in an age where someone like Kylie Jenner can paint her nails a dif­ferent color and have 35 different ar­ticles written about going from dark to light purple, it is clear that our nation 
By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
scene writer 

“sad bastard music” is how Julien baker has taken to referring to her song­writing, at least somewhat jokingly, in recent interviews. it’s an apt descrip­tion of the 20-year-old singer-songwrit­er’s stunning debut, “sprained ankle,” an album about coping with sadness in its various permutations. baker’s songs 
— about addiction, loneliness, heart­break, mortality — are emotionally ar­resting; they grab you by the neck and force you to feel something. 
baker has been writing songs since ju­nior high and became immersed in the memphis music scene in high school with her band, forrister. when she went off to school at middle Tennessee state university, though, she found herself missing her bandmates and began writ­ing songs alone in the practice room of her school’s music building. The result of those late-night songwriting sessions is “sprained ankle,” an album that falls in the lineage of bon iver’s “for emma, forever ago,” waxahatchee’s “american weekend” and Torres’ self-titled lp — confessional, emotionally is absolutely and utterly obsessed with famous people. 
despite the openness and “hones­ty” that the nation witnesses when it comes two the lives of the Kardashian-Jenner clan (who recently released a series of wildly successful individual apps revolving around the ridiculously luxurious lives of each sister), there has been a drastic change of public inter­est. ambiguity is the new black, and ob­scurity has blatantly come into fashion. with stars like beyoncé, rihanna and lana del rey dominating the music in­dustry while perplexing fans with their mysterious personas, cryptic mes­sages and lack of explanations when it comes to anything and everything, it is obvious that we have fallen in love with people we will absolutely never understand. 
beyoncé flawlessly fronted the september issue of vogue, and rihanna just made the epic cover of The fader’s 100th issue — but there’s a catch: 
direct debuts that emerged from an art­ist in solitude. 
most of the album is just baker’s voice, which oscillates between quiet restraint and a powerful wail depend­ing on what the song calls for, and her electric guitar, drenched in reverb and delay. with these two instruments, she constructs a self-contained universe, expansive in sound even as its subject matter is inward-looking. baker record­ed her album at matthew e. white’s spacebomb studio, where natalie prass laid down her equally impres­sive debut. while the sparse “sprained ankle” is miles away from the lush in­strumentation of prass’ album, it is in some ways similarly hi-fi: you can hear every quiver, every crack, every hint of emotion in baker’s voice. 
baker employs this intimacy to devas­tating effect when she mines the depths of the human psyche, the self-loathing and despair that emerge in one’s loneli­est moments. “i’m a pile of filthy wreck­age you will wish you’d never touched,” she cries out on “everybody does.” on “good news:” “i ruin everything i think could be good news.” “give me everything good, i’ll throw it away,” she neither of the superstars gave an inter­view to the publications putting them on the covers of their own magazines; neither of the superstars even answered questions through e-mail. no skyping. no phone calls. no actual quotations. nothing. however, both magazines were unsurprisingly some of the most popular of the year. both women pub­licly refuse to make statements about their lives, yet they have renowned publications literally begging to write all about them. 
beyoncé’s latest platinum album was dropped overnight and unannounced, and rihanna has given a very mini­mal amount of information regarding her upcoming eighth studio record, “anTi.” The only information we have the capability of knowing about them, comes from a few enigmatic instagram photos every now and them. even so, they continue to set trends, sell out enormous arenas across the globe and have millions upon millions of fans and 
sings on “rejoice,” her voice rising to no more than a whisper. 
yet, despite confronting the darkness within, “sprained ankle” is ultimately an album about resilience. The gor­geous title track is a particularly deft meditation on this theme, masterfully chronicling the journey towards ca­tharsis in relatively few words. it opens with baker declaring, “wish i could write songs about anything other than death.” by the end, however, she’s sing­ing plaintively, “marathon running, my ankles are sprained.” it’s a simple meta­phor, but an effective one: you can’t al­low sprained ankles to be a debilitating injury if you’re going to cross the finish line after 26.2 miles. 
This resilience in the face of pain is linked with the search for spirituality, as on “rejoice,” which is the most ex­plicitly about faith. it begins as a nar­rative of adolescent ennui, of “walking around, jumping the train tracks.” after wandering around a suburban park at night, baker finally arrives at a conclusion: “i think there’s a god and he hears either way / when i rejoice and complain.” baker repeats those lines twice, first in hushed tones and followers. 
Then there’s the ethereal lana del rey. although she tends to give the oc­casional interview, she might as well say nothing. she lives in her own world that no one has the ability to understand. some who have worked with her have made claims that she is not even made for this earth. her unique and mysteri­ous artistry creates a shield around her equivocal yet iconic persona. and, of no surprise, people are obsessed with her. 
so, what has ultimately created our culture and driven the people of the united states to become so obsessed with what they cannot and will not understand? This question will most likely never be answered, as it seems ordinary people have become just as unpredictable as the perplexing stars they’re constantly obsessing over. but hey, everyone loves a good mystery. 
Contact Robert Wozniac at                     rwozniak@nd.edu 
then verging on screaming — one of the most affecting moments on an album full of them. 
“i don’t want to dwell on negativ­ity, but you have to confront it,” baker explained in a interview with vulture. “Through writing this record, i came to terms with a lot of the fear and self-hatred and loneliness that i needed to.” again and again on “sprained ankle,” baker renders these emotions in dev­astating clarity, making for one of the most affecting, assured debuts in re­cent memory. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at                  mmunhall@nd.edu 
“Sprained Ankle” 
Julien Baker 
Label: 6131 Records 
Tracks: “Blacktop,” “Sprained Ankle,” “Rejoice” 
If you like: Bon Iver, Waxahatchee, Torres 


Lauren Weldon | The Observer 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

LAUREN WELDON | The Observer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

a tribute to al golden 
Ryan Klaus 
sports writer 
miami fired its head coach, al golden, this past weekend following a woe­fully lopsided 58-0 loss to clemson saturday. 
There had been a sense around the miami program all season that golden’s ten­ure would soon come to an end. from the hurricanes’ first loss in early october, miami fans have not held back in publicly demon­strating their disapproval of golden and desire that the university fire him. This frustration has been per­haps epitomized best by the flying of anti-golden ban­ners behind planes during home games. 
former players of the once-elite program have also been unafraid of voicing their displeasures with golden in recent weeks: in particular, hall of famer warren sapp and former offensive line­man bryant mcKinnie (among others) were very critical of golden on social media during saturday’s game. 
given the 58-0 score, the “fire golden” banners around the stadium were admittedly the most entertaining portion of the game saturday, but i am here to defend golden — at least to an extent. it is hard to ignore embarrassments like saturday’s defeat (especially given the fact that many had thought miami could upset the Tigers), but all the anti-golden propaganda that has made him a marked man seems too critical for a coach that has been up against un­fair standards ever since his arrival. 
golden was hired from Temple in late 2010 after turn­ing around their program. he was immediately met with disadvantageous conditions at miami when the nevin shapiro scandal became pub­lic at the end of golden’s first season. The scandal caused miami to, in fear of worsen­ing their eventual penalty from the ncaa, voluntarily withdraw from bowl con­sideration for golden’s first two seasons. The ncaa ulti­mately decided to expropriate nine scholarships from the hurricanes for the 2014-2016 seasons. 
so, in defense of golden, miami was far from an opti­mal setting for a coach to have success throughout his tenure there. moreover, amidst the scandal, golden did make some valuable contributions to the program. recruiting statistically improved slightly during the golden era, which is particularly impressive given how difficult it can be to recruit as a coach when schol­arships are being confiscated and there is uncertainty sur­rounding postseason eligibil­ity. also, for possibly the first time in the history of miami, academics were emphasized under golden. 
To clarify, it is still com­pletely understandable that miami parted ways with golden. golden’s performance on the field was undeniably middling, which is usually not good enough for job se­curity in a position that pays handsomely. a 58-0 blowout to a conference foe in which clemson’s third-string quar­terback scored 14 more points than miami’s entire team also undoubtedly highlighted the need for changes to be made within the program. 
if i were a miami fan, i too would have advocated exces­sively for golden’s firing over the past several weeks, but this would have been caused by the delusion that miami was as elite now as it was at the beginning of this century. however, the truth is that miami is no longer an elite program in college football; this had been the case for at least a half-decade before golden was even hired. so, while i agree that miami can potentially do better in the coaching department, miami fans and alumni should prob­ably temper expectations and criticisms for their next hire, especially if he is forced to en­counter tumultuous circum­stances similar to those that golden faced. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NCAA FOOTBALL 

Purdue eager to benefit from bye week 
Associated Press 

wesT lafayeTTe, ind.— purdue had an entire week off to contemplate what’s gone wrong this season. The next step is doing something about it with a trip to nebraska com­ing on saturday. 
The boilermakers (1-6, 0-3 big Ten) have lost nine con­secutive conference games and five in a row since defeat­ing indiana state on sept. 12. 
purdue fans have taken to social media and radio talk shows to voice their displea­sure with third-year coach darrell hazell’s 5-26 record, 1-18 in the big Ten without a conference victory in ross­ade stadium. 
yet hazell said his players are staying the course, clos­ing ranks while continuing to pursue an elusive big Ten victory. he said he liked what he saw when the team met sunday night after being giv­en a couple of days off during the bye week. 
“There was a tremendous energy in the building on sunday as we met for the first time after the break and had a little workout,” hazell said Tuesday. “The guys are ready to go and get back into game mode against nebraska (3-5, 1-3).” 
after wisconsin defeated purdue 24-7 on oct. 17 in madison, hazell viewed the bye week as a good thing as the boilermakers attempted to solve offensive and defen­sive issues. 
“There comes a time to step back and really take a hard look and take a deep breath and refresh your mind and your body,” hazell said. “where we were coming into the bye week, i think it was good for us to get away. i know it was good for me.” 
after playing well in his first college start on sept. 26 against bowling green, red-shirt freshman quarterback david blough has struggled in big Ten losses to michigan state, minnesota and wisconsin, completing only 51 of 106 passes (48.1 percent) for 479 yards with two touch­downs and four interceptions in league play. 
blough said he is disap­pointed but he and his team­mates are excited about the five remaining games, three of which will be played at home. 
“you would’ve never thought after seven games that we would be sitting here at 1-6,” blough said. “you get punched in the mouth, you’ve got to get up and keep swinging. That’s the mindset and mentality we have to at­tack nebraska with.” 
hazell has seen no sign of a team ready to simply go through the motions during the final five games. 
“we have a close-knit group of guys in our locker room, and they haven’t wavered from this,” hazell said. “obviously when you are not as success­ful in the win/loss column, there are always guys that think they should be playing to help the team. That’s nor­mal everywhere you go. 
“but in terms of cohesion within the locker room, sup­porting each owther and working at the high level they have continued to work at, it’s still there.” 
hazell said the boilermakers were “decom­pressing” during the bye week, stepping back from the game week grind, focusing on fundamentals and start­ing to prepare for a nebraska team that has lost five times by a total of 13 points. 
“you need to get a rest and drop your shoulders a little bit,” hazell said. “i think that probably is the biggest thing.” 
nebraska defeated purdue 44-7 in 2013 in west lafayette and 35-14 in 2014 in lincoln. 
U.S. WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Obama honors US women’s soccer team 
Associated Press 

washingTon — president barack obama welcomed the u.s. women’s 2015 world cup champion soccer team to the white house Tuesday, saying the team’s victory with class, excitement and style inspired the whole country. 
“They’ve inspired millions of girls to dream bigger and, by the way, inspired mil­lions of boys to look at girls differently, which is just as important,” obama said. 
The u.s. defeated Japan 5-2 during the final to col­lect the top prize in women’s soccer for the first time in 16 years. obama said his 

FOR SALE 

Executive family home in the coun­try on 10 acres ¿ finished pole barn 
youngest daughter sasha was able to cheer on the team when she attended the game with vice president Joe biden and his granddaugh­ter maisy. 
“This team taught all america’s children that play­ing like a girl means you’re a badass,” obama said, to applause in the white house east room. “perhaps i shouldn’t have used that phrase. playing like a girl means being the best.” 
obama singled out mid­fielder carli lloyd, who was named the tournament’s most valuable player after scoring three goals in the fi­nal. he noted that lloyd’s ti­tle on wikipedia was jokingly changed during the game to president of the united states, a job obama said “is about to open up.” 
“what’s another candidate in the mix,” obama said. dinging the 2016 republican presidential field, he added, “i guarantee carli knows more about being presi­dent than some of the folks running.” 
obama also lauded the team for launching the “she believes” initiative to en­courage young fans to be­lieve in themselves. The team presented obama with a soccer jersey that included his name and the number 44 on the back, before taking a selfie with the president. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 

¿ 5 bed 3 ½ bath Edwardsburg schools ¿ 68620 Leet Rd. Niles, MI High School Geometry tutor. 269-684-0885 $354,900 Flewxible hours. Call 574-360-6910 

ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2015 | The observer 

NHL | panThers 4, avalanche 1 
Offense propels Panthers to win 
Associated Press 
sunrise, fla. — vincent Trocheck had two goals and an assist to help roberto luongo win his 404th game and lift the florida panthers to a 4-1 
victory over the  colorado  
avalanche  on  Tuesday  
night.  

brian campbell added a goal and two assists and reilly smith also had a goal and an assist. luongo made 31 saves to pass grant fuhr for sole possession of ninth all-time on the wins list. 
The panthers won their second straight game. 
gabriel landeskog scored a goal and reto berra stopped 24 shots for the avalanche, who have lost four straight games. 
Trocheck’s second power-play goal at 2:56 of the third extended the panthers lead to 2-0. Trocheck took a pass from dmitry Kulikov in the left circle and his one-timer went off the stick of berra and inside the post. 

smith stretched the panthers lead to 3-0 on the power-play with 10:11 left in the third. smith’s shot from the left circle got past berra on the stick side. 
campbell’s short-handed goal at 14:02 of the third made the score 4-0. 
landeskog scored with 

56.7 seconds left to deny luongo the shutout. 
Trocheck gave the panthers a 1-0 lead on his first power-play goal at 
19:40 of the first. Trocheck skated in from the colorado zone and his wrist shot from the right circle got in­side the far post on berra’s stick side. 
Jaromir Jagr left the game with about two minutes left in the first period with a lower-body injury and did not return. The 43-year-old Jagr is the panthers leading scorer with six goals and 10 points. 


NCAA FOOTBALL 

michigan focuses on fundamentals after recent loss 
Associated Press 

milwauKee — given an opportunity to stew during a bye week following their stunning loss to michigan state, the michigan wolverines instead went back to basics. 
no sign of a team-wide hangover at the big house, at least to coach Jim harbaugh. 
first, harbaugh had his team run through what he described as a train­ing camp-like practice last week. The next day, he ran drills as if it were spring practice. The wolverines took a few days off and re­turned on sunday to begin preparations for this week­end’s game at minnesota. 
“i  was  really  inspired  
actually,”  harbaugh  said  
Tuesday.  “we’re  mentally  

sharp. physically, didn’t show any signs of rust.” 
now those sharp practice performances must carry over to saturday and the trip to minnesota to reclaim the little brown Jug. The golden gophers claimed possession last year with a 30-14 win in ann arbor. 
The trophy game is the highlight of this week’s con­ference schedule. 
“we’ll fight awfully hard to do our best and keep it in the state of michigan, but it will be a challenge,” minnesota associate head coach Tracy claeys. 
oops, that’s not what he meant. 
“i mean in the state of minnesota. sorry about that,” said claeys, who filled in for head coach Jerry Kill on the big Ten coaches’ call. 
all will be forgiven in minnesota if the gophers, who are also coming off a bye, can hang on to the jug. 
michigan is the only big Ten team this week that can win its sixth game to get to bowl eligibility and join ohio state, michigan state, iowa, wisconsin, northwestern and penn state among post­season-bound schools. 
minnesota is two wins away but faces a three-week gauntlet that also includes back-to-back trips to face the buckeyes and hawkeyes. 
getting off to better starts would help. minnesota has been outscored 47-10 in first quarters this season. 
wisconsin has weathered its own injury woes to stay near the top of the west divi­sion. The offense, especially, has been battered with inju­ries to running back corey clement (sports hernia) and several offensive lineman 
The badgers added two more key players to the list 
with  starting  center  dan  
voltz  (knee)  out  for  the  
year  and  receiver  robert  

wheelwright (leg) out indef­initely after getting hurt in the 24-13 win last week over illinois. 
“certainly you want all your guys, and you do devel­op consistency,” coach paul chryst said. “and yet you’ve got to focus on the things that you can control.” 
That means the nev­er-ending task of getting backups ready for more responsibilities. 
at least chryst appears confident that starting quarterback Joel stave will practice this week. stave was going to through the concussion protocol after getting knocked out of the illinois game. 
Bye weeks 

ohio state, michigan state, northwestern and indiana are off this week­end. ... spartans coach mark dantonio’s plans for his team’s bye week included no padded practices. he said he was dialing the contact down with his team dealing with injuries. “we need to be fresh going into november,” he said. ... iowa coach Kirk ferentz took a similar ap­proach for his team’s bye last week. “certainly the least amount of contact in 16-plus years being back,” said ferentz, referring to his hawkeyes tenure. 
Headed home 

The illini travel to penn state on saturday in what will amount to a homecom­ing game of sorts for illinois interim coach bill cubit. he is from the philadelphia sub­urb of sharon hill. cubit’s resume also included a suc­cessful five-year stint as head coach at division iii widener in southeastern pennsylvania. 
Sore Illini 

cubit said that junior Te Tyler white would miss the rest of the year a torn acl, the third such injury of his career. running back Josh ferguson (right shoulder) appeared likely to miss a third straight game. “i would put him at very, very doubt­ful at best,” cubit said. 
NHL | blue JacKeTs 3, devils 1 
Jenner, Atkinson score late to lead Columbus to victory 
Associated Press 

newarK, n.J. — boone Jenner and cam atkinson scored 35 seconds apart in the third period and sergei bobrovsky made 23 saves to lead the columbus blue Jackets to a 3-1 victory over new Jersey on Tuesday night, snapping the devils’ fourth-game winning streak. 
scott hartnell added an unassisted goal later in the period as the blue Jackets won their second straight game under new coach John Tortorella despite having only 14 shots. 
bobrovsky lost his shutout with 2:28 to play when Kyle palmieri scored on a power-play rebound. 
Jenner snapped a score­less tie at 9:03 of the final period after a puck hit off former devil david clarkson in front. The center got the deflection and fired the puck past a defenseless cory schneider for his sixth goal of the season and third in the last two games. 
atkinson doubled the lead after the blue Jackets forced a turnover deep in the devils zone. brandon dubinsky took a pass from hartnell and found atkinson alone in front for his second goal of the season. 
schneider finished with 11 saves. 
new Jersey had the bet­ter of the play earlier in the period and Tortorella called a time out after a de­flection in front by Jacob Josefson got past bobrovsky and inched toward the goal before he spun around and used his paddle to clear the puck. 
defenseman eric gelinas hit a goal post after the time out but suddenly columbus found its scoring touch. 
The four-game winning streak matched the devils’ longest of last season. 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING | fgcu 158, nd 104 
nd drops first meet with fgcu 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame fell to no. 29 florida gulf coast in their first road meet of the season friday. The meet was held in fort myers, florida. 
The irish lost to florida gulf coast by a score of 158 to 104, but notre dame did have three individuals with first-place finishes. freshman ella moynihan won the 200-yard freestyle with a time of 1:50.19 and the 500-yard freestyle with a time of 4:57.06, and senior catherine galletti placed first in the 100-yard fly with a time of 55.02. 
among the individual swimmers for the eagles who won their events were soph­omore yee ching wong, who won the 200-yard butterfly with a time of 2:02.19, fresh­man Katie latham, who won the 50-freestyle with a time of 23.03, and freshman elise haan, who finished in first in the 100-yard backstroke with a final time of 54.41. senior lani cabrera also won the 1000-yard freestyle for florida gulf coast, finishing with a time of 10:11.92. 
in addition to friday’s road meet, the irish made the most of a week off of school by training at florida gulf coast ahead of the meet at the break’s end. 
notre dame will return to action this friday for their second home compe­tition of the season, host­ing michigan state at rolf’s aquatic center. The event is set to begin at 5 p.m. friday evening. 

NBA | bulls 97, cavaliers 95 
Bulls top Cavs in season opener 
Associated Press 
chicago — nikola mirotic scored 19 points and derrick rose added 18 to lead the chicago bulls to a season-opening 97-95 vic­tory over lebron James and the cleveland cavaliers with president barack obama watching on Tuesday night. 
pau gasol blocked a poten­tial tying layup by James in the closing seconds. Jimmy butler then broke up an inbounds pass intended for James as time expired. 
The president sat courtside for most of the game as his beloved bulls knocked off the defending eastern conference champions and gave coach fred hoiberg a narrow win in his first game. 
James scored 25 points and grabbed 10 rebounds for cleveland, but the cavaliers came up short against the team they knocked out in the conference semifinals last season. 
The bulls, playing a more open offense with hoiberg than they did under Tom Thibodeau, did not exactly light it up. but they came away with a promising win. 
rose, playing with a mask to protect his fractured left orbital, shot just 8 of 22 af­ter missing almost the entire preseason. 
mirotic nailed three 3-point­ers and came up big down the stretch. 
butler added 17 points and two steals to go with that de­flected pass for chicago. 

The cavaliers got 19 points and seven assists from mo williams, filling in while Kyrie irving recovers from a frac­tured left kneecap. Kevin love added 18 points and eight rebounds. 
The cavaliers took an 83-82 lead on a floater by James with 
5:32 left in the game. 

mirotic immediately con­verted a three-point play af­ter getting fouled by Tristan Thompson on a baseline float­er. That started an 11-2 run that put chicago back on top 93-85 with 2:42 left. 
but just when it looked like the lead was safe, the cavaliers came roaring back again. 
love nailed back-to-back 3-pointers to make it 97-95 with 33 seconds remaining. after a miss by rose with 10 seconds remaining, a driving James got stuffed by gasol. 
The ball bounced out along the baseline, and butler broke up the inbounds, preserving a tight victory for chicago. 
obama, in his hometown to speak to the international association of chief of police and attend a democratic fun­draiser, had not sat court-side to watch the bulls since they visited the washington wizards in february 2009. 
but with his favorite team taking on the best player on the planet in a rematch of last season’s second round, obama decided to take in this game. 
NHL | sTars 4, ducKs 3 

Roussel’s late goal propels Stars to victory over Ducks 
Associated Press 

dallas — antoine roussel scored with 1:28 to play, rallying the dallas stars to a 4-3 victory over the anaheim ducks on Tuesday night. 
patrick sharp, cody eakin and John Klingberg scored in the second period to tie the score after falling be­hind 3-0. antti niemi had 17 saves to help dallas im­prove to 7-2. 
nhl scoring leader Jamie benn had three assists for the stars, giving the 2014-15 art ross Trophy winner 15 points this season. 
mike santorelli, shawn horcoff and carl hagelin all scored in the final 5:16 of the first period. frederick andersen finished with 30 saves, including 15 in the third period when the ducks were outshot 16-2. 
anaheim, which has lost eight of its first nine games (1-6-2), came in with just six goals in the opening eight games. 
roussel’s first goal the season came on the re­bound of vernon fiddler’s shot off the pads andersen 
defense dominated the first period until the ducks had their first power-play opportunity. midway through it, with 5:16 left, cam fowler passed to santorelli, who sent a snap shot from the top of the left faceoff circle past niemi. 
anaheim had only one goal in the first 22 power plays. dallas had killed all 15 penalties in the six pre­vious games. 
The teams were at even strength when niemi and defenseman Johnny oduya both went after andrew cogliano to the right of the net. he passed back in front to horcoff, who had an open net for his first goal since last season when he played for dallas. 
Just 14 seconds lat­er, niemi played a loose puck behind the net, alex goligoski gave it up and corey perry passed out to hagelin for the third goal with 50 seconds to go. 
anaheim outshot  dallas  
9-6 in the first.  
sharp,  acquired  from  

chicago during the off­season, scored his first for dallas on the power play at 7:30 of the second. benn passed out to sharp in the 
paid adverTisemenT 

slot, and he sent a snap shot past andersen into the low­er left corner. 
eakin scored a short­handed goal, taking a back­hand pass from benn at the edge of the left circle and firing a wrist shot into the net with about 4 1/2 min­utes to go. Klingberg’s tying goal came about 90 seconds later, when he took a pass from Tyler seguin in front of the net and beat andersen. 
Notes 

ducks captain ryan getzlaf flew back to california, where he is scheduled for a non-emer­gency appendectomy on wednesday. he is expect­ed to be out 4 to 12 days. ... andersen entered the game with an 0-3-2 record despite a 1.71 goals-against average. anaheim scored only one goal in his first five starts. ... santorelli became the first ducks player with two goals this season, and perry the first with two assists. ... dallas entered the game with the nhl’s third-best power play, with a 30 per­cent success rate. ... eakin’s goal was the stars’ first short-handed score. 


ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2015 | The observer 

trouble 25-17. The irish pre-
Volleyball 
vented the sweep by win­
conTinued from page 16 
ning the following set 25-19. 

sophomore outside hitter lead, losing to duke after the maddie plumlee led the irish blue devils completed a 7-2 offense with five kills in the run to win 20-25. second. sophomore outside 
“on reflecting after some hitter sam fry and fresh-tough losses, our coaches man middle blocker meg stress to us to acknowledge morningstar both followed the errors and mentally note with three kills. however, what we need to do to fix wake forest won the game them,” sophomore outside with a fourth set victory hitter sydney Kuhn said. 25-22. “Then move on to the next after their loss to wake play or the next practice and forest, notre dame trav­correct that error. we have eled to no. 23 louisville learned that it is very im-(16-4, 10-0 acc) and seemed portant to not just ‘brush to regress as the irish lost errors off’ but instead think in three straight sets. in about them and do our job the three sets, notre dame which would be not com-converted on just 32 kills mitting that error again. we to the louisville’s 59 kills. just need to continue to gain freshman outside hitter confidence in ourselves and rebecca nunge led the irish abilities and push through with 10 kills. fry recorded despite the tough losses.” eight kills and Kuhn tallied 
The irish took the coaches’ six kills. advice to heart into their in their final matchup of second matchup of the break the break against virginia as they traveled to face the (14-7, 6-4 acc), the irish demon deacons (10-12, 2-8 managed to win the first set acc). notre dame picked up 25-19, but failed to win an-struggles this season, Kuhn a habit of losing games, talked about how we have its intensity against wake other as the cavaliers won doesn’t believe that this sea-but irish head coach Jim five weeks left of the sea-forest, starting off strong the next three sets 25-23, son can be compared to what mclaughlin has told the son and Jim helped us re-by scoring the first four 25-11 and 25-16. fry led the the irish did last year. team that there is still a lot alize how much we can get points of the set. The demon team offensively with 12 “i think it is tough to com-to play for in the remaining done in five weeks and how deacons made a comeback kills, converting on about pare this team to last year’s season. much we can improve in five that led to 11 ties through-35 percent of her attacks. as we have almost a new half “Jim has told us that there weeks,” Kuhn said. “we are out the matchup forcing the defensively, freshman libero of the team,” Kuhn said. “we is so much that can be done trying to become the best match to go past 25 points. ryann deJarld led the irish are very freshman and soph-in these next five weeks and volleyball players after this Tied at 27 points apiece, the with 12 digs. omore heavy. This year a lot we have to work hard to get season that we could be. irish allowed a kill, and an with six wins on the sea-of players are getting very better each day that we have our record might not be the attack by Kuhn was blocked son, notre dame has al-valuable experience that i the chance to,” junior mid-way we want it to but at this to end the set 29-27. ready tied last season’s win believe will help us incred-dle blocker Katie higgins point it is about the dignity 
wake forest took the mark with five weeks left on ibly as we all move forward.” said. “he tells us that im-of our effort as Jim says. 
second set without much the schedule. despite the it can be easy to fall into proving is never easy but we “we are lucky enough to have to be willing to make wear notre dame across our the changes and once we do, backs, and we should work the improvement will come.” to bring pride to this school 
Kuhn said that the team and to ourselves.” also reminds itself that de-notre dame will travel spite its record, they can car-to raleigh, north carolina, ry over their improvements on friday to take on north to next year where they hope carolina state. they can make more of an impact in the acc. Contact Manny De Jesus at 
“we just recently mdejesus@nd.edu 
dilisio’s struggles in the 
W Golf 

final round did not ulti­
conTinued from page 16 

mately harm the team’s final 
score in a significant way ranked teams, five of which thanks to the outstanding are ranked in the top-20. performance of the rest of The irish carded a two-over her teammates. freshman par 866 for the tournament, emma albrecht placed 19th earning second-place honors overall after scoring a three-behind no. 2 duke, who shot over-par 219, which included a blistering nine-under-par a four-under-par 68 in the 
855. final round. also finishing 
for much of the landfall with a three-over-par 219 and Tradition, all eyes were on 19th-place honors was senior dilisio as she was on top of captain Talia campbell. the 96-player field by four “our depth shows that we strokes going into the third are able to compete with any round of the tournament. of the teams ranked in the however, a stretch of five bo-top 20,” dilisio said. “it was geys hurt her score signifi-a lot of fun to be at the top cantly and she finished with again.” a five-over-par 221. The irish take a three­
“since i’m a freshman and month hiatus from com-i was leading at that tour-petition before returning nament after the first two in february to begin their rounds, there were definitely spring season leading nerves heading into the last up to the acc and ncaa day, and it was kind of one of championships. those days where just every­thing went wrong,” dilisio Contact Daisy Costello at said. mcostel4@nd.edu 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Football 
conTinued from page 16 
Jerry Tillery going to dublin, as shown in Tuesday’s epi­sode of “a season with notre dame football.” however, Kelly noted the exodus wasn’t because his team was burnt out from the season. 
“They like to play football. if we told them we were go­ing to play football for 45 minutes, and it was going to be seven-on-seven and may­be a little bit of pass rush, they probably would have went out there every day,” he said. “but they needed a break from all the other things that they are required to do, and they got that, and i think that that was probably the energy that they needed to get restored.” 
one player who especially benefited from the time off was sophomore quarterback deshone Kizer, Kelly said. 
“he was running on fumes and not just the academic,” Kelly said. “There’s a lot thrown on him, being the quarterback at notre dame; this was all new to him, hav­ing a camera [on him], being the center of it. he needed a break. There’s a lot more pep in his step, and energy and 
M Tennis 
conTinued from page 16 
6-1. 
sachire also had high praise for his singles competitors. 
“They did a good job,” sachire said. “our region is one of the toughest in the country. for them to each win as much as they did — eddy won three matches and Quentin won four — is a good accomplishment. over their careers, they’ve shown that they are capable. but it’s one thing to show capability and another to actually do it. not to get too grandiose about it, but it’s something they can build on and hopefully im­prove on over the course of the season.” 
sachire said playing host to the tourney, which notre dame does every other year, was crucial. 
“[hosting this tourna­ment] was awesome,” sachire said. “we love host­ing events like that. we’re consistently trying to grow our program, and part of that is hosting big champi­onships like this one. for our guys to get to sleep in their own beds, compete in environments that are com­fortable for them, is great for us. 
“we consistently try to put our guys into positions where they can be successful and at the same time grow our program. This was great for us moving forward.” 
with the iTa midwest confidence, and it was a wel­come break for him.” 
Philly homecoming 
a few irish players and philadelphia-area natives will get to return home for saturday’s game against Temple at lincoln financial field: junior receiver will fuller, junior offensive line­man mike mcglinchey and freshman running back Josh adams. 
“Those are three of our better players,” Kelly said. “They very easily could be three of the best players that we have on offense if you re­ally squint. Those three guys from that area just tells you about the kind of players — they are national recruits, and they come right from that philadelphia area, so i think that speaks volumes about the football in that area.” 
however, Kelly said he wanted to make sure the trio doesn’t get caught up in the setting in their homecoming. 
“They will have to settle into the game, and they will,” he said. “They have played in some big venues. They understand that there’s going to be some excitement about it, and i’m sure they will be excited, but they are going to have to settle into the game. we’ll have a con­versation, and i know i’ve already talked to mike about it, but will and Josh, they are going to need to settle into the game because they are going to have to play well for us to win.” 


Kelly said the team flies in to the city of brotherly love on friday and will have a walkthrough saturday morning at mcglinchey’s former high school, penn charter, before the 8 p.m. kickoff. 
Stacked second half 

saturday’s matchup marks the first in a series of four games on the road the irish will play over a five-weekend span, followed by contests at pittsburgh, home against wake forest, in boston against boston college and at stanford. 
Kelly said notre dame will try to avoid familiar miscues that contributed to last sea­son’s second-half struggles. 
“our kids have been pre­pared, played hard. but when you go on the road, you have to take care of the football. That’s the most im­portant thing,” he said. “and you’ve got to have a mindset when you’re on the road that 
paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT 

regional championships behind them, the irish now only have two more tourna­ments remaining on their fall slate before the spring season kicks off. 
notre dame has a couple nov. 12 at the usTa billie Jean King national Tennis center in flushing, new york. The rest of the team will travel to georgia for the bulldog scramble on nov. 13. 
weeks  off  before  heading  
to the  usTa/iTa  national  
indoor  championships  on  


Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 

you’ve got to play from be­hind at times, and you’ve got to overcome the crowd and all those things and officiat­ing, and our guys are tough-minded about that. so we just talk about really taking care of your own business, and if you do that, play hard for four quarters and get it to the fourth quarter, you have a chance to win.” 
in the long run, the coach said a successful stretch dur­ing this period — with three of the five games against teams currently ranked in the ap Top 25 — will help prove notre dame’s worthiness of a spot in the college football playoff. 
“i think when you look at the kind of football teams that play late, and i say late, december and January, they have to have these stretches,” Kelly said. “They have to play well on the road. you can’t just sit at home and play at home. so i think the really good football teams have to prove themselves. 
“you know, i think for us, it will be, ‘october is for pre­tenders and november is for contenders,’ and we’ll show ourselves in that regard be­cause of our schedule in november.” 
Injury update 

graduate student safety avery sebastian is still about two to three weeks away from being able to play, Kelly said Tuesday. 
sebastian suffered a foot injury in the season open­er against Texas on sept. 5 and has been sidelined ever since. 
“Just one of those things where bone growth has been slow for him,” Kelly said. “he’s been on a stimulator for bone growth. it just has not come back to the level that most do.” 
if sebastian, who trans­ferred to notre dame from california this season to take his fifth year as a grad­uate student, does not play the rest of the season, he would be eligible for a sixth season because of consecu­tive years with injuries, ac­cording to Kelly. 
“if we can’t see progress in the next couple of weeks, then we’ll have to decide,” he said. 
Quote of the day 

“i think we’ve eliminated that word from the vocabu­lary of notre dame foot­ball.” — Kelly on the word “relevant” 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2015 | The observer 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy 



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: consider your options. let your intuition guide you and your personal life be your priority. focus on travel, calling in favors and doing things that will make you feel good about who you are and the way you look. don’t sit back -- take whatever opportunity you get to improve your environment. romance will bring you closer to someone special. your numbers are 9, 14, 20, 23, 36, 43, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): check out ideas that have the potential to bring in extra cash. wasting time is not advisable, so take action, be progressive and embrace challenges that promise rewards. show off your versatility and your ability to think and act fast. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): control your emotions and everything else will fall into place. Take a practical approach when dealing with children, lovers or situations that require you to be a team player. give your all, don’t make a fuss and learn from experienced individuals. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): share information, but don’t reveal secrets. flirting with danger may seem attractive, but things won’t turn out the way you expect. don’t get involved in a situation that is likely to turn into a costly mistake. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): rely on friends to help you make changes at home. doing things that will add comfort or convenience to your surroundings will also ease stress. set aside time to spend with someone special. love is on the rise and romance is encouraged. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Think about your future and position yourself for success. don’t let problems at home drag you down. make adjustments and keep moving in the direction that brings you the most in return. Take control and make things happen. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): love, romance, family and friends will make a difference. some people will encourage you, but others will not be as understanding. stick close to those who recognize and believe in your ability to reach your goals. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t think negatively when you need to be applying your skills in a more direct and pertinent manner. hiding from reality or refusing to get involved in situations won’t help you get ahead. stand up and be counted. voice your opinion. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take a moment to consider those you love or want to help. you can make a difference and change the outcome of matters that will influence your future personally and professionally. contact the people in your life who matter most. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): ylisten carefully and refuse to get dragged into a debate with someone who is trying to make you look bad. deception is apparent, and problems with authority or institutions will be prevalent. stay out of trouble and stick close to home. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): pursue something that interests you and you will make substantial gains. negotiations will be difficult, making it important not to deal with unpredictable or unstable people. focus on personal profits and stability at home and with loved ones. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): friends and family will cause you problems. be sure to honor your promises in order to avoid criticism. use intelligence to maintain the budget you set instead of letting someone persuade you into taking on debt that will cause stress. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): opportunities will be abundant, but what you do with them will determine your rewards. use your imagination and concentrate on what will bring you the greatest satisfaction. don’t let someone’s demands stand between you and your success. 


Birthday Baby: you are insightful, competitive and relentless. you are intense and passionate. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
DDEEG  

 
 
 
 
 

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
CAYNF  

 
 
 
 
 

CLAPID  

 
 
 
 
 
 

TENYRG  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

A: 



(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: VENOM ADOPT COBWEB PRANCEYesterday’s 
Answer: His chef’s award-winning pizza was so goodthat it couldn’t — BE TOPPED 

make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer  
p.o. box 779  
notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year  
enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 

city      state Zip 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Kelly discusses bye week, schedule, health 
By MARY GREEN 
assistant managing editor 
notre dame’s bye week came and went, and irish head coach brian Kelly said it couldn’t have arrived at a better time for the team. 
This season, the week off fell on the second saturday of the university’s fall break, after a grueling stretch for players that included mid­term exams followed imme­diately by a home showdown against rival southern california. 
“They needed just to get off campus,” Kelly said at his press conference Tuesday. “They had been here a long time. a change of routine was all that they needed, and really, more of an aca­demic break than a football break.” 
many members of the team left campus for the break, with some going home and others opting for more unique routes, such as freshman defensive lineman 
see fooTball PAGE 14 


ND WOMEN’S GOLF | landfall TradiTion 
notre dame ends  fall season 
By DAISY COSTELLO 
sports writer 

The irish ended their fall season on a high note, tak­ing second-place overall at the landfall Tradition last weekend after finishing just seventh at the cardinal cup earlier in the week. 
freshman isabella dilisio led notre dame through the cardinal cup and the first two days of the landfall tourney, finishing her first fall season leading the irish with three top-ten finishes in just four tournaments. 
at the cardinal cup, the irish had difficulty finding their stroke and ended the tournament seventh out of a 15-team field. The irish posted their worst single-round score of the fall 2015 season with a 309 in the final round of the tournament. dilisio led the irish with a four-over-par 220, earning her sixth place, followed by freshman emma albrecht who also finished in the top 10 with a ninth-place five­over-par 221. Junior Jordan ferreira finished 23rd over­all after shooting a 10-over­par 226. lack of experience playing the louisville was one of the reasons dilisio gave for the team’s weak performance at the cardinal cup. 
“all of us had never played that golf course before be­cause it’s a new tournament [for us],” dilisio said. “most of the other ones, at least some of the older girls, had played the course before, but this one was completely new for everyone.” 
“it was one of those times where nothing seemed to go right, but it just gave us momentum to pick it up and play better at landfall.” 
The irish had a couple of days to recuperate follow­ing the cardinal cup before traveling to wilmington, north carolina, to play the landfall Tradition. played at the country club of landfall, the tournament featured the toughest field the irish have faced in 2015, including 11 
see w golf PAGE 13 
MEN’S TENNIS | iTa midwesT regional championships 
nd seniors take doubles crown 
By HUNTER  McDANIEL 
sports writer 
seniors Quentin monaghan and alex lawson were able to hold off all challengers on their way to capturing the iTa midwest doubles regional championships on monday. 
playing at home during the five-day tournament, the relatively new doubles tandem won all four of their matches over the weekend before closing out their vic­tory over valparaiso juniors charlie emhardt and Jeffrey schorsch in the final, 6-1, 7-5. 
irish head coach ryan sachire praised his cham­pion doubles team, which was seeded second behind ohio state’s duo of freshman martin Joyce and junior ralf steinbach. 
“[it was] certainly a great accomplishment,” sachire said. “They’ve played a little bit of doubles together previ­ously, but not much together before the event. for them to click as well as they did, par­ticularly in the big moments, is a testament to their com­petitiveness and a testament to their ability to compete together. hopefully this will be something they can build on as we move deeper into the season.” 
other than the doubles championship, the irish were able to find some mea­sure of success at singles as well over the course of the week. 
monaghan, the first over­all seed in the tournament and the fifth-ranked play­er nationally, made it to the singles semifinals this monday before falling to the sixth seed, no. 93 junior herkko pollanen from ohio state, 6-1, 4-6, 6-3. 
irish junior eddy covalschi, meanwhile, made it to sunday’s quar­terfinal round before also falling to pollanen, 7-6(3), 

see m Tennis PAGE 14  
ND VOLLEYBALL | duKe 3, nd 0; wf 3, nd 1; louisville 3, nd 0; virginia 3, nd 1 
Irish come away winless after fall break action 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 

with campus settling back in from fall break, notre dame is still looking for a way to put the pieces of its young team together. over the break, the irish (6-16, 1-9 acc) went 0-4 in match-ups against duke, wake forest, no. 23 louisville and virginia. 
in their first matchup against the blue devils (10­10, 5-5 acc) on oct. 16, notre dame put up a fight throughout the three sets despite losing all three. in the first set, the irish were down 20-17 before duke went on a 5-2 run to claim the win 19-25. in the second set, the blue devils held just a three-point lead late in the game until they went on an 8-3 run to take the second set 17-25. The same story carried over to the final set as the irish gave up a 12-11 
see volleyball PAGE 13 




