The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 27 | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Display explores Holocaust’s global impact 
Three-week exhibition in O’Shaughnessy Hall includes lectures, gallery talks, film series and image boards 
By EDDIE DAMSTRA 
news writer 
For the next three weeks, students and faculty walk­ing through the great hall in o’shaughnessy hall will be able to view an exhibition en­titled “germany’s confrontation with the holocaust in a global context.” notre dame will be hosting lectures, gallery talks and a film series in coordina­tion with the exhibit, and this collaborative effort is entitled “remembrance: The holocaust in a global context.” 
monday afternoon, william donahue, professor and chair of the department of german and russian languages and lit­eratures, presented the opening talk for the exhibition. 
donahue said eric santer, a germanist at the university of chicago introduced the term “post-holocaust” into academic discourse in the 1990s. 
“it is meant to displace and challenge the more common­place moniker ‘postwar,’ by depriving us of one of the most oft-repeated excuses for the atrocities, especially as ex­pressed by germans unwilling to face up to the distinctive tar­geting and murder of a civilian and defenseless population,” he said. “The german phrase one reads in memoir after mem­oir, and hears again and again in documentaries is, ‘es war ja Krieg’ — ‘it was, after all, war.’ This way of thinking invites us to dismiss the unprecedented or­ganized mass murder as a 
see holocausT PAGE 5 

CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 
Students pause to examine a display in O’Shaughnessy Hall Monday. The display is part of a three-week exhibit titled  “Germany’s Confrontation with the Holocaust in a Global Context.” 


safety week events promote security, health 
By GRACE BURCHETT 
news writer 
saint mary’s safety week aims to raise awareness about student safety on campus through a vari­ety of creative and fun events this week. The student government association (sga), belles against violence office (bavo), campus security and the health and counseling center 
see saFeTy PAGE 5 





Discussion seeks to facilitate LGBTQ inclusion 
By SELENA PONIO 
news writer 
The gender relations center (grc) will host a drop-in dis­cussion entitled “my home under the dome” Tuesday from 5:45 to 7:15 p.m. in the coalition lounge in laFortune student center. assistant direc­tor for lgbTQ student concerns maureen mcKenney said this event aims to facilitate con­versations about belonging and providing a safe space on campus. 

“my home under the dome” is designed to help students, es­pecially those who identify as lgbTQ, feel more comfortable at notre dame and realize they are also vital members of this campus, she said. 
“The drop-in discussion groups are particularly geared towards lgbTQ and ally stu­dents who are interested in en­gaging in conversations about ways in which lgbTQ and ally students find their place within our campus community,” 
see discussion PAGE 5 


ND, SMC students reflect on papal pilgrimage 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
associate news editor 
sunday, 500 students and faculty members from notre dame, saint mary’s and holy cross college attended the mass concluding the world meeting of Families, celebrated by pope Francis at benjamin Franklin parkway in philadelphia. 
senior ethan muehlstein said he and his friends arrived early and were able to get front-row seats on the route along which pope Francis processed before mass. 
“we even got to get receive the eucharist, which was a beauti­ful moment finding the minis­ters and the priests through the crowd,” he said. “[as] christ says, ‘seek and you will find.’” 
muehlstein said the crowd at­tending mass demonstrated the diversity of the church. 
“i was fortunate enough to sit and stand next to a family from philadelphia and a family from a rural town in pennsylvania,” he said. “however, the mass truly brought together the universal­ity of the church, attracting col­lege students and parishioners from all over america, ministry groups from all over the world and many media outlets.” 
sophomore amanda ball said attending mass with the pope was a powerful experience, and she met people from many dif­ferent locations who had trav­eled to attend this particular mass. 
“some of the people in front of us were from new york and some were from philadelphia. both groups spoke a lot of spanish to one another as both groups had ties to argentina,” she said. “The group from philly had two young girls and were there with their friends who had two young kids as well. The group from new york had several college girls with them.” 
muehlstein said he appreciated the opportunity to serve in a 
see pilgrimage PAGE 5 


news PAGE 3 scene PAGE 8 viewpoinT PAGE 6 FooTball PAGE 16 men’s soccer PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 

News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

If you could be any ice cream flavor, what would you be? 

Rebecca Wiley 
sophomore 
cavanaugh hall 
“peppermint flake.” 
Mike Wang 
freshman 
Zahm house 
“mint chocolate chip.” 
Katelyn Markley 
sophomore 
breen-phillips hall 
“peanut butter cup.” 


Hannah Beighle 
sophomore 
breen-phillips hall 
“chocolate chip cookie dough.” 
Dan Loesing 
sophomore 
standford hall 
“vanilla. which is boring. but delicious.” 
Chris Brendza 
freshman 
Zahm house 
“ben and Jerry’s schweddy balls.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

catherine owers renee griffin Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
andrea vale hunter mcdaniel nicole caratas 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
eric richelsen miko malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 

Dirty Book Sale Team Time for the ND Volleyball East-West Volleyball vs. 
mary o’neill austin Taliaferro 
Stepan Center Arts Joyce Center Transnationalism Syracuse 
9:30a.m.-4 p.m. Morris Inn 7 p.m.-9 p.m. McKenna Hall                 Joyce Center                  Annual sale of dusty 2:30 p.m.-4:30 p.m. The Irish take on 9 a.m. 12 p.m. 
Corrections 

or slightly damaged First fundraiser for ND Boston College at Symposium on literary Notre Dame takes on 
The observer regards itself as books. Cultural Arts Council. home. intersectionality. the Orange. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Reading Artful Yoga Movie Night Domer Run Wildflower 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Hammes Bookstore Snite Museum of Art Coleman-Morse Legends of DeBartolo Performing 
however, recognize that we will make 
7:30p.m.-8:30 p.m. 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Center Notre Dame                                                Arts Center 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Authors Valerie Sayers Relax with yoga in the 9:30 p.m.-11:30 p.m. 9 a.m.-12 p.m. 2:30 p.m.-4:30 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
and Liam Callanan will O’Shaughnessy West Free screening of the Run to benefit local ND Theatre NOW 
we can correct our error. 

be in attendance. Gallery. movie “Rudy.” cancer education. performance. 

ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2015 | The observer 

Speak Up! campaign calls for religious tolerance 
By JENNA WILSON 
news writer 
The speak up! campaign is challenging notre dame students to help end religious persecution. The project, sponsored by the nanovic institute for european studies and the center for civil and human rights, calls for stu­dents to “create effective and cre­ative communication tools that will raise awareness and call for solidarity with one or more re­ligious community that suffers from religious persecution,” ac­cording to the campaign website. 
Zahra vieneuve, project manag­er for the international conference “under caesar’s sword: christian response to persecution,” said the campaign was prompted by the lack of media coverage on issues of religious persecution. 
“usually, most of the stories of systematic religious persecu­tion go unreported until there is a full blown crisis. without media coverage of these stories, there will be no public interest in the issue of religious freedom, and so the voices of many people will remain silenced,” vieneuve said. “and somehow [we must] ensure that these stories are shared and told whether or not there is inter­est from the mainstream media.” 
vieneuve said students can submit works of any medium, as long as the work effectively raises awareness for religious persecution. 
“we’re not just asking for videos or essays. you can submit a song or a calendar that somehow reflects the stories of the groups being per­secuted, a poster or an illustrated short story. anything that will raise awareness of groups being persecuted and propose an action on behalf of these communities,” vieneuve said. 
students do not have to focus on religious persecution as experi­enced by catholics, she said. 
“This challenge is about systematic persecution that is happening anywhere against any religious community,” vieneuve said. “This is about choosing a cer­tain persecuted religious group, researching the persecution they face in a certain country, and find­ing a medium — any medium — and expressing their stories in a way that would encourage in soli­darity with them and action on their behalf.” 
The deadline for students to submit their work is oct. 26 at noon, according to the speak up! website. 
“speak up! is part of a bigger initiative we hope to implement at notre dame to engage our com­munity in showing solidarity with all religious communities who are facing serious violations of their right to religious freedom. speak up! is the first activity that we’ve launched under this initiative,” vieneuve said. “The idea is to come together as a community to learn about the different violations that are happening to many religious groups world-wide. one of the questions that is most frequently asked is ‘what can we do about re­ligious persecution?’ The idea is to invite students to respond to this question and come up with differ­ent strategies through which we can raise awareness of the viola­tions that are happening and raise awareness of the right to freedom of religion and belief.” 
a committee comprised of five notre dame faculty and staff members will judge the entries, vieneuve said, and the final re­sults will be announced by oct. 29. 
“members of many differ­ent religions and faiths are op­pressed. [This contest] is about showing how this oppression is multifaceted, how this oppression is happening in many different countries and how each and every one of us has a responsibility to do something and stand in solidarity with those who are persecuted for their religious beliefs,” vieneuve said. 
according to the website, a first selection will be made to choose the entries that will be displayed first in o’shaughnessy’s  great hall  and then at the pontifical urban university in rome dur­ing the three-day “under caesar’s sword” international confer­ence that will take place dec. 10 through 12. conference partici­pants will include christian lead­ers, government officials, scholars, human rights activists, represen­tatives of world religions, students and other stakeholders. 
vieneuve said the competi­tions submissions of notre dame students will be displayed at the pontifical urban university in rome during the conference to encourage a conversation be­tween notre dame students and religious freedom advocates pres­ent at the conference. 
Contact Jenna Wilson at  jwilso35@nd.edu 

lecture considers integral ecology of encyclical 

pope Francis’s may encyclical encyclicals and their impact, as pope benedict Xvi’s writing to the fundamental tenets 
By JP GSCHWIND 

news writer “laudato si.” The talk was the especially in the last century. on human ecology. of catholic social teaching, seventh annual installment she said while many com-“it’s important to note that peppard said, because it focus-on monday night at geddes of the reverend bernie clark, mentators have reacted to the all constructive endeavors are es on the common good. 
hall, Fordham university pro-c.s.c., lecture on catholic pope’s new encyclical as if it referential or in some way ag-“The pope is trying to articu­
fessor of theology christiana social Tradition and was spon-were a revolutionary and com-gregate,” peppard said. late what it means to have well­
peppard delivered a lecture en-sored by notre dame’s center pletely new strain of thought in however, peppard said pope ordered loves that conduce to 
titled “integral ecology: pope for social concerns. the catholic church,“laudato Francis drew on sources from the good of the whole and of 
Francis, ethical pluralism and peppard began the lecture si” actually builds on much of outside of other papal encycli-all people and the planet, now 
the planet,” which focused on with a brief overview of papal the work of other popes, such cals, including theology, phi-and in the future, to have our losophy and environmental desires, decisions, our choices, paid adverTisemenT 
science. in particular, peppard our actions all be oriented to-said the influence of liberation wards the good,” peppard said. theologian leonardo boff, who despite pope Francis’s dedi­has written extensively on the cation to traditional catholic relationship between environ-thought, peppard said, his style mental destruction and the is distinct because it reconciles exploitation of the poor, was incorporates and many view-clear. points that seem to conflict. 
according to “classically, the response of 
peppard,“laudato si” focuses the church has been to assert 
on how ecological degradation, universalism and unity to gloss 
such as climate change and the over the fissures and the diffi­
acidification of oceans, are re-culties of evidence and differ-
lated to social problems like ences,” peppard said. 
poverty and oppression, a rela-however, peppard said pope 
tionship described by the term Francis rebels against this 
“integral ecology.” tendency. 
at the heart of this concept “The pope is radically un­
of integral ecology, peppard frightened by the plurality of 
said, is a vision of social justice epistemologies, the multiple 
that espouses the rights the of ways of knowing and assessing 
marginalized who are victim-and experiencing the world,” 
ized both economically and peppard said. 
environmentally. This idea peppard said this approach 
originates from pope paul vi’s does not delegitimize the pri­
encyclical on integral devel-macy of christ’s teachings, but 
opment which asserted that rather complements them. 
egalitarian concerns must ac-“For him, yes, christ is at the 
company the drive for eco-center, but this does not pre­
nomic growth, peppard said. clude other forms of knowledge 
however, peppard said the such as contemporary science 
pope’s writing on integral ecol-and the diversity of experiences 
ogy is paradoxically new and that people have on this chang­
traditional. ing planet,” peppard said. 
“in a sense, this is new for a ultimately, peppard said, 
pope to be saying, to be taking pope Francis simultaneously 
ecology and particularly the builds on the rich tradition of 
environment as a catalyst for the catholic church and charts 
his reflections, but in a sense a new, audacious path with 
it’s also very old and even in “laudato si.” 
some sense augustinian,” 

peppard said. Contact JP Gschwind at  
“laudato si” is committed jgschiwin@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2015 | The observer 




Safety 
conTinued From page 1 
will all be sponsoring events. 
sga representative and ju­nior mimi nary said the events will focus on issues including personal health, driving safety and campus responsibility. 
“we hope students will learn something new and utilize many of the resources that both campus security, health and counseling and bavo of­fer,” she said.  
First - year student Jane horak said she plans attend­ing several of the safety week events. 
“i am excited that saint mary’s is hosting its first safety week and looking forward to learning about safety aware­ness,” she said. “also, i am 
Pilgrimage 
conTinued From page 1 
leadership role as a bus captain for the journey to philadelphia. 
“although i did know many of the students participating, i also was able to increase my notre dame family by inter­acting with fellow students whom i may have never met before,” he said. 
muehlstein said the trip to philadelphia truly felt like a pilgrimage. 
“i prepared for the experi­ence, and maybe the chance in a lifetime, for many weeks before,” he said. “The daily no­vena leading up to the trip, the mass the night before depar­ture and the spiritual prepa­ration transformed the ‘trip to see the pope’ into a pilgrim­age focusing in on the word of christ revealed through the words and action of pope Francis. 
“because of the pilgrimage, i have returned refreshed and looking forward to the chance to learn more about bavo.” 

starting today, safety week kicks off with the notre dames’ “Talk it out Tuesday” at stapleton lounge in le mans hall, according to a list of events distributed by sga. The discussion will focus on the prevalence and problems with sexual harassment. 
wednesday, students will be given the opportunity to par­ticipate in a question-and-an­swer session with saint mary’s security staff in vander vennet Theatre. 
Thursday, bavo is sponsor­ing a make-your-own-trail­mix event where students can learn more about the belles against violence office. The event will be in conference rooms a and b in the student center from 10 to 12 p.m. 
renewed, although tired, and i can continue to become closer to god.” 
ball said the bus trip with other notre dame students combined spiritual experienc­es with more casual bonding experiences. 
“Traveling on the bus with the notre dame kids had a fun vibe,” she said. “everyone was very excited to be going and we said the Jesuit examen both nights, which was nice. … it felt like a pilgrimage in that we prayed together, but it also was a fun trip where we watched some movies.” 
several saint mary’s stu­dents offered reflections in a blog post for the college. 
perla ocadiz, a sophomore at saint mary’s, said the crowds of people attending mass im­pressed her. 
“There were so many people it was beautiful. i hadn’t ex­perienced the greatness of a universal faith until the papal mass,” she said. “all the wait­ing and walking and fasting 
To wrap up the week, the health and counseling center will host a make-your-own­first-aid-kit in the student center. students can partici­pate by going to the student center between 12 p.m. and 2 
p.m. Friday. 
sga representative and se­nior mati dages said student government hopes to increase programming for safety week in the coming years. 
“we hope to expand safety week in the future, working with more partners, but this year we wanted to ask stu­dents to take a moment to consider their safety and how they can help promote a safe campus and live a safe life,” she said. 
Contact Grace Burchett at gburchett01@saintmarys.edu 
and power bars were worth it, and i will forever cherish it. i thought to myself, ‘The church is not dead! we are the church.’” 
ocadiz said receiving the eucharist at mass was an amazing experience. 
“i was sharing this moment with the leader of our faith … and with all my brothers and sisters,” she said. 
saint mary’s senior claire Thornton said she had a won­derful time on the pilgrimage to philadelphia. 
“we got to feel all the en­ergy of the city because of this event,” she said. “The feeling of all these different people com­ing together for one purpose in one faith was beautiful. 
“i also really enjoyed learn­ing and experiencing this his­torical city. This is where our country started and being able to experience that and see the pope was a blessing all in one.” 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 
Discussion 
conTinued From page 1 
mcKenney said. 
The grc website states the drop-in discussion will tack­le reflective questions about how new relationships can be cultivated around campus and how students can find their place within the notre dame community. 
mcKenney said the grc hosts monthly drop-in dis­cussion groups with campus 
“The hope ... is to 
provide a more 
informal space 
for students to 
come together ... 
and talk about 
different topics 
that impact them.” 
Maureen McKenney 
assistant director 
LGBTQ Student Concerns 
ministry and the university counseling center. although many discussions are aimed at lgbTQ students and al­lies, all members of the notre dame, saint mary’s and holy cross community are wel­come, she said. 
“The discussions them­selves are facilitated by staff members from campus ministry and ucc, but are truly driven by the students who attend,” mcKenney said. 
“my home under the dome” will provide the opportunity for students to open up during a casual dinner environment about their personal experi­ences at notre dame and any concerns they have had, she said. 
“The hope of our monthly drop-in discussion groups is to provide a more informal space for students to come together, break bread, and talk about different topics that impact them as lgbTQ and ally students here at notre dame,” she said. “while the specific topic changes month-to-month, it is important to provide a space where students are able to share their authentic selves and connect with one another in a genuine way.” 
mcKenney said the grc’s monthly discussion groups started last year when lgbTQ members and allies demon­strated interest in informal, noncommittal community events. she said these con­versations offer a safe space and judgement-free zone for students to talk about issues relevant to them. 
“ideally, lgbTQ and ally students who come to one of our drop-in discussion groups find a place where they can share a bit about themselves, meet some new people and connect with oth­ers who may have similar lived experiences, all while enjoying a good meal togeth­er,” mcKenney said. 
mcKenney said the casual nature of a “drop-in” group leaves it up to the student to decide how long or how much of the conversation he or she would want to take part in. 
“our drop-in discus­sion groups happen once a month throughout the aca­demic year,” mcKenney said. “students should feel free to come for any portion of the event — the ability to stop by for 15 minutes, or stay for the full hour and a half, is one of the perks of a drop-in group.” 
For more information on this and other upcoming lgbTQ and ally events, con­tact maureen mcKenney at mmckenney@nd.edu 
Contact Selena Ponio at  sponio@nd.edu 

Holocaust 
conTinued From page 1 
casualty of war. war is terrible, and these things just happen.” 
donahue said he wants stu­dents to grasp the meaning of “post-holocaust,” which he de­fined as “the understanding of the way our present world is a product of the holocaust.” 
“yet, while understanding the holocaust as prerequisite to grasping the modern world, it is also necessary to under­stand the way in which atrocity wants almost immediately to be ameliorated and softened in the hearts and minds of those charged with its very memory,” he said. “it is frequently just too much to bear. so even while we practice memory, we make se­rious concessions to ‘holocaust exhaustion,’ sometimes even confusing the two.” 
rather than dismissing the reality of the holocaust or fall­ing victim to “holocaust ex­haustion,” donahue said he urges students to fully real­ize the severe reality of the holocaust. 
“...While understanding the Holocaust as prerequisite to grasping the modern world, it is also necessary to understand the way in which atrocity wants almost immediately to be ameliorated.” 
William Donahue 
chair 
department of German and 
Russian languages and 
literatures 
“my wish for you as you look at this exhibit over the next sev­eral weeks is that you allow it to touch you and surprise you, even if much of it will strike you as familiar,” he said. “and please don’t try to take it in all at once. do what brecht said every smart reader should do when reading great literature: talk back to it, ask questions, make objections and, when ap­propriate, learn to say no. but learn also to ask yourselves why you are moved to respond in the manner you do. notice what offends you, attend to what troubles and puzzles you.” 
donahue also said he was asked by the exhibition orga­nizers to comment upon the large crucifix that hangs on the wall of the great hall. The com­ment was particularly relevant because of the outrage that was caused years ago when polish nuns included a crucifix as part of a memorial near auschwitz. 
he said that if one views the cross as a depiction of “ethnic pride” or if one would plant a crucifix “in the way that some plant a flag,” then there is no place for such artifacts near a holocaust exhibit. 
however, donahue said he interpreted the crucifix’s juxta­position with the exhibition as a demonstration of solidarity in suffering. 
“but if you see the cross of 
“My wish for you as you look at this exhibit over the next several weeks is that you allow it to touch you and surprise you, even if much of it will strike you as familiar.” 
William Donahue 
chair 
department of German and 
Russian languages and 
literatures 
christ as a scandal, as a mys­tery of undeserved, and in­deed shocking, suffering and perhaps also as an arrestingly honest depiction of the fragility of the entire human condition, then perhaps you will find it a useful way for framing this exhibit after all. my beloved undergraduate advisor wrote a little book that has left a lasting impression on me. it is called “Jesus, the compassion of god.” and so this is how i view this crucifix: as a profound, and indeed divine, sign of soli­darity in suffering,” he said. “solidarity in suffering — what better way to frame an exhibit on the holocaust?” 
The department of german and russian languages and literature is sponsoring the ex­hibit in coordination with the department of Theology, the nanovic institute for european studies, the center for civil and human rights, the Kroc institute for international peace studies, the program for philosophy, religion and lit­erature and the institute for scholarship in the liberal arts. 
Contact Eddie Damstra at  edamstra@nd.edu 


The observer |  TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Time to start fixing 
Rachel O’Grady 
news writer 

To say i’m excited for 2016 and the prospect of a new campaign season is an understate­ment. since the morning of nov. 5th, 2014, i have impatiently been counting down the days until someone announced their candidacy. i was looking for something to replace the unique buzz created by campaign season, the kind of buzz that drives people to spend 15-hour days at campaign headquarters at the suddenly possible chance of achieving greatness. There is nothing quite like the energy of an election cycle. 
This year is going to be different. as a nation, we have a whole grocery list of problems, but optimistically, there is a field of candidates with actionable solutions. 
great. now what? 

maybe it’s because i can literally recite governor rauner’s stump speech or because i’ve been secretly writing mine since second grade, but i am so tired of hearing the “here’s why i’m running” speech. i don’t think i’m alone. 
personally, i don’t care why you’re running. i want to know how you’re going to fix all the is­sues this country faces. between isis, a growing income disparity and immigration issues, there is no shortage of problems in need of a solution 
— the question is, will our candidates provide these solutions? if they don’t, i think we deserve more. 
as much as i appreciate the political finesse demonstrated by the clintons, if hillary’s plan to fix the broken economy is filled with buzz­words and empty phrases, i can’t respect her candidacy. as an electorate, we’ve become too comfortable with hollow speeches and spineless plans. The 24-hour news cycle has encouraged this complacency by not asking tough ques­tions or expecting actual answers, instead be­ing satisfied for inconsequential “binders full of women”-like comments. This election season; let’s ask for more of our candidates and our news. let’s get actual answers, actual plans and actual solutions. 
perhaps the biggest opportunity for failure falls in the current state of political discourse in this country — not to mention at this school. 
i met a now-graduated, then-senior last year on the campaign, and right before school started i asked him about how to get involved in politics at notre dame. he laughed. Then he launched into a mini-manifesto on how polarized the po­litical community is here at school, how no one wants to actually to talk about the issues. 
it’s great if you like hearing your views sup­ported by people that are exactly like you. not so great if you want to have a dialogue. 
Fundamentally, this demonstrates the prob­lem with our country, so few are willing to actu­ally have a conversation and solve problems. we’re so entrenched in our own beliefs that we forget about what actually matters. 
none of what happens in 2016 will matter if the winners can’t compromise with the losers. it’s time that we stop accepting this as normal and start talking, and more importantly, start fixing. 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at                           rogrady@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Escaping from the rock 
Stephen Raab 
let’s Talk smart 
pope Francis’s encyclical “laudato si” and his re­cent speech to the united states congress have both reignited the discussion over climate change, its effects on future human life and what steps we can take to combat it. some, including students at notre dame, have suggested divestment from fossil fuel industries. others believe that cap-and-trade legisla­tion or carbon taxation will prevent the catastrophic disruption of earth’s climate. 
i readily acknowledge the reality of anthropogenic climate change and its negative effects on that world, though i am skeptical of the proposed solutions. as cynical as it sounds, getting all countries (particu­larly the developing world) to restrain their energy use to the levels required would be nigh impossible. it’s far more likely that our swelling population and rapidly industrializing world economy will gobble up all available resources without regard for ecological consequence. we’re already seeing this in the form of fracking; america has plenty of oil as long as we don’t care what we have to do to get it (and we don’t). 
but let us charitably grant success to these envi­ronmental efforts. in this case, we must still rec­ognize that they are but half-measures. humanity cannot think in the short term of one century in ad­vance or even two. we must plan for the long haul; it is time for man to get ready to leave earth. 
consider the precarious current state of our spe­cies. we’re on a tiny ball of iron, oxygen and silicon that hurtles through the void at enormous speed. The collective fate of humankind rests on what hap­pens to that pale blue dot on its perilous journey — we have put all our eggs into a very fragile basket. on all sides we are surrounded by asteroids, hypervel­ocity stars and gamma ray bursts, any one of which could devastate all terrestrial life. 
even if we run the gauntlet of these celestial ex­ecutioners and miraculously achieve sustainable civilization, a slower, more certain doom awaits all those stranded on earth. everything we’ve built across our entire history will be swallowed by the inexorable advance of our swelling sun. in as little as a billion years — a very short period, cosmically 
— increased solar radiation will cause the runaway evaporation of the oceans, rendering life impossible. 
life on earth will likely be extremely difficult in just a few hundred million years. 
certainly some will claim that these dates are too far off for us to care about; i have several responses to this line of thought. First, such an attitude betrays a self-centered disregard for the welfare of others, as well as a lack of concern for one’s own legacy. after all, no matter how memorable your exploits, if there’s no one around to remember them, they won’t be re­membered. second, remember that this may in fact affect your life. not only could some of these cosmic disasters strike without warning, but every year brings new medical advances that extend human lifespans. it’s within the realm of possibility that some of us will live to see the earth destroyed; there­fore, we should plan to ensure we aren’t standing on it when that happens. 
The 20th century brought us great strides in ex­traterrestrial travel, culminating in the apollo mis­sions that put man on the moon. unfortunately, this is but the smallest of cosmic shuffles — less than a quarter of a million miles from home. compounding the problem, our society has since sharply reduced emphasis on space exploration. in the 1960s, nasa received more than 4 percent of the american bud­get, compared to less than 1 percent today. if we’re going to make it to other worlds, that number must increase precipitously. The cost will be great, but it is an investment in the continued survival of our species. 
perhaps the best way to start this new era of ex­ploration would be to establish a colony on mars. within a century, we might have a permanent, ter­raformed base on the red planet that will give us a “backup” earth. while it won’t save us from the expanding sun — we’ll need a new solar system for that — a colonized mars will allow us to start over in the wake of an earth-localized catastrophe such as a nuclear war. 
whatever our plans for universal exploration, we cannot afford to wait. we must find a way off the earth before it becomes the tomb of humanity. we must escape from this rock. 
Stephen Raab is a senior studying chemical engineering.  He resides in Alumni Hall and welcomes discourse at  sraab@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Making a difference 
Ten years ago, i met a german Jesuit priest, Fr. stefan, in berlin. we went to a meeting by carpool. it was an unforgettable journey with him because of his heartfelt courtesy. my eyes were open to observe that he also kept a spoon and a fork after having a meal. This surprised me. i was born in a developing country and recycled whatever could be used again. before that meal, though, i did not think people like Fr. stefan needed to recycle. This was the first time in my life that i began to think about caring for creation, that i changed my way of using materials and that i begin to realize my responsibility to care for creation. 
being on notre dame’s campus, i also witness many “beautiful gestures of heartfelt courtesy,” espe­cially in restrooms (‘laudato si’ 213). many students prefer to use the drying machine instead of paper towels. some of my friends use cloth napkins. i am privileged to be invited to dinners with professors and friends for both special celebrations and more simple gatherings. usually, people would rather use paper napkins, plastic dishes, forks and spoons for large gatherings. but all i have seen are tables set with reusable utensils and dishes that can be washed after the meal. all these beautiful gestures seem like very small things, but this is a good habit which should be promoted among well-educated students. 
pope Francis urges each one of us to care for cre­ation because human carelessness damages mother earth. we all make mistakes, but we must not ignore the pope’s message. pope Francis says, “it is we hu­man beings above all who need to change” (‘laudato si’ 202). he urges conversion both individually and communally to practice good habits. only hearts grounded in love can realize the beauty of creation and practice heartfelt courtesy. These express our gratitude to god, who grants us the authority to gov­ern and care for all of creation. 
in god’s providence, notre dame’s center for social concerns chose care for creation, one principle of catholic social Thoughts, to practice at our campus. Truly, small changes make a difference but this only happens in a heart of conversion, which is grounded in faith in god, who created us out of love. if we be­lieve that god creates out of love, and if we realize that we are in communion, then we must care for all creation. at notre dame, we believe that our hearts must be transformed as well as our minds and bod­ies. small acts of stewardship of creation make a difference. 
Anh Thi Kim Tran 
master of Theology candidate 


Seeing the world in communion 
Scott Boyle 
The sincere seeker 
“you may say that your parents do so much for you because they love you, and that’s correct. but it is also the case that they love you so much be­cause they do so much for you. you love who you pour your heart into.” 
These thoughts, recently spoken by university of notre dame provost Tom burish, may sound familiar. he shared them near the end of notre dame’s opening of the school year mass. i am grateful to my colleague leonard delorenzo, as­sociate professional specialist of theology, who recently drew my attention back to these words. 
i believe dr. burish has provided two different but interrelated lenses that hold implications for all of our lives as we seek to better understand the challenges and demands of love. 
The first part of the quote offers a lens into one of the most common experiences of love: a love that is lived receptively and seen retroactively. in dr. burish’s example, this begins from a reality in which love exists within our parents and is shared with us as its recipients. 
in this case, we have done nothing to earn their love. rather, our very existence motivates them to respond outwardly and tangibly with support and care. 
considering the final two sentences of dr. burish’s quote invites us to consider another lens of love. This lens examines a love that is lived ac­tively and seen retroactively. That is to say, a love that is recognized not in receiving, but in giving. 
allow me a moment to explain. 
when we give something to another person, we establish a relationship with him or her. This “gift” can be something material, but is more of­ten the gift of our time or attention. This act of giving directs our attention for a particular time and can then lead to short-term or long-term relationships. 
in the cases where we give extended attention, like in the cases dr. burish mentions with par­ents, or in the cases of friendship or romantic love, we make a claim to the recipient of our at­tention. This claim assumes that this extended commitment means that they matter in some way to us. 
of course, this should make sense. we pay greater attention to the people that matter. we be­come connected to them. our well-being becomes tied-up with their well-being. we feel responsible for them. 
antoine de saint-exupéry’s beloved classic “The little prince” expounds it this way, using an in­teraction between a fox and a young prince: “you become responsible, forever, for what you have tamed.” 
“[To tame] means to establish ties … to me you are still nothing more than a little boy who is just like a hundred thousand other little boys. and i have no need of you. and you, on your part have no need of me. To you i am nothing more than a fox like a hundred thousand other foxes. but if you tame me, then we shall need each other. To me, you will be unique in all the world. To you, i shall be unique in all the world.” 
acknowledging that we need each other (and acting on that need) offers us another way of see­ing the world not in isolation, but in communion. and it’s love’s job to make sure we can build that world. 
a love lived in giving in the world works to combat the fundamental error that sees a hundred-thousand strangers. a giving love an­chored in the light of hope knows, by contrast, that there are others for us on the journey. 
in the midst of a doubt that blurs commonali­ties and creates confusion, love seeks to at least try to offer the gift of oneself. love works with the knowledge that there are others for us, pieces that together will make up the larger mosaic of god’s love. Through this lens, a hundred thousand strangers will appear as a hundred-thousand op­portunities for communion. 
dr. burish invites us to consider the relation­ship between giving and receiving love. That is, receiving love leads to giving love and giving love leads to receiving love. 
Fortunately, we have a god who has given us the reminder that we matter. receiving his love should give us the strength to pursue other op­portunities for communion, moments when we are called to remind others that they matter too. in those moments, we must not be afraid “to es­tablish ties,” to echo the tender offer of: “i would like to journey with you,” an offer we have already received from god. 
and we must step toward communion knowing that we might not find the right “pieces” immedi­ately, and that we might get chipped as we try to find those who might fit alongside us. 
but, we must not be afraid to give and do much, for we might receive back abundantly the love and communion we were most looking for. 
A 2012 and 2015 graduate of Notre Dame, Scott cur­rently serves as the assistant director for Notre Dame Vision in the Institute for Church Life. He can be reached at sboyle2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

in reply to proposed curriculum changes 
i was deeply troubled by your article, “committee prepares core curriculum changes” and its fait ac­compli attitude, especially when considering the amount of technical scholarship that is purportedly being jettisoned in favor of populist rhetoric and speculative studies. 
First, let’s take a macro-level look at this situa­tion. we are told the curriculum is reviewed every 10 years and that the current version has not changed in 30 years. Then we are informed that a review has been undertaken and some discussions have taken place with the some of the faculty and some of the students. The comment that these discussions “felt like a mere formality” is not surprising given the conclusory title of the article. The committee is sup­posed to make recommendations for curriculum changes, not to prepare to change the curriculum and then inform the alumni and students of the changes they have decided to make sua sponte. The disingenuous nature of this presumption is galling and at this moment appears to be an underhanded and intellectually dishonest scheme. 
next there is the issue of the suggested changes to the current curriculum of core courses. The courses as they stand now are traditional courses that have been studied at the university level for thousands of years in some form or another. They represent the core of actual, proven and achievable knowl­edge. They are the litmus test that all the alumni and our current undergraduates are being judged and graded by in seeking a notre dame diploma. 
The product notre dame sends out into the world is superior and it is so because employers know that notre dame students have been prepared to think critically, honestly and to fight for what is right and true. The notre dame graduate is an extremely well educated, critical thinking person of great value to their employer, their co-workers, their community and their friends. Their scholarship is measurable in meaningful and quantitative terms specifically be­cause of a foundation that is diverse (in scope) and demands critical thinking and scholarship in a tra­ditional university education that dates back to the beginning of the university system itself. 
so as not to be close minded, let us look at the pro­posed curriculum changes, un-voted upon and not formally adopted, but that certainly form the desire and goal of the presumptuous review committee. preliminary review of the topics listed include: eco­logical literacy, u.s. diversity, community-based engaged learning and media literacy. at first blush i would offer that every student applying to notre dame has probably accomplished the bulk of this work firsthand in their volunteer work from middle school and through high school. The resumes of notre dame students have always been abundant with service work in under-served communities and with special interests focusing on global issues. This suggested curriculum on its face appears to be re­dundant and preaching to the choir. 
in truth i agree with the students who believe classes like these should be one-credit seminars and not the foundation of scholarly achievement. The suggested, more truthfully “announced” changes are not areas of settled science or social science and are more political in nature than the traditional and truly settled curriculum now in place. in all frankness, this is the stuff of indoctrination and not education. a well educated person can judge for themselves the need for such subject matter and its utility in their lives.  if the committee is so deter­mined to politicize education then take it to the el­ementary schools, middle schools and high schools, but leave such subjective and political matters out of the proven educational underpinnings of a notre dame education. 
Finally, the fact that there has been no public dis­cussion on the selected/proposed changes, coupled with the fact that they have not been openly broad­cast to the alumni who make the committee’s jobs possible, is the stuff of backroom political deals. ironically, this information was dumped in the Friday edition of The observer, the traditional day in the media where unpleasant and unfavorable news is dumped to languish over the weekend in hopes that a breaking issue on monday will push it so deeply into the background that all dissent is muted or silenced. how is that for media literacy? and i didn’t even have to take a one credit seminar to fig­ure that out. god save us from ourselves. 
William G. Norberg Jr. 
class of 1987 


The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MATT MUNHALL 
scene writer 

last week, ryan adams released an album-length cover of Taylor swift’s “1989.” The alt-country singer refash­ioned every song from swift’s block­buster pop album in the style of bruce springsteen’s “nebraska,” in the pro­cess revealing a melancholic strain in the originals. The album is maybe not as revelatory as some critics are claim­ing, but it’s pleasant enough coffee shop background music. in the aftermath of its release, Twitter lit up with jokes about what other middle-aged rock stars should cover pop albums — my person­al favorite being molly lambert’s sug­gestion that Jeff Tweedy endorse Katy perry. but it got me thinking about the reverse: which modern pop stars should reinterpret seminal indie rock albums in whole? 
Taylor Swift -“Brighten the Corners” 
Taylor swift once mocked a dude who listened to “some indie record that’s much cooler than mine,” but that lyric also hinted at her wry sense of humor. pavement’s stephen malkmus quite fre­quently writes songs with a similarly wry, witty worldview, making swift the perfect pop star to reinterpret his mu­sic. “brighten the corners” is perhaps pavement’s cleanest, most focused album, with melodies that would im­press even a pop songwriter as master­ful as swift. The bridge of “shake it off” proved she would be the perfect match for “shady lane” and its sneering chorus of “oh my god, oh my god, oh my god, oh my god.” malkmus’ ironic lyricism on “stereo” — “listen to me! i’m on the ste­reo!” — would become a world-conquer­ing anthem in the hands of america’s biggest pop star, whose music is, quite literally, blasting from every stereo. 
Lorde - “Let It Be” 

lorde has already proven herself to be a fan of The replacements — she cov­ered “swingin’ party” as a b-side and frequently performs the song live. “let it be” is a great coming-of-age album that explores so many of the themes lorde dealt with on her first album, “pure heroine.” lorde will give paul westerberg’s songs a moody electro-pop sheen, updating them for a new generation while showing how univer­sal those themes are. a fan of the ‘mats herself, lorde, just 18 years old herself, would do justice to classics like “sixteen blue,” which perfectly encapsulates the awkwardness of adolescence, and “unsatisfied,” the ultimate anthem of disillusionment. 
Miley Cyrus -“Yankee Hotel Foxtrot” 
i’ve long thought miley cyrus should record a country album; her covers of “Jolene” and “look what They’ve done to my song” put her deep, raspy voice to better use than any of her pop material. covering wilco’s “yankee hotel Foxtrot” as a 70s countrypolitan album, with lush, string-laden produc­tions, would be a perfect vehicle for cyrus to venture into country music and regain some critical cred. The al­bum’s “ashes of american Flags” is al­most like the older, nuanced take on the patriotism of “party in the u.s.a.” plus, Jeff Tweedy sings about getting stoned on “heavy metal drummer,” and we all know how much cyrus loves her medici­nal marijuana. 
Beyoncé - “Kid A” 
beyoncé’s 2013 self-titled album ce­mented her position as the most experi­mental, risk-taking of the major pop stars. The songs on that album resist traditional pop structures, often stretching to nearly six minutes in length, and the productions sound sleek and futuristic. radiohead is the most experimental band in indie rock and nowhere more so than on 2001’s “Kid a,” on which the band abandoned guitars for synths and drum machines. but what is so compelling about “Kid a” is how hu­man Thom yorke sounds in the midst of electronic soundscapes. beyoncé’s power­house voice has the same effect; she is able to wring emotion out of nearly anything (see her singing coldplay’s “yellow”). her covers of songs like “how To disappear completely” and “optimistic” would be beautiful reinterpretations, anchored by that voice and some equally boundary-pushing production. 
Contact Matt Munhall at                  mmunhall@nd.edu 

ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 

The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By BOBBY WOZNIAK 
scene writer 

For the past four years, ryan murphy, brad Falchuk and their team of undoubtedly genius yet alarmingly twisted actors have pro­duced horror spectacles that have continuously shocked the nation. Taking viewers from a ghost-filled “murder house” to a homicidal car­nival in “Freak show” (making pit stops in a psychopathic “asylum” and witches’ “coven” along the way), the upcoming installment will surely leave a terrifying impact on the anthology series’ franchise; “hotel” premieres oct. 7th and is rumored to be the darkest season to date. before buckling down for what will surely be an exciting — and most definitely disturbing — ride, let’s consider some alternative ideas for what the fifth season could have been: 
By KATHY MINKO 
scene writer 

imagine a stereotypical Thursday night. no class, no homework, no prob­lems. mind on Feve? mind on netflix? personally, i had my mind on ricardo lemvo and makina loca’s afro­cuban music concert in the debartolo performing arts center. 
afro-cuban music — an alluring mix­ture of cuban rhythms and congo beats 
— rang in each audience member’s heads for two hours that night. ricardo lemvo, a los angeles native of african descent, matched pitch with the california-based band makina loca. Together, the two performed head-bobbing, hip-moving rhythms for audience members of all backgrounds to enjoy. 
“American Horror Story: Mars” 
The second season briefly touched on the idea of aliens, but there was a little too much action coming from the sadistic bloody Face serial killer, zombie-creating nazi surgeon and mental institution patients to really give the theme a chance to devel­op. with all of the surrounding talk about the forth-coming “mars one” mission and the incredible success­es of movies like “interstellar” and “gravity,” a twisted season about the red planet could really grab the na­tion’s attention — something i would definitely not put past ryan murphy. 
“American Horror Story: Farm” 
a quiet, rural town with hidden horrors amongst crazed farmers sounds like the perfect opportunity for murphy and Falchuk to unleash their darkest ideas. i’m talking scare­crows, pitchforks, deserted barns and cornfields with some unexpected 
The band — consisting of a guitarist, bassist, pianist, drummer, conga play­er and trumpeters — provided a sweet blend of latino and african musical cultures. lemvo, who entered the stage dressed in original african clothing, im­mediately brought the crowd to its feet by singing mariachi-styled tunes with pow­erful drums and energetic trumpet solos. 
Throughout the performance, lemvo urged audience members to dance and relish each other’s company. after jiving to the first song in their seats, audience members walked to the aisles in pairs to salsa, tango and mambo to each piece. Though fearful at first, i finally mus­tered the courage to dance, learning a blend of traditional african and latino moves from fellow audience mem­bers. Throughout the concert, i would “american horror story” twists that will be sure to keep you up at night. we’ve seen some horror approach­es to this concept in films like “The crazies,” in which a fast-spreading zombie-like disease runs rampant in a small farm town, but with the iconic “american horror story” touch, the idea could be transformed into some­thing gruesomely unpredictable. 
“American Horror Story: Quarantine” 
speaking of fast-spreading zombie-like diseases, a season that follows a quarantined community faced with a killer illness would make for some great “american horror story” creations. There have been various interpreta­tions of the zombie-disease outbreak idea in movies like “i am legend” and “world war Z,” but the anthology series would be sure to stand out through its insanely unpredictable character de­velopment, sporadic musical numbers 
periodically search the auditorium, spotting families, couples and friends dancing with one another as lemvo and makina loca jammed to their rhythms and lyrics. 
audience members both on the ground and in upper-level seating experienced afro-cuban music through the lyrics and dance. Through lemvo’s periodic shouting and the band members’ indi­vidual bits of dancing, everyone within the dpac auditorium experienced a first-hand example of african and latino culture. lemvo and makina loca’s dance-like tempos, as well as lemvo’s constant urge for his audience members to grab a partner and experience cul­ture firsthand, was exemplified by my spanish professor greeting me and ex­claiming, “we latin americans can’t still and plethora of hard-to-watch/hard­to-look-away scenes. 
“American Horror Story: Murder House Pt. II” 
There’s nothing like a great throw­back, let alone when it’s a return to one of the most memorable television show seasons in history. “murder house,” the first installment of “american horror story,” shocked unprepared audiences everywhere with its never-ending plot twists and disturbing scenes — the fi­nale alone was enough to make you seriously question whether the show should actually be allowed to air on a public television channel. however, countless consistent viewers and fans argue that the first season is by far the best; thus, a second part to the original horror story would surely be a terrify­ing success. 
Contact Bobby Wozniak at                   rwozniak@nd.edu 
during a concert!” 
all in all, the afro-cuban perfor­mance by lemvo and makina loca provided audience members with the opportunity to listen and take part in a uniquely-blended culture. when i first witnessed audience members dancing to the complicated conga beats and excel­lent trumpet solos, i felt uncomfortable and awkward. once i got over my unfa­miliarity, however, i embraced the mix of mariachi and african music by allowing the beats to course through me. in that way, lemvo and makina loca’s perfor­mance brought an honest and unique interpretation of two cultures through carefree music and dance. 
Contact Kathy Minko at                kminko@nd.edu 
ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Long season remains for NFL 
Daniel O’Boyle 
sports writer 
Three weeks into the nFl season, a few things are abun­dantly clear. The patriots will go 16-0 again; the bills have at long last found their franchise quarterback in Tyrod Taylor; chris Johnson is back on an unstoppable arizona team; marcus mariota was the best quarterback in the 2015 draft; chip Kelly has destroyed the eagles’ offense; the dolphins, ravens and 49ers are all pret­ty bad; andy dalton is elite and andrew luck really isn’t that good. 
Just like how Tom brady and aaron rodgers were on the decline after early-season defeats to the chiefs and lions last year, right? how did that work out? a super bowl win for brady and the patriots and the league mvp award for rodgers. maybe we should listen to the packers’ quar­terback’s simple five-letter message to fans a year ago: r-e-l-a-X. 
i’m not saying that some of the assumptions we make early on in the year won’t come true — some teams and players will no doubt contin­ue in the form they’re in now. new england certainly has a great team this year. it’s hard to imagine brady and com­pany not making it deep into the playoffs yet again. but maybe we should pump the brakes on the 2007 compari­sons: sure, the patriots are motivated after deflategate and look ruthless, but it takes more than that to win every single game — one slip-up and the perfect record’s gone, and we’ve seen that happen to plenty of teams with more talent than the patriots have now. 
meanwhile, in the nFc, the cardinals look like the stron­gest super bowl contenders, but as unfortunate as it is, their hopes will rest on the health of the injury-prone carson palmer. arizona start­ed last season strong as well, but that kind of uncertainty at the quarterback position never bodes well. 
not to mention how a good coach and quarterback can adapt when things go wrong. peyton manning had a slow first two games of the year, but a move to the pistol for­mation in week 3 seems to have sparked an improve­ment, much like a simplifi­cation of denver’s offense sparked a turnaround for manning when he first moved to the broncos in 2012. it could happen elsewhere too. chip Kelly’s sweeping person­nel changes in philadelphia this offseason seem to have gone poorly for his offense, but his proven record of of­fensive innovation means the eagles could always turn it around. 
and individual players will of course have occasional sur­prising runs of games: just be­cause they happen at the start of the season doesn’t mean it forecasts anything. andy dalton has enjoyed many great streaks before, only to come crashing back down to earth, usually in front of a primetime audience. andrew luck has had his share of poor performances, but as long as he can engineer a comeback when it matters like he did on sunday, he will remain a force to be reckoned with. and with rookies, it can take years to be sure of a good or bad pick, three games tells us almost nothing. 
This is hardly a phenom­enon limited to the nFl. The entire big Ten was largely dismissed from the playoff race after only two games last year, while alabama’s hopes were seemingly crushed by a loss to ole miss, only for the crimson Tide to enter the playoffs as the top seed and ohio state to win the national title. in basketball, lebron James’s return to cleveland started slowly and the hype around the cavaliers began to cool, but his team soon improved before injuries all around him hurt cleveland’s chances of an nba title. 
a few of these early season assumptions might prove to be true, but for now we have more than four months be­fore we find out who hoists the vince lombardi trophy. maybe we could calm down just a little. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of  The Observer. 


INTERHALL 

Football seasons continue with close matches 
Alumni 14, Morrissey 7 
By TOBIAS HOONHOUT 
sports writer 

alumni and morrissey met sunday afternoon in a game that proved to be a tale of two halves as the defending cham­pion manor was downed 14-7 after a second-half comeback by alumni. 
it was a shaky start for the manor (1-1), as senior run­ning back hunter white fumbled deep in his own half to give alumni (1-1) a clear chance to score, but the morrissey defense held firm and alumni senior kicker cooper schreibeis missed a 35-yard field goal, keeping the game at 0-0. 
The missed opportunity appeared as if it might come back to haunt the dawgs, as white and the manor of­fense started to dominate the run game. white scored on a 4-yard run to give the manor the lead. 
alumni attempted to an­swer with junior receiver nick raven, who caught three straight passes for big gains, but senior quarterback Trevor hurley threw an intercep­tion in the end zone to close the half on a low note for the dawgs. 
in the second half, it looked like morrissey was once again going to dominate as the manor drove deep into the red zone. Then, alumni sopho­more charles newell blocked morrissey’s field goal attempt and returned it for a touch­down, giving the dawgs life. 
The shift in momentum culminated with raven haul­ing in a lob from hurley in the back of the end zone as the game wore on to give the dawgs an unlikely win. 
alumni freshman lineback­er sean maraghy said he was proud of the team’s effort. 
“it was an awesome team performance,” maraghy said. “we never gave up and it paid off in a big way. This team is going to do special things this year.” 
The dawgs will next be in action on sunday at 1 p.m. when they face duncan at riehle Fields. morrissey has a bye week before facing Knott on oct. 11. 
Contact Tobias Hoonhout at thoonhou@nd.edu 


FOR SALE 

2009 Vibe like Toyota Matrix 58500 
Zahm 6, Sorin 6 
By ANTHONY ZAPPIA 
sports writer 

Zahm and sorin played to a 6-6 tie sunday in a game that was a defensive struggle to the end. 
after the sorin defense made a stand on fourth-and-goal on their own 1-yard line to thwart Zahm’s first drive, the otters (0-0-1) proceeded to score on their first drive with a 60-yard touchdown pass to senior re­ceiver Jake yurek.  Following a fumbled 2-point conversion attempt, sorin had its only six points of the game. 
it was not until the second half that Zahm (0-1-1) scored its lone touchdown of the game, finally cashing in on its ability to move the ball effec­tively. but a failed 2-point con­version attempt left the game tied at six. 
with less than two minutes to go, Zahm converted on a critical red zone fourth-and-10, but sorin came up with an in­terception in the end zone, ef­fectively icing the game and ensuring a tie. 
both captains said they were able to take positives away from the result.  Zahm senior captain and lineman steve Jepeal said his team played well on both sides of the ball. 
“we drove the ball well, we scored and we held them to one score,” Jepeal said. 
sorin sophomore captain and safety matt requet also said his team played well. 
“we put some drives to­gether,” requet said. “The new quarterback worked well. defensively, we kept them from getting much going.” 
Zahm returns to the field on sunday, facing st. edward’s at riehle Fields at 3:30 p.m. sorin will play at riehle Fields at the same time sunday when the otters face Fisher. 
Conact Anthony Zappia at azappia@nd.edu 
Stanford 14, Keough 6 
By BRENNA MOXLEY 
sports writer 

after a slow start for both teams sunday, stanford bested Keough 14-6. 
both teams ended their first drives with punts, but mid­way through the first half, the griffins (1-0) had a promising drive only to fall short with an interception on the 1-yard line. 
stanford sophomore quar­terback andrew Foster direct­ed the griffins’ next drive, and with only 15 seconds left in the half, he connected with se­nior receiver danny muldoon for the first touchdown of the game. 
on its first drive of the second half, Keough (0-2) executed on multiple downs, including a 40-yard pass from junior cap­tain and quarterback matthew mooney to senior wide receiver ryan shea. however, junior stanford defender John plugge helped kill Keough’s momen­tum by breaking up multiple passes in the end zone. 
soon after Keough’s near-misses, stanford went 14-0 on a touchdown pass from Foster to freshman receiver chase Jennings. 
on the last drive of the game, the Kangaroos put points on the board when mooney got the ball into the hands of sophomore davis lee for a touchdown. 
mooney said the difference in the game was Keough’s in­ability to finish drives. 
“Today we started slow on of­fense, but we got things going in the second half,” mooney said. “unfortunately, a couple plays were the difference in the game, plus a couple of drives that we couldn’t finish.” 
griffins senior captain daniel babiak said he was hap­py with the win. 
“we went out there and exe­cuted,” babiak said. “however, we did have errors and we want to fix those errors and improve.” 
Contact Brenna Moxley at bmoxley01@saintmarys.edu 
St. Edwards 7, Carroll 6 
By MOLLY MURPHY 
sports writer 
st. edward’s continued its 
undefeated  streak  sunday  
when  the  gentlemen  beat  
carroll 7-6.  

st. edward’s (2-0) scored first, completing a successful running drive that started on their own 10-yard line to go up 7-0 in the first half. 
carroll (1-1) had chances in the first half, too, putting 
see inTerhall PAGE 11 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
miles, $8,500 obo, w/snow tires on wheels, one owner, clean, no ac­cidents. 574-707-3255 inspect on campus.  If I got locked away, and we lost it all today. Tell me honestly. Would you still love me the same? If I showed you my flaws. If I couldn’t be strong.  


Interhall 
conTinued From page 10 
themselves in position at the 20­yard line with two minutes to go. but st. edward’s freshman defensive back Joe Kimlinger intercepted carroll’s intended touchdown pass on the goal line. 
carroll was able to execute in the second half, scoring on a 33­yard pass to junior captain and receiver anthony vallera. The team was unable to secure the two-point conversion, though, making the score 7-6. 
carroll’s offense engineered what was almost a scoring drive in the last minute of the game, only to have their momentum ended by another st. edward’s interception, this time by soph­omore defensive back parker mathes. 
vallera said he was frustrated with what he perceived to be a lack of consistency. 
“we could move the ball at times, but we couldn’t finish the drives,” he said. “and then we had a few turnovers that we’ve got to fix.” 
st. edward’s junior captain and lineman phineas andrews credited his team’s win to de­fensive plays like those made by Kimlinger and mathes. 
“it was our defense that won the game for us,” andrews said. 
st. edward’s will look to con­tinue their undefeated season next week against Zahm at 
3:30 p.m. at riehle Fields, while carroll has a bye week. 
Contact Molly Murphy at mmurph40@nd.edu 
Cavanaugh 6, Walsh 0 
By ELIZABETH GREASON 
sports writer 
in a battle of two strong de­fenses, cavanaugh edged out walsh in 6-0 game sunday eve­ning. This was cavanaugh’s first win of the season and walsh’s second loss in a row. 
cavanaugh (1-2) was able to overcome two early intercep­tions, both by walsh (1-2) soph­omore lizzie whiteman, and score the only points of the game right before halftime. senior chaos captain Katie Kaes said she was thrilled with her team’s performance and win, empha­sizing the team’s progress. 
“our defense was 400 percent better than last game,” Kaes said. “we’ve had a solid set of girls showing up to everything and it really showed. everyone knew what they were doing and put in their part.” 
Junior walsh captain courtney davis said she feels her team is on the brink of a breakthrough despite their last two losses. 
“i think we’re going to step it up,” davis said. “we’re getting better every single game. it’s just small improvements.” 
davis also knows the impor­tance of building trust between players. 
“i think it’s just getting the chemistry right,” davis said. “cavanaugh clearly had a lot of chemistry with their quarter­back. we need to get to that level too.” 
cavanaugh junior aly anton had several game-changing plays for the chaos, including the only touchdown reception of the day and a crucial late interception. 
cavanaugh’s first win of the year also marked the first time the chaos had held a lead. Kaes said this made the win even more sweet. 
“i like it [winning] a whole lot,” said Kaes. “it’s a lot more fun to leave the game on that note.” 
walsh will play ryan next sunday at 6:00 p.m. at labar practice complex, while cavanaugh will play lyons at the same time. 
Contact Elizabeth Greason at egreason@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 

Farley 18, Pangborn 12 
By JACKIE BREBECK 
sports writer 
Farley continued its winning streak by beating pangborn 18-12 with a last-second touch­down sunday. 
despite trailing 12-0 at half­time, Farley (2-0) persevered and made a comeback. The Finest started the second half with a long catch-and-run from sophomore receiver Katherine Koczwara. Junior quarterback lizzy moulton showcased her versatility by passing for one touchdown and running for two, with her final rushing touchdown coming in the clos­ing seconds of the game. 
on defense, Farley co-captain senior safety michelle summers caught an interception that led to the game-tying touchdown, a long pass in the fourth quarter. senior captain and linebacker ali buersmeyer said she was especially proud of how the de­fense adjusted, enabling the Finest to shut out pangborn in the second half. 
“overall, the whole team stepped up today and it was a great team win,” buersmeyer said. 
Farley senior co-captain rose­marie mazanek said the team chemistry this year has been great as well. 
“most of the team has been playing together for two or three years,” mazanek said. 
pangborn’s offense was do­ing well in the beginning of the game, but when senior cap­tain and quarterback gracie gallagher was injured at the start of second half, it had diffi­culty adjusting. before her inju­ry, gallagher had been a mobile quarterback and threw for one touchdown while running for another. gallagher said she was frustrated about her injury, but was staying positive about their next game. 
“it’s hard to lose on that [run­ning touchdown] play, but those were two amazing catches lead­ing up to it,” gallagher said. “[Farley] played well, we played well, and we will bounce back. The offense was working re­ally well the first half. putting the linemen out allowed us to take advantage of the run. if we play like that for the whole next game, we’ll be good.” 
pangborn next plays mcglinn sunday while Farley plays against howard Tuesday at 7 
p.m. at riehle Fields. 
Contact Jackie Brebeck at jbrebeck@nd.edu 
Pasquerilla West 20,  Lyons 0 
By VICTORIA LLORENS 
sports writer 
pasquerilla west (2-0) shut out lyons with a 20-0 victory sunday to remain undefeated. 
although not reflected in the score, lyons (0-2) was satis­fied with its performance and came away from the game with high spirits and hopes of scor­ing during the next game, junior captain and tight end melissa hoelting said. 
“we had some pretty good stops on defense,” hoelting said. “They had a strong offense, and i was pretty happy with how we did defensively. i think we were pretty tough. offensively, we have a couple things to work on. we’re right there. it’s just we need more practice on connect­ing as a group.” 
The weasels never backed down even when the game was consistently leaning in their fa­vor. senior mary Kate vicenzi, captain and receiver for the weasels, said she applauded the lions on their strong per­formance, especially from girls playing both sides of the field. For the weasels, vicenzi said the defense drove the team to victory. 
“[credit to senior] bernie Jordan and [junior] amanda geiger for both getting intercep­tions this game,” vicenzi said. “i think our defense was the real star of the day. [we got] a shut­out so that’s obviously a good thing.” 
both teams play next on sunday at labar practice complex for their third games of the season. pasquerilla west will play breen-phillips at 5 p.m. and lyons faces cavanaugh at 6 p.m. 
Contact Victoria Llorens at  vllorens@nd.edu 
Knott 28, Duncan 25 
By JOSEPH EVERETT 
sports writer 
Knott got its first win of the season sunday, beating duncan 28-25. 
Knott sophomore quarter­
back  Tom  o’connell  threw  
four  touchdown  passes  to  
four  different  receivers,  and  

the Juggerknott defense made enough plays, especially in de­fending two-point conversions, to win the shootout. 
The game was a stark contrast of offensive styles, as the read-option offense for duncan (0-2) consistently traded touchdowns with the aerial attack of Knott (1­0). The highlanders found suc­cess early and often with their running game, as sophomore quarterback matt Kase fed the ball to his two running-backs, sophomore Tommy staffieri and freshman micah rensch, with the latter scoring all four duncan touchdowns. Junior highlander captain stephen Treacy said he was thrilled with the domination up front. 
“we played a hell of a game,” Treacy said. “i’m really frustrat­ed with the outcome because we really dominated the line.” 
while duncan won in the trenches, Knott used speed and accuracy to churn up of­fensive yardage. Targeting the highlander secondary all game long, o’connell threw touchdowns of 62, 33, 48, and 37 yards to senior Jack Taiclet, sophomore david Kelly, sopho­more brody scholl and senior griffin carroll, respectively. The Juggerknotts sealed the win with a late interception. senior Knott captain casey mccaffrey said his team’s aerial attack and defensive grit were enough to make the difference. 
“i thought the passing today was terrific,” mccaffrey said. “it was great how we battled through tiredness, because we had a lot of guys playing both ways.” 
Knott looks to continue its success next week against siegfried on sunday at 1 p.m. at riehle Fields, while duncan still looks to get its first win when the highlanders face alumni at the same time and place. 
Contact Joseph Everett at  jeveret@nd.edu 
Keenan 41, O’Neill 6 
By ALEX BENDER 
sports writer 
on sunday afternoon, Keenan came out on top with a 41-6 win over o’neill. 
The Knights (2-0) jumped out to a quick start with a long passing touchdown from senior quarterback aaron digenova to senior nathan parisi, one of four passing touchdowns for digenova and two scores for parisi on the day. 
o’neill (0-2) answered on the next drive, capping it off with a pass from junior quar­terback Keenan bailey to fresh­man william mcnabola. The mob was unable to convert the two point attempt, which kept Keenan up 7-6. but that wouldn’t be the case for long as digenova found parisi again and put Keenan up 14-6. 
each of o’neill’s next two drives saw them go three-and­out, both times giving Keenan good field position, which the Knights used to cash in for two more scores and go into the half up 27-6. 
The second half started off with a turnover on downs by o’neill, leaving Keenan poised for another score before o’neill freshman charlie puntillo came up with an interception in the end zone. 
o’neill’s offense continued to struggle against Keenan’s de­fense, which forced a pick of its own before the Knights’ offense eventually tacked on a couple of rushing touchdowns. 
Keenan captain junior mikey Koller said he was extremely pleased with how the game went. 
“offensively, we put it all to­gether, so we’re happy with our performance today and are looking forward to resting up on our bye week next week,” Koller said. 
despite the tough loss, puntillo said the team is trying to stay positive. 
“we were able to move the ball at times, but between the injuries and a young team still learning, it’s tough,” puntillo said. “we’re hoping for better re­sults as the year goes on.” 
next week o’neill takes on Keough at 2:15 p.m. at riehle Fields, and Keenan has a bye. 
Contact Alex Bender at  abender@nd.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
lachowecki — handled the ear­ly adversity. 
“we’ve got a lot of winners on our team,” clark said. “i think there’s a lot of guys who are really competitive, even guys who aren’t captains. you come into our locker room after we’ve not won and they’re not a happy crew. … i think they’ve addressed that. i think they’ve had a couple quiet meetings themselves. There was even a practice there where max just called them in and basically just told them, ‘it’s not good enough.’ 
“obviously [the coaching staff] will tell them, but it’s a lot more effective when they’re their own judges.” 
The challenge worked as the irish wasted no time in shak­ing the slump with a 4-0 vic­tory over michigan state in east lansing, michigan, a week ago. lachowecki himself led the irish charge, scoring just 72 seconds into the game to give the irish an early lead they nev­er relinquished. 
“They hold themselves ac­countable,” clark said of his team. “i think they’ve done a good job of that.” 
The irish kept the roll going back on the alumni stadium pitch Friday night when they blitzed no. 4 virginia, 3-1, out-shooting the cavaliers, 13-5. again, notre dame relied on its veteran leadership as the captain Klekota and senior midfielder evan panken each tallied a goal in the victory. 
it was the second of the year for Klekota, already doubling his goal total from last season, and the first of the campaign for panken, third on the team with four goals a year ago. 
“evan [panken] possibly works harder than any other player on the team,” clark said. “usually panken gets the not­always-most-spectacular goals, but they’re always goals. … and he’s tough as nails.” 
The irish relied heavily on the offensive production from the midfield last season as panken and hodan combined for 13 of notre dame’s 35 goals last season. 
hodan, who led all irish play­ers with nine goals in 2014, has yet to score this season. second on the team in shots with 25 — one behind sophomore forward Jon gallagher, who leads the irish with five goals — hodan has still made an impact. against virginia on Friday, he fed a precise pass through traffic to junior forward mark gormley, who buried his sec­ond goal of the year to give the irish the 1-0 lead. 
clark said panken and hodan work well together both on and off the field. 
“[panken] doesn’t have the glamour stats of hodan, but they’re roommates and they’re a great complement for one an­other,” clark said. “one’s the more skillful player and one’s the worker, and they both score goals. … both are very competi­tive. you can’t coach that, that’s and they’ve got to come out. 


“i don’t think it will take much to get them ready for this game against marquette because they know how the last Tuesday [home] game was, so i’m hop­ing that will be the script.” 
The irish look to keep the highlights rolling against the golden eagles on Tuesday night at 7 p.m. at alumni stadium. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
something that’s born in them. 
“possibly they both had a big brother that kept stealing their candy, i don’t know what it was, something down the line. maybe it’s just their genes, i don’t know.” 
when the irish and golden eagles (3-2-2, 0-0-1 big east) meet up on the alumni stadium pitch Tuesday night, however, clark said there are a couple areas notre dame needs to im­prove upon, such as their focus after scoring a goal, clark said. 



notre dame also needs to handle the mid-week game, af­ter a day full of classes for the players, better than it did in the loss to Xavier, clark said. 
“The first person you look at is yourself,” clark said. “we’ve looked at ourselves and we’ve got to do a better job of mak­ing of making sure they realize the importance of this regional game. it’s got huge rpi implica­tions, so they’ve got to be ready, 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2015 | The observer 



SMC Sports 
conTinued From page 16 
still needs to make some improvements. 
“we need to work on put­ting and chipping,” moore said. “we are always going to have bad hits, but if we can make it up with a good short game, then we will have a chance to still play well. i also want to work on some situational things, putting players in areas where they aren’t normally or are not too familiar.” 
The belles’ next event will be the third miaa Jamboree on Thursday at the Thornapple pointe golf course in grand rapids, michigan. 
Cross Country 
saint mary’s picked up a top-five finish at the miaa Jamboree on saturday at the west ottawa golf club and finished just four points be­hind fourth-place albion. 
“saturday was a pretty good day overall. we stayed in the top five which was the hope, although we were really looking to be at least fifth,” belles head coach Jackie bauters said. “being only four points out of fourth wasn’t very fun, but [it] definitely gives us mo­tivation and drive to make the improvements at our championship meet. we were not at full steam, with [freshman] aubrey penn battling through an injury to compete on saturday. she showed a lot of poise and courage putting the race together that she did and i believe her being healthy will yield much different results.” 
Junior brittany beeler had the best finish for saint mary’s, taking 13th overall. aside from beeler, bauters said she was particularly elizabeth perkins scored impressed with senior allie her third goal of the year on danhof and junior colleen an assist from sophomore ogren, who finished 35th midfielder erin brophy to and 26th, respectively. put their team up 1-0. both 

“colleen ogren stepped defenses held firm for the up and had a great race on remainder of the half, how­saturday,” bauters said. ever, as the score stood at 1-0 “she definitely has even going into halftime. more potential in her, and i in the second half, though, was excited to see her score the belles’ offense man-for the team. aged just one shot, while the 
“allie danhof did a great Flying dutch totaled 17. in job of leading her pack into the 51st minute, brophy con-the finish for the last kilo-nected with perkins a second meter of the race, and was time to put the Flying dutch a great overall leader on the up 2-0. Junior midfielder course. Finally, brittany ran sarah Fazio scored her sec-the race plan set before her ond goal of the season with almost to a ‘t,’ which i was just two seconds remain-very impressed by. we will ing in the game to give the be working on having her Flying dutch a commanding close in on the pack of run-3-0 victory. ners ahead of her, as we both despite seeing his team know she can compete with outshot 28-2 in the game, them.” belles head coach Ken nuber 
after having races every said he was satisfied with his weekend in september, the team’s performance. belles will have next week-“hope is a classy program, end off before they head to and they deserved the win,” the benedictine invitational nuber said. “we battled very the following weekend. well and made things hard 
“overall, i was pleased on them. The shots are mis-with the team’s perfor-leading considering most of mance, especially for them were not dangerous. i our youth in september,” felt we gave up probably sev­bauters said. “i hope this en quality chances, and they weekend off will be very converted three [of them].” beneficial to the team in next on the docket for regards to rest, regrouping, the belles is a road match-focusing on the second half up with adrian on Tuesday of the season goals, and pre-night. The bulldogs (3-3-4, paring for more hard work.” 1-3-2 miaa) have struggled 
The benedictine this year offensively, only invitational will begin oct. scoring three goals through 9 at 5 p.m. 10 games. alternatively, they 
have proven to be difficult to Soccer score on, and have only con-
saint mary’s fell to no. 20 ceded five goals this season. hope on saturday by a score nuber said taking advan­of 3-0, dropping its miaa re-tage of opportunities will be cord to 1-5. key for his team to come away 
The belles (1-7-0, 1-5-0 with a victory, which would miaa) held firm against the keep his team in the thick of undefeated Flying dutch the race for the fourth spot (10-0, 7-0 miaa) for the first in the conference postsea­20 minutes of the game. son tournament. but in the 21st minute, “adrian lives by their Flying dutch junior forward keeper and their defensive 
paid adverTisemenT 

posturing,” nuber said. “They have shutout some good teams. we have to finish out opportunities [against them]. 
“adrian is a huge game for us if we want to move up the standings. The miaa is top-heavy right now and we are in a battle in the middle. if we could finish this week with two wins and get to 3-5, then we are in position to fight for the fourth tourna­ment spot.” 
The belles are set to kick off against the bulldogs on Tuesday at 7 p.m. at docking stadium in adrian, michigan. 
Volleyball 
saint mary’s picked up a win and a loss as it continued its run of conference play this past weekend, hosting hope and visiting olivet. 
in the belles’ first game on Friday, they hosted 14th­ranked hope. after four hard-fought sets, the belles (9-4, 3-3 miaa) saw them­selves on the wrong side of a 3-1 outcome. 
after losing the first set, saint mary’s took the sec­ond one to draw even. in the second set, the score was tied five times, and the lead changed hands three times. The belles went down 13-8 and 21-18, but pulled back to win 25-22. Junior setter alexis grady chipped in with two assists and two kills on the last four points of the set. her strong play throughout the game earned her a triple double with 10 kills, 10 digs and 24 assists. 
after the hard-fought sec­ond set, the belles couldn’t stop hope, and fell in four sets. belles junior setter clare mcmillan recorded her 2,000th career assist during the match, as well as a ca-reer-high 19 digs. 
on saturday, the belles swept olivet 3-0 (25-23, 25­10, 25-16). in the first set, the team trailed 22-20 before they smashed three straight kills to flip the score to 23­
22. in the other two sets, the belles went on early runs to separate themselves from olivet, and didn’t break a sweat the rest of the match. 
The belles will host albion wednesday and look to pull above .500 in conference play against the britons. 
Contact Michael Ivey at  mivey@hcc-nd.edu, Sean Kilmer at skilmer1@nd.edu, Ryan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu and Benjamin Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Football 
conTinued From page 16 
he plays the ball. he had two pass breakups prior to that, and we see that he’s got a chance to be a real good player for us.” 
Quarterbacks sticking together 
Freshman quarterback brandon wimbush saw his first action — and re­corded his first touch­down — saturday in notre dame’s 62-27 win over massachusetts. after the game, sophomore starter deshone Kizer seemed more excited for his teammate’s play than his own, which Kelly said is evidence of the tight bond the irish quarter­backs share. 
“it’s a room that i sit in every day, and i can tell you that they have a very close relationship,” Kelly said about the quarterbacks. “you know, when [junior] malik [Zaire] went down, the first guys that were in that room to see him were brandon and deshone. 
“so it doesn’t surprise me that it’s reciprocal now with deshone and brandon.” 
Kelly went so far as to sug­gest the camaraderie in the group is stronger than it was a season ago, when everett golson was notre dame’s signal caller. 
“last year it wasn’t like this, but this is a different group of kids and they are pretty close,” Kelly said. 
Kelly also mentioned Zaire, who broke his ankle in notre dame’s 34-27 win at virginia on sept. 12, has been fully involved with the team despite his injury. 
“malik Zaire didn’t miss a meeting this past week,” the irish head coach said. “i mean, he did not miss the quarterbacks meetings. That just tells you about him as a person.” 
Kelly also said Zaire will travel with the team to clemson this weekend, as expected. 
Tight end emergence 
a trio of tight ends saw the field for notre dame on saturday — graduate student chase hounshell, sophomore nic weishar and freshman alizé Jones 
— and Kelly said he was pleased with each one’s performance. 
“alizé made a big jump in his assignments,” Kelly said. “he had a number of errors last week. cut down on those. 
“secondly, really pleased with chase hounshell’s blocking. we were able to get to the edge a lot [saturday], and a lot of it was his world. 
“and nic weishar was very, very good in assignments and catching and blocking.” 
as for notre dame’s fourth tight end, sophomore Tyler luatua, Kelly said the irish staff would be cautious re­turning him to the field after suffering the second concussion of his collegiate career. 
“we’re going to be very cautious with Tyler,” Kelly said. “ … we’re going to take the right steps and go through the right protocol, and we’re never going to put a player back in the position to play unless they are 100 percent able to do so.” 
Staying injury-free 
notre dame’s only injury concern from saturday’s win was junior receiver corey robinson, who did not play after suffering a knee injury during pregame warmups. 


Kelly, however, said the irish got positive news sunday, and that robinson will be good to go. 
“no damage to the knee, so we finally came up with good news,” Kelly said. “and we gave him a cortisone shot [sunday], and we expect him to be full go for Tuesday’s practice.” 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2015 | The observer 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


SUDOKU | The mepham group 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
happy birthday: get the ball rolling. don’t let laziness take over or emotional matters bog you down. charge into the future with enthusiasm and the willingness to start new ventures and bring about positive change. you will thrive on chasing success and proving to yourself and others what you are capable of doing. speak up and make a difference. your numbers are 5, 12, 24, 27, 32, 41, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t let things get to you. stay calm and do your best to enjoy the company of the people you like to be around. a suggestion or offer looks promising. a move will bring positive changes to your life. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): accept the changes going on around you at work or with regard to a situation you are dealing with medically, legally or financially. look at the big picture instead of focusing on minor details that won’t make a difference in the end. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): your ability to ignite enthusiasm in others will help you finish what you start. you can make positive changes at home and to your personal life that will eliminate some of the negative pressure others are putting on you. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): indecision will be a problem. gather all the pertinent information and make a choice to head in one direction or another. being realistic will ensure that no matter what you decide, you will be able to reach your goal. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): go where the action is. a day trip or setting up meetings that will help you express your thoughts, ideas and plans to people who can contribute is favored. love and romance are highlighted and will improve your outlook and your future. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): an unexpected change to a contract, legal matter, settlement or investment will leave you in a quandary. use your past experience to help you make good decisions. don’t let anyone pressure you to do something questionable. Take your time. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): avoid anyone who gives you a hard time. you will be prone to emotional misunderstandings, so try to spend your time doing something you enjoy or bringing about positive change. a pick-me-up will do you good. romance is encouraged. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take better care of your health. put greater emphasis on expanding your professional interests. networking activities should include some unusual people who will inspire you to get more involved in industry events. you’ll gain respect if you contribute your expertise. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you may feel like going on an adventure, but try to stick close to home. problems while traveling or dealing with foreign policy or institutions can be expected. work toward raising your profile and improving your reputation. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): problems with a friend, relative or neighbor will develop if changes are made without approval or if lines of communication are misinterpreted. do your best to be precise and open about your plans if they will affect others. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): gather information and share your thoughts with people you trust and have known for a long time. you can bring about financial changes that will benefit you and the ones you love by cutting corners and investing wisely. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): you’ll face roadblocks if you are demanding. a partnership will suffer due to an unexpected change of plans. a favor will be required if you want to reach your goals. ask only for what you need to advance. 


Birthday Baby: you are quick, intelligent and progressive. you are emotional and persistent. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 




make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Kelly praises Redfield, quarterback chemistry 

By ALEX CARSON 
associate sports editor 
after not seeing the field against georgia Tech due to a combination of injury and scheme, junior safety max redfield returned to the field saturday against massachusetts, getting a heavy dose of playing time in the second half. 
irish head coach brain Kelly said sunday that redfield, who broke his thumb during notre dame’s 38-3 win over Texas on sept. 5, is getting more comfort­able with dealing with the injury. 
“we’re a little concerned with his tackling, but we see that is coming along and he’s feeling a lot more con­fident,” Kelly said during his weekly teleconference. “he’s three weeks now with that cast. i think we’re going to see more and more confi­dence each week with him.” 
Kelly said redfield and graduate student matthias Farley will continue to split time at the free safe­ty position, across from senior strong safety elijah shumate. he said redfield saw the field a lot in the sec­ond half due to a heavy dose of zone coverage. 
“i think max certainly got an opportunity in the sec­ond half when we played a lot more zone,” Kelly said. “we like the fact that he’s certainly got great speed and the ability to play the ball.” 
nick coleman also saw a decent amount of time in the game at safety saturday, and Kelly said there’s a lot the staff likes about the freshman’s game. 
“we really like nick,” Kelly said. “he’s got speed. he’s got great competitiveness. [he] plays the ball well in the air, but his technique is not where we need it to be. and the case in point, the touchdown he got beat on, he just got beat at the line using poor technique. 
“but we want to get him more and more playing time because we have a really good feeling about the way 
see FooTball PAGE 14 
SMC SPORTS 

belles finish third at Jamboree 
By BENJAMIN PADANILAM, MICHAEL IVEY, SEAN KILMER and RYAN KLAUS 
sports writers 
Golf 
saint mary’s finished in a tie with Trine for third place overall in the team stand­ings at the second miaa conference Jamboree of the year saturday in Kalamazoo, michigan, after finishing fourth in the first Jamboree on wednesday. 
“i wasn’t too surprised with this weekend’s results,” belles head coach Kim moore said. “i figured the top four from the previous Jamboree would be the top four in this Jamboree.  however, i am a bit surprised with Trine’s performance this week­end.  The do have talented players but i was surprised with their team score of 329, which was the same as ours. having said that, it is fun to have the top 4 as close as we are after two events.” 
Junior ali mahoney and senior sammie averill had the best scores for the belles on the day, both finishing with a 79 to finish in a tie for fifth place in the individual standings. Junior courtney carlson shot an 85 on the day to finish in a tie for 18th place in the individual standings, while freshman Taylor Kehoe shot an 86 and junior rachel Kim finished with an 88. 
“i was excited to see ali mahoney bounce back from a higher score during the first Jamboree,” moore said. “i was also really happy for sammie averil, who shot a personal and collegiate best score of 79, which tied her 5th overall this past weekend. 
“i was happy that my team bounced back from a poor performance in the first Jamboree. we were able to stay close to the second-place team, olivet college.” 
although moore is pleased with her team’s improve­ment, she said the team 
see smc sporTs PAGE 13 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Irish ready for matchup with visiting Marquette 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports editor 
Following a stretch where it dropped consecutive match­es for the first time since early october last season, no. 14 notre dame respond­ed with a pair of dominant victories last week. now the irish look to build upon that success with a mid-week matchup against marquette on Tuesday night at alumni stadium. 
notre dame (6-2-1, 2-1-0 acc) fell in its first mid-week home match against Xavier, 1-0, on sept. 15 before drop­ping a 4-2 decision on the road at north carolina three days later. 
monday, notre dame head coach bobby clark said after those two losses he was im­pressed with how his team’s leadership — spearheaded by tri-captains, senior mid­fielders patrick hodan and connor Klekota and gradu­ate student defender max 
see m soccer PAGE 12 





