The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 45 | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
‘China policy’ changes spark discussion 
Faculty, students weigh in on updated policy regarding apparel production 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
news editor 
in an email to the notre dame community last wednesday, university president Fr. John Jenkins an­nounced six factories in china would be allowed to produce notre dame licensed apparel for the first time in nearly 15 years. 
The announcement marks the evolution of a decision that came to be known as the “china policy” and which disallowed factories in china and 10 other countries to produce apparel bearing the university’s logo. That policy, according to the website of the executive vice president, came about in 2001 based on recommendations by the 

see china PAGE 4 ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 





Firm releases lawsuit details 
Observer Staff Report 
The university fired the employee at the center of a recently filed lawsuit alleging sexual harassment and racial discrimination, according to a letter released monday by the law firm representing the student who filed the suit. 
The names of the student and the now-former employ­ee, an academic coach, were redacted in the letter origi­nally sent to the  student by the university’s office of 
see lawsuiT PAGE 3 


CSLC introduces language to ‘Humans vs. Vampires’ 
By JENNA WILSON 
news writer 
beginning today, notre dame’s campus will be the site of an epic battle between hu­mans and vampires. 
Tuesday marks the first day of the annual humans vs. vampires game, sponsored by the center for the study of languages and cultures (cslc). according to Joachim castellano, technology and administrative program man­ager for the cslc, the game will run through saturday and ends with an awards ceremony sunday. 
“basically, it’s a game of tag,” castellano said. “There are two teams, the humans and the vampires, and every student who participates will be as­signed to one team. [each team] has to kill each other. There are five missions throughout the games that take place at night, so [students] will see a lot of people running around shoot­ing nerF guns at each other.” 
according to castellano, this is the second year the cslc has sponsored the event. before the cslc took over the event, it was sponsored by the student activities office (sao), he said. 

denise ayo, assistant direc­tor for academic programs for the cslc, said after the center took over the game, they began to incorporate foreign language elements into game play. 
“For example, [players] re­ceive clues or directions in, for example, german or another foreign language offered at notre dame,” ayo said. “last year, they had [a mission] where you had to take a big heavy box of dirt across campus. when the humans arrived to figure out their mission, the person there to describe the mission only spoke Korean. so they were sitting there talking in Korean. also, there are hidden items that will help [members of the team] and give [players] im­munity, but the riddles to find [these items] will be in a foreign language.” 
originally humans vs. Zombies was played on notre dame’s campus, ayo said. however, after the cslc be­came involved with the game, the center changed the game to humans vs. vampires, as bram stoker’s “dracula” is one of the most widely translated texts in the world. 
“you can find ‘dracula’ in catalan, german, French — all the languages we teach and have instructors here that speak the language,” she said. “That’s why we made the switch from zombies to vampires.” 
according to ayo, the “dracula” aspect of the game and the foreign language aspect of the game intersect through­out play time and during the awards ceremony. 
“[The game] culminates in a public reading of dracula in the various languages, which is re­ally exciting,” ayo said. “it’s the biggest event where students can really interact with the professors. we have professors reading from the texts, we have peer tutors reading from the 
see vampires PAGE 3 

‘like a mighty Tree’ depicts smc founding years 
of Formidable women,” a play written and directed by susan baxter, senior lecturer of communication studies. 
baxter said she wrote “like a mighty Tree” after susan 
see reading PAGE 3 

By ALEX WINEGAR 
associate saint mary’s editor 
last night, first-year students at saint mary’s gathered togeth­er in o’laughlin auditorium to view the staged reading of “like a mighty Tree: a short history 





Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com What dish are you looking forward to the most this Thanksgiving? 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 

Andrea Martinez         
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
Dominguez

                   Jack rooney                       cristina gutierrez 
freshman 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green 
howard hall
           Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
“Turkey tamales.” 

News Editor: margaret hynds 
Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice 
Carlos Grosso 
Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu 
freshman

 Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor 
stanford hall 

Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
“Turkey slices with gravy.” 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Ashtin Ballard 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
freshman 
Managing Editor 
howard hall 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
“green bean casserole.” 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Luis Lazalde 
junior 
Zahm house 
“buffalo wings.” 
Leslie Vergara 
freshman 
howard hall 
“bacon-wrapped turkey.” 
Reinaldo Angola-Hernandez 
freshman 
siegfried hall 
“ensalada de gallina.” 
Want your event included here? Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Photo Desk 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 

(574)631-8839 Workshop: “Crafting Reading “The Morality of Silent Retreat Hockey vs. Minnesota a Strong Grant Hammes Bookstore Capitalism” Moreau Seminary Compton Family Ice 
Policies 

Proposal” 7:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m. Hesburgh Library 5:30 p.m. Arena 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
Brownson Hall Acclaimed Fairy 4:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. Retreat focused on 6:35 p.m. 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 5 p.m.-5:45 p.m. tale author Kate Steve Forbes delivers silent prayer and The Gophers challenge including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
Learn about grants. Bernheimer will read. a lecture. reflection. the Irish. 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as Snite Salon Series Student Micro Retreat Men’s Basketball vs. Volleyball vs. Virginia “Pericles” possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
Snite Museum of Art LaFortune Student Caldwell Tech Washington Hall 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
5 p.m.-5:45 p.m. Center Joyce Center Joyce Center 4 p.m.-6 p.m. 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not Gather to discover 7:30 p.m.-8:15 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Producion by the Not-necessarily those of The observer. 
artwork and exchange New micro retreat The Irish take on the Notre Dame squares So-Royal Shakespeare 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
thoughts. series. Cougars. off with the Hokies. company. 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 

Experiential seminar on poverty 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 
immerses students in cities 
024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: “we think that maybe students csc has added more cities as options 
By EMMA BORNE 
The observer 

p.o. box 779 news writer might not have seen an aspect of and more sites within some of those 
024 south dining hall 

notre dame, in 46556-077 that [city],” marley bonnichsen said. cities, especially when the demo-
The observer is a member of the associated press. 

all reproduction rights are reserved. This winter break, many students “They may have only been to these graphics of the notre dame student will celebrate the holidays enjoying downtown areas or urbanized areas body are such that there is a large time with with family, relaxing with for entertainment or a financial dis-group of students from a particular friends and exploring the causes of trict or a cute little artsy part of the area. The csc has also extended the poverty. Through urban plunge, a section. They might not have seen immersion experience — a few years one-credit, experiential learning kind of the full face of that area.” ago students were on urban plunge seminar offered by the center for marley bonnichsen said any stu-for only 24 hours; now trips last for 

News Sports 

catherine owers Zach Klonsinski social concerns (csc), students will dent can participate in the urban up to 5 days of immersion. andrea vale manny de Jesus 
travel to 32 sites in metropolitan ar-plunge, not just those who have an marley bonnichsen said the hope is 
nicole caratas molly murphy 
eas across the country to gain a better extensive record of participating in for urban plunge to impact students 
Graphics Scene 

understanding of poverty in america service. in a way that will inform the rest of 
eric richelsen miko malabute 
and the organizations that are trying “[we’re looking for] a student who’s their time at notre dame and in-
Photo Viewpoint 

to alleviate it. open to learning a little bit about form the issues about which they are 
sarah olson austin Taliaferro 
melissa marley bonnichsen, direc-themselves [and] about these orga-passionate. tor of social concerns seminars at nizations that are working in their “i think it’s a very easy and tangible the csc, said students spend time backyard, students who are open to way for students to come into contact 
Corrections 

in the classroom for five weeks prior thinking a little bit more about pov-with a world that’s perhaps not their 
The observer regards itself as to the trip, studying poverty and the erty and folks that are experiencing own, to see what’s going on in their a professional publication and 
church in action, and then spend that, students who are just looking own backyard and to really wrestle strives for the highest standards 
time outside of the classroom in an for something fun and positive to do with these issues of what does it mean 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
immersion experience over winter over break. it really is … open to any to respond and be active in light of 
however, recognize that we will make 
break. There are 32 urban plunge one,” marley bonnichsen said. injustice and poverty,” she said. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
sites, and students are encouraged The seminar has been around for 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so to participate in a site that is close to 30 years and has grown over time, ac-Contact Emma Borne at  
we can correct our error. their hometown. cording to marley bonnichsen. The eborne@nd.edu 

ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2015 | The observer 

Lecture examines animal overconsumption 
By AIDAN LEWIS 
news writer 
Fr. denis edwards, a pro­fessorial fellow in theology at australian catholic university, examined pope Francis’s en­cyclical on the environment, laudato si’, during a lecture monday evening at geddes hall. in his talk, edwards fo­cused on the value the en­cyclical places on nonhuman creatures. 
in the past, edwards said, it was largely believed that there should be “no ethical com­mitment to animals because they are there for human use.” edwards said the encyclical contradicts this, since it places an inherent value on the life of an animal. 
“we must recognize that they have intrinsic value,” edwards said. “They have val­ue before god, their creator. They give glory to god by being what they are.” 
as a result, this makes our overconsumption of animals morally wrong, edwards said. 
“because of our human ac­tions, thousands of species will no longer give glory to god by their very existence nor convey their message to us,” he said 
in order to prevent further extinctions, edwards said, we must stop viewing animals as solely a resource for humans to exploit. 
“see other creatures as having their own god-given meaning and value, and so as demanding respect, protection and love from human beings,” edwards said. 
Further, edwards said we should respect animal life because the natural world, which nonhuman creatures are a part of, can reveal god. 

“we are called to find god in all things, to be open to dis­
“See other creatures as having their own God-given meaning and value, and so as demanding respect, protection and love from human beings.” 
Fr. Denis Edwards 
professorial fellow 

Australian Catholic University 
cover the divine presence in all the creatures we encounter,” 
edwards said. 
since every creature is a part of the natural world, ev­ery unique creature is vitally important to the appearance of god in the natural world, and must be treated as such. 
“The manifestation of god in the natural world requires a multitude of diverse crea­tures. … divine goodness nec­essarily transcends the limit of any one creature, and the diversity represents the full­ness of god,” edwards said. 
edwards explored the idea presented in the encyclical that both human and nonhu­man creatures combine to form what the encyclical calls a “sublime communion.” in this context, edwards said sublime refers to “what is to­tally beyond us, to what is full of mystery, to what is incomprehensible.” 
because of this, edwards said, the sublime communion supports the idea that “the mystery of christ is at work in a hidden manner in the natu­ral world.” 
as mysterious as this work is, it must relate to the coex­istence and harmony of both humans and nonhumans in the natural world, he said. 
“This is the basis of our conviction that, as part of the universe, called into being by one father, all of us are linked by unseen bonds and together form a kind of universal fam­ily, a sublime communion which fills us with a sacred, affectionate and humble re­spect,” he said. 
Contact Aidan Lewis at  alewis9@nd.edu 
Reading 
conTinued From page 1 
vanek, associate dean for advising, asked her if she would write a play about the history of the college and its early years. 
baxter said she received a faculty development grant from the center for academic innovation to write the play. she said they reached out to alumnae and students to collect stories of sr. madeleva wolff, the college’s president during the 60s. 
“we got alumnae to write in about their memories about her, because a lot of her students and people that knew her were still alive. we got floods of wonderful memories,” baxter said. 
The play goes through various time periods, baxter said. one section features wolff in a fictitious scenar­io where she is at freshman convocation, meetings she used to have with first years to discuss various subjects. 
baxter said other parts of the play follow the struggles of the original four sisters of the holy cross and the strug­gles of the holy cross found­ers, including Fr. moreau’s commissioning the first four sisters of the holy cross, the founding of saint mary’s in 1844, moving the cam­pus back and forth between south bend and bertrand and mother angela’s serving in the civil war. 
baxter said she only used secondary sources, not pri­mary sources, because there was so much information to include in the historical play. 
“i didn’t even get to col­lege archives. … The chal­lenge in writing it was not to find enough; the challenge was, ‘what do i leave out?’ because there’s so many amazing things that these sisters who founded saint mary’s did,” she said. 
baxter said each year, first-year students are asked, “why are you here?” she said she hoped the play would help students be able to answer that question. 
“as i began to take these stories apart, sister madeleva’s included, i think before you answer that ques­tion you have to know what ‘here’ is,” baxter said. “what is this place?’ it is not just another college. There is a pervasive spirituality here that’s sometimes challeng­ing and sometimes quite liberal in its thought, and i don’t mean that in a politi­cal way i mean by constantly asking questions. 
“so that’s what i am hoping first years will understand about this place, it is unique,” she said. “… iit isn’t like some of these other places that you can more easily put your finger on where you are. There’s a heritage here that affects the future.” 

at the end of the play there is a litany of some of the hun­dreds of places the sisters of the holy cross established around the world over the years, baxter said. 
“Fr. moreau says, ‘holy cross will grow like a mighty tree,’ and there’s this three-branched tree and as each apostolate is read, a branch has to grow on the tree for it to spread out,” she said. 
baxter said the heroic sis­ters she described in her play not as the exception for the sisters of the holy cross, but rather the norm. 
“as incredible as i think these stories are, i can’t wait to see what [the sisters of the holy cross] do next,” she said. “i think that these ex­traordinary people as they come in and out of the saint mary’s realm, we don’t no­tice that until their legacies are put together. i’m not sure people knew how extraordi­nary sr. madeleva was, or mother angela, until all the stories come together.” 
Contact Alex Winegar at awine01@saintmarys.edu 
Vampires 
conTinued From page 1 
text, we have foreign language teaching assistants read­ing from the texts. it’s a great way to integrate students who don’t come into [the cslc] normally and they come to get their awards and pizza and 
“We want students to be passionate about learning a foreign language, so we try to expose students to learning and practicing a language outside of the classroom.” 
Joachim Castellano 
technology and administrative 
program manager 
CSLC 
talk about the game and then they are exposed to foreign language.” 
castellano said the main goal of the cslc is to get stu­dents involved with foreign languages. Though the foreign language requirement varies depending on a student’s col­lege, the cslc wants to en­gage all students in the study of languages, and this game is a way for the cslc to reach out to every student, regard­less of their language require­ment, or lack thereof. 
“we want students to be passionate about learning a foreign language, so we try to expose students to learn­ing and practicing a language outside of the classroom,” castellano said. “For anyone who really takes up a foreign language, there are a lot of op­portunities to fall in love with it when you are using it in real life. it becomes less of an aca­demic exercise and more like something that is part of ev­eryday life.” 
by incorporating elements of foreign language into a fun game, castellano said he be­lieves the center can reach more students. 
“This event creates a space to use languages in a game-like environment, and we are basically trying to say to notre dame students that learning a language is a lot of fun — it is more than what you do in the classroom, and it can open up your world to different oppor­tunities in your life,” he said. “it might start with a humans vs. vampires game, but hope­fully it will inspire students to study foreign language more deeply and it may lead them to a future career or future life.” 
Contact Jenna Wilson at  jwilso35@nd.edu 
Lawsuit 
conTinued From page 1 
institutional equity and dat­ed oct. 16. 
The suit, filed Friday in st. Joseph county circuit court, alleges a white university employee — “Jane roe” — coerced the plaintiff — “John doe,” an african-american student at the university — into a sexual relationship with her daughter, who at­tends a “nearby school” and is also an employee of the university. The suit also al­leges university admin­istrators knew about the misconduct and, under Title vi and Title iX, had a respon­sibility to intervene for the student’s wellbeing, which was compromised by a ra­cially and sexually hostile environment. 
The letter from Karrah miller, director of the office of institutional equity and Title iX coordinator, stated that the university determined the academic coach’s behavior “violat­ed the university’s values and the university’s sexual harassment policy. as a re­sult [academic coach] was terminated from employ­ment with the university. [daughter] was not found to be in violation of any university policy.” 

according to the letter, the investigation used the “pre­ponderance of evidence” standard to determine the university’s course of action against the employee. 
“a ‘preponderance of evi­dence’ standard means that it is more likely than not that the event occurred (i.e., that there is a 51 percent chance the event occurred.) This is the standard of proof re­quired by the office of civil rights (a division of the department of education) in Title iX (i.e., sexual harass­ment) investigations,” the letter stated. 
notre dame’s vice presi­dent for public affairs and communications paul browne said Friday the university is aware of the suit but denies all allega­tions of misconduct on the part of the university. 
“The allegations against the university of notre dame in the complaint are unfounded, as are gratuitous and unfounded references to ‘student athletes’ — an alle­gation that is nothing more than a cynical attempt to at­tract publicity,” browne said in a statement. 


The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

own choosing, independent of participation did not meet china?” currently serves as the presi-China employer or government inter-catholic social teaching [and] enderle said the law prohib-dent of basend, a student conTinued From page 1 ference,” graff said in an email. the committee planned to rec-iting freedom of association club that encourages socially­
“without that freedom, work-ommend production in china was not necessarily the only conscious business practices. 
Task Force on anti-ers cannot in any authentic anyway.” thing the committee needed to Kennedy echoed the commit-sweatshop initiatives, which way express their interests.” whitmore said he disagreed look at. tee’s sentiment that getting was appointed in 1999 by professor georges enderle, with the decision to resume “ … china isn’t allowing the other universities and institu­university president emeritus who teaches business eth-production of apparel in china. freedom of association in the tions on board with the policy Fr. monk malloy. ics and marketing, sat on the “given that the previous law, and that is true. i regret needed to be a priority. 
in 2013, executive vice committee. he said each of policy worked well, there is that very much,” he said. “but “while i do not agree with the president John affleck-the factories that will produce no compelling reason for the it is also a fact that a law of the limits of the chinese govern-graves appointed the worker university licensed apparel university to make product in country is one thing, and the ment, i think that it is impor­participation committee had been vetted by an assess-china, a country where there reality on the ground is some-tant to recognize and support (wpc) to re-evaluate the rec-ment tool developed by the is no recognition of the free-thing else. and so, if we can the companies operating ethi­ommendations put forth by the wpc in conjunction with the dom of association,” he said. cooperate with companies cally even without governmen­task force in 2001. non-governmental organiza-“moreover, given that notre that are actually outstanding, i tal obligation,” he said in an 
university spokesper-tion (ngo) verite composed dame licenses a limit amount think it’s good for notre dame, email. “The previous policy, son dennis brown said the of more than 70 questions in of product, to make prod-and it’s good for the companies. though bold in its righteous-university re-visited the policy english and chinese. enderle uct in china is to take away we can support each other.” ness, failed to enact change because the committee judged said this helped the wpc cre-production from workers in professor christine due to the lack of participation it had not had its intended ate a larger picture of the facto-those countries that recog-cervenak, associate director of from other universities.” impact. ries it considered. nize the workers’ freedom of the center for civil and human enderle agreed and said the 
“The hope when the policy “These are important ques-association.” rights in the law school, reit-steps taken to create the new was adopted in 2001 was that tions which we have asked not graff, who does not sit on the erated that the purpose of the policy would be helpful in cre­[the ‘china policy’] would be only managers but also work-committee, said he not was in six-factory pilot program is to ating a sustainable model for emulated by other universities, ers independent of those man-favor of the pilot program. determine the viability of ethi-ethical business practice to be but no others followed our lead agers, outside the factories,” “while i support the cally producing in countries implemented in other coun­and our actions had no impact enderle said. “That is an impor-university playing a more ac-that do not recognize freedom tries and by other institutions. at all on chinese practices,” he tant thing — that we have the tive role in monitoring the con-of association. “we want to get the full pic-said in an email. truth and honest information.” ditions under which licensed “we still don’t know wheth-ture, not just china,” he said. 
at the heart of the ‘china professor Todd whitmore, goods are made, i don’t under-er notre dame will expand “china is, so to speak, the first policy’ is the issue of freedom co-director of the catholic stand why we should violate production to china beyond step. … The final goal is to have of association, which china social Tradition minor, sat our code of conduct in regard the very limited production a consistent code of conduct and other countries do not on the original Task Force on to freedom of association in or-carried out during the pilot for companies and factories recognize as a right. professor anti-sweatshop initiatives der to do so,” he said. “why not phase,” she said in an email. around the world which align daniel graff, director of the and for a time on the worker investigate where goods are al-“The pilot is meant to deter-with our mission as a catholic higgins labor program, de-participation committee. ready being made, in countries mine whether we can do better university. we want to do that scribed freedom of association whitmore said in an email that do not violate our current by limited and principled en-in the hope that other universi­in terms of labor unions. that he “respectfully stepped policy? if our concerns are gagement at the factory level, ties will join us afterwards.” 
“Freedom of association down” from the wpc when workers and their rights, there versus continuing the policy of means the freedom to form “it became clear that what the are plenty of factories that non-engagement.” Contact Margaret Hynds and join unions of workers’ committee meant by worker could use our attention. why Junior John Kennedy mhynds@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MAURA MONAHAN 
scene writer 

a new website has its heart set on shin­ing the lights of broadway on theatre fans everywhere. 
in late october, broadway produc­ers stewart F. lane and bonnie comley launched a new streaming website called broadwayhd, which provides, after pay­ment of subscription or rental fees, access to a library of filmed stage productions. while its selections are still slight at the moment, its aspirations are high. The ser­vice’s website describes itself as being “on a mission to promote and preserve live theatre, extending the reach of broadway and broadway-caliber shows to anyone, anywhere.” Their project is among the lat­est to attempt to challenge and update the status of live performance in the netflix age, where consumption of entertain­ment increasingly occurs online. 
broadwayhd is not the first website to feature streaming of theatrical content, but its proposed scope, its singular atten­tion to theatre and its exclusively online platform differentiates it from many of its competitors. netflix has occasionally in­cluded live-recorded productions, such as “shrek The musical,” on its diverse roster, but such content is hardly the site’s focus. 
By ALEXANDRA LOWERY 
scene writer 

if you and your best friend have never discussed the fact that the two of you are essentially a camera-ready comedic duo that would surely make it big as reality stars or vloggers, then your friendship is due for a re-evaluation. The rarity, how­ever, is obviously the bFF pair with real comedic talent who braves the youTube uploading software and somehow cre­ates a web show that will accumulate more than 25 million views in less than two years. 
For best friends allison raskin and gaby dunn, this is a thing that hap­pened. Their web show “Just between us”, a low-budget scripted comedy pro­duction masquerading as a weekly love advice vlog, has amassed nearly half a The “great performances” series through pbs prominently features plays and musi­cals, such as its october broadcast of “billy elliot,” in its rotation. national Theatre live out of the u.K. focuses on cinematic rather than online releases. 
what all of these share in common is an endeavor to make theatre more ac­cessible to more people. as a theatre fan who grew up in west michigan and had access to broadway only in delayed or partial forms, i greatly appreciate the attempt. 
conversations about theatrical acces­sibility found recent vigor following J.K. rowling’s announcement that “harry potter and the cursed child,” a play writ­ten by Jack Thorne in collaboration with rowling and set to premiere in london next summer, will function as a sequel to the books of the beloved “harry potter” series. The play marks the first release of a major installment in the franchise’s story that will have significantly limited accessibility. even fans who would glad­ly pay for the opportunity to experience the play but who live far from london or are unable to secure a high-demand ticket may be out of luck. The idea of conceiving a means to widely distribute this upcoming production is popular, at least among fans. 
million subscribers since its inception in april 2014. Fans can email in their burning questions about love, sexuality, feminism and friendship, and (maybe) allison and gaby will give some solid advice about it. but it’s not likely. 
recognizable from the occasion­al buzzFeed video you’ll find scrolling through your timelines, raskin and dunn have made it clear that in all ac­tuality they give terrible advice. The web series, which is more a vehicle for the team’s comedic writing and acting skills than anything else, has managed to bril­liantly maintain the feeling that the au­dience is just watching an odd-couple bicker hilariously to a camera, all the while weaving in clever quips and social commentary. 
character driven and fueled by the dy­namic between two opposite halves of 

even if broadcast, those who see the play live may have fundamentally differ­ent experiences than those who experi­ence it recorded. 
different approaches to sharing the­atre outside of the theater exist. while the above-mentioned sources generally film productions as they are performed on stage — with all their sets, lighting and choreography intact — nbc of­fers another model. Their recently en­sconced tradition of broadcasting one musical live annually, which opened with “The sound of music” in 2013 and will proceed next month with a Queen latifah-headlined performance of “The wiz,” represents not so much innova­tion in the televising of theatre as it does a revival. Fox has picked up the trend, too, planning a broadcast of “grease” in January 2016. 
plenty of films are preserved in of­ficial videotaped recordings. These are housed in the Theatre on Film and Tape archive at the new york public library for the performing arts. in general, they are available for viewing only to aca­demics and professionals in the field of theatre. There, they become artifacts 
— non-commercial, highly exclusive ob­
jects of study. The potential of broadwayhd and 
an amusing whole, the stars of Jbu play “heightened versions” of themselves, ac­cording to an interview the pair did with bitch media podcast “popaganda.” 
allison in the show is “neurotic, anx­ious and abides by old-school rules of what it means to be a woman,” raskin said, while gaby is “just insane, very militant feminist [and] sexually aggres­sive,” dunn said. on second thought, raskin said, “gaby is pretty much gaby” while she, allison, is “playing the worse version of [herself] five years ago.” 
The characters have incited fan art, Tumblr hashtags and even hardcore shippers of the platonic couple, officially dubbed “gallison”. capitalizing on the whirlwind success of their channel, the team has recently added traditional comedy sketches to their youTube rep­ertoire. raskin and dunn now produce similar sites may lie in their becoming able to share those artifacts to the gen­eral public. should they accomplish this, they could broach not only the problems of distance, availability and affordabil­ity that inhibit access to theatre, but also the fourth crucial issue of timing — many of the shows that fans are eager to witness closed before they were born. 
at the moment, that seems to be broadwayhd’s goal. however, theatre has always been essentially ephemeral. no two performances are ever the same. when live, a magical relationship devel­ops between the audience and the ac­tors. The audience accepts an invitation into the cast’s world, sharing their air and feeding their energy, participating inherently in the work done on stage. without sharing a space, the process of emotional exchange between per­formers and audience becomes stilted. streaming of theatre, for all the richness that it can share, can never fully sub­stitute for the experience of theatre live and in-person. 
but without the option of the live expe­rience, i’ll take what i can get and stream whatever broadwayhd offers me. 
Contact Maura Monahan at                mmonaha4@nd.edu 
a second short weekly video in which they shed comedic light on subject mat­ter such as adult tantrums, friendship breakups and how exactly allison’s “bachelorette” audition would play out. 
despite all odds and lack of faith in the production on allison and gaby’s part (given the fact that the e-mail they cre­ated for receiving questions is 2014just­betweenus@gmail.com), the show’s unique format, heartwarming friend­ship and downright hilariousness, has incited a breakneck rise in popularity that does not seem to be slowing down anytime soon. do yourself a favor, make like a hipster and become a fan before they make it even bigger. you’ll thank me later. 
Contact Alexandra Lowery at              alowery1@nd.edu 
ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 



The observer |  TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Hot old buildings 
Katie Galioto 
news writer 

Three weeks ago, my roommate and i used phrases like “suffocating,” “sweaty” and “an oven” to describe our room in walsh hall. if you’ve never met us, you should know that we never exag­gerate situations. 
The next day, a repairman came to fix our broken heaters. Fun fact: we were all asleep when he knocked on the door. 
imagine our excitement when he later described the heating valves in our room as “a hundred years old and probably the worst valves i’ve seen over the course of his entire career.” it adds a little thrill to a monday. luckily, the heater was fixed in no time. our room is back to its normal temperature. when we open the windows, the room actu­ally cools down (this was not the case before). 
i told this story to my friend from a different college, and she was shocked. she lives in a very standard college dorm room in a fairly new building. it’s a room that’s perfectly square, with fully functioning heating and air conditioning. 
i think my friend was half fascinated and half horrified when i told her more about life in a building that is more than 100 years old. i wove a tale of bats and bay windows, arched doorways and an­cient elevators. at the end of my story, she said she appreciated her boring dorm more. 
i immediately thought of lou holtz’s famous quote describing notre dame: “if you’ve been there, no explanation is necessary. if you haven’t, none is ad­equate.” my friend certainly couldn’t understand why i count down the days until i get to sleep in a lofted bed in a tiny room. no explanation can ad­equately convey to her my reasons for loving walsh hall, bats and all. 
old buildings are cool (just not in a literal sense). There’s something special about living in a building that has 100 years of history and traditions. my dorm has high ceilings, tile runners and win­dows of all shapes and sizes. each one of the rooms is unique. we like to say the building has “character.” 
someone once told me a story about a past walsh resident who visited campus over the summer. The man got someone to let him into his old room. he started to cry, moved by a flood of memories. over the years, thousands of men and women have studied for tests in the rooms of walsh. They’ve hosted parties and watched football games together. They’ve called this building their home. 
i can see myself one day returning to my dorm. i’d probably step into my room and look fondly at everything about the place i used to live — even the heaters. 
Contact Katie Galioto at kgalioto@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Iraq had WMDs 
Stephen Raab 
let’s Talk smart 

in aesop’s Fable of “The boy who cried wolf,” a foolish shepherd repeatedly tells nearby villagers that a nonexistent wolf has come to attack his sheep. after failing to find the wolf, the villagers grow sick of his tricks. unfortunately for the shepherd, a real wolf then appears, and when he tries to tell the vil­lagers of the impending attack, they disbelieve him and his sheep are slaughtered. 
such is the fate of the george w. bush administra­tion in the wake of the iraq war. as a major plank of the pretext for invasion, the administration repeat­edly claimed that iraq possessed and was continuing to develop weapons of mass destruction (“wmds”), and that these could be used by the hussein regime or hussein-affiliated terrorists to kill american citi­zens. when we got into iraq, however, many of these claims turned out to be false or overblown, and the american people were incensed. wmds became a punch line; years of stump speeches and late-night comedy burned the knowledge that iraq had no such weapons into the public consciousness. The strange part is that we actually did find wmds in iraq. we found thousands of them. 
in February 2015, the new york Times released a detailed investigation of operation avarice. in this secret program, the cia purchased rockets contain­ing nerve agents from a secret merchant in post­hussein iraq, with the goal of keeping these weapons out of the hands of terrorists. (This sort of buyback program is conducted frequently by the cia; they’ve done it with surface-to-air missiles in both post-soviet afghanistan and post-Qaddafi libya.) From 2005 to 2006, more than 400 borak rockets contain­ing sarin gas were purchased and destroyed by the 
u.s. government, and others had been turning up as early as 2004. meanwhile, american ordinance dis­posal teams were digging up m110 mustard gas artil­lery shells. in total, over 5,000 weapons, including airdropped bombs, were discovered over the course of the american occupation. 
in response to this report, many of those who had sung loudly of bush’s blunder in iraq (most of whom had opposed to the war from the start) be­gan spinning so fast you’d think they were trying to enrich yellowcake uranium. glenn Kessler at the washington post Fact-checker, for instance, con­cluded that, “anyone who claims that the new york Times story vindicates george w. bush-era claims of iraq wmd automatically earns Four pinocchios.” with regard to the chemical weapons discussed by the Times story, the post claims these weapons were pre-1991 relics and were largely useless. 
it is true that the recovered rockets and shells were not part of an active chemical warfare program. however, records from operation avarice indicate that many of these weapons were still dangerous. cia reports indicate that the sarin recovered in some of the purchased rockets was “purer than the intel­ligence community had expected given the age of the stock,” while some of the artillery shells contained up to 84 percent mustard gas. another internal report stated that even an ied made with a borak rocket “could effectively disperse the sarin nerve agent.” rear admiral John Kirby, pentagon press secretary, stated, “the u.s. military worked diligently to find and remove weapons that could be used against our troops and the iraqi people.” For the post to claim that these rockets were harmless leads to a paradox 
— why would the cia be trying to keep harmless weapons out of the hands of terrorists? 
perhaps the american public paid less attention to the discovery of chemical weapons because they don’t fit our preconceptions of the term “weapon of mass destruction.” certainly, chemical weapons lack the apocalyptic potential of megaton nuclear bombs or pandemic-inducing disease. however, they are wmds by any formal definition. sarin of the type discovered in iraq is even specifically named as a banned weapon of mass destruction by un resolution 687, which set terms for the behavior of iraq after the First gulf war. u.s. federal law is broader still — dzhokhar Tsarnaev was charged with using a weapon of mass destruction in the boston bombing. 
i’m not going to argue that every claim about iraq’s weapons program was true. groupthink among po­litical and intelligence leaders and sensationalism among journalists led to outrageous claims such as the rightfully-ridiculed assertion that hussein could strike great britain in 45 minutes. similarly, the much vaunted “mobile biological weapons labs” the bush administration claimed it had discovered early in the invasion turned out not to exist, and none of hussein’s chemical arsenal was produced after the gulf war sanctions. in a sense, these early rumors in­oculated the american public against the actual dis­covery of weapons of mass destruction in iraq, much as the shepherd’s cry of “wolf!” inured the villagers to the wolf’s final assault. 
it seems strange to me that the bush administra­tion didn’t make more noise about these discoveries during operation iraqi Freedom, instead choosing to be castigated for over a decade about the absence of wmds. it’s possible that doing so might have ex­posed their buyer. unfortunately, they also classi­fied chemical injuries to ordinance disposal teams, leaving the soldiers without proper medical treat­ment. For its part, the Times speculates that treat­ing these injuries would have called attention to the western origins of the iraqi chemical arsenal and the close cooperation of the united states with saddam hussein when he fought iran. 
Truth can be a complicated matter, especially when mixed with politics. many statements the bush ad­ministration made about iraq’s arsenal of weapons of mass destruction were false. but some of them were true, and when you’re dealing with wmd’s, “some” is all it takes. 
Stephen Raab is a senior studying chemical engineering. He resides in Alumni Hall and welcomes discourse at sraab@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the 
author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



The winning ticket 
Scott Boyle 
The sincere seeker 

once in awhile, i have an urge to buy a lottery ticket. usually, this feeling strikes in the supermarket check­out line. while i’m putting my groceries away and preparing to leave, my eyes will catch a glimpse of the ticket machine that may hold a one-way ticket to fortune. 
of course, most tickets behind the glass promise payouts of amounts much less than a fortune. but, amidst the lure of a few extra dollars, i still find my hand reaching into my wallet to see if i have a few dol­lars to spare. 
in the time between my initial excitement and the disappointment of losing (i’ve never won any money), i find myself entering into an imaginative exercise. i’ll ask myself what i would actually do with an extra $50, $100 or $1,000. 
my losing tickets snap me back to reality. Truth be told, i always feel a little silly afterward. my disappoint­ment makes me wonder why i wasted my money in the first place. 
you can imagine my surprise when i won $5,000 two weeks ago. 
The winning ticket came in the mail. it came unre­markably, amidst ads and junk mail. For this reason, i hastily yanked its pull-tabs without much thought. 
at the last moment, i realized that i was looking upon three golden sevens. on the ticket, this was a winning combination that came with $5,000 prize guarantee. as i read the details on the information page that ac­companied the ticket, a healthy dose of skepticism set in. having never won a prize like this, deep down i couldn’t believe this was happening now. but, as i searched the promotional details, i couldn’t find a loophole. i made a decision to call the sponsoring orga­nization the next day to see if this ticket was real. 
The lady i spoke to on the phone was very friendly and excited to speak to me. after i described my ticket to her, she told me that it was real and to come by in person. since the sponsoring organization was a car dealership about 30 minutes outside of town, i com­mitted to driving down that day after work. 
while $5,000 is by no means a fortune, on the drive i couldn’t help but think about what i might do amid my good luck. 
it was a strange feeling, but deep down, part of me didn’t actually want the money. i feared the additional responsibility that came with it. i also didn’t want other people to know, fearing a barrage of opinions about how i should allocate the funds. 
i did like dreaming about the potential benefits. part of me felt like giving it all away. another part of me thought about splurging on some items that i would have normally not been able to afford. 
soon after arriving at the dealership, i got a bad feeling. as i walked inside, i caught glimpses of other people carrying tickets and smiles just like i had. soon, i discovered that all these people had “winning” tickets just like mine. i learned that there was an additional seven digit number printed on my ticket that needed to match a seven digit number inside the dealership that guaranteed only one prize winner. 
They were kind enough to try to sell me a car, though. This, i found out, was the real reason for the promo­tion. i didn’t stick around long after that. 
on my way home, i thought about the whole situa­tion. “make money quick!” “learn the secret to happi­ness!” “shed pounds in just 10 days!” as this promotion demonstrates, we are attracted to opportunities that promise dramatic results, especially when they don’t involve much effort. 
i say this in no way to criticize, but to observe that opportunities like these often aren’t as good as they seem. dramatic results that lead to lasting joy don’t often follow from little effort. This is the danger of the promises of lottery tickets or fancy promotions. 
rather, lasting joy and happiness most frequently follow from hard work and from the insights learned from ups and downs experienced over time. 
This is especially true of the life of faith. most often, happy and joyful people don’t have lives that are con­sistently so. This is especially true of the saints. 
rather, their lives of faith involve journeys of active discipleship and of consistently choosing god in the midst of good and bad. it means diligently and patient­ly choosing to be grateful for god’s presence in every moment of their lives, rather than the obviously good ones. 
The saints radically lived the promise that our real fortune lies in the love of god. in living as witnesses to that love, they won souls for god and for the kingdom, a reality that money can never buy or guarantee. 
A 2012 and 2015 graduate of Notre Dame, Scott currently serves as the assistant director for Notre Dame Vision in the Institute for Church Life. He can be reached at sboyle2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

response to “chalk wars for life or choice” 
pro-life does not equate to anti-abortion. in a viewpoint letter published last Thursday, “chalk wars for life or choice,” Jennifer vosters dealt with issue of pro-choice students writing over the belles for life respect life week sidewalk messages. while vosters is correct that there’s a polarized battle between the two sides at saint mary’s, she mistakes the pro-life position. 
being pro-life isn’t just being against abortion. calling The belles for life anti-abortion is both mistak­en and offensive to the pro-life community. being pro-life means supporting the dignity of all human beings from conception to natural death. one of the activities they held this week was making cards for residents of the cardinal nursing home. They hold activities with hannah and Friends, an organization helping those with special needs, and st. margaret’s house, which helps poor women and their children in need. 
marginalizing the pro-life as merely anti-abortion is insulting because it denies the extent of their deeds and beliefs. pro-lifers do care about the unborn and fight for them passionately. however, in this culture, pro-life is about fighting for all stages of life. by calling pro-lifers anti-abortion, vosters framed them as only caring for one certain group of people. “anti-abortion” is exclusive sounding, and it is not what the belles for life are about. calling them this minimizes the breadth of their beliefs and concerns. 
being pro-life is being for women. pro-life includes being for women during crisis and difficult pregnan­cies while still supporting them and their unborn chil­dren. yes, women should support other women so long as they are pursuing the good, but i have no obligation to support another woman promoting something that violates my conscience. 
if women should empower each other, why did someone vandalize the belles for life pro-life sidewalk chalk? saint mary’s is about sisterhood, yet anony­mous pro-choice women, arguing that women should empower each other, attacked the saint mary’s right to life group, which is counterproductive to what they claim women should do by empowering one another. no, this wasn’t a war, but an attack on the pro-life side during right to life week. 
Gabrielle Jansen 
junior nov. 1 

why is it always so hard to talk about sex? notre dame students have a wide range of experiences and opinions regarding sex — ranging from hook­ing up, abstinence until marriage, slut-shaming and so much more. sexual stigma on our campus often prevents us from having open and hon­est conversations about anything having to do with sex, including important issues like sexual­ity, gender identity and sexual violence. various campaigns, clubs and departments have worked to open lines of communication on campus to dis­cuss these issues, but “breaking the silence” and “inciting discussion” is not always enough. 
it is also not enough just to be “aware” of these issues. There is more to a sexual assault victim than an email from ndsp and there is more to your dorm-mate than the rainbow flag they chose to hang from their window. That is why each year we perform loyal daughters & sons, which takes anonymous stories from the notre dame 
What’s next? 
community that otherwise would remain un­known and adapts them for the stage. ranging from a satirical skit about the term “hooking up,” to the emotional retelling of sexual assaults, our writers, directors and actors have worked to put these people’s stories on stage in a way that adds personal experiences to the continuing conversa­tion on campus. 
since 2006, our production has asked notre dame students, “how can we give you the voice you deserve?” now, we are asking anyone and everyone on campus, “what’s next?” what’s next now that we have an open discussion about sexual violence? what’s next now that campaigns like outatnd and #imsomeone have raised awareness for their respective causes? what’s next for sex on a catholic college campus? what’s next for notre dame? if you or someone you care about wants to tell their story, we have a link for anonymous sub­missions on our website loyaldaughtersandsons. 
com, or you can set up an interview to meet with our writers in person. Take a few minutes, fill out our online form or set up an interview and have your story told. 
Dominic Acri 
sophomore 
Skyler Hughes 
senior 
Shannon Sheehan 
senior 
Elizabeth Orem 
senior 
Natalie Vos 
junior nov. 2 


The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 
Across 
1 Gossip 5 David Bowie’s rock genre,informally 
9 Old Indian ruler 14 Fit 15 Excellent, in
modern slang 16 African virus 17 Samuel Adams 
or Corona 18 Magazinefor arithmetic lovers? 20 Momentum,
informally 22 [as written] 23 Want ad letters 24 Bizarre demand 
to a dry cleaner? 29 City served byIndira Gandhi International 
Airport 31 Sexy 32 Flamenco cry 33 Took part in a
bee, British-style 35 Arizona tribe 
39 Zales or Tiffany’s? 

43 Middling noblerank 
44 EarlyWestinghousecollaborator 
45 Silent ___ (Coolidgenickname) 
46 “That feels goo-oo-ood!”

49 Oscar-winningdirector of “The Departed,” 2006
51 Overfish? 

55 “Luke, ___ yourfather” 
56 Center of gravity? 

57 Philosopher who was the father of dialectical 
idealism 
60 Light shower?
65 Flowing hair 

66 Chair designer
Charles 
67 High coif 

68 Record for later,
in a way 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

69 Ones before whom pearls arecast 
70 Hornets’ home 71 Deep black gem 
Down 
1 Applies with aQ-Tip, say2 “Yeah, sure …” 3 Retirement attire 4 Usher in with fanfare 5 Important econ. indicator 6 “U crack me up!” 
7 “Thank you, come again”speaker, on “TheSimpsons” 
8 Like drawn-out divorces 9 Bounce around a canyon, say 10 Lincoln moniker 11 Card #53 or #54 12 Dole out 
13 First president tohave a telephonein the White House 
19 Genie’s offering21 Reagan attorneygeneral Ed 25 Chow chow chow 
brand 26 Grand ___ Auto 27 Least spicy 28 Emperor of
A.D. 69 29 “Uh-uh” 30 “___ Enchanted” 
(2004 film) 34 N.Y.U.’s ___ School of the 
Arts 36 “I repeat …” 37 Droids, e.g., for
short 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  23  
24  25  26  27  28  
29  30  31  
32  33  34  35  36  37  38  
39  40  41  42  
43  44  45  
46  47  48  49  50  
51  52  53  54  
55  56  57  58  59  
60  61  62  63  64  65  
66  67  68  
69  70  71  

Puzzle by Josh Knapp  
38 Aruba or Bora  50 “It would ___ me  58 Green-eyed 
Bora  …”  monster  
40 Extended family  51 Singing ability,  59 Pope who 
41 Ingredient in  informally  excommunicated  
some suntan  52 1980s-’90s  Martin Luther  
lotions  courtroom drama  61 100 years: Abbr. 
42 Waterloggedlocale  53 Taste that’s not sweet, sour,  62 Jungle swinger  
47 Counsel  bitter or salty  63 Checks the age  
48 Take counsel  54 Many a summer  of, in a way  
from  show  64 “Only kidding!”  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson and John roddy 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 
Level: 


FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie 


SOLUTION TO MONDAY’S PUZZLE 

11/6/12 
Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
tefanie p , 73. 
happy birthday: This is your year to complete projects so that you can head into new territory both personally and professionally. Travel, romance and making your home an atmosphere that will stimulate and inspire you to connect with other people will bring you the most joy. broaden your horizons and set your sights on achievement and satisfaction. your numbers are 5, 11, 16, 23, 27, 36, 43. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): rely on your own resources when it comes to financial matters. don’t covet the things that you are unable to afford. a practical and disciplined attitude will help you budget wisely so that you can afford the extras you want. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): learn as you go and be sure to give your all. make adjustments at home that will counter any emotional mishaps. add to your qualifications or revamp your resume to suit the current job market. romance is highlighted. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): stick to the facts or someone will accuse you of being misleading. buckle down and take care of unfinished business. a chance to secure your position will be determined by the way you deal with your peers. avoid indulgence. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t worry about the changes going on around you at work or within the industry in which you work. do your best to make sure everyone you love is content. a happy home will lead to peace of mind. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t sit back when you can make a career move that will help you raise your income or status. not everyone will like the decisions you make, but take the path that leads to greater financial security and future opportunities. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): you’ll have lots of people showing interest in what you do, but before you take a leap of faith, make sure your plans are solid. start slow and don’t jeopardize what you already have. problems at home can be expected. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t be fooled by someone using emotional tactics to persuade you to change your beliefs. Follow your gut feeling and use discipline to curb any desire to take the wrong path. don’t be a follower -- be a leader. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Travel for business or learning purposes. look into events that allow you to support a cause you believe in. The people you encounter while trying to help others will be instrumental in helping you get ahead in the future. romance is encouraged. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): don’t let your emotions get in the way of your common sense when it comes to money matters. don’t believe a fast-talking salesperson. stick close to home and avoid a run-in with someone argumentative. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): patience will pay off. your tolerant attitude and ability to play the waiting game will lead to personal and financial gains. contracts can be signed and commitments made to someone you want to spend more time with. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): protect your money and possessions. don’t be too eager to sign up for something that you know little about. opt to take a pass and you will find alternatives that better suit your situation and the outcome you are looking for. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): put your thoughts out to the universe and you will get a response. whether you are trying to get a new venture off the ground or collaborate with the perfect person, you will find your way to achieve your objective. 

Birthday Baby: you are endearing, nurturing and proactive. you are intense and passionate. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
ZEDDO  

 
 
 
 
 

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
CHANO  

 
 
 
 
 

FACETF  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

RERVID  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: 

(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: HEAVY RELIC APIECE POISONYesterday’s 
Answer: After sinking the shot from off the green, he was — CHIPPER 




The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FOR SALE FOR RENT WANTED 
Executive family home in the country IVY QUAD 3 BR 2 BA Garage wash-Tutor in Algebra/Geometry for on 10 acres, finished pole barn, 5 bed er/dryer, granite, furnished, walk to 15-year-old high school student. Email 3 ½ bath Edwardsburg schools, 68620 campus grocery. Ideal for family, grad htgrace@aol.com Leet Rd. Niles, MI 269-684-0885 students. Available 6/1/2016 Tom 215 $354,900 913-9191 “Every happy family is alike ... ” 



ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2015 | The observer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Defeating soccer’s villians 

Daniel O’Boyle 
sports writer 
if you are even the slightest fan of the movies, you should know that this week marks the release of “spectre,” the latest installment in the classic James bond fran­chise. The film is a return to the screen for the iconic villain ernst stavro blofeld and the crimi­nal organization that lends the movie its title (full name: special executive for counterintelligence, Terrorism, revenge and extortion). 
as worthy adversaries to the iconic and quintessentially british spy, spectre and blofeld are surely the second-greatest villains great britain has ever seen. The great­est? defending premier league champions chelsea F.c. and their manager, Jose mourinho. 
pretty much every major english soccer team is easy to hate if you’re not a fan, but per­haps none more so than chelsea. The club’s captain previously served a ban for alleged racial abuse. Their star forward is as famed for on-field violent conduct as he is for scoring goals. The team transfer policy for many years was to spend whatever it took to attract europe’s biggest names to west london, and it worked, as chelsea rose from title race outsiders to one of england’s most consistently successful clubs. chelsea fans have been arrested for racist abuse dur­ing a game in paris earlier this year. The team’s owner, roman abramovich, is the most direct comparison to any “bond villain” archetype: he’s a russian oligarch accused of crimes including brib­ery, fraud and theft in building his billion-dollar empire. 
but despite all that, mourinho serves as the strongest magnet for all the anti-chelsea sentiment. 
since his very first press conference, when he famously declared, “i think i am a special one,” mourinho has been a po­larizing figure in soccer. he won games, easily delivering chelsea their first league title in 49 years in his debut season in 2005 and won again the following year. he left london after a dispute with abramovich but returned to win another premier league trophy in 2015. 
however, the “special one” always had his critics. his defen­sive style of play earned him re­sults but was unpopular for many neutrals, especially when he criti­cized opponents who dared to do the same. he berated referees throughout his career, accusing them of bias and a “campaign” against his team last year. his public feud with arsenal manager arsene wenger included him labeling the Frenchman a “spe­cialist in failure.” and his famed arrogance always left people wishing for his downfall. but for more than 10 years, it never came: mourinho was one of the best — if not the best — soccer manager in the world. 
That’s why the last three months have been such a joy to neutral fans in english soccer. chelsea, who cruised to a title under mourinho last year and showed no signs of weakening before the season began, have inexplicably become one of the worst teams in the premier league. The team is currently sit­ting 15th in the premier league, and in the champions league chelsea currently sits third in a hardly-formidable group, enough to see them eliminated if results do not improve. in the league cup, chelsea was eliminated after a penalty shoot-out. 
stars like midfielder eden hazard, last season’s player of the year, and midfielder cesc Fabregas have suddenly turned from revelations to anonymous passengers. 
and best of all, mourinho him­self is right at the center of the crisis. 
From the first game of the sea­son, mourinho was embroiled in controversy after criticizing club doctor eva carneiro for treating an injured hazard, forcing him to leave the field when chelsea was in need of a goal. From there, each chelsea fixture became a new installment of the “Jose mourinho show:” he declared a 3-0 defeat to manchester city to be a “fake result,” publicly criticized refer­ees and was early this morning suspended a game and fined for his antics during a 2-1 loss to west ham united last month. carneiro was dismissed from chelsea and sued the club in response, and mourinho refused to speak with the media after a game. 
mourinho’s antics — once a convenient distraction from rare on-field slip-ups — are now fuel for the downfall of the “special one.” a chelsea legend and the greatest manager in the world mere months ago, mourinho is now facing a serious risk of losing his job by the end of the week. 
of course, sports aren’t like a movie. villains usually win: that tends to be what makes them vil­lains. maybe mourinho will re­turn to form turn things around. maybe the sport would be more entertaining if he did; the premier league might need mourinho the way a bond movie needs a villain. 
yet seeing a talented yet uni-versally-disliked figure fail this catastrophically in sport is oh so rare. maybe the soccer gods can give us this one. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
XC 
conTinued From page 12 

definitely really meant a lot to me.” 
seidel’s happiness got an extra boost from the fact that rohrer finished in second, she said. 
“i remember coming to the finish line and seeing anna coming throug, ... such a cool moment,” seidel said. “Knowing how hard she’s worked through­out the season and being able to have a teammate right there is really special. being able to have that strength and depth in the team really ups our confidence. it’s a cool feeling to be able to share that with my teammates.” 
Though the spotlight was squarely on seidel and rohrer in the women’s race, graduate student Karen lesiewicz and freshman rachel dadamio made strong contributions to the team by finishing 16th and 21st, respectively, to earn all­acc honors. 
irish associate head coach matthew sparks said lesiewicz and dadamio’s performanc­es made the difference in the meet. 
“The two that really sur­prised us honestly were Karen lesiewicz and rachel dadamio finishing in the all-conference spots,” sparks said. “Karen es­pecially is somebody that’s a fifth-year [who] barely made the travel squad her first four years here, stepped up to help us out.” 
on the men’s side, clevenger finished 13th with a time of 
23:58.4 over eight kilometers, followed by senior Timothy ball in 26th place and juniors Jacob dumford and chris marco in 32nd and 36th, respectively. 
sparks said the key per­former for the men’s team was dumford, who has shown bursts of excellence this season but lacked consistency on race day. 
“[dumford’s] performance was huge for us,” sparks said. “he’s got a world of talent, and we see it everyday in practice, we just hadn’t seen it come race time. The other four in that top five have run pretty consistent­ly all year, we just hadn’t have that consistency out of Jake yet. Jake slipped right up into that top five and managed to beat Florida state. ... That was a good step for our men’s team.” 
The women’s third place fin­ish is the best for notre dame since it joined the acc for the 2013 season, while a sixth-place finish for the men marks an improvement over last year’s seventh-place finish, and sparks said he was pleased with both results. 
“[i’m] definitely satisfied,” sparks said. “you can always look back and say, ‘man if we’d done this or that, we’d have been a couple spots higher.’ i think we’ve set ourselves up for a championship run over the next three weeks. especially on the women’s side with our [top] four running that well. if we come out and do that again, we’ll be close to an automatic berth.” 
The team will have this week­end off before returning to ac­tion at the ncaa great lakes regional qualifying race for a chance to go on to the ncaa championships. sparks said his goal for the upcoming weeks is to ease up on his top runners in terms of sheer mileage, but to increase the quality of the practices. 
“we’re going to back off the total volume of milage that we’ve been running,” sparks said. “but what we’ll do is bump up the intensity. The kids that run 100 miles a week will be down to 85, 90 miles, but we’ll up the intensity of what we’re doing.” 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 

the first set of the match. we just have to execute and con­vert our defense into hitting. everything has to be on at the same time if we want to start getting some wins.” 
in both matches, irish head coach Jim mclaughlin played his underclassmen almost ex­clusively, something deJarld said she thinks will help the team in the near future. 
“we’re obviously a really young team,” deJarld said. “we started all freshmen and sophomores this weekend. we’re getting that experience. To put it into perspective, we’re 18 and 19 playing 22-year-olds, so going into the last few weeks and next season we can begin to utilize that experience, and we’re definitely getting stron­ger as a team as this season is going on.” 
notre dame will look to end its current losing streak when it returns to action Friday, though its tough stretch of conference matches will continue as well. The irish host virginia Tech at 7 p.m. Friday and pittsburg at 1 
p.m. sunday at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 
Volleyball 
conTinued From page 12 

fellow sophomore outside hit­ter sam Fry led the team with 16 kills and five blocks. 
Then the irish made the trip from raleigh to chapel hill for a match against north carolina on sunday. The Tar heels (13­8, 10-2 acc) proved to be too much as they outlasted the irish on their way to a 3-1 vic­tory (27-25, 25-17, 23-25, 25-20). 
The opening set saw 11 ties and five lead changes as well as an irish comeback from down 10-4 to tie it at 17 before the Tar heels were able to close out a close first frame. 
after another close second set that saw the Tar heels fin­ish with 12 of 17 points, notre dame came back from the break with a third set win to cut the Tar heel lead to 2-1. 
north carolina was simply too strong for the upset-minded irish in the fourth set, though, and secured a 3-1 victory over notre dame. 
against the Tar heels, sopho­more setter maddie dilfer and Kuhn both pulled off double-doubles. Kuhn had 13 kills and 10 digs to secure her second double-double of the weekend while dilfer registered 42 as­sists and 11 digs. 
deJarld led the team with 28 digs against the Tar heels, marking the third time this season she’s had at least that many. 
“our unc game was prob­ably one of our best matches of the season defensively,” deJarld said. “... we were really scrappy. we definitely should have had 

The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Football 
conTinued From page 12 
tie the game, 17-17. 
shumate’s ejection wasn’t the only contentious point for the irish in the second half saturday, as Kelly was seen forcefully restrain­ing assistant strength coach david grimes on the sideline following an offensive pass interference call, an action Kelly said was necessary to avoid a potential 15-yard penalty for unsportsmanlike conduct. 
Following the game, Kelly faced criticism in the media for his side­line actions. however, the irish head coach deflected those criti­cisms sunday. 
“They don’t know what hap­pened,” Kelly said. “it’s typical of those that are just looking at the video without having any of the information. you know, only those that are clearly near the situation that have all the information can make those judgments. 
“it’s an internal matter, and we’re handling it internally.” 
Kizer’s maturation 
Trailing by three and facing third-and-four from its own 31­yard line late in the game, notre dame needed sophomore quar­terback deshone Kizer to step up and make a play — and Kizer de­livered, completing a seven-yard pass to junior receiver will Fuller for a first down, extending the drive. it was a play Kelly said was evidence of Kizer’s maturation. 
“i think that’s a very big play that some people wouldn’t look at as — to me the mature quarter­back makes that play,” Kelly said. “he stays with it, lets will kind of find himself open, and shows great patience and changes his arm angle and makes a throw off-balance. it just says a lot about deshone’s maturity and trust in his own ability in finding will Fuller because that was prob­ably in my opinion one of the best throws he made all night.” 
Three plays later, Kizer con­nected once more with Fuller for the 17-yard, game-winning touchdown that prolonged notre dame’s playoff hopes. 
The team felt Kizer’s impact saturday both through the air and on the ground — the quarter­back rushed for 143 yards and two touchdowns in the win. 
“[Kizer’s] a dual-threat quar­terback. we saw that with his ability to run the football,” Kelly said. “he’s got great escapability. i just think he continues to just gain more confidence in his abil­ity, you know, to take over a game and win football games.” 
Room for improvement 
despite another win to move to 7-1 on the season, Kelly said there’s plenty of room for his team to grow, both offensively and de­fensively, in its final four games. 


“cleaning up, obviously, mis­takes in the red zone, [convert­ing] scoring opportunities and then defensively continuing to shore up the lack of — giving up the big plays, and i thought we did a better job of that,” Kelly said on his team’s areas of improve­ment. “ … we’re moving the ball effectively, and then just keep competing in the back end of our defense. i think those are the keys for us as we keep moving through november.” 
The irish have failed to convert seven of 33 red zone opportuni­ties this year into points, sitting 
paid adverTisemenT 
98th in the country in red-zone efficiency. 
Martin’s pass interference 
notre dame graduate student offensive lineman nick martin was flagged for pass interference dur­ing the third quarter of saturday’s game — and Kelly still wasn’t sure sunday what caused his center to be flagged for the rare penalty. 
“i can’t explain the call,” Kelly said. “it was a screen. i’d have to dig deep in the rule book to find it in my 25 years. so it was a screen pass. i don’t know how they dis­cerned that. There were a lot of things that i can’t give you answers for from that crew that worked the game.” 
Injury report 
once more, notre dame es­caped suffering any more injuries during saturday’s win over Temple. 
“no, it was a good [injury] report,” Kelly said. “everything came out really good, clean, you know, from our report at 1:45 [p.m. sunday]. good news on all fronts relative to those guys that were dinged up.” 
Contact Alex Carson at       acarson1@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2015 | The observer 

Interhall 
conTinued From page 12 
away victorious sunday at labar practice complex with an 8-6 win over no. 5 pasquerilla west. 
pasquerilla west broke the scoreless tie late in the second quarter with a one-yard touch­down pass from junior hannah butler to junior Tess wemhoener, putting the purple weasels up 6-0. 
Farley started with the ball in the second half, but its drive quickly ended when senior pasquerilla west captain maddie bray came up with an intercep­tion, her first of two on the day. 
as time began to dwindle, pasquerilla west drove the ball down inside the Farley 10-yard line before a defensive stand kept the Finest’s chances alive. 
Farley’s offense finally came alive late in the fourth quar­ter. in a drive which saw a long fourth-down conversion, Farley was able to punch the ball into the end zone thanks to a one-yard run by junior quarterback lizzy moulton. The Finest were then successful on the two-point attempt when moulton found sophomore sydney manista in the corner of the end zone. The weasels were unable to muster an answer, thus securing the Farley victory. 
Farley captain ali buersmeyer said she was elated with the re­sult of the matchup. 
“it was an awesome game and a great team win,” buersmeyer said. “our defense came up big as did the offense late in the game, and we’re excited to be moving on.” 
bray said she was proud of her team after the game. 
“it was a tough loss, but we put forth a good effort,” she said. 
after not making the play­offs last year, Farley is now just one win away from notre dame stadium. The Finest play top-seeded welsh Family on sunday at 1 p.m. at labar practice complex. 
Contact Alex Bender at       abender@nd.edu 
No. 2 Stanford 6, No. 7 Fisher 0 
By DOMINIC IANNELLI 
sports writer 
no. 2 stanford defeated no. 7 Fisher, 6-0, in the first round of the interhall football playoffs sunday at riehle Fields. 
For the first three quarters of the game, it was a defensive bat­tle, with the biggest series of plays coming on a goal-line stand by Fisher’s defense which resulted in a missed field goal by stanford. 
The first and only score of the game came on a touchdown run by stanford senior michael grasso in the third quarter. however, the griffins were un­able to convert the extra point. 
Fisher had two more chances to tie the game but was stopped on fourth down on one posses­sion, and stanford sophomore aaron lopiccolo snagged the game-clinching interception on the second. 
Throughout the game, stanford switched between quarterbacks, working in dual-threat freshman chase Jennings for the first time this season. dan babiak, stanford’s senior cap­tain, said the offensive change saying his goal was intended to throw the defense for a loop. 
“we’re gonna do what works and that was working for us this game,” babiak said. “we were throwing different looks at the defense, and i think it confused them and made them uncomfortable.” 
babiak pointed to the whole team’s combined effort as the key to the game. 
“in the trenches guys were fir­ing off the ball, on defense we were wrapping up tackles, our corners were locked in tight cov­erage, and on offense we were catching balls and running great routes,” babiak said. “everyone was doing their job, and that’s how you win football games.” 
Fisher captain junior shannon massey said he was proud of his team despite the loss. 
“everyone came out and played hard,” massey said. “we held an undefeated team to six points. i’m proud of the way they worked today and how they’ve worked all season.” 
stanford advances to the semi­finals, where the griffins will meet no. 3 morrissey at 4:45 
p.m. sunday at labar practice complex. 
Contact Dominic Iannelli at riannell@nd.edu 
No. 2 Howard 13, No. 7 Cavanaugh 0 
By JOE EVERETT 
sports writer 
The higher-seeded ducks pulled out the 13-0 victory over cavanaugh on sunday to advance to the semifinals. 
howard started strong, with senior quarterback and captain stephanie peterson getting her team on the board on the first drive with a 15-yard touchdown run. Then, after running a trick play involving laterals, peterson con­nected with a receiver on a 41-yard touchdown pass to cap an impres­sive first quarter for howard. 
however, peterson left the game in the second quarter with a minor knee injury, limiting the ducks of­fensively. From there, the game was largely a defensive struggle. 
howard senior co-captain and wide receiver maria ianni praised the ducks’ defense in light of the unforeseen injury to the team’s star quarterback. 
“The defense got their first shutout and really stepped up,” ianni said. “unfortunately we lost [peterson] after starting out really strong, but hopefully she’ll be back for our next game.” 
cavanaugh looked to find op­portunities to cut into the lead, but the chaos were stopped three times inside the red zone by the howard defense. 
“The game could have been better,” cavanaugh senior cap­tain Katherine Kaes said. “we had a couple tough breaks, but if we played to our potential it would have been a different game.” 

howard moves on to face no. 3 ryan at labar practice complex on sunday at 2 p.m. 
Contact Joe Everett at             jeveret4@nd.edu 

No. 3 Morrissey 14, No. 6 Sorin 6  
By MAUREEN SCHWENINGER 
sports writer 

no. 3 morrissey outlasted no. 6 sorin with a heavy ground game in its 14-6 postseason win sunday. 
senior running back hunter white and sophomore captain and quarterback declan Zidar led the manor to victory. Zidar said his team showcased its strategy and strength during the first possession of the game, a 78-yard touchdown drive. 
“That was pretty big to start the game off,” Zidar said. “First drive of the game, we run down the field and take up the whole quarter in the process.” 
The otters held morrissey to a three-and-out following halftime and gained further momentum after a muffed punt set up their ensuing 30-yard touchdown run. morrissey was forced to punt on its next two possessions. 
Zidar, who attempted only four passes and did not have any completions, said the apparent imbalance in offensive play is not a concern for the manor looking ahead. 
“i don’t see a huge problem with [our play selection],” Zidar said. “i think we have a solid run­ning game, and we’ll stick to what works.” 
sorin sophomore captain and safety matt requet said he was pleased with the otters’ perfor­mance on defense. 
“our defensive line especially played a heck of a game,” requet said. “morrissey is a great running team, and they didn’t do a whole lot of running.” 
sorin managed to contain the explosive manor ground game for most of the day, but white finished with 78 yards on 21 carries, punch­ing in the winning touchdown in the fourth quarter. 
morrissey’s run game will be put to the test in its semifinal against no. 2 stanford on sunday at 4:45 
p.m. at labar practice complex. 

Contact Maureen Schweninger at mschweni@nd.edu 
No. 3 Ryan 24, No. 6 Lewis 6 
By TOBIAS HOONHOUT 
sports writer 

it was a story of two halves sunday, as ryan pulled away to earn a 24-6 win over lewis in the opening round of the interhall playoffs. 
ryan started with the ball and, led by senior quarterback and cap­tain erin clark, looked to get the passing game going, especially to freshman receiver lauren longo. The lewis defense held firm, how­ever, and the chicks got the ball af­ter a fourth-down stop. 
on the other side, lewis’s of­fense tried to get the run game going with senior captain hannah skrbis, but the wildcats also played solid defense as the game began to turn into a defensive battle. 
in the second quarter, lewis finally broke the deadlock with a 15-yard touchdown catch by skrbis to put the chicks up 6-0. ryan at­tempted to answer before the half ended, but penalties hurt the wildcats and the half ended with lewis on top. 
The second half, however, saw a reversal of fortunes. The wildcats began to dominate the game on both sides of the ball. clark scored on a 10-yard run to tie the game, and then the defense, led by back-to-back pick-sixes by junior shawn hall and freshman allison perez, stymied the chicks’ offense and helped ryan put 24 unanswered points on the board to win the game. 
“our defense did an unbeliev­able job of anticipating the lewis offense and really made big plays when they needed to,” clark said. “i couldn’t be more proud of the effort the team showed today, es­pecially against a strong opponent like lewis.” 
“i’m pretty proud of how we evolved throughout the season,” lewis captain penny vorissis said. “and i’m not ashamed of how we played tonight.” 
ryan now moves on to play no. 2 howard on sunday at 2 p.m. at labar practice complex. 
Contact Tobias Hoonhout at thoonhou@nd.edu 
No. 4 Keenan 7, No. 5 Siegfried 0 
By BRENNA MOXLEY 
sports writer 
no. 4 Keenan hall shut out no. 5 siegfried, 7-0, in a hard-fought de­fensive battle sunday. 
Freshman receiver lukas cepkauskas made a 20-yard touch­down grab to put the Knights up in the fourth quarter, and junior Keenan captain michael Koller said the catch was a key play in the game. 
“we needed to get more points on the board [early], but that was a clutch drive at the end of the game,” Koller said. 
siegfried started off the game with an interception by sophomore sean mcminimee, but Keenan re­sponded with an interception of its own by senior Jon wiese. 
Turnovers proved to be a prob­lem for the two teams, as they com­bined for a total of three fumbles and three interceptions. siegfried junior cornerback Jake maier said turnovers and mistakes hurt his team. 
“misplaying killed us,” maier said.“we played a little bit short, and we missed some big opportunities.” 
with the win, the Knights con­tinue on in the playoffs, hoping to make the championship game for the second year in a row. Koller said his team has to make some adjust­ments if it hopes to continue mov­ing forward. 
“we need to get special teams on point, and ball security is huge,” Koller said. 
Keenan will face no. 8 dillon on sunday at 3:30 p.m. at labar practice complex. 
Contact Brenna Moxley at bmoxley01@saintmarys.edu 
No. 1 Welsh Family 32, No. 8 Pangborn 0 
By MOLLY MURPHY 
sports writer 
no. 1 welsh Family defeated no. 8 pangborn, 32-0, in the quarterfi­nals of the playoffs sunday. 
The whirlwinds scored on their first possession after stringing together three consecutive pass completions to go up 8-0. 
The phoxes were forced to punt on their first possession, and welsh Family took advantage by scoring again to go up 16-0, and the rout was on. 
pangborn’s offense continued to have difficulty generating momen­tum, with only two pass comple­tions to go with two interceptions. Junior whirlwind defensive back and captain sharon chiang had both of the interceptions for welsh Family. 
chiang said welsh Family now looks ahead to the challenge await­ing it in the semifinal game. 
“i’ve heard Farley is really good so that [will] also be a really tough game, so we’ve got a week to get ready,” chiang said. 
senior pangborn captain and defensive lineman molly cullinan said she is proud of her team and its efforts. 
“we came off [winning] the championship last year so we were here to have a good time, which we did. we had a lot of fun,” cullinan said. “i hope the freshmen loved it as much as we do. welsh Fam is a good team, we gave it our all but at the end of the day all we wanted was to have fun and we did.” 
The top-seeded whirlwinds will play no. 4 Farley at labar practice complex at 1 p.m. sunday in the semifinals. 
Contact Molly Murphy at mmurph40@nd.edu 



INTERHALL 

dillon upsets top-seed st. edward’s 
No. 8 Dillon 14, No. 1 St. Edward’s 0 
By TONY ZAPPIA 
sports writer 
no. 8 dillon upset top-seeded st. edward’s, 14-0, in the first round of the playoffs sunday. 
on its opening drive, the dillon offense marched downfield for the first score of the game. it ap­peared the st. edward’s defense had stopped dillon’s fourth-and­goal attempt from the 1-yard line. however, while being tack­led, junior running back Tyler dale lateraled the ball to a team­mate who was able to score. 
late in the fourth quarter, the big red sealed their victory by scoring on a quarterback sneak by sophomore captain and quar­terback Jack walsh. 
walsh said many individual pieces were key to the big red’s victory. 
“The defense worked well, the line played well, the short pass­ing game worked well and run­ning back Tyler dale had a great game,” walsh said. 
Though st. edward’s fell short, junior captain and lineman phineas andrews said the sea­son was a success. 
“we had a great season overall. we’re one of the smaller dorms, so we’re not expected to do much in the playoffs. we had a great regular season, and we thought we had a real shot,” andrews said. 
meanwhile, walsh said there’s still work to be done for dillon before its next playoff game against Keenan. 
“we’ll get some good prac­tice in this week, put some new plays in and hopefully get a win,” walsh said. 
dillon will take on the fourth-seeded Keenan on sunday at 3:30 
p.m. at labar practice complex. 
Contact Tony Zappia at     azappia@nd.edu 
No. 4 Farley 8, No. 5 Pasquerilla West 6 
By ALEX BENDER 
sports writer 
in what turned out to be a nail-biting finish, no. 4 Farley walked 
see inTerhall PAGE 11 
FOOTBALL 

Kelly addresses Shumate’s ejection, Kizer’s growth 
By ALEX CARSON 
associate sports editor 

early in the fourth quarter of no. 8 notre dame’s 24-20 win over no. 23 Temple on saturday, safety elijah shumate was ejected from the contest for targeting, meaning the se­nior will miss the first half of this saturday’s matchup at pittsburgh — a penalty irish head coach brian Kelly said was irreversible. 
“There is no appeal process,” Kelly said, referring to the sus­pension during his sunday teleconference. 
with shumate’s absence for the first 30 minutes on the hori­zon saturday, Kelly confirmed graduate student cornerback matthias Farley and junior max redfield would be the two starters at the safety positions against the panthers. 
The targeting penalty over­turned a third-down stop by the irish defense, and four plays later, the owls scored from the 1-yard line on fourth down to 
see FooTball PAGE 10 

ND VOLLEYBALL | nc sTaTe 3, nd 2; norTh carolina 3, nd 1 
losing streak continues for nd 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
The irish continued their slide in the acc over the weekend, dropping two matches and extending their losing streak to seven as well as 12 of their last 13. 
notre dame (6-18, 1-11 acc) spent halloween week­end traveling through north carolina, with stops in both raleigh and chapel hill. 
in Friday’s match against nc state, the irish saw some of their best volleyball in weeks, but the team was un­able to translate that into a victory as it fell 3-2 (23-25, 22-25, 25-18, 25-19, 16-14). 
“The first two sets we came out really strong,” freshman libero ryann deJarld said. “we got them in trouble with our serving; we were really consistent. our goals every time out are to be under 12 percent in hitting errors and 10 percent in serving errors. we did that in the first two sets but then slipped in the third and fourth. 
“nc state came out with a lot of firepower. it was defi­nitely a tough match, but i felt that we made a lot of progress in sustaining our solid play for a longer. we should’ve been able to close it out, especially since the fifth set finished 16-14. it kind of sucks when you look at it like that, but i feel like we made some progress and played better than we did last weekend.” 
The irish got off to a quick start against the wolfpack (14-10, 3-9), dominating the first two sets through a com­bination of strong serving and a number of wolfpack errors. 
Though the irish found themselves up 2-0 at the break, nc state would not be denied a comeback and ul­timately prevailed over the irish in the fifth-set tiebreak. 
sophomore outside hitter sydney Kuhn finished with 14 kills and 10 digs on her way to a double-double while 
see volleyball PAGE 9 

ND CROSS COUNTRY | acc championships 
Seidel, Rohrer pace Irish with one-two finish at ACCs 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
senior all-american molly seidel has crossed the finish line first many times in her ca­reer. what was different at last Friday’s acc championship was freshman anna rohrer fin­ishing right behind her. 
The one-two finish by seidel and rohrer led the way for the irish as the women’s squad fin­ished third behind virginia and north carolina state, while the men’s team finished sixth at the conference championship be­hind an all-acc performance from senior michael clevenger. 
with her first-place finish in 19:36.2 over six kilometers, seidel adds her first cross coun­try conference title to her list of accolades. 
“i definitely think this one is really special,” seidel said. “being able to win a conference championship is something really special. you’re out there competing for your team and representing your university. it 
see Xc PAGE 9 






