The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 25 |  FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Committee prepares curriculum changes 
After more than a year of consideration, administration will suggest new course requirements this fall 
By CLARE KOSSLER 
associate news editor 
For more than 30 years, notre dame’s core curricu­lum requirements for un­dergraduates have remained virtually unchanged. 
over the course of the past year, a committee appointed by university president Fr. John Jenkins and provost Thomas burish has under­taken the task of reviewing the core curriculum. 
The review, which occurs every 10 years, began at the beginning of last school year when Jenkins and burish first commissioned a review com­mittee of 12 faculty members and two co-chairs. in a let­ter sent to the faculty in aug. 2014, Jenkins and burish en­couraged faculty members “to join in a campus-wide conversation about our core curriculum or general educa­tion requirements.” 
“we have asked the com­mittee to consult as widely as possible during this aca­demic year, given the many students, faculty, programs and departments directly in­volved in general education 
see curriculum PAGE 9 


FOOTBALL FRIDAY FEATURE 




Bagpipers play for fans 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
wednesday nights, the un­mistakeable sound of bag­pipes echoes out of the back of washington hall. The notre dame bagpipe band is preparing for saturday home football games. 
The band currently con­sists of 13 members, accord­ing to sophomore band pipe sergeant Tyler Johnson. and while the band may contain differing levels of 
see bagpipes PAGE 8 



Pro-life group ranks ND 
By EMMA BORNE 
news writer 
last week, students for life, a national pro-life organization, ranked notre dame as the fifth-friendliest school for pregnant and parenting students. 
senior Janelle wanzek, presi­dent of the right to life club, said the ranking is largely due to the resources available for preg­nant and parenting students on campus. These resources include information on what to do if students find themselves in a crisis pregnancy, informa­tion on local adoption agencies, referrals to doctors, free preg­nancy tests at the health center and counseling. The university also has day care centers and five lactation rooms for parents, she said. 

wanzek said this is an excit­ing ranking because it will help to educate students about the resources available to them. 
“i think us being number five, if we advertise it to the students, is going to mean that a lot more students will learn about the re­sources that we have,” wanzek said. “Talking to the general student public ... there’s a lot of rumors surrounding what hap­pens if a girl were to become pregnant. no one knows that the university is fully support­ive and has all the resources that 
see moThers PAGE 8 

students embark on papal pilgrimage 
By KATIE GALIOTO and MARTHA REILLY 
news writers 
students from notre dame, saint mary’s and holy cross will ride in buses for 24 hours this weekend to spend just 12 hours in philadelphia and join 1.5 million people from across the country to celebrate mass with pope Francis. 
according to notre dame junior emily david, one of the student coordinators of the papal pilgrimage, 500 students and faculty mem­bers will leave from south bend in nine buses saturday afternoon, with plans to re­turn monday morning. 
Fr. pete mccormick, direc­tor of notre dame campus ministry, said the journey is a unique opportunity for students to engage in the international catholic community. 
“This is a pilgrimage — it’s not just a trip to go see the pope,” mccormick said. “There’s a distinct sense that we are leaving here, with the intent of joining and being a part of a prayerful expe­rience with the pope. it’s a moment where we encounter pope Francis, but we also encounter the church universal.” 
students were first given the opportunity to sign up for the papal pilgrimage last may. The spots filled up by June, david said, so the pil­grimage had a 100-person waiting list. 
david said she is excited to be a part of such a historic event. 
“There’s going to be over a million people there, so who knows how much sightsee­ing we’ll get to do,” she said. “some people may just stake out their spots for the mass early on. some people might go get a philly cheesesteak.” 
regina wilson, director of campus ministry at saint mary’s, said 40 students and five faculty members from the college will make the trip to philadelphia. 
wilson said partici­pants should view the trip as an opportunity to grow spiritually. 
“young people, of course, are the future of the church, and Francis gives many peo­ple a vision of what we hope the future church will look 
see pope PAGE 7 


news PAGE 3 scene PAGE 11 viewpoinT PAGE 13 irish insider wiThin 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor Business Manager
 Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green 
Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 

News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college. editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 

What did you want to be when you were 10 years old? 

Daniel Riley 
sophomore st. edward’s hall 
“superhero.” 
Claire Maxa 
freshman Farley hall 
“Tv journalist.” 
Emma Rowland 
freshman 
lyons hall 

“i liked science and art, so i wanted to be an artist who performs research as a hobby.” 


Mary Hansen 
freshman 
lewis hall 
“at 10 years old i went through an artsy phase. i wanted to be a painter.” 
Sean Kelly 
freshman 
Knott hall 
“Farmer.” 
Kehinde Asojo 
junior 
o’neill hall 
“be happy.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Katie galioto renee griffin Email news@ndsmcobserver.com
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

matthew mcKenna marek mazurek martha reilly ryan Klaus 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday
Janice chung matt mcmahon 
Photo Viewpoint 

Football Pep Rally Vigil Mass Volleyball vs. Florida Germany’s Climate Investing
michael yu Tabitha ricketts 
Compton Family Ice Leighton Concert Hall State Confrontation with Conference Keynote Arena DPAC Joyce Center the Holocaust 115 McKenna Hall 
5:45 p.m.-6:30 p.m. 30 minutes after 1 p.m.-3 p.m. O’Shaughnessy Hall 7:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m.
Corrections 

A home game weekend conclusion of football The Irish take on the 4:30 p.m.-6 p.m. Environmentalist Paul 
The observer regards itself as tradition. game. Seminoles. Opening reception. Hawken will speak. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Men’s Soccer Pain Management Women’s Soccer vs. Integral Ecology Workshop: Getting
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Alumni Stadium Jordan Hall of Science Florida State Geddes Hall Started in Research
however, recognize that we will make 
7 p.m.-9 p.m. 11 a.m.-12 p.m. Alumni Stadium 7 p.m.-8 p.m. Brownson Hall 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
The Irish take on the Part of Dooley 1 p.m.-3 p.m. Lecture series 4 p.m.-5p.m.
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Cavaliers at home in Society lecture series The Irish face off discussing Pope Learn research
we can correct our error. 

an ACC matchup. featuring Paul Christo. against the Seminoles. Francis and the planet. strategies. 


Saint Mary’s professor examines legacy of JFK 
By ALEX WINEGAR 
associate saint mary’s editor 
at the university park mall in mishawaka on Thursday, saint mary’s political sci­ence professor sean savage lectured about his new book, “The senator from new england: The rise of JFK.” 
savage was accompanied by 2014 political science alum­na sophia schrage, and he thanked schrage in the pref­ace of his book. 
“i thanked her for her typ­ing skills and her other help,” savage said. “she was my student helper for two years during her junior and senior years, and after an extensive search i found somebody who could read my handwriting. she was a very big help in help­ing me get the manuscript to­gether and getting it ready for the publisher.” 
savage said one of the rea­sons it took him an extended period of time to research the book was because he wanted to go beyond the Kennedy presidential library. 
“my experience with all the different presidential librar­ies … is the Kennedy library is at the times the most se­cretive and hardest to get the information i’m look­ing for,” savage said. “i did research starting in 1988, at the roosevelt library. so there’s roosevelt, Truman, eisenhower, Kennedy and Johnson, five libraries.” 

savage said he looked at multiple sources including the archival sources of boston college, boston university, massachusetts’s historical society, the manuscript division of the boston public library, the papers of ed muskie, papers of sherman adams and papers from dartmouth college because he wanted to diversify his sources. 
“i wanted to get the larg­est number of ... helpful, pri­mary sources outside of the Kennedy library,” savage said. 
what he found from all of his sources, savage said, was that Kennedy pitched himself as a new englander from the very beginning of his politi­cal career, thus the title of his book. 
“The whole title of the book is the 'senator from new england.' why didn’t i say massachusetts? it’s because what i found out is early in Kennedy’s senate career, he was already pitching himself as a regional political figure, not just a state-wide one,” savage said. “partly of course was simply to win the election in 1952 — the 1952 senate race. he was already a congress­man from the boston area.” 
savage also said timing was important in politics, espe­cially for Kennedy. 
“it’s not just a matter of how talented are you, or how am­bitious are you or how you want to run for this particular position, but are you the right person at the right place at the right time,” savage said. 
Kennedy was catholic, which made him one of the most attractive candidates for lyndon b. Johnson to join forces with in the 1960 
paid adverTisemenT 



election, savage said. 
“in 1956, it showed that only 51 percent of catholics voted democratic for president and this stunned the democratic party. … if you can't get the catholic vote, you can’t win, … you have to have a catholic running mate, so Johnson’s view of Kennedy was that he would be the most attractive, feasible and catholic running mate for the 1960 campaign.” 
savage said pictures of Kennedy with priests and nuns were taken during his campaign to help win catholic votes. 
“The beginning of the gen­eral election campaigns in 1952, Kennedy was making the rounds at various festi­vals,” savage said. “one of the things that i tell students is that as he was getting ready to run for president in 1960. ... There were a lot of pictures of Kennedy with priests and nuns, students in catholic school uniforms.” 
savage also tied pope Francis' first visit to the u.s. to Kennedy's catholicism and contemporary fears about pa­pal influence. 
“with the pope’s current visit to the united states … i had to mention this that right before the 1960 democratic national convention open in los angeles, harry Truman answered the question of a college student, ‘are you afraid if John F. Kennedy be­comes president, the pope will take over the white house?’ 
and Truman supposedly said, ‘well it’s not the pope that i’m worried about, it’s the dad.' Truman always saw Joe Kennedy [JFK’s father] as pull­ing the strings on his son, the puppet.” 
savage also spoke about Jackie Kennedy, who loathed 
“It’s not just a matter of how talented are you, or how ambitious are you or how you want to run for this particular position, but are you the right person at the right place at the right time.” 
Sean Savage 
Saint Mary’s professor of 
political science 

politics, he said. however, she was popular on the campaign trail because she spoke mul­tiple languages, he said. 
according to saint mary’s website,“The senator from new england: The rise of JFK” is savage’s fourth book. his other books include “roosevelt: The party leader, 1932-1945,” “Truman and the democratic party” and “JFK, lbJ and The democratic party.” 
Contact Alex Winegar at awineg01@saintmarys.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 




Organization awards sustainabilty prizes 
By SAM FENTRESS 
news writer 
one project developed a plant for processing cassava on-the­go. The other created a score­card for assessing resilience to climate disasters. 
both are recipients of the 2015 corporate adaptation prize, an annual award presented by the notre dame global adaptation index (nd-gain). nd-gain is best known for an index that ranks countries in order of their vulnerability to the negative ef­fects of climate change. 
“our mission is really to in­crease the world’s awareness about the need to adapt in order to inform investments in both the private and development sector to improve livelihood in the face of climate change,” Joyce coffee, managing director of nd-gain, said. 
The prize, which nd-gain awarded to two recipients at an event in new york city on wednesday, focuses on corpora­tions making a difference in the world of “climate adaptation," according to coffee. 
“The reason why we have the award in the first place is that frankly, not until very recently was it possible to walk into a room and say the words 'climate adaptation' and have anyone know what you meant,” coffee said. “we’re really celebrating climate adaptation as a method for corporations to serve their triple bottom line: the value of their corporation to their share­holders, the value of their cor­poration to the world and the value of their corporation to the environment." 
The dutch agricultural development and Trading company (dadTco), a netherlands-based corporation, received the prize for develop­ing a mobile plant that allows them to process cassava close to local farmers, according to a dadTco press release. 

“The technology we have is mobile so we can go close to the farmers, and we can make sure that the same day, the cassava roots are processed,” renske Franken, a member of the en­terprise development team at dadTco, said. 
Franken said this mobility is key, as cassava’s high perishabil­ity makes it difficult to ship long distances. while reducing trans­portation costs and emissions, the mobile plant also makes way for cassava — an important cli­mate adaptation crop because of its ability to survive in poor weather conditions — to play a bigger part in local markets. 
“we say we want to start the cassava revolution,” Franken said. “it shouldn’t be neglected any more as it has been.” 
“it’s helping to build an econ­omy, and whenever you build an economy, you definitely see an increased resistance to any kind of shock, including climate shock,” coffee said. 
coffee said the cassava mobile plants will be implemented in other industries as well. 
“The starch from cassava is used for a variety of things, in­cluding for beer,” coffee said. “so this is our first craft beer adaptation project we can think of.” 
The second innovation rec­ognized grew out of a partner­ship between engineering firm aecom and technology leader ibm. The two companies worked together, for free, to develop a disaster resilience scorecard for the united nations international strategy for disaster reduction (unisdr). The scorecard, which coffee says looks to iden­tify the “biggest risks” for a city, focuses on 85 different resilience criteria that cover aspects such as infrastructure, environment and recovery. 
“it’s not just that you create a scorecard; the scorecard helps you prioritize your investments, so that in an era of limited re­sources, you have a scorecard that tells you where you’re going to be able to optimize your in­frastructure investment or your human investment,” coffee said. 
award submissions must be based in a country that ranks below 60 (out of 180) on the global adaptation index, coffee said. additionally, the project must have some kind of corpo­rate background. 
“we need to see a corporate lead because we are trying to prove that corporations gain benefits from being climate ad­aptation leaders,” coffee said. 
once submitted, a panel of judges — including members of nd-gain and judges from out­side institutions like pepsico and the catholic relief services 
— reviewed the projects before reaching a final decision. 
ultimately, coffee said, the corporate adaptation prize fits into the university’s larger mis­sion of social justice. 
“There’s a new risk that cuts across all sectors and all com­munities," she said. "it’s dispro­portionately felt by the poor, and we need to be sure that leaders of every sector are aware of the risks and the opportunities pre­sented to this new global era." 
Contact Sam Fentress at  sfrentres@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 

smc, sodexo partner to reduce food waste 
By VERONICA DARLING 
news writer 
saint mary’s office for civil and social engagement (ocse) and sodexo, the noble Family dining hall food services supplier, have formed a food recovery part­nership to benefit the center for the homeless (cFh). The program provides leftover dining hall food to cFh and eliminates the amount of food uneaten in the dining hall each week. 
last year, Jackie voltz, a member of the class of 2015, initiated Food recovery at saint mary’s as a volunteer opportunity through circle 
K. she said turning the alum­na’s volunteer efforts into paid positions for students solidifies this program will continue year after year in a strong manner. 
“Though volunteers are wonderful, it was a lot for one person to handle. having three student [workers] will certainly assist in the work distribution,” voltz said, “in addition, these students will be able to use cars from the college to transport the food.” 
she said ocse is thrilled to have entered into a partner­ship with sodexo and cFh. student workers will go to the dining hall to load up the food that sodexo packaged and weighed for them. 
The food is then taken and delivered to the cFh and distributed to the guests in need of assistance as part of a partnership between three entities that are working to­gether to provide food re­sources to those who need it in our local community, she said. 
director of ocse erika buhring said barry bowles, director of food services, was especially helpful in hav­ing sodexo get food ready to transport to the center. 
“he made sure the com­pany would be able to con­tribute the food, weigh it and package it properly,” she said. 
cFh volunteer coordina­tor and ’15 alumna christin Kloski and her supervisor peter lombardo also helped to make arrangements at the center for the homeless. 
“i have worked with bowles, sodexo, Kloski and lombardo before on other projects. it was a pleasure to work with them to set this up as well," buhring said. 
buhring said one in six in­dividuals is food insecure in this country, so this program attempts to combat those numbers. 
“i would like others at saint mary’s to know that their fellow belles, local offices, agencies and organizations are working together to help to make a real difference in their community,” buhring said. 
senior global studies ma­jor eleanor Jones is one of the student workers for the program. 
“The food is packaged for us to take, we weigh the amount, and i put the amount of food that we saved into the national Food recovery data-base,” she said. 
“at the end of each semes­ter, Food recovery tells us the amount we saved and the amount the whole na­tional program saved. The current national goal is 
1.2 million pounds by may 2016. currently, the total is 872,519 pounds of food re­covered since 2011,” Jones said. “since i have worked on this project since the begin­ning, i hold Food recovery very close to my heart. 
“The reason i decided to collaborate with ocse is because i knew the pro­gram was bigger than myself and that this was the most guaranteed way to make it sustainable.” 
Jones said she would like to see the program expand to an everyday recovery and for the program to find other ways to manage and con­serve food waste. 
Contact Veronica Darling at vdarlin2@nd.edu 


Photojournalist presents work from civil rights era 
By MADISON RIEHLE 
news writer 
silhouetted against the im­age of martin luther King Jr. on the cover of last year’s Time magazine, photojournalist dan budnik took the stage at annenberg auditorium last night to share his experiences as a civil rights photographer and insights behind some of the movement's most famous moments during a lecture ti­tled "marching to the Freedom dream." 
The talk was co-sponsored by the snite museum of art, the department of art, art his­tory and design, the history department, the american studies department, the africana studies department and the center for civil and human rights. 
budnik presented snap­shots from the march on washington, the youth march for integrated schools and the selma to montgomery march, featuring renowned civil rights leaders such as King, marlon brando, malcolm X, 
ralph  abernathy  and  harry  
belafonte.  
“in  the  whole  civil  rights  

movement i was right there, like a fly on the wall," budnik said. "it was quite amazing." 
budnik, who was born in 1933, got his start with magnum photos in new york in 1957, after being drafted into the military and photograph­ing at the new york school of abstracts expressionist and pop artists, according to his personal website. 
The next year, budnik shot one of his more famous col­lections at the youth march for integrated schools. 
“The youth march for integrated schools was really the prototype to the march on washington,” budnik said. 
budnik said the photos from the march on washington helped him gain backstage ac­cess to speeches and famous civil rights leaders. his ability to get in the action got him the recognition of life magazine, Time magazine, vogue and sports illustrated for his coverage of the civil rights movement. 
all of budnik’s images from the three marches came with a story. budnik said he made it his mission to know the names of the people in each of his photos, sometimes mak­ing complete trips just to find them. 


“This young lady in the mid­dle is crutilla harold,” budnik said, referring to a young black girl at a protest in selma. “i ended up going back [to selma] because i wanted to identify as many people as possible, so i had an exhibit up for a couple weeks and people said, ‘oh that’s crutilla.’” 
budnik said he built up re­lationships with civil rights leaders, especially King, who can be seen in many of his photographs. he had access to King’s personal group, catch­ing intimate shots between King and his friends, col­leagues and family. one image in particular of King and his wife, coretta scott King, was a personal favorite of budnik be­cause he said it showed King’s intimate side. 


“martin luther King Jr. was always with the group, i no­ticed,” budnik said. “but he was a loner, always alone.” 
last year, budnik's photo of King in this typical solitary state was placed on the cover of Time magazine as part of a commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the march on washington and “i have a dream” speech. 
“This was the pay off pic­ture,” budnik said. “but i like these kinds of photos the most. They have their own longevity.” 
Contact Madison Riehle at mriehle@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 


Clubs host career panel 
By ALINE IRIHAMYE 
news writer 
notre dames club and nd women connect will co-host a campus to career panel discus­sion and networking event fea­turing six notre dame alumnae in the morris inn ballroom on Friday afternoon. 
senior alison leddy, founder and president of notre dames, said the event will help the club promote its mission by providing women on campus with opportu­nities that could prove beneficial to their future careers. 
“The mission of notre dames is to strengthen the female voice on campus and to bring aware­ness to issues that affect women at notre dame, across the coun­try and around the world,” leddy said. 
according to its website, nd women connect works to create alumnae outreach programs and increase graduate involvement among the female population at notre dame. 
"we are really excited to co­sponsor this event with nd women connect," leddy said. "They are an affinity group with­in the alumni association that is inclusive of everyone, but female-focused, very similar to the notre dames. 
"[nd connect is] trying to in­crease its visibility and presence on campus, so that you don’t have to wait until after you graduate to hear about them. They’re a really great way to connect notre dame women in all different cities." 

The campus to career event aims to encourage networking among notre dame women, both here on campus and through­out the country, leddy said. it will consist of a panel and an in­formal networking session with alumnae. 
according to the campus to career event page, six notre dame alumnae will attend the event: Joya de Foor ('77), elizabeth Tavitas ('85), eleanor Kuhns ('88), sheila delaney ('99), monica Zigman ('06) and Kaitlin sullivan ('10). 
leddy said both notre dames and nd women connect recog­nize there is power in bringing women together. 
"you can find inspiration in a lot of places, and i think inspi­ration can be incredibly mean­ingful if it’s from someone who comes from a similar background to you," leddy said. "That’s why i love having strong, female role models, and i think the notre dame alumnae are a perfect ex­ample of that.” 
leddy said she hopes both the alumnae and current students form natural and organic rela­tionships based around experi­ences they share. 
"it can be something as in­formal as 'let's talk about our mutual experience of living in cavanaugh,' for example," leddy said. "i hope that these initial con­versations will foster more long 
paid adverTisemenT 
lasting mentoring relationships." 
The event is a good opportunity for older students starting to think about what steps to take after col­lege, leddy said. 
“we’re going to touch on each panelist’s professional experi­ence, but we’re also going to be able to ask questions and to talk about how they balance work and family life and if they have suggestions and reassurance for graduating seniors who might be panicked about the job search," she said. 
leddy also said she highly en­courages underclassmen to at­tend the networking event. 
“i think it’s especially perfect for underclassmen who might have been intimidated to go to the in­ternship fair," she said. "it’s a great opportunity for them to work on those skills needed to talk to potential recruiters … and to get very tangible advice about pursu­ing your professional goals.” 
leddy said she hopes the campus to career event will give students the opportunity to ask alumnae questions relevant to their own futures. 
"what's great about notre dame alumni, in general, is that they’re always interested in what’s going on on campus, they really care and they want to get to know students. so this is a great way to make that connection,” leddy said. 
Contact Aline Irihamye at  airihamy@nd.edu 

Pope 
conTinued From page 1 
like,” wilson said. “we hope that they come back with a re­newed sense of being called to serve others and be missionary disciples to our community. 
mccormick said he believes students will grow in faith with each other during the pilgrimage. 
“There’s this real sense of the faith that has led them to give up a notre dame football week­end, to be a part of this mass, even though it’s going to have sacrifices that it will entail,” he said. “There are gifts that will come that we can’t anticipate — and that’s what i’m most excited for.” 
pope Francis’s itinerary also included washington d.c. and new york city during his first trip to the u.s., a visit that holds significance in the eyes of the public as it waits to hear the pope’s message to americans, mccormick said. 
“i think that he will, coming to the united states, have par­ticular topics that he will want to touch upon,” he said. “The encyclical may be one of them. … i think we can anticipate typical pope Francis in terms of his real emphasis on living the faith authentically. but at the same time, there’s going to be woven elements of ‘laudato si’’ in there as well.” 
pope Francis will tour philadelphia in his popemobile on sunday morning, mccormick said. There will be jumbo screens set up around the city, he said, for the crowds to see the pope. 
according to wilson, stu­dents should take advantage of the chance to see pope Francis because he lives an exemplary catholic life. 
“he is joyful and generous with his affection and time,” wilson said. “he preaches in a way that is accessible to people and engaging. These are all things that attract people to him and ultimately to christ.” 
she said attendees can prac­tice solidarity as they interact with other pilgrims who share a common faith. 
“The environment in philadelphia, we hope and ex­pect, will be a palpable public testimony of christ,” wilson said. “we expect that there will be a great deal of faith sharing going on in philadelphia and that all the pilgrims will grow through interaction with other people of faith.” 
david said she sees pope Francis as a role model for peo­ple around the world, regardless of their religious beliefs. 
“he speaks so much to the core of what it means to be a hu­man person, and a big part of that is being present with other human people,” she said. “so just kind of encouraging being present with one another, liv­ing simply with one another, embracing differences in one another.” 
david said campus ministry sent out emails to pilgrims in the days leading up to the trip as part of its “nine days to Follow Francis” initiative. each email contains a theme, prayer, reflec­tion and suggested action for the day. 

campus ministry also hosted an event called “papal pancakes” on Thursday morn­ing, where students were in­vited to watch pope Francis’s congressional address, david said. 
saint mary’s sophomore maeve sullivan said she looks forward to embarking on the pilgrimage with fellow belles. 
“What Pope Francis has done is communicate small ways that any Catholic can practice their faith. It doesn’t take a theology degree to be grateful, or to be merciful or to express compassion.” 
Fr. Pete McCormick 
director of Campus Ministry 
Notre Dame 

“it’s at a point in my life where it’s an important thing to do,” sullivan said. “i’m excited to go with women like me who are willing to grow in their faith. i’m excited to be impacted in the way god wants me to be impacted.” 
sullivan said she approaches this journey with no expecta­tions, and she trusts in god to give her a fulfilling experience. 
“[pope Francis] is trying to build up the current catholic faith and the people within it,” sullivan said. “i’m just ex­cited to be in his presence and listen to what he has to say. it’s once-in-a-lifetime.” 
according to sullivan, the pilgrimage to philadelphia can foster community among all catholics as they share in a uni­fying experience. 
“catholicism is a faith that unites,” sullivan said. “it is a community. we all have the same basis of beliefs. we’re all able to experience differ­ent things and grow from one another.” 
mccormick said the pilgrim­age allows students to see pope Francis exemplify what it means to live out the catholic faith. 
“what pope Francis has done is communicate small ways that any catholic can practice their faith,” he said. “it doesn’t take a theology degree to be grateful, or to be merciful or to express compassion. … i think that there’s an authenticity that peo­ple relate with by virtue of the fact that his words match with his actions.” 
Contact Katie Galioto at  kgalioto@nd.edu and Martha Reilly at mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 


The observer |  FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Mothers 
conTinued From page 1 
named us number five.” 
wanzek said while notre dame’s ranking is very good, there is still room for improve­ment. This year, wanzek said, the right to life club has sev­eral projects in progress, includ­ing reserving parking spots for pregnant mothers on campus, educating students about the resources available to those who 
“I think it’s important for the whole general public for there to be resources because women in crisis pregnancies are pushed to get abortions because they don’t know about the resources.” 
Janelle Wanzek 
senior 
find themselves pregnant and creating a student video about the university’s resources for student parents. 
wanzek said student preg­nancy is a relevant issue across the country, not just at notre dame. 

“i think it is an important issue for any college,” wanzek said. “i think it’s important for the whole general public for there to be resources because ... women in crisis pregnancies are pushed to get an abortion because they don’t know about the resources. They feel they have no other op­tion. They’re scared, so they go to the quickest, easiest solution. but if we made the other re­sources more available and more well known, they wouldn’t be so pushed into abortion.” 
wanzek said she hopes some­time in the near future, notre dame will be ranked the number one friendliest school for preg­nant and parenting mothers. 
“[The ideal would be] for every student to know the resources, so if one of their friends were to come to them ... they would be able to tell them, ‘let’s go do this,’ ... instead of going right away to the abortion facility,” wanzek said. “in an ideal world, everyone on campus would not have the stigma that the university is not going to support you when you get pregnant and that they can’t have an education while they’re pregnant. … notre dame wants everyone to be able to [have an education] if they find them­selves in that situation.” 
Contact Emma Borne at  eborne@nd.edu 
Bagpipes 
conTinued From page 1 

experience, the passion that radiates off each of the members, decked out in their kilts and belts, as they lead the irish into the sta­dium with their rendition of “scotland the brave” is undeniable. 
“we have nine pipers and four drummers,” Johnson said. “most bagpipers have experience, but i do some teaching with new people who want to learn. i don’t think any of the drummers have any experience with bagpipe bands.” 
sophomore allegra wallingford, who plays snare drum for the band, said she joined this year be­cause she loved the idea of becoming a part of a notre dame tradition. 
“i joined because i love playing music and wanted a way to do that while i’m here,” she said. “i also real­ly enjoy being part of some­thing very traditional and playing in bagpipe band makes me feel very con­nected to notre dame.” 
The band’s roots can date back to the early 1950s, according to its website, when the irish guard was began as a bagpiper unit in the notre dame marching band. but the bagpipes did not fare well in the cold and were abandoned by the irish guard until the 1990s, when paul harren formed a band and started teach­ing students how to play. The band first performed at football games during the 2001 season. 
sending off the football team to meet their oppo­nents isn’t the only thing 
“I also really enjoy being part of something very traditional, and playing in bagpipe band makes me feel very connected to Notre Dame.” 
Allegra Wallingford 
sophomore 
the band does on game day, Johnson said. The band’s saturdays consist of sev­eral short performances for 
football  fans  throughout  
the day.  
“For  typical  football  

weekend with a 3:30 p.m. kickoff, we’ll start at 11:30 a.m.,” he said. “we’ll play a 15-minute concert in front of the dorm, we’ll play marching through laFun and then we’ll do the player walk.” 
Johnson said playing for a group that’s so well-known and beloved by the notre dame community has been a lot of fun. 
“i’ve been playing for twelve years — i’m the pipe sergeant of the band,” he said. “so i’ll do all the tun­ing and some logistic work, stuff like that. i play with a band back home, but on game days, it’s probably the best crowd i ever play for. it’s just insane the num­ber of people who crowd around, especially be­cause most people hate the bagpipes.” 
in addition to football game days, the band plays in a variety of other con­certs and shows over the course of the year. They’ve even performed in the fa­mous st. patrick’s day pa­rade in chicago, Johnson said.  
“my experience has been pretty cool, being able to play for so many people and having such a receptive crowd,” he said. 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




Curriculum 
conTinued From page 1 
requirements,” they said in the letter. “ … every ten years, notre dame reviews its core curriculum require­ments precisely because these requirements signify and determine, to the best of our ability, the knowledge, dispositions and skills every notre dame undergraduate student should possess upon graduation.” 
Proposed changes to the core curriculum 
according to marie blakey, executive director of aca­demic communications and a staff member of the review committee, committee mem­bers have held more than 50 meetings with faculty mem­bers, departments and other faculty groups interested in the matter to discuss possi­ble improvements to the core curriculum. 
a number of faculty have submitted proposals to the committee for additions to the curriculum, ranging from an ecological literacy re­quirement to a requirement for a course on u.s. diversity. 
debra Javeline, an associate professor of political science who also teaches a course on sustainability, submitted the proposal for a required eco­logical literacy course to an online faculty bulletin board in april 2015. 
Javeline said eight faculty community-based engaged learning requirement and a course on media literacy, among others. 

Effectiveness of the review process 
despite the many events and outlets offered by the re­view committee to engage the faculty, several faculty mem­bers have expressed concern over the fundamental struc­ture of the review process. in a reflection posted to the online faculty bulletin board, associate professor in the program of liberal studies (pls) Thomas stapleford said the conversation among the faculty has lacked coherence and the review committee itself does not represent the faculty as a whole. 
“i know many members of the committee, and i have a high respect for all of them,” he said in the post. “but none of that changes the real­ity: This committee was not elected by the faculty, it was not chosen by the faculty, it was not appointed by the faculty and it thus cannot, in any meaningful sense, be said to represent the faculty. 
“whatever the good inten­tions of the committee mem­bers or their good will (and i have not doubts on either score), this remains an ap­pointed committee. it was constituted by the adminis­tration, at the discretion of the administration and thus any reform will be rightly seen as an act of the admin­istration, not the faculty. The faculty has no ownership of this review.” 
Student participation 
blakey said the review committee wanted to offer students as well as faculty the ability to contribute to the dialogue. last year, the committee held two forums for students to express their ideas and concerns — one for students representing under­graduate majors, and the oth­er for students representing individual residence halls. 
Jacob haley, a member of the class of 2015 who at­tended one of the forums last year on behalf of the depart­ment of mathematics, said although representatives of the review committee at the forum seemed interested in student feedback, the organi­zation of the event prevented serious dialogue. 
“i remember thinking that nothing from that meeting will have any sort of impact in the grand scheme of things,” haley said in an email. “it would have worked a lot bet­ter if there would have been a different session for each college.” 
haley also said the conver­sation that did occur lacked relevance to the student body as a whole. 
“i felt that a lot of the stu­dent comments were defend­ing requirements related to their major or suggesting new requirements in their depart­ment,” he said. “For example, i remember one student in the classics department sug­gesting that the theology requirement should be re­placed by some sort of textual criticism course. 
“when i left, i remember thinking that in general, peo­ple seemed more concerned with defending their own in­terests than with discussing what notre dame students actually need to know.” 
Junior Kate hardiman, who attended the same fo­rum for the pls department, said while students were initially reticent during the event, they gradually be­gan to participate actively. (Editor’s note: Kate Hardiman is a Viewpoint Columnist for The Observer.) 
“i definitely got the sense that [the forum] was a for­mality,” she said. “... but it almost turned into a conver­sation of the students batting around ideas, and people were suggesting things like one-credit courses.” 
hardiman said committee members in attendance took notes throughout the event and seemed receptive to the concerns students expressed. 
“up until i went to that meeting, i didn’t feel like [committee members] were soliciting a ton of student in­volvement,” she said. 
in addition to the student forums, blakey said all un­dergraduate students re­ceived a survey last spring intended to provide feedback for the committee to consid­er. she said including partial completions, the response rate for the survey was 45 percent. 
Continuing the conversation 
no public events concern­ing the curriculum review have taken place this aca­demic year, and blakey said the committee has spent the past several months prepar­ing a draft report containing preliminary recommenda­tions for the curriculum. she said the committee expects to release the report later this fall, which committee mem­bers hope will encourage a new round of discussion and feedback from faculty and students. The report will not reflect any final changes to the core curriculum, but rather serve as a guide for further deliberation. 
dean of the college of arts and letters and co-chair of the review committee John mcgreevy, as well as several other committee members, declined to comment until the report is released. 
To learn more about the core curriculum review pro­cess, visit http://curriculum­review.nd.edu 
Contact Clare Kossler at  ckossler@nd.edu 
members representing a va­riety of departments collabo­rated to draft the proposal and encourage faculty sup­port. in total, 109 signatories endorsed the proposal. 
“it turns out that there are more faculty members than you would believe whose work somehow touches on ecological issues, issues about climate change, sus­tainability,” Javeline said. 
“ … There are a lot of us who have transformed our careers in recent years. … The cur­are thirsty for this kind of knowledge and are seeking it out because they do have an understanding that this is the defining issue of our time.” 
like Javeline, associate pro­fessor of american studies Jason ruiz posted a proposal online for a new curriculum requirement — this one, for a u.s. diversity requirement. 
ruiz said members of the department of american studies voted unanimous­ly to approve the proposal, 
“I think the idea that you could graduate from the Universtiy of Notre Dame and not know something about your changing planet is just unacceptable.” 
Debra Javeline 
associate professor of political science 


riculum review process al­lowed us a venue to discuss and promote ideas that we’ve already been talking about.” 
Javeline said she believes an ecological literacy course is a critical component to the undergraduate experience because environmental and sustainability issues have be­come increasingly urgent in recent years. 
“i think the idea that you could graduate from the university of notre dame and not know something about your changing planet is just unacceptable,” she said. “To phrase it more positively, i think that students already 
paid adverTisemenT 

which describes a suitable course as one in which “at least two-thirds of the con­tent deals directly with race, ethnicity, class, sexuality or gender in the united states.” 
This type of course is im­portant, ruiz said, because “part of [america’s] vitality and strength is in diversity.” 
“i teach a lot of courses in race and ethnic studies, and students are hungry for this kind of stuff, and tell me, ‘i’ve never had a class like this,’” he said. “… i see the propos­al as responding to student demand.” 
other proposals submitted to the committee include a 
The observer |  FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

before they were saul goodman of “breaking bad” and Tobias Fünke of “arrested development,” respectively, the comedians, writers and actors bob odenkirk and david cross hosted a brilliant, perhaps insuperable, sketch comedy show on hbo. From 1995 to 1998, the titular duo of “mr. show with bob and david” produced three seasons of nonsensical alternative comedy mixed with irreverent social commentary, much of which some­how remains relevant to this day. 
with the help of a short order from netflix, odenkirk and cross have re­united with their original team of comedy buddies from “mr. show” to film new episodes, now under the truncated show name “with bob and david.” recently announced, the new show will premiere on the streaming service on nov. 13. a.v. club broke the news, along with an exclusive teaser for the series. The production appears more expensive than how much the entire staff of “mr. show” probably made 20 years ago. 
however, rather than speculate on the 20 seconds of content available at this time, now is the perfect time to look back on the show’s seminal original run, and some of the patented oddball comedy for which it was fa­mous. The following is a completely subjective, non-exhaustive list of nine of the show’s finest sketches. 
Van Hammersly 

bob odenkirk plays the title char­acter, an enthusiastic educational billiardist, starring in a commercial for his scholastic videotape series. van hammersly almost psychoti­cally teaches his way everything from ‘50s movie stars to the 1974 Kentucky derby through use of a pool table. The sketch is a perfect combination of odenkirk’s sublime delivery and no­holds-barred, erratic physical comedy. 
Imminent Death Syndrome 
“imminent death syndrome” is such an amazing, original concept. The origins of the sketch stemmed from odenkirk not being able to commit to playing guitar at a party, continually strumming and stopping while say­ing, “wait, wait,” like cross’s charac­ter larry in the sketch. ids perfectly explains the inextricable rise of celeb­rities who seem to lack all talent. since those affected are forever on the brink of death, people agree to treat them kindly in the last moments, which last their entire lifetime. legends Jerry lewis and stephen hawking, among others, are not above jokes from the writers behind “mr. show,” both said to have suffered from the disease in the news story portion of the sketch. 
Lie Detector 
bob odenkirk plays an interviewee being tested with a lie detector, pre­sumably by a group of employees from a secret government organization. The interviewers ask escalating, out­rageously specific questions, which he admits are all true. he plays the bi­zarre stories so matter-of-factly, while those around him become alternative­ly curiously giddy and absolutely dev­astated by his admissions. This sketch is perhaps the best showcase of all the talent that worked together on “mr. show,” featuring paul F. Tompkins (“boJack horseman”), Jay Johnston (“bob’s burgers”) and brian poeshn (“The sara silverman program”). The anti-climactic resolution to the entire proceedings is the only way the in­creasingly absurd sketch can possibly end, subverting the importance of the whole thing. 
Mustard and Mayonnaise Commercials 
“mr. show” regularly used the com­mercial format to break up some of their longer, bigger sketches. still, the advertisements linking the show’s episodes were never of lesser qual­ity. The trio of strung together com­mercials advertising jars of mustard and mayonnaise were the best of its kind. The idea is weird, but not that far from reality. moreover, the tone of the ads are completely consistent with what they are making fun of. The last commercial, for mustmayostarday­onnaise, which is a combination of a jar of mustard and mayo with a jar of mayo and mustard, is simultaneously upsetting and hilarious. 

Commercials of the Future 
From the second episode of the show, the advertising pitch sketch es­tablished the show’s vague big brother style corporation, globo chem. it also made great use of the show’s airing on hbo, piling a host of vulgar taglines for globo chem’s various products. in the process of the sketch, the pitch­men, odenkirk and cross bouncing off each other expertly, have to con­tinually update how many products the company owns. The growing vul­garity of each commercial satires the extremes of advertisement, especially the use of sex appeal and other ris­qué audience-grabbing techniques. The final commercial spot, which de­volves into a zoom out on the earth and shouted expletives, takes the con­ceit as far as it can go, and makes the sketch one of the most memorable from the show’s run. 
Teardrop Awards 
another staple of “mr. show” was the awards show ceremonies. The crown­ing jewel from the form is undoubt­edly the string of “Teardrop awards,” which acted as the grammys of sad songs. The storyline over three years of awards shows is positively insane, starting with a showdown between eric clapton-esque guitarst’s tribute to his dead son and a beach boys-aping song about a singer’s mouth sores condition, making fun of brian wilson’s banal material. The events spiral out of control and provide a lot of fodder for additional, hilarious — and annoyingly catchy — sad songs. 
The Audition 
written by “community” and “moral orel”’s dino stamotopoulos, The audition is a brilliant riff on language, which manages to milk the concept far further than imaginable. david cross plays the auditioneee with just the right amount of hesitation to really sell the constant misunderstanding at the root of the sketch’s joke. Then, he gets to go off the handle, in typical david cross style, berating the casters auditioning him. 
Pre-Taped Call-in Show 
pre-Taped call in show unpacks like a nesting doll of anger. a spiritual sib­ling to The audition, pre-Taped call-in show uses david cross’s best asset in another extremely smart bit of mis­understanding. cross stars as the host of a call-in advice show, which covers a different topic every week. however, the show is pre-taped, so the view­ers have to call about the topic the subsequent episode of the show cov­ers, while watching an episode that has already taken calls the previous week. if the logic is confusing, like the show’s intervention sketch that also escalates in reverse, it is supposed to be. but the way in which cross’s dis­traught, hair-losing host ultimately explains it is so intelligently funny, it makes the whole complex logic worth it.
 The Story of the Story of Everest 
nearly every other sketch from “mr. show’s” 30-episode run could vie for any other position on this list. however, on any given day, this last spot would always be reserved for “The story of the story of everest.” This sketch is the best example of the comedic philosophy in which “mr. show” believes. The willingness to commit to a gag, however stupid and repetitive it may be, and to see all of its worth, is a rare quality to be ad­mired and sought after in comedy. it doesn’t hurt that Jay Johnston ex­hibits absolutely perfect timing and physical comedy. The more than seven-minute sketch starts fun, gets trying about halfway through, and then plays out long enough to become funny again, coming completely full circle. The goofy silent movie stinger to the sketch is just the icing on the cake to “mr. show’s” finest. 
Contact Matt McMahon at                 mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 

The observer |  FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MIKO MALABUTE 
scene editor 

i’m just going to presume here, fans of football and television alike are all aware of the legendary television series “Friday night lights.” everyone knows the lore of how famed dillon panthers quarterback Jason street (who actually was a virtual lock to receive a scholar­ship at the university of notre dame) went down early in the panthers’ season. The unassuming, backup quarterback matt saracen was handed the reigns to the panthers offense, and led them all the way to a state championship. 
The parallels to “Friday night lights” and this year of notre dame football are eerily similar, and they were thrust onto center stage in this week’s epi­sode of “a season with notre dame Football.” From the start, we saw the leadership, passion and promise of starting quarterback malik Zaire lead­ing the irish into the second week of the young college football season, only to be prematurely cut down for the year 
By BOBBY WOZNIAK 
scene writer 

with the arrival of autumn (sorry to break the news if you’re still con­vincing yourself you have time to bask in the summer sun) comes the arrival of new music. september is always a month artists take advan­tage of to debut big projects they’ve been working on for the past year. as the summer hits begin to fall from the charts just as fast as the south bend temperatures start to plum­met, highly anticipated albums be­come the new buzz. let’s take a look at a few of the most talked about upcoming records, all dropping on sept. 25. 
Disclosure’s “Caracal,” Sept. 25 
coming off of their extremely successful debut album, “settle,” disclosure still has a lot of tricks with an awful ankle injury. The pres­sure to perform fell backup quarterback deshone Kizer’s, and – true to “Friday night lights” form – Kizer threw a saracen-esque bomb to will Fuller down the field for the go-ahead game-winning touchdown. 
however, this episode of showtime’s “a season with notre dame Fall” was magnificent in showing the immediate after-effects of Zaire’s success. after the win over the virginia cavaliers, Kizer went back to work under coach brian Kelly’s tutelage, where the audience saw the natural growing pains behind Kizer’s progression. it was refreshing 
— if not a bit sobering — to see how much work goes into Kizer’s develop­ment, to ensure that he isn’t a one-game wonder. 
with the immediate success and the eyes of the notre dame fanbase (as well as the entire national college football following), it is easy to imagine how quickly the overnight fame and popu­larity could go to a younger quarter­back’s head. This episode showed how 
in their bag. consisting of broth­ers howard and guy lawrence, this electronic duo previously managed to score collaborations with talents like mary J. blige, alunageorge and sam smith, in the process kickstart­ing smith’s grammy-winning ca­reer with the dance anthem “latch.” disclosure has already been teasing multiple new singles off “caracal,” featuring artists like the up-and­coming neo-soul duo lion babe, lorde and, yet again, sam smith. each single encompasses its own distinct individuality; however, disclosure’s signature choppy vo­cals overlapped with twangy beats and a pop punch are carried over from the debut album. we can ex­pect a similar sound throughout the entirety of “caracal” with some new twists and turns that stand to keep disclosure on top of the electronic industry. 

this didn’t happen to Kizer. sitting down with Jac collinsworth, Kizer spoke on a podcast about how crazy the national spotlight has been. 
“i just – i never, never expected all this stuff to happen the way it is,” Kizer admitted to collinsworth. “i’m just expected to go from nothing to every­thing, in three days. 
“going in the summer, i literally hit rock-bottom. i wasn’t throwing the ball well, as a third-string quarterback. … i was thinking that to myself, ‘why did i even play football?’” Kizer contin­ued. “Finally i was like, ‘look: there’s no more ‘red shirt’ next to your name. There’s no more everett golson versus malik Zaire.’ There’s nothing. The only thing stopping me from me playing was myself. 
“and now that [malik Zaire] is down, i’m in a position where it’s time for me to take over.” 
and that he did, as the cameras once again caught a beautiful, “pro­gram win” over two-and-a-half-point­favorite georgia Tech yellow Jackets. 
CHVRCHES’ “Every Open Eye,” Sept. 25 
The eccentricity of this scottish electronic band grabbed the attention of music fans across the globe with the release of their 2013 debut album “The bones of what you believe.” Two years later, they’re back, led by frontwoman lauren mayberry. Their mellowed-out take on a classic pop sound created a unique, alternative take on electronic music in their first album. and based on their first three singles off of “every open eye,” they will have a very simi­lar sound. in the latest single, “clearest blue,” mayberry’s inimitable, breathy voice is backed by a multitude of over­lapping synths that continuously build until the song’s surprisingly abrupt end. The success of their sophomore album will rest on how well the band continues to utilize their originality to pack a punch in the growing, competi­tive electronic-pop scene. 
Kizer showed maturity and poise well beyond his years and led the team on the field and, in between series, on the sidelines. The physical, stifling irish defense — as well as the rest of the irish offense — also got their deserved share of time on the screen. 
unfortunately, as i feared, this epi­sode featured yet another injury to a key player, as drue Tranquil went down. it was yet another tough moment to see Tranquil, with tears in his eyes, real­izing his season is over. but he showed determination and heart in keeping his teammates’ spirits up despite his own injury. 
This week’s episode showed a re­silient, determined irish team with a “won’t-die” attitude, which made for yet another awesome edition to the showtime series. here’s hoping that next week’s episode won’t capture an­other injury to an already injury-rid­dled irish football team. 
Contact Miko Malabute at               mmalabut@nd.edu 
Fetty Wap’s “Fetty Wap,” Sept. 25 
after becoming one of the biggest breakthrough stars of 2015 with his hit single “Trap Queen,” the one-eyed rap­per is finally set to release his highly anticipated, self-titled debut album. with several of his original singles, “Trap Queen,” “my way” and “again,” set to be on the track list, the album is predicted to be a collection of party hits with contagious beats and very hard to understand lyrics. This probably comes as no surprise, considering this is Fetty wap we’re talking about. nevertheless, i will say this guy knows how to create a catchy song. Just as “Trap Queen” put wap on the map, his debut album could potentially catapult him to the top tier of the rap game. regardless, though, we can be sure he’ll be repping 1738 until the end of time. 
Contact Bobby Wozniak at Robert.J.Wozniak.29@nd.edu 
JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 



The observer |  FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

ask more of each other 
Rachel O’Grady 
news writer 

Two weeks ago, my little sister spent the night here at notre dame with one of her friends in bp. 
caroline is a senior in high school and i’ve been pushing notre dame on her for about 18 years, so to say i was excited when she told me she wanted to stay the night after the Texas game is an understatement. all too quickly, however, that excitement turned to fright. 
it wasn’t because i feared she wouldn’t have a great time at the football game, or she wouldn’t find our campus pretty enough or she wouldn’t fall in love with notre dame in the way i did and continue to do every day. 
i was scared because it took this commu­nity one week, five hours and 44 minutes after move-in to receive news of sexual assault on campus. not 48 hours later, another email hit our inboxes, reporting two acts of sexual vio­lence. compound this with the two reported sexual assaults in my first few weeks of fresh­man year, and suddenly, i was scared the place i love so dearly wasn’t good enough for my little sister. 
having shared a home with my sister for 18 years, it is humiliating to feel uncomfortable inviting her into what i consider my second home. it is embarrassing that, after weeks on end of describing my unconditional love for this place to her, something so egregious could occur. it is unacceptable that the community i consider a family could let this happen. 
we are better than this. Forget the u.s. news and world report rankings, the extraordinary academic caliber of our student body, our sto­ried athletic programs, our medals, trophies and awards, the fact remains that the heart of the community here is nothing short of excep­tional. we are kindhearted, driven, resilient, caring, ambitious and loving. yet, we barely made it a week without a report of sexual as­sault. we are better than this, and we need to start acting like it. 
we need to start asking more of each other, challenging one another, engaging in the issue through dialogue, not perpetuating danger­ous environments prone to sexual assault and certainly not waiting until the next email to regret not doing more. The prayer services and the pledge cards mean nothing if they never impel us to action. we demand excellence from ourselves every day, whether in class, in practice or in our activities, and this is no ex­ception. There is no excuse to be anything less than exemplary. 
i should not feel humiliated, embarrassed or scared to invite my sister into my home. yet, the current state of sexual violence here is so remarkably unacceptable that i feel frightened for her safety before she’s even applied to the school. 
let’s change this, one conversation, one per­son, one day at a time. let’s step it up, so that in four years, when my youngest sister applies, caroline won’t feel the way i did four weeks ago. let’s ask more of each other, because there is not a shadow of a doubt in my mind that we are better than this. 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Hoping for GOP dropouts 
Kyle Palmer 
mr. precedent 

wisconsin gov. scott walker did something monday evening that is increasingly uncommon in today’s political environment: he realized when he lost, and accepted it. 
his campaign was in debt, with little chance of recovering in the coming months, and unlike an­other unnamed gop candidate, self-funding re­ally wasn’t an option for walker. he spoke for less than nine minutes in the three-hour-plus debate last week. in a cnn/orc poll released last week­end, he polled at less than one percent as a first choice and only two percent as a second choice. 
i applaud him for realizing and admitting his defeat for the greater good of his party and country. 
during his press conference in which he an­nounced his withdrawal from the race, he said, “i believe that i am being called to lead by helping to clear the field in this race so that a positive, conservative message can rise to the top of the field. … i encourage other republican presiden­tial candidates to consider doing the same so that the voters can focus on a limited number of candidates …” 
i agree with walker: many others need to drop out of the republican presidential contest, and do so quickly. more specifically, i think the fol­lowing should drop out (excuse the brevity with which i discuss each candidate, there’s simply not enough room here to perform a detailed anal­ysis on each one, so i have summarized): 
rick santorum doesn’t have any financial sup­port, nor does he have the backing of his 2012 supporters, or at least not near the same numbers as in 2012; santorum should drop out. 
Jim gilmore was governor of virginia over a decade ago and thus far hasn’t been able to over­come the “who’s Jim gilmore?” factor; gilmore should drop out. 
lindsey graham has a place in the senate and has no need to pursue the presidency, he has failed to garner broad support as a presidential candidate; graham should drop out. 
george pataki, as much as i personally like him as a candidate, has the same “who?” problem as gilmore, and hasn’t received any noticeable sup­port; pataki should drop out. 
bobby Jindal, current governor of louisiana, has failed to garner any substantial support and hasn’t yet been endorsed by any congressman, senator or governor (according to FiveThirtyeight blog). This is a particularly dismal performance given the fact that he is a current governor; Jindal should drop out. 
none of those candidates have made it to the “real” republican primary debates, instead being left for the junior varsity debate or, in gilmore’s case, nothing at all. These candidates dropping out would at least make things simpler and more focused and allow the approximately four per­cent of their collective support to go elsewhere. 
Then, we get to the varsity candidates that should still drop out: 
Ted cruz should drop out because his far-right agenda fails to win the support of moderates, would fail to convince independents and, con­trary to his made-up math released around his announcement, there’s no large group of silent, ultra-conservatives who are going to appear out of nowhere to deliver a majority and catapult him to the presidency. he’s arrogant, condescending and obstructionist in his approach to politics, and people (outside Texas and pockets of the american south) simply don’t like him. 
mike huckabee has nothing new to offer in 2016 that he didn’t bring to the table in 2008. strategically he doesn’t deliver anyone new that would be vital to winning the presidency. all he brings is the religious right, which would back the republican nominee with or without huckabee. huckabee should drop out. 
rand paul has been hanging on, but unless he’s able to secure scott walker’s endorsement, poll position improvement or a significant defin­ing moment in the upcoming debate, he should consider dropping out and remaining a figure of libertarian-republicanism in the senate. 
Trump should drop out because he’s destruc­tive to the party and would do permanent dam­age to the party by alienating women and latino voting blocs with his patronizing or outright of­fensive comments, and by pushing independents and millennials to the democrats with his rheto­ric of intolerance. i don’t think for a second that he’ll drop out by choice — his ego is far too in­flated for that — but it’s my opinion he should. (For those angry with my opinion here, feel free to write a letter to the editor and i will read your arguments.) 
The remaining candidates, Jeb bush, ben carson, chris christie, carly Fiorina, John Kasich and marco rubio, all have at least one of the following: establishment backing, financial resources, popularity or high poll numbers. like it or not, those factors are what lead to longev­ity, and ultimately victory, in a campaign. some of those i listed as “should drop out” have one of these factors, but have some disqualifying factor(s) to cancel out the positive factors’ effect. 
everyone in the 2016 republican presidential campaign should consider following walker’s ex­ample so that the republican party can be better positioned to be elected to the white house come nov. 8, 2016. 
Kyle Palmer is a senior from Dillon Hall studying accountancy, he welcomes any challenges to his opinions. He can be reached at kpalmer6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


it’s time to divest 

EDITORIAL 

university president Fr. John Jenkins announced monday that within five years, notre dame will stop burning coal as an energy source, and within 15 years it will cut its carbon footprint by at least half. 
in light of pope Francis’ may encyclical, “laudato si’,” and the holy Father’s first-ever visit to the united states this week, Jenkins said the university is recommitting to caring for our planet and preserving it for fu­ture generations. Furthermore, Jenkins said the university plans to invest $113 million in renewable energy technology, including solar, hydroelec­tric, biomass and geothermal. 
at the white house on wednesday, pope Francis said, “climate change is a problem which can no longer be left to a future generation. when it comes to the care of our ‘common home,’ we are living at a critical moment of history. we still have time to make the changes needed to bring about a sustainable and integral development, for we know that things can change. such change demands on our part a serious and responsible recognition not only of the kind of world we may be leaving to our children, but also to the millions of people living under a system which has overlooked them.” 
as members of a generation who will live to see the potentially devastat­ing effects of human impact on the environment, we agree, and thus we ap­plaud the university’s pledge to cut coal and invest in sustainable energy. we can only hope other colleges and universities, and beyond those, cities and nations, enact similar plans to substantially reduce carbon dioxide emissions and work to meaningfully stem the tide of global climate change. 
and while we wholeheartedly support notre dame’s multi-pronged ap­proach to building a more sustainable future for the university and the world, we join numerous fellow students and student groups in urging the administration to go one step further and divest all university money from fossil fuel companies. what good are our efforts to utilize sustainable energy if we simultaneously fund definitively unsustainable sources? 
more than 25 other colleges and universities, including stanford, california and dayton, have already fully or partially divested or pledged to divest from fossil fuel companies, according to Fossil Free, an interna­tional network of divestment campaigns. 
on its website, Fossil Free includes a common refrain from the divest­ment movement: “if it is wrong to wreck the climate, then it is wrong to profit from that wreckage.” we agree, and we call on notre dame to join the growing list of colleges, universities, faith-based groups and communi­ties pulling their investments from companies that produce fossil fuels and profit off the exacerbation of climate change. 
we accept that divestment may not be the most astute immediate fi­nancial decision for the university, but with an endowment of nearly $10 billion, we argue a true and full commitment to sustainable energy and development outweighs any short-term financial gain fossil fuel companies might provide. The university certainly has a financial obligation to its stu­dents, faculty and donors, but more so, we have a moral obligation to our planet and all who inhabit it. 
if notre dame is the great catholic university it strives and professes to be, then we ought to prioritize our moral responsibilities to our planet and to each other over the forces of capitalism, something pope Francis has consistently emphasized. 
Fr. Jenkins announced notre dame’s coal-free plan monday. on wednesday, he marked the 10-year anniversary of his inauguration as university president. while his eventual legacy, like all notre dame presi­dents, will undoubtedly span a wide range of issues and events, we feel the issue of climate change will play a defining role, as it should with all lead­ers of our day — including pope Francis. 
Thus, we implore Fr. Jenkins and the rest of the university administration to seriously consider and ultimately enact a divestment policy for notre dame. 
Write an essay your professors want to read 
Courtney Phelan 
english major in the real world 

so, you have to write an essay. The assignment date is sitting there on the syllabus, terrifying you. 
while essays are expected in some gen eds or in classes at the college of arts and crafts, writ­ing assignments can pop up anywhere. many of my friends have been startled to learn they have to write something for a class on chemistry, busi­ness or electrical engineering. professors don’t simply assign essays to fill up the syllabus or to inflict pain. They assign them because they want to assess your knowledge of something that can­not be assessed with an exam. reading bad essays is almost as tortuous for your professors as writing bad essays. 
in an effort to alleviate torture of all kinds, here are my (an english writing major with a minor in secondary education and a mother who is a pro­fessor) tips for writing an essay your professors want to read: 
1. Plan ahead. 

The night before something is due is a horrible time to realize you know nothing on the subject. look at the assignment sheet or other provided in­formation as soon as you have it. ask yourself: do i totally understand the assignment or do i need to ask for clarification? what type of assignment is this — a one-page summary of a lab or an eight-to­12-page research assignment on a topic relevant to this class? do i need to incorporate outside sourc­es? will we be discussing things in class that will help me on this essay? 
answer these questions and act accordingly. if you don’t understand what the essay is about, ask your professor. if you need outside sources, start gathering them. if the topic is something you haven’t learned about yet, be sure to keep it in mind and make a note during class whenever something relevant is discussed. if you need to choose your own topic, choose something that interests you, or is related to something that inter­ests you. a topic you care about will make it less painful to write, as well as more interesting for your professor to read. 
2. Make an outline. 

some people think they work best by just sit­ting down and spitting everything out onto paper. That approach works well if you’re proust, but not so much if you’re a student writing an analysis of how stock market fluctuations affect small busi­nesses. write down the important parts of the es­say. For some assignments, this can be as easy as writing down the two to four things you’re going to talk about. For others, you need to determine how your information will flow — data, your anal­ysis and contemporary opinions or contemporary opinions, data and your analysis? once you have your rough sections, plug in what you’ll write about in each. if you have a section that’s relative­ly empty, think about it and figure out if you really need it. if you don’t, cut it. if you do, find what needs to go there. 
3. Write. 

put your phone away. Turn off the Tv. at this point in your life, you should know what distracts you and how to get away from it. you don’t have to write everything all at once, nor do you have to write it in order. one section of your outline or writing session per day is a good starting point. be sure to add an introduction and conclusion, as well as any other parts you initially skipped out on. 
4. Proofread. 

For the love of god, Jesus, buddha, mohammed and shiva, don’t forget to proofread. you definitely made a typo at some point, and it’s going to make you look unintelligent and unprofessional. be sure to look at your essay stylistically — break the para­graphs properly, use parallel structure, use varied yet precise vocabulary, etc. asking someone else to read through it is a good idea. They’ll notice er­rors you didn’t and tell you about anything that’s unclear to the reader. proofreading is essential to find typos or grammar errors, but will also help you make sure the essay as a whole is sound. i recommend taking a break between writing and proofreading. even if you don’t have a lot of time, stepping away to put on a new pot of coffee or take your shower is a good way to clear your head and ensure that you have a fresh perspective on your writing when you return. 
5. Vanity checks. 

make sure you have the font, spacing, headings, length and anything else your professor requested correct. if you print it, check that the printer didn’t malfunction and print page seven in wingdings. if you’re submitting it electronically, change the file name to something clear and distinctive — “phelan essay 2 Jane austen” rather than your original file name “dumb essay.” 
6. Submit. 

congratulations, you just wrote an essay your professor wants to read. 
Courtney Phelan is a junior English major living in Le Mans Hall. She can be contacted at cphela01@saintmarys.edu The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

NL Central making history 
Brett O’Connell 
sports writer 
it isn’t often that history is made in modern profes­sional sports — particularly when a sport has a past as storied and lengthy as base­ball does. but if all holds true to course for the next few weeks or so, the latest mlb season will also mark a first in the history of the professional league. 
barring an aggressive­ly successful close to the season for the likes of the Toronto blue Jays, or a ma­jor slump on the parts of the chicago cubs or pittsburgh pirates, the national league central division will host the three best records in all of baseball heading into the postseason. 
The mlb is more than a hundred years old, and the teams in question do not exactly have a history of stellar play (at least, two of the three — the “cardinal way” has, to be fair, become synonymous with winning baseball for what seems like an eternity now). and yet, here we are with three teams from the same division shar­ing the top three spots in baseball’s combined stand­ings while the regular sea­son rapidly comes to a close. 
To make matters even more entertaining, two of those three teams won’t even win the right to play in the divisional round without first enduring a one-game wild card playoff — against each other. Think of it: two of the best teams in baseball failing to qualify for any­thing more than the wild card, while a team like the new york mets manages to step comfortably into the divisional round despite be­ing a solid seven to ten wins short of the cubs and pirates at the end of the season. 
There’s a poetic irony to it all, particularly for the pirates, who find themselves as the only team since the inception of the wild card to ever enter the playoffs in that position more than once. This season will mark their third trip to the wild card game in four years. 

and yet, i wouldn’t have it any other way. primarily because i am a cubs fan and am thrilled to see the beleaguered team from the north side having a mere whiff of october action, but also because a matchup like this is good for the sport of baseball. attendance num­bers and television rat­ings have been flagging in recent years, with cries of ‘the season is too long’ and ‘the games are too boring’ echoing and eliciting some change from the powers that be. but a wild card matchup between two hugely popu­lar teams like these will go a long way to breaking up the monotony of the cards­gia nt s-ya n kee s-dodgers baseball oligarchy and in­fusing a newfound excite­ment into october. 
heck, the cubs are per­haps the most beloved team in baseball — say what you will about the yankees, but the cubs brand has remark­able staying power. 
it’s difficult to say how ex­actly this final playoff pic­ture will shape up. and while the standings are definitely historic, it may be a bit too early to be calling this par­ticular nl central the best division in the history of baseball. but i think it’s safe to say that fans from across the baseball world are keep­ing a keen eye on this par­ticular playoff race. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

INTERHALL 

gentlemen, vermin highlight week 2 matchups 
St. Edward’s vs. Carroll 
By MOLLY MURPHY 
sports writer 

st. edward’s will face carroll on sunday at riehle Fields. both teams are coming off opening-week wins from last week, with st. edward’s defeating Fisher, 3-0, and carroll defeating Zahm, 24-8. 
st. edward’s junior captain and lineman phineas andrews said his team is not resting on its vic­tory, however. 
“we had some good plays on of­fense, but we also had a few turn­overs and some busted ones as well, so we’ll look to be more con­sistent next week,” andrews said. 
carroll junior receiver and cap­tain anthony vallera also said his team was eager to improve from last week. 
“we need to get some of our guys more practice, we played a lot of guys,” vallera said. “we have some guys who haven’t played football before, and so we’re just getting them used to the speed of the game.” 
while the gentlemen will look to their defense to have another strong performance this week, vallera said carroll is looking to some of the youngest members of the team to carry the vermin once again to victory. 
The two teams will battle it out to remain undefeated sunday at 
2:15 p.m. at riehle Fields. 
Contact Molly Murphy at mmurph40@nd.edu 
Welsh Family vs. Ryan 

By MAUREEN SCHWENINGER 
sports writer 

welsh Family and ryan are set for a west Quad showdown this Tuesday night. 
with the whirlwinds (2-0) fly­ing high after two wins and a strong start to the season, junior cornerback and captain sharon chiang said she was impressed with her team’s 20-0 victory over walsh this past Tuesday. 
“we really found our rhythm in our second game [against walsh],” chiang said. “very proud of that shutout.” 
ryan (1-0) has also played strong on defense and remains unscored upon this season. senior wide receiver and captain erin clark said she looks forward to the matchup. 

FOR SALE 

2009 Vibe like Toyota Matrix 58500 miles, $8,500 obo, w/snow tires on wheels, one owner, clean, no ac­cidents. 574-707-3255 inspect on campus 
“it would be huge to shut them down on offense and be able to run through our offense,” clark said. “getting completions, get­ting yards. not necessarily getting a ton of points on the board, but breaking them down bit by bit will be big.” 
chiang acknowledged tensions between the two squads are high. 
“There’s definitely a rivalry between ryan and welsh Fam,” chiang said. “we’re sister dorms, but there’s a bit of hate between us. we know they’re really good. all their girls are very fast and very athletic. we have to keep up and make sure we don’t get burned out.” 
clark said ryan hasn’t forgotten its 34-21 loss to welsh Family in the semifinals of the playoffs last year. 
“our defense has been incred­ibly dominant, and we have a freshman quarterback who can really play with calmness and confidence,” clark said. “we’re trying to come back and prove we can definitely hang with welsh Fam. i think we can.” 
The game begins at 7 p.m. Tuesday at riehle Fields. 
Contact Maureen Schweninger at mschweni@nd.edu 
Knott vs. Duncan 
By JOSEPH EVERETT 
sports writer 
The second week of the season pits Knott against duncan, with one team looking to start its sea­son strong and the other looking to get back on track. 
Knott, who had a bye in its first week, will test its skills for the first time against the highlanders. senior captain casey mccaffrey said he is optimistic about his team’s chances of making the playoffs this season. 
“i think we should be pretty good,” mccaffrey said. “our skill position players are experi­enced, and our entire offensive line played the position in high school, so our strength as a team is definitely in the trenches on both sides of the ball.” 
Knott’s opponent, duncan, is looking to rebound from a 20-6 defeat to defending champion morrissey last week. Junior cap­tain stephen Treacy said he be­lieves his team got their feet wet facing morrissey and can build off that experience in preparation for this game. 
“we’re definitely focusing on our pass-blocking schemes, be­cause we definitely had some miscommunication between the quarterback and offensive line last game,” Treacy said. 
mccaffrey, looking ahead to the matchup, said the Jugerknotts’ secondary would be especially important. 
“last year [duncan] played a lot of spread offense,” mccaffrey said. “we definitely have to work on our pass defense and avoid giv­ing up the big plays.” 
Treacy said the key would be whether duncan could execute their offense properly. 
“we have to move the ball on offense,” Treacy said. “we weren’t able to do that last week, and it put our defense in a really tough posi­tion covering a short field.” 
The game kicks off at 3:30 p.m. sunday at riehle Fields. 
Contact Joseph Everett at jeveret4@nd.edu 
Keough vs. Stanford 
By BRENNA MOXLEY 
sports writer 
Keough matches up against stanford for week 2 of the season. 
The Kangaroos are hoping to bounce back from a tough 7-0 loss this past weekend against Keenan, who made it to the cham­pionship game last year. Keough junior captain and quarterback matthew mooney said the team could take many positives from the close contest. 
“Keenan is very good and one big play was the difference in the game,” mooney said. 
mooney said his team knows what they need to improve on in order to earn a win against the griffins. 
“we played well on defense, but we struggled to run the ball so we’ll look to improve that this week,” mooney said. 
Following a bye week last week, stanford will be entering its season opener this sunday. griffins senior captain daniel babiak said he expects his team to impress. 
“i think our team is ready,” babiak said. “we’ve had a lot of 
see inTerhall PAGE 15 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
The Cubs will clinch tomorrow. The  will clinch tomorrow. The Cubs will  
Cubs will clinch tomorrow. The Cubs  clinch tomorrow. The Cubs will clinch  
will clinch tomorrow. The Cubs will  tomorrow. The Cubs will clinch tomor­ 
clinch tomorrow. The Cubs will clinch  row. The Cubs will clinch tomorrow.  
tomorrow. The Cubs will clinch tomor- The Cubs will clinch tomorrow. The  
row. The Cubs will clinch tomorrow.  Cubs will clinch tomorrow. The Cubs  
The Cubs will clinch tomorrow. The  will clinch tomorrow. The Cubs will  
Cubs will clinch tomorrow. The Cubs  clinch tomorrow.  



Interhall 
conTinued From page 14 
time to work out any little kinks on offense and defense.” 
The two teams will meet this sunday afternoon at 1 p.m. at riehle Fields. 
Contact Brenna Moxley at bmoxley01@saintmarys.edu 
O’Neill vs. Keenan 
By ALEX BENDER 
sports writer 
o’neill takes on Keenan on sunday at riehle Fields, as both teams look to get off to a quick start this season. o’neill suffered a tough 31-0 loss to duncan in its season opener, while Keenan was able to pull out a close 7-0 win against Keough on sunday. 
even at this point in the season, both teams have definite strengths and weaknesses, according to their captains. Keenan junior safety and captain mikey Koller said he is al­ready noticing what his team will have to do to get the job done. 
“we’ve had a solid start in our first game and look to get our momentum going with this next game,” Koller said. “we are hoping to clean up some of our technical mistakes from last game and pol­ish our offense even more.” 
o’neill junior captain and quar­terback Keenan bailey said he knows his team needs to bounce back in a big way from their open­ing loss but feels his team are up to the challenge. 
“i expect the mob to play loose this week,” bailey said. “we have an excellent opportunity to knock off a very good football team in Keenan hall, so i expect our guys to go out there with excellent effort and do what we do.” 
The game begins at 1 p.m. at riehle Fields. 
Contact Alex Bender at  abender@nd.edu 
Morrissey vs. Alumni 
By TOBIAS HOONHOUT 
sports writer 
playoff implications will already be on the line sunday at 3:30 p.m. when morrissey takes on alumni. 
alumni is 0-1 after a controver­sial last-minute call gave the dawgs a victory over siegfried last sunday, only for an official over-ruling that later gave the win to siegfried. 
morrissey is looking to build mo­mentum on last week’s 20-6 victory as it seeks to defend its title. The manor dominated on the ground in their last contest, and sopho­more captain declan Zidar said that will be one of the keys in this week’s contest. 
“we run the ball and defend real­ly well,” he said. “we have a great of­fensive line and a lot of depth on the defense, especially at the linebacker position.” 

with such all-around talent, morrissey has been simply focusing on timing and communication this week in preparation for the coming contest, Zidar said. 
alumni thought it had a key win under its belt last sunday, as the dawgs got a game-winning score on a final play after time had ex­pired to defeat siegfried. The call was subsequently overturned, and thus, alumni is looking to rebound this week to keep its playoff hopes alive. 
offensively, the dawgs are led by senior quarterback Trevor hurley, but freshman linebacker sean maraghy said the defense has the challenge of stopping what may be the best offense in the league. 
“morrissey is definitely talented offensively,” maraghy said. “but our defense still feels confident that we can make enough plays to give our offense a chance to win.” 
both high-powered offenses look to grab a victory sunday at 3:30 p.m. at riehle Fields. 
Contact Tobias Hoonhout at thoonhou@nd.edu 

Pasquerilla West vs. Lyons 
By VICTORIA LLORENS 
sports writer 

one game into the season, the pressure is already building to ei­ther keep a lead or not fall behind. This sunday at 6 p.m., pasquerilla 
paid adverTisemenT 

west (1-0) faces off against lyons (0­
1) looking to get ahead. 
senior lyons captain and tight end melissa hoelting said she be­lieves there is more than enough time to recover from the lions’ opening loss. 
“we want to prove lyons hall can dominate in this league and flag football,” she said. “we are more motivated than ever to come out and take down a powerhouse like p.w.” 
purple weasels captain and senior wide receiver mary Kate vicenzi said she feels confident in her team’s ability to keep its win­ning record. 
“i feel pretty good about it. p.w. is usually pretty confident,” she said. “we have a great squad this year. and with our win last week, i feel like we should be pretty good.” 
hoelting said her team has been working on keeping the ball secure while on offense in order to help the defense succeed. 
“we need to be able to respond on offense and put points on the board to ease the pressure on our defense,” she said. “we are going to focus more on moving our offense down the field. we had very short runs last week, which put pressure on our de­fense [at] the goal line.” 
The lions will challenge the purple weasels on sunday night at 6 
p.m. at labar practice complex. 
Contact Victoria Llorens at  vllorens@nd.edu 
Cavanaugh vs. Walsh 
By ELIZABETH GREASON 
sports writer 
cavanaugh will go head-to-head with walsh this sunday. 
The chaos will be looking for their first win of the year, while the wild women will also attempt to come back from a loss to welsh Family on Tuesday. 
walsh sophomore captain maryanne Fisher said she is proud of what her young team has been able to accomplish so far this season. 
“This team has exceeded all of the captains’ and coaches’ expec­tations this year,” said Fisher. “very few people on our team had any ex­perience with flag football, and the fact they can pick it up so quickly and have the drive to learn is amaz­ing, and i’m so proud of them for it.” 
even though Fisher is proud of what her team has accomplished so far, she said she is still aware of what cavanaugh will bring to the contest sunday. 
“cavanaugh is a great team, just like every year,” Fisher says. “This game is important to us because they beat us last year in a close game so we are ready to come back and show them what we can do.” 
The winless chaos are looking to break their losing streak this sunday, but Fisher said the wild women have improved significantly so far 
see inTerhall PAGE 16 The observer |  FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 





Volleyball 
conTinued From page 20 
deJarld for her continued improvement in the back row. 
“[ryann] is a remarkable kid in that she’s made a lot of progress and keeps fight­ing for more,” mclaughlin said. “she is not afraid to push herself and of the dis­comfort that comes with improving. i have ultimate confidence in her and in anything that she does, but it’s a collective thing. 

everyone has to do their jobs and play to play, i’ve seen that improve.” 
The irish are not with­out an attack of their own. sophomore outside hitter sam Fry leads the irish of­fense with 151 kills thus far in 2015, averaging 3.21 per set. meanwhile, junior mid­dle blocker Katie higgins has a .267 attack percentage on the season. 
The weekend does not get any easier for the irish as no. 17 Florida state (7-4, 0-0 acc) rolls into purcell on sunday afternoon. The seminoles are coming off of a 3-2 victory over in-state rival miami on wednesday. senior outside hitter nicole walch, who finished all-acc in 2014, leads the seminoles with 159 kills and a .254 attack percentage. The seminoles are currently the only ranked acc team. 
The irish play the cardinals on Friday at purcell pavilion to begin the 2015 acc schedule. The match starts at 7 p.m. 
Contact Daisy Costello at mcostel4@nd.edu 

Interhall 
conTinued From page 15 
this year. 

“we are starting to get into a re­ally good groove and everyone is getting more comfortable on the field and as a team in general,” Fisher said. 
cavanaugh and walsh will play at 6 p.m. on sunday at labar practice complex. 
Contact Elizabeth Greason at egreason@nd.edu 
Farley vs. Pangborn 
By JACKIE BREBECK 
sports writer 
defending champion pangborn and Farley face off sunday, with Farley is coming off a 35-12 win against badin, and the phoxes coming off a defensive battle with lewis that resulted in a 0-0 tie in week 1. 
against badin last week, Finest junior quarterback lizzy moulton threw five touchdown passes, with the running game also producing significant yardage. senior line­backer and captain ali buersmeyer said Farley is looking to continue its success both in executing long plays and adjusting on defense. 
“if our offense can keep pro­ducing points and our defense communicates well and responds to pangborn’s offense, we will hopefully come away with another win,” buersmeyer said. 
buersmeyer attributed much of Farley’s early success to the team’s coaches. 
“They’ve been very organized and enthusiastic, and the team has already learned a lot in just a few short weeks,” buersmeyer said. 
in the stalemate with lewis, pangborn’s defense made four in­terceptions at critical times. on sunday, pangborn will strive to sustain its level of defense and im­prove on offense, senior captain gracie gallagher said. 
“we really need to get our of­fense in a good rhythm this game,” gallagher said. “we struggled when we got into the red zone against lewis, so this game we need to capitalize on those opportunities.” 
gallagher said several players will continue to be important to the phoxes’ defensive performance. 
“players to watch out for are definitely [senior] molly cullinan on the defensive line, [junior] makenna siebenaler at linebacker and [sophomore] Jacklyn cooney at safety,” gallagher said. “They played huge parts in our defensive stops against lewis.” 
sunday’s game between Farley and pangborn will take place at labar practice complex at 4 p.m. sunday. 
Contact Jackie Brebeck at jbrebeck@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



M Tennis 
conTinued From page 20 
talent level, really. we think even the three guys we’re leaving behind will have a chance to contribute in big ways for us in the spring.” 
The fall and spring sched­ules for the irish are quite dif­ferent. The eight-tournament fall schedule is designed to prepare the team for the more rigorous 24-tourna­ment spring that includes 12 acc faceoffs. 
but that doesn’t mean the fall schedule is less impor­tant, said sachire. 
“i think two big goals for us this fall is, first, to continue each player’s development and to make sure we provide opportunities for improve­ment for all our players,” sachire said. “every guy on our team has an opportunity to contribute in the spring. second, and probably more important, is to continue our team development. even though tennis is an individu­al sport, we also know that we want to have a strong team connection, which will pay huge dividends in the spring for us. Team building and ca­maraderie are huge things we want to work on this fall.” 
in terms of the fall sched­ule, this weekend is an important one for notre dame. less than a week af­ter the crimson Tide Four-in-the-Fall tournament concludes, the team will be­gin the process of qualifying for the iTa all-american championships in Tulsa, oklahoma. 



nevertheless, sachire said he wants to keep the focus off of individual players and in­stead on team development. 
paid adverTisemenT 

“obviously we want to have our guys compete hard and do the right things,” sachire said. “we certainly want to go down and win as many matches as we can. what i’m looking for is for our guys to compete and to fight through the pressure moments. if we do the right things, we believe success is going to come.” 
The irish begin their quest for their first tournament championship of the year Friday when they kick off the three-day crimson Tide Four-in-the-Fall tournament in Tuscaloosa, alabama. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at mcdani1@nd.edu 

MLB | orioles 5, naTionals 4 
Orioles rally past Nationals 
Associated Press 
washingTon — baltimore orioles third baseman manny machado squeezed Jayson werth’s lin­er to end the seventh inning and yelled, “come on!” en route to the dugout. 
moments later, machado’s teammate matt wieters de­livered a go-ahead, two-run homer in the eighth, and the orioles were on their way to a 5-4 victory Thursday that completed a three-game sweep of the washington nationals. 
The orioles are doing all they can to try to stay on the fringes of the playoff chase 
— they began the day four games out of the second al wild-card spot. They’ve won 11 of their past 15 games, and they’re 7-1 in one-run games in september. 
“our guys have been punching back,” baltimore manager buck showalter said. “They’re refusing to give in.” 
There were no beanballs and no brawl, one game after washington closer Jonathan papelbon plunked machado in the ninth, leading nationals star bryce harper to wonder aloud whether he might get hit with a pitch in retaliation. 

“winning three games,” showalter said, ‘is the best ‘back at ya.’” 
harper did not have his best day at the plate: he went 0 for 3, grounding into a double play and walking twice. The front-runner for nl mvp honors has gone hitless three games in a row for the first time this season. 
washington began the day 6 1/2 games behind the nl east-leading new york mets. 
“it’s not great,” nationals manager matt williams said. “not where we want to be.” 
baltimore went ahead 3-0 on machado’s rbi single in the first and Jonathan schoop’s two-run shot in the fourth. but wilson ramos’ homer and yunel escobar’s pair of run-scoring hits helped the nationals go up 4-3 entering the eighth. 

michigan state. we were ready 
W Soccer 

M Soccer 
for that game. i think the boys conTinued From page 20 
conTinued From page 20 

were still smarting from the pre­vious game.” it hasn’t just been how many sophomore forward Jon 
romagnolo had a clear mes-times the two have played gallagher, freshman midfielder 
sage for her team going into against each other that makes Thomas ueland and graduate 
Thursday’s showdown. the series one of the best in col-student max lachowecki all tal­
“we wanted to attack and get lege soccer, however — it’s also lied for the irish (the spartans 
it done,” she said. “we wanted when they’ve played. also conceded an own goal), 
to defend well and take advan­in 2013, virginia took the first matching the team’s highest­
tage of any opportunities. we matchup between the schools, scoring offensive effort of the 
knew there were going to be stunning notre dame, 2-0, on season. 
times where we weren’t playing the alumni stadium pitch. later Following losses to Xavier and 
in rhythm, and we had to take that year, the two played to a 3-3 north carolina the week before, 
our opportunities any way they draw in the semifinals of the acc clark said his team played about 
came.” tournament where the cavaliers the same against Tar heels and 
The scoring began early for the advanced to the acc finals on spartans but finally finished on 
irish when sophomore defender penalty kicks. the offensive side. 
sabrina Flores connected with Those two setbacks proved the “you obviously gain courage 
gilbertson on a cross in the box in only ones of the season for notre when you score goals; the con-
the 13th minute. dame, though, as the irish went fidence rises,” clark said. “The 
The irish’s stingy defense kept on to win their first-ever national secret is to continue in that vein 
virginia off the scoreboard for the championship. of form. 
entire first half, including a spec-“we wanted to defend well,” amazing. where she placed the last season, the irish and “some days i think it goes 
tacular save by junior goalkeeper she said. “we didn’t want to allow ball in the net was impressive.” cavaliers again played to a wrong for you, and that was 
Kaela little in the 28th minute. any chances. i’m proud of us, we after such an emotional vic­scoreless draw in the two teams’ kind of what happened at north 
notre dame held on to that dominated. we were not happy tory, romagnolo will have to re-meeting at Klockner stadium in carolina, even though we played 
one-goal advantage for the ma-with a tie.” focus her team for sunday’s home charlottesville, virginia, early in quite well, and against michigan 
jority of the second half, until the The irish controlled the tempo match with defending national the acc regular season. Then, state everything went well for 
cavaliers finally broke through during the first extra period, out-champions Florida state. for the second consecutive year, us.” 
in the 85th minute. cavaliers ju-shooting virginia 3-0. sophomore romagnolo said she was en-the irish and cavaliers met up notre dame’s offense now 
nior forward morgan reuther defender ginny mcgowan nearly thusiastic about her team’s sec-in the conference tournament, faces one of the nation’s stingi­
took a pass from senior forward had the game winner in the 100th ond straight match against a this time in the quarterfinals at est defenses. The cavaliers have 
brittany ratcliffe and poked a minute, but her shot was just top-five opponent. alumni stadium. held opponents to one goal or 
shot past the outstretched little. wide of the target. “we’re excited,” she said. “if notre dame blasted the visi-less in six of their seven games 
romagnolo said she gave her notre dame again created you look across the scores, every-tors, 3-0, for its first win in the and just four goals combined 
team a clear directive following more chances than the top-one is beating everyone. it’s wide series as acc foes. this season. 
virginia’s equalizer. ranked cavaliers in the second open. we had a big win tonight, The two teams returned to clark said the first goal of the 
“we have to respond,” period of overtime. in the 104th and we can’t wait to face our next the alumni stadium pitch just game will be very important. 
romagnolo said. “we have to de-minute, freshman forward test.” sixteen days later, however, in “They are very comfortable 
fend and not have any let downs. natalie Jacobs found gilbertson The seminoles and the irish the third-round of the ncaa sitting on a one-goal lead,” clark 
we need to find a way to win and in front of the goal, and the senior will play this sunday at alumni tournament. said. “They sit, and they do that 
bring it to the table.” buried the game winner from 18 stadium. Kickoff is scheduled for notre dame, the top seed over-very well. i feel they are a com-
The stage was set for a thrill-yards out. 1 p.m. all, dominated the game, but it fortable team in that situation. 
ing overtime finish — and “[gilbertson] was unbeliev­was the 16th-seeded cavaliers “we’ve got to be patient.” 
romagnolo did not want to settle able,” romagnolo said. “The Contact Dominic Bush at who came away with the victory one man who could provide 
for a draw. quality of her finishes were dbush@nd.edu with the game’s lone tally in the the needed boost for the irish is 82nd minute. patrick hodan. The senior mid-paid adverTisemenT 
The cavaliers went on to win fielder enters the game against the ncaa championship, but the cavaliers scoreless in notre return to the scene of their upset dame’s first eight games, but he victory last season Friday. can pile up goals in a hurry. 
“obviously they’re coming it was in the two teams’ regu­into this year as national cham-lar season meeting last year, pions, so that’s a definite tag on notre dame’s sixth game, when them,” clark said. “we had that hodan finally broke through last tag all of last year, and there’s year, scoring notre dame’s goal no question teams certainly in the 1-1 draw on a penalty kick. like playing against the national hodan went on to lead the champions. irish with nine goals, two better 
“i’m sure that won’t have es-than then-graduate student for-caped our players.” ward leon brown, and five more 
after notre dame dropped its than current senior midfielder first two matches of the season evan panken. last week, the irish returned to clark said he’s confident in the win column Tuesday in east hodan’s ability to heat up as the lansing, michigan, where they temperature begins to drop. blitzed host michigan state with “he’s overdue. i know he will, a goal 70 seconds into the game so it’s just a matter of when,” in a 4-0 victory. clark said. “This would be a nice 
“To be fair, i didn’t think we day for him to break out. … he’s played particularly badly at a slow starter.” north carolina [the game before hodan and the irish look michigan state],” clark said. “we for redemption Friday night at coughed up a couple soft goals. alumni stadium when they take we squandered some good on the cavaliers at 7 p.m. chances. 
“i think we came out as a Contact Zach Klonsinski at determined group against zklonsin@nd.edu 





CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

ACROSS 32 Top sports 59 Used harpoons, 1 Western figure? say highlight 36 “Do-Re-Mi” 60 Bit of ingenuity 9 “24” actress singer 61 Provider of Cuthbert 37 Massage punch at 15 Protest message? brunch? pompously 62 “Rock”
39 Romeo’s 16 See 10-Down offering 

17 It’s in the 40 Bad thing to DOWN 
neighborhood bust in 1 Cut through 
2 Can’t decline 18 Piece that bites 41 Sent some 3 “Coffee ___?” 

19 Unerringly, after cybernotes 4 Set right 
“to” 42 One of a pair in 20 “Just curious, “Popeye” 5 Belly that’s all” 6 Land with a 
43 Many a summer 
sultan

22 Some colts baby 7 Kate who was 
24 People’s 44 According to the 2012 SportsSexiest Man 45 Start to go? IllustratedAlive after 47 Pale-green swimsuit coverSwayze moths model

25 Belts in which stars are seen? 

51 Army outfits 8 Instant-book 
title of 1981 or 28 Rust bucket 54 Show part 

2011 30 Bosox great 55 Fastskin maker 9 Imitation 31 Comcast Center 57 Cry before 10 16-Across athlete, briefly answering agreement 11 See 53-Down 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
12 Turkey 13 Laugh half 14 Half-and-half 
half 21 Pass 23 Is an Internet 
explorer 26 Stars in which a belt is seen 27 One in a black 
suit 29 Exit line 31 Cry before “No 
backsies!” 32 Land to land on 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  14  
15  16  
17  18  
19  20  21  
22  23  24  25  26  27  
28  29  30  31  
32  33  34  35  36  
37  38  
39  40  
41  42  43  
44  45  46  47  48  49  50  
51  52  53  54  
55  56  57  58  
59  60  
61  62  

Puzzle by John Lampkin  
33 Hit ___ run 34 Exemplar of focus  42 Place of worship 45 Screens  52 Slangy move 53 With 11-Down, bash  
35 Peter with the 1986 #1 hit “Glory of Love”  46 Sticky styling stuff 48 Abstain from  55 Initials in a personal ad  
36 Roadside sign 38 Big inits. in comedy  49 Strange 50 Caterpillar bristles  56 Golden ratio symbol 58 Sporty autos  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: being there for others or helping a worthy cause will help push you forward in other areas of your life. your sympathetic nature and desire to find peaceful ways to get what you want will impress the people who want to collaborate with you. your leadership qualities will be highlighted and put to good use. work hard and don’t lose sight of your goals. your numbers are 1, 9, 21, 28, 33, 36, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): stick to your principles and offer what you feel is fair, and you will be recognized for your contributions. your ability to size up a situation will help you utilize your time wisely and take advantage of a financial opportunity. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): a stubborn situation will leave you in an uncertain position. someone will try to make you feel guilty for not donating more to something that isn’t your responsibility. Keep your money in a safe place. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): The way you express your thoughts and ideas will captivate someone who has something to contribute. romance is in the stars, and making special plans will set the stage for added improvements in your personal life. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Question your motives before you judge someone. it’s best to consider the consequences before you share your opinions. put more into self-improvement projects instead of trying to change others. a last-minute change will leave you in a precarious position. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): remain calm no matter what others do. it’s your savvy way of handling situations that will make you stand out and be praised. your ability to make quick decisions will ensure that you win any challenge you encounter. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): socializing with people who work in your industry or who share your interests will result in a fortunate proposition. your insight and ability to woffer detailed information will put you in a good position to negotiate. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): you will have greater clarity today, so don’t put off important decisions that must be made. Follow your gut feelings and take action. The changes you are willing to make now will change your life for the better. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): someone will play with your emotions if you are too open with your feelings. Friendly competition can be beneficial, but guard against any individuals meddling in your affairs. put more into making whatever you work on unique. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): sticking to the truth will be critical if you want to avoid complaints about not delivering what you promise. a realistic view, especially about relationships and romantic matters, will bring a favorable reaction. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): be cautious, even when it’s necessary to act quickly. overanalyzing things could lead to a mistake you’ll regret. let your intuition be your guide, and work your way through each encounter with mindfulness and consideration. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): it’s time to wheel and deal your way into exactly what you want. everyone will be eager to jump on board and help you bring about the changes you require to get things done. celebrate with someone you love. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Keep abreast of what is going on around you. someone is likely to make you look bad if you don’t defend yourself. Question any situation that appears to be spinning out of control. cut your losses before it’s too late. 


Birthday Baby: You are competitive, unpredictable and visionary. You are dynamic and inventive. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 

COLAF  

 
 
 
 
 

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
CEELT  

 
 
 
 
 

FINNAT  

 
 
 
 
 
 

WABREE  

 
 
 
 
 
 



“ ” 
A: 


(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: CLOCK SNIFF CLEVER INSISTYesterday’s 
Answer: The doctor was great at diagnosing her patients as a result of her — “SICK” SENSE 


Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 
-


-
make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer  
p.o. box 779  
notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year  
enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 

city      state Zip 

The observer |  FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | noTre dame 2, virginia 1 (2oT) MEN’S TENNIS 
Notre Dame triumphs over Virginia in overtime 
By DOMINIC BUSH 
sports writer 
in a matchup with national championship implications, no. 16 notre dame upset no. 1 virginia, 2-1, in a double-overtime thriller.  
For the irish (8-1-1, 1-1-0 acc), the star of the night was senior for­ward anna maria gilbertson, who netted her sixth and seventh goals on the season — including the game-winner in the 104th minute. 
second-year irish head coach Theresa romagnolo said she was pleased with the overall effort of her team. 
“it was a well deserved win,” romagnolo said. “we defended well, and it validated who we are as a team. we snapped their 37-[regular season] game winning streak. we beat the no. 1 team in the country, and it does a ton for our confidence.” 

after beginning acc play with an overtime loss at clemson last saturday, notre dame looked to right the ship on the road against the top team in the country. MICHAEL YU | The Observer 
Senior forward Anna Maria Gilbertson fights for position in Notre see w soccer PAGE 18 Dame’s 2-1 victory against Santa Clara on Aug. 28 at Alumni Stadium. 

nd prepares for alabama tourney 
to princeton and had mixed 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer results in their matchups 
against ivy league opponents. 
The fall season is in full seniors Quentin monaghan swing for the irish as they and alex lawson, kicking off travel to Tuscaloosa, alabama, the season ranked the no. for the crimson Tide Four-in-28 doubles team in the na­the-Fall tournament starting tion, competed in malibu and Friday and ending sunday. pulled off a big upset in their 
notre dame is coming off a defeat of the no. 4 tandem lsu busy weekend of tournaments senior boris arias and junior throughout the country, and Jordan daigle (6-4, 3-6, 11-9) on now heads to Tuscaloosa as Friday but lost to a pepperdine a squad in search of an early duo in the saturday semifinal. season victory. now the irish turn their at-
competing in the duke tention to the competition they James bonk invitational in will face in alabama, which cary, north carolina, the ivy will include players from plus Tournament in princeton, columbia, south Florida and new Jersey, and the oracle/iTa memphis and host alabama. masters in malibu, california, unlike last weekend, the simultaneously, the irish were team will travel together to stretched thin last week, but Tuscaloosa for the most part, they still achieved some level according to irish head coach of success nonetheless. ryan sachire. 
Junior eddy covalschi “Ten of our 13 guys will be claimed third place in the traveling, so three will stay white draw at duke last week-behind,” sachire said. “The end, the best finish out of the way we do the fall tournament 10 irish players who played in schedule is that its more indi­north carolina. vidualized. it’s not based on 
another six notre dame players, meanwhile, traveled see m Tennis PAGE 17 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

squad ready to begin acc play 
By DAISY COSTELLO 
sports writer 
coming off of a 1-2 perfor­mance at the purdue boiler box challenge, the irish (5­7, 0-0 acc) commence acc play this weekend at purcell pavilion as louisville and no. 17 Florida state make their way to south bend. 
after defeating ball state in straight sets last week­end, the irish dropped a close 5-set match to south dakota before falling to no. 20 purdue to finish off the weekend. The seminoles, who the irish face on sunday, will be the third ranked op­ponent the team has faced thus far in 2015. The irish have lost the previous two matches against no. 1 penn state and last weekend at no. 20 purdue. irish head coach Jim mclaughlin said playing consistently will be a deter­mining factor for the irish preparation,” mclaughlin said. “The girls are learning that we need to approach this in a very internal way and control the things that we can control. i thought we made some progress and did more things well but there’s a lot out there that we need to be more consistent at.” 
this  weekend  and  during  
acc play.  
“preparation  is  


“situations in volleyball are basically the same. how people execute is what deter­mines success.” 
louisville, who the irish will face off against on Friday night, is coming off of a 3-1 loss to no. 24 Kentucky. led by senior outside hitter erin Fairs, the team comes into Friday’s match against the irish boasting a 6-4 (0-0 acc) record on the year. The cardinals are averaging 13.9 kills per set with an attack percentage of .228, but the irish are prepared to slow louisville’s offensive attack, mclaughlin said, praising freshman libero ryann 
see volleyball PAGE 16  
MEN’S SOCCER 

Irish, Cavaliers to open new chapter in rivalry 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports editor 
revenge will be in the air Friday night at alumni stadium as one of the acc’s budding rivalries writes its next chapter. 
in just two seasons as mem­bers of the same conference, no. 16 notre dame and no. 6 virginia have met five times. so far, the cavaliers (5-0-2, 1-0-1 acc) hold the upper hand on the irish (5-2-1, 1-1­0), posting two wins to notre dame’s one while the teams played to a draw in the other two matches. 
irish head coach bobby clark downplayed the rivalry Thursday, though he conced­ed there will be a little extra to defending the home turf. 
“They’ve already beaten us twice in the last two years here at alumni stadium,” clark said. “so i don’t think anybody’s going to take this 
MACKENZI MARINOVICH | The Observer lightly.” 
Senior midfielder Patrick Hodan turns away from a defender in Notre Dame’s 1-0 loss to Xavier on Sept. 15 at Alumni Stadium. see m soccer PAGE 18 





