The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 120 | FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Blue-Gold Game relocates to LaBar 
Notre Dame’s annual spring football game switches venues this year due to stadium renovations 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news writer 
The 86th blue-gold game will be held at labar practice complex this saturday, marking the end of the spring football season. 
The blue-gold game is a foot­ball scrimmage between notre dame’s offense and defense. John heisler, senior associate athletics director, said the game is the last of notre dame’s 15 practices permit­ted during the spring and serves as a way for coaches and fans to see how the team is doing. 
“in the past, it’s been a great op­portunity for families to bring their kids and see how our football team is coming along,” heisler said. “For our fans, young or old, it’s an op­portunity to see some players that they haven’t seen before. This is kind of the first look into next sea­son, in terms of the personnel.” 
sophomore receiver Justin brent said he is excited for his family to be able to come watch him play football again. 
“There’s only one time in the spring when our families get to come see one of the main reasons we’re here at notre dame,” brent said. “i’m excited for them to see all the hard work we’ve been putting in. it’s a time for my teammates 
see blue-gold PAGE 4 




Sexual assault reported 
Observer Staff Report 
a sexual assault was re­ported to a university admin­istrator Tuesday, according to the notre dame security police (ndsp) crime log from wednesday. 
The alleged rape occurred on Jan. 17 in a north Quad men’s residence hall, accord­ing to the crime log. 
unlike in other cases this year, however, students did not receive an ndsp crime alert email detailing the allegations. The Jeanne clery act, originally known as the campus security act, is the federal law that details how and what universities and colleges disclose in terms of crime on campus, according to the clery center for security on campus. 

The crime alert emails the notre dame community re­ceives are sent out because of regulations in the clery act. according to the clery center, the act requires uni­versities and colleges to “issue timely warnings about clery act crimes which pose a seri­ous or ongoing threat to stu­dents and employees.” 
clery act crimes that are re­ported a significant amount of time after they occur may not qualify as timely. however, the clery act does not dictate the amount of time that disquali­fies an incident from requir­ing a warning in the form of a crime alert. 
Therefore, ndsp judges on a 
see assaulT PAGE 5 


madeleva lecture discusses women’s role in church 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
saint mary’s editor 
saint mary’s director of the center for spirituality elizabeth groppe introduced the 30th annual madeleva lecture, created in honor of former president of saint mary’s sister madeleva wolff, on Thursday. The lecture in­cluded many speakers, all look­ing specifically at the voice of young catholic women project 
see madeleva PAGE 5 



ND Relay for Life to hold 11th annual fundraiser 
By ANDREA VALE 
news writer 
This year’s relay for life will be held Friday in compton Family ice arena. according to the relay website, 446 participants from notre dame have helped to raise over $105,455 thus far through various fundraising events. The relay Friday will include a variety of activities and entertainment in hopes of raising even more money for cancer research. 
Freshman Justin mccurdy and senior andrea romeros have served as student co-chairs of the event this year. according to romeros, this is the relay’s 11th year at notre dame. over the past 10 years, notre dame has raised over a million dollars for the american cancer society, lead­ing to the university winning first place in the nationwide college per capita income award and first place in the nationwide survivor engagement. notre dame has also been the recipient of 13 american cancer society research grants, which altogether totals over $4.5 million provided to notre dame for cancer research. 
mccurdy said extensive plan­ning has gone into this year’s relay. 
several fundraising events have al­ready been held, including purple week, named after the american cancer society’s signature color, which culminated in a purple dinner held in south dining hall to raise awareness for this year’s relay. other events have included a blood drive and an online auction that will continue until 11 p.m. Friday. additionally, a ‘Jail and bail’ will be held Friday, in which students can pay to have peers “arrested” by ndsp and forced to either pay $5 or held in “jail” in laFortune student center. 
romeros said support for the relay has been campus-wide. 
“so many people have helped prepare for this year’s relay,” romeros said, “we have both a faculty-run committee and a stu­dent-run committee that help plan and promote the event, not to men­tion all of the teams that have been holding fundraisers. we are just so excited to having everyone come out to compton on Friday.” 
This edition of the relay is dis­tinct from years past in that rather than going from 6 p.m. Friday to 6 
a.m. saturday, it will end at mid­night, romeros said. 
see relay PAGE 5 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 women’s lacrosse PAGE 16 w baskeTball PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney alex Jirschele Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: lesley stevenson Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: brian lach Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu lsteven1@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite dorm tradition? 

Luis Young 
freshman 
Zahm house 
“messing with my roommate, brickner. it’s basically a tradition.” 
Josh Chiu 
sophomore 
Zahm house 
“Zahm independence day.” 
Tim Moriarty 
sophomore 
Zahm house 
“Torquemada.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Jeff Marino 
sophomore 
Zahm house 
“The shake.” 
Austin Bosemer 
junior 
Zahm house 
“studying in laFun at midnight the sunday before finals.” 
Devin Butler 
sophomore 
Zahm house 
“oo-ga-cha-ka.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

madison Jaros Zach klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

clare kossler mike ginocchio martha reilly  stephanie snyder 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
emily danaher miko malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 

Labor Café Run Forrest Run Strikeout Cancer Asian and Pacific Softball 
Jodi lo austin Taliaferro 
Geddes Hall 5K/10K Softball Game Islander American Melissa Cook Stadium 
4:30p.m.-5:30 p.m. Campus-wide Melissa Cook Stadium Mix and Mingle 4 p.m.-6 p.m. Sponsored by Higgins 8:30 a.m.-11 a.m. 12 p.m.-2 p.m. McNeil Room The Irish take on 
Corrections 

Labor Studies Benefit for wounded Notre Dame vs. 11:30 p.m.-1:30 p.m. DePaul. 
The observer regards itself as Program. veterans. Syracuse Lunch with faculty. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
ND Relay for Life Blue-Gold Game La Misa en Español “How Dante Can Four:7 Catholic 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Compton Family Ice LaBar Practice Dillon Hall Save Your Life” Fellowship 
however, recognize that we will make 
Arena Complex 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. DeBartolo Hall Cavanaugh Hall 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
6 p.m.-11:55 p.m. 12:30 p.m.-3:30 p.m. Weekly Spanish 5 p.m.-6:30 p.m. 8:15 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Fundraiser. Streaming online. Mass. Lecture. Weekly meeting. 
we can correct our error. 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 2015 | The observer 

carroll to host first annual music festival 
By SELENA PONIO 
news writer 
This saturday at 1 p.m., carroll and badin halls are hosting carroll lakeside music Festival, an event that will showcase various musical student acts from across campus. This outdoor festival will also con­sist of giveaways, games and food. 
mary howard, sophomore and resident of badin hall, helped or­ganize this annual event. she said carroll’s lakeside location, with its unrivaled view of the dome, is per­fect for this musical event. 
howard said carroll has been planning this event since last year. badin got involved at the end of last semester and has had weekly meetings about the event since the end of January. several of the student groups performing at the event are The undertones, Frances luke accord, nick lindstrom, be goode, erin klaus, dJ Jhin and The Jersey chasers, howard said. 
“The most challenging part of the event has been building the hype of the event and making our name for ourselves since it is our first year,” she said. 
howard said the collaboration between badin and carroll has been key to making the event pos­sible. The two dorms have partici­pated in regular meetings together and have had residents from both dorms involved in planning the lo­gistics of the festival. 
according to the event’s Facebook group, all proceeds from the event benefit the boys and girls club of st. Joseph county, which has the mission of creating a safe space to help 1,500 children reach their full potential while having fun, according to its website. 
“The grc has provided fund­ing for us, so with the motto of the grc and the boys and girls club in mind we are hoping to provide a great place for all students to come together and enjoy themselves and each other’s company,” howard said. 
Tyler belin, freshman and resi­dent of carroll hall, said there are several highly anticipated acts that are performing and he thinks the event is a great opportunity for the notre dame community to come together. 
“it’s going to be a great time for a great cause,” belin said. “it’s a cool chance to see all the student talent we have here at notre dame.” 
howard said students should grab their blankets, sunglasses and lakeside tanks and soak up the rare south bend sun while enjoying the music talent of their peers. 
“i hope in the coming years we are seen as a sister to the Fisher regatta — we kick off antostal on one side of the lake and they close it out on the other,” howard said. 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 

SMC students to discuss ‘The Hunting Ground’ 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
saint mary’s editor 
on monday, the saint mary’s Justice education program, along with the gender and women studies department, will host a student panel discussion about cnn’s documentary “The hunting ground” from 5 to 7 p.m. in the student center atrium. 
Junior bri o’brien said eight stu­dents will share their reactions to the film and to the saint mary’s administration response and will also suggest what needs to be done by students and administra­tion in response to “The hunting ground.” 
bri o’brien said the idea for a stu­dent-led panel on the documen­tary was brought up in a discussion after her Feminist philosophy course taught by dr. adrienne lyles-chockley. 
“some students expressed dis­content and disappointment with how [last Thursday’s] panel was conducted and the administra­tion’s responses to student ques­tions,” bri o’brien said. “many questions that were asked during this after-class discussion were able to be, at least partially, an­swered by fellow students. 
“because students have differ­ent experiences and perspectives at saint mary’s, we can often turn to one another for answers, advice and opinions, especially in those times when our administration fails to adequately address and an­swer our questions. Furthermore, we realized the need for students to have their voices heard by not only fellow students but also by the administration.” 
director of media relations gwen o’brien said saint mary’s has a long history of fostering dia­logue on important issues. 
“we are glad to know that our students are continuing the dia­logue started last Thursday night when the college screened the film,” gwen o’brien said. “students need to talk about this heartbreak­ing issue.” 
senior elizabeth maloney will moderate the panel, bri o’brien said. 
maloney, also a student in lyles­chockley’s Feminist philosophy course, said it is important for stu­dents to speak out because the is­sue of sexual assault is “ours.” 
“we are affected by this and must start to speak up,” maloney said. 
maloney said since the panel last Thursday only had one student on it, the students in lyles-chockley’s course wanted to pro-vide a safe space where students could dis­cuss more of the issues brought up by the film. 
“as dr. davis pointed out dur­ing the april 9 administration-led panel, students hold the power to move forward on these issues,” maloney said. “with everything we have learned, discussed and questioned in Feminist philosophy this semester, many of us felt it to be our responsibility, as women with the ability to do something, to do something.” 
it is necessary for the panel dis­cussion to be student-led because often college employees — not just at saint mary’s — are led to censor­ship because they are employed by the university administration, bri o’brien said. 
“whether or not this is the case at smc, the motives and interests of administrative members may not be in the best interest of students,” she said. “additionally, administra­tive members are employed by the college, which obliges them to cen­sorship. while students also have vulnerabilities, a collective discus­sion led by students, for students is significantly less vulnerable to censorship and undesirable conse­quences than the statement of an administrative member is.” 
aside from issues of censorship and vulnerability, bri o’brien said, the student perspective on the is­sue of sexual assault is the most important one. 
“we choose to attend this in­stitution, we pay to attend this in­stitution, and we do so under the mutual agreement to receive an education, feel supported and safe on campus and express academic freedom in exchange for our tu­ition and participation,” she said. “Therefore, it is appropriate for students to address the concerns of students.” 
gwen o’brien said the president and administration knew “The hunting ground” did not portray saint mary’s in a positive light, but they felt, because of the subject matter, it needed to be shown at saint mary’s last Thursday. 
“The evening was an important step for our community to ac­knowledge the frustrations with the legal and college/univer­sity disciplinary systems,” gwen o’brien said. “Together we will work to understand what each other is saying — students, faculty and administration — and im­prove procedures where needed. our students should feel respected, supported and empowered.” 
according to bri o’brien, the stu­dents who will speak on the panel are highly qualified and represen­tative of each class year. 
“They have personal experience with sexual assault, encounters with administration of similar na­tures, knowledge of relevant policy issues such as Title iX [and] holding a leadership position on campus,” she said. 
The panel discussion seeks to voice the concerns of students through an academic and justice-focused perspective, bri o’brien said. it is important to distinguish this event from responses that originate outside of the Justice education program. 
bri o’brien said monday’s panel discussion will allow students to speak out and be heard by fellow students and take advantage of the sisterhood at saint mary’s. 
“we — the students — need to be heard and this is the way we are choosing to have our voices heard. The sisterhood among belles is so unique, and it is because of this sisterhood that we must converse with each other, understand each other, and advocate for each other,” she said. “That’s what we are do­ing — we are women advocating for women. This is not to say that smc does not advocate or support its students. it is to say that students should express their concerns the same as administration did on april 9.” 
gwen o’brien said it is impor­tant to note that, even though saint mary’s and notre dame are sepa­rate institutions, many policies and procedures have changed for the better at both schools over the past five to 10 years. 
“student voices helped bring about some of those changes, and we appreciate their voices now,” gwen o’brien said. “dialogue al­ways makes a difference.” 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmsen01@saintmarys.edu 




nd celebrates 400th anniversary of ‘don Quixote’ 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
Throughout april, don Quixote’s ventures at notre dame will encompass several cultural events to commem­orate the 400th anniversary of the publication of miguel de cervantes’s widely-known novel. according to the nanovic institute’s website, notre dame will be celebrat­ing the anniversary with a series of events “exploring the impact of this influential work of literature from the spanish golden age.” 
Throughout the month, the department of romance languages and literatures will be hosting a variety of events including read­ings, films and an academic symposium. encarnación Juárez-almendros, associate professor of early modern spanish literature, said the events are important for pro­moting hispanic culture on campus. 
“These events bring aware­ness of the literary and cul­tural importance of the best-known spanish au­thor and work to the greater notre dame community,” she said. “This intellectual undertaking underlines the relevance of the hispanic cultural tradition as part of the university of notre dame’s global and multicul­tural commitment.” 
on Friday, undergradu­ate students in beginning spanish courses will par­ticipate in Quijoteand 
— becoming Quixote. according to the nanovic institute website, starting at 2 p.m. the students will be reciting key passages from “don Quixote” at various lo­cations around campus, ul­timately meeting up at the grotto at 3 p.m. 
The Quixote Film series will have showings of Jorge alí Triana’s film, “bolívar soy yo,” on april 20 and alejandro gonzález iñárritu’s oscar winning film, “birdman” on april 28, according to the nanovic website. both films will be shown at andrews auditorium in geddes hall at 7 p.m. and are open and free to the public. 
students from Juárez­almendros’s graduate semi­nar will present papers in 118 o’shaughnessy hall on april 23, 3:30 p.m. students pre­senting include senior mayra almeida-Trejo, graduate stu­dents alejandro castrillon, laura Fernández, Thomas mann, paola uparela-reyes and leila vieira de Jesus gemelli, and ph.d. can­didates marisol Fonseca­malavasi and natalia rios-puras. 
The final event is an aca­demic symposium april 24, sponsored by the department of romance languages and literatures and the nanovic institute for european studies. 
“Four invited internation­ally recognized early mod­ern spanish scholars will lecture on diverse aspects of this complex novel,” Juárez­almendros said. These scholars include Frederick de armas of the university of chicago, anne cruz of the university of miami (Fla.), edward Friedman of vanderbilt university and luciano garcia-lorenzo of the board of governors of scientific research in madrid. 
The symposium will take place at gillsepie conference center at saint mary’s college from 2 p.m. to 6 p.m. 
Contact Megan Valley at mvalley@nd.edu 


Blue-Gold 
conTinued From page 1 

and i to really display every­thing we’ve been working on this spring.” 
heisler said a unique scoring system is designed for the game to award points for both offensive and defensive plays. 
sophomore nick Jones said the blue-gold game represents the start of a new notre dame foot­ball season for fans. 
“while it doesn’t carry the clout of an actual football game, the scrimmage gives those who want it a look at new players, forma­tions and plays,” Jones said. “For those who don’t care for football strategy, it’s a reason to cheer and be excited about the upcoming season.” 
“it’s a really cool way to see where the team’s headed and who’s playing what position,” freshman mary shea kelly­buckley said. “i think notre dame is for sure going to win this one.” 
heisler said this year’s game had to be moved from notre dame stadium to the team’s outdoor practice facility, labar practice complex, because of campus crossroads construc­tion. This change of venue sig­nificantly limits the number of people able to attend the game. 
“we’re going from an 80,000­seat venue to something we’ve kind of built from scratch around our practice fields because there really is no permanent seating there,” heisler said. “we’ve man­aged to build some temporary seating for about 4,000 people to be utilized by the university and the football departments. That’ll be the biggest difference about this year’s game.” 
The university considered hosting the game at a variety of venues, including some off-campus locations, but ultimately decided to use labar practice complex in order to minimize expenses, according to heisler. 
“we looked at some other op­tions, but if you go somewhere else there’s obviously some po­tential significant costs involved,” heisler said. “maybe it’s not per­fect because we aren’t able to offer the public the access that every­body’s used to, but it just seemed to make the most sense in terms of what we could do in terms of the event itself.” 
heisler said this year’s blue-gold game will be broadcast on nbc sports network as in years past. additionally, a live telecast of the game will be shown in purcell pavilion for football fans on cam­pus that are unable to watch the game in person. 
Jones said he was disappointed he would not be able to attend this year’s blue-gold game. 
“while i understand that the new construction makes the sta­dium an impractical venue for the blue-gold game, i wish that they had chosen a venue that al­lowed students and fans the op­portunity to attend the game, such as soldier Field in chicago, as had been rumored earlier this year,” Jones said. 
brent said the game will be dif­ferent without most of the student body. 
“it’s not as fun as being on the 
paid adverTisemenT 
practice fields, of course, but it’s for a good cause because they’re trying to expand the stadium,” brent said. “i know a lot of people want to go and be a part of the game. i feel bad for them, but hopefully we’ll get this out of the way, play on the practice fields right now and return to the sta­dium where all the students can enjoy it.” 
heisler said he is not sure if campus crossroads will affect next year’s blue-gold game. 
“we certainly knew this was going to likely be the situation based on these several years of construction,” heisler said. “we could be facing the same deci­sions a year from now. There are no guarantees what will happen.” 
heisler said he hopes fans will show their support for other notre dame sports teams this weekend, almost all of which will have free admission. 
“There’s a lot happening on campus this weekend,” heisler said. “we’ve eliminated admis­sion charges for most of the home events. with the understanding that the general public isn’t really going to have access to the blue-gold game, we’re thinking may­be people will watch it in purcell in between attending other irish athletic events.” 
an email sent to students Thursday night said there are a limited number of tickets for the blue-gold game. Tickets will be distributed on Friday begin­ning at 9 a.m. at the laFortune information desk and box office. 
Contact Katie Galioto at kgalioto@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 2015 | The observer 

paid adverTisemenT 
Relay 
conTinued From page 1 
“This year, we can expect a more devoted crowd of partici­pants,” romeros said, “since we have shortened the event … we really hope this will encourage students, faculty, staff and com­munity members to stay through­out the event. of course, you are free to come and go, but we have planned some really great events and ceremonies.” 
according to the relay for life website, doors will open at 5:30 
paid adverTisemenT 



p.m. Friday, followed by an opening ceremony and kickoff of the relay’s first lap led by survivors, caregiv­ers and the notre dame marching band at 6:30. activities throughout the night include the silent auction, balloon twisters, inflatables, a bas­ketball shoot-a-thon, ice sculpting, a Zumbathon, karaoke, broomball and an open skate. a luminary ceremony will be held from 9 p.m. to 9:30 p.m., in which candles in decorated paper bags will be lit in honor of victims, survivors and all community members affected by cancer. closing ceremonies will begin at 11:45 p.m., and the event brought the voices of young american catholic women, and we did so in hope and confidence that with insight, the church would result in change.” 
senior kristen millar said going to rome as a repre­sentative for young catholic women will always be a vivid memory of her saint mary’s education. 
millar said she remem­bers being in the first mass at saint mary’s and hearing sister madeleva’s quote, “we promise you discovery: the discovery of yourselves, the discovery of the universe, and your place in it.” 
“as a senior i find sister madeleva’s words to be true, and [at saint mary’s] i have been mentored by wonder­ful catholic women mentors. saint mary’s has prepared me to become the catholic wom­an i am. 
“i have been honored to be a voice and to share the voices of young women,” millar said. “The pope cannot hear unless we speak. 
“i invite all women to ask god for courage, strength and wisdom and a continuation of this conversation.” 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmsen01@saintmarys.edu 
Madeleva 
conTinued From page 1 
in august 2014. 
according to groppe, many young women are abandon­ing catholicism, and this dis­affiliation is a great loss to the catholic church. 
The voices of young catholic women project invited wom­en to write to pope Francis about women’s issues in the church, expressing both their love and their suggestions for the church, groppe said. 
bishop kevin rhoades of the diocese of Fort wayne-south bend was able to get a papal audience in november 2014, groppe said. rhodes, college president carol ann mooney and two saint mary’s students delivered 235 letters in rome last fall. 
Questions such as “what do we cherish about the catholic faith?” and “what is it like to be a catholic woman today?” were given as prompts for young women across america to write about in their letters. 
groppe said while the num­ber of letters represents a small percentage of young catholic women, the personal notes offer something that statistics cannot display — young women’s voices. 
vice president for mission Judy Fean spoke about mary magdalene as the first woman to see Jesus and said all bap­tized women are called to be part of the church. 
Fean also said the cour­age of the young women to write letters to pope Francis will open the doors to recog­nize the challenges they face today. 
Insights from the letters 
malea schulte, class of 2014, said while 35 percent of mil­lennial women disaffiliate from the catholic church, it is important to remember 65 percent stay committed to the catholic faith. 
schulte said many let­ters addressed the value of catholic tradition and the ways the church cherishes the beauty of life. 
schulte read one letter that said, “i love the church be­cause i believe there is truth there. … i see the church as an unrelenting seeker of jus­tice for all people.” 
another important theme in the letters was commu­nity and its connection to the catholic faith, schulte said. 
she read from a letter writ­ten by a saint mary’s student who wrote, “saint mary’s laid the foundation for my spiritual journey.” 
sophomore kaleigh ellis presented excerpts from let­ters written on the way wom­en are portrayed in the media and the social pressures of contemporary society. 
she read from a letter that mentioned the contempo­rary issues of bullying and self-esteem. 
“we look at other girls and look for their flaws. we dis­like each other, we bully and belittle ourselves — too many girls have been driven to self harm,” the letter read. 
ellis said another young woman wrote, “as a woman, i have been put in degrading situations. i can’t help but wonder, where is god in all this?” 
The contemporary issue of divorce was also confronted in a letter one young woman wrote regarding parents go­ing through a divorce and an­nulment. The church became a reminder of the brokenness of the young woman’s family, ellis said. 
ellis said the themes in the testimonies can seem daunt­ing. however, many of these women provided heartfelt suggestions to church leaders in their letters, including sug­gestions for national catholic media initiatives. 
Delivering the letters in Rome 
rhoades said he has a great appreciation for the voices of young women project and has had an opportunity to meet many faith-filled stu­dent leaders at saint mary’s through his involvement. 
“as the project unfolded, i was moved to joy by the love of the lord,” rhodes said. “i was also moved to sadness when reading of the sorrow of many women.” 
rhoades said catholics are part of the universal church, which includes many other cultures, languages and races. The letters are also represen­tative of the voices that are si­lenced, he said. 
mooney said the reason for going to rome was what thrilled her about the project. 
“it gave me great pride that a group of women at saint mary’s decided to do some­thing in response to the great number of young women leav­ing the church,” mooney said. 
mooney said the voices of young women project is uniquely appropriate today, and she couldn’t think of a place better than saint mary’s to take the initiative to discuss the needs of young catholic women. 
“saint mary’s women will officially end at midnight. 
“you can just come with your friends and have a good time,” mccurdy said. 
students can pre-register for the relay or sign up at the door on the night of the event. registration costs $10 and is pay­able by cash, check, credit or domer dollars. more informa­tion and updates on the event can be found on the relay’s twitter, @notredamerelay, Facebook page or website, relay.nd.edu. 
Contact Andrea Vale at avale@nd.edu 
Assault 
conTinued From page 1 
case-by-case basis whether or not the reported incident ne­cessitates an alert based on its timeliness and whether or not the offender in question poses a threat to the community at large. 
because the sexual assault in question was reported rough­ly three months after it took place, ndsp determined it was no longer a timely threat, keri kei shibata, deputy chief, said. 
information about sexual as­sault prevention and resources for survivors of sexual assault are available online from ndsp and from the committee for sexual assault prevention (csap). 


The decent thing to do 

INSIDE COLUMN 

The revered room 
Austin Taliaferro 
viewpoint copyeditor 

as human beings, life has many critical decisions we must make. one such decision made for us our entire life is our need to use the bathroom. because of this necessity, we have constructed sanctuaries for this most instinctual act where we may spend a few minutes a day performing such activi­ties as: contemplating our being, calling our mom, dropping a mixtape, swiping on Tinder, writing this very article you are reading, etc. with researchers showing we spend on average a year and a half on the toilet in our lifetime, these activities can add up. because of this large amount of time, it is important to spend it in the right environment. 
many factors make up the ideal bath­room, a location that is equivalent to the Fountain of youth for us bathroom enthusi­asts. some may argue that making a system on which to base all bathrooms is complete­ly subjective as people have different prefer­ences, but i believe there are six factors that everyone looks for in a bathroom: smell, color scheme, layout, cleanliness, comfort and ambience. 
using these six factors, i used every bathroom on notre dame’s campus and discovered which were the best and worst on campus. To start off, every bathroom at notre dame immediately loses a few points when it comes to comfort because they all use the infamous one-ply toilet rolls that make sandpaper seem soft. i plead to you notre dame, hit up charmin, get a sponsor­ship deal going and give the people what they want. 
starting with the worst: rockne bath­rooms. in terms of color scheme and floor layout, schindler’s list seems more colorful. in terms of smell and cleanliness, there is not enough bleach in the world to cleanse them. The rockne is hands down the worst and in terms of experience is about on par with getting an enema. honorable mention goes to debartolo, which makes a buc-ee’s beaver Truck stop look like a germaphobe’s dream. 
now for the dolce & gabbana gold rooms of notre dame bathrooms: the main building and the mckenna conference center. winner of the 2002 cintas’ america’s best restroom award, the main building highlights stovax victorian tile floors that are imported from europe and refurbished original oak doors that are mounted to marble partitions. mixed with 19th century lighting, this bathroom makes the whole experience one to remember. mckenna’s bathroom makes a strong first impression the second you walk in, with a pleasant smell of wildflowers and lavender that fills the room. The versace mansion doesn’t have porcelain thrones such as the ones found here. 
i hope this article has been a helpful infor­mational experience. 
Contact Austin Taliaferro at ataliafe@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Gary Caruso 
capitol comments 
Farewell “decent” senior class. 

it is fast approaching that inevitable time when warming spring days beguile the final scholastic semester and prompt seniors to prepare for graduation. The looming seasonal ritual not only includes seniors about to cross the academic thresh­old into “the real world,” but also ensnarls wise, experienced and successful public figures who must offer advice with an eye towards constructing a memorable inspirational speech. unfortunately, by the next commencement cycle, most of the wise pearly pronouncements soon slide into a forgotten base­ment, even when the most notable of speakers attempts to con­vey the magical formula for living a decent life. 
This year’s senior class is in many ways like every senior class that has proceeded and will follow — decent individuals who are academically brilliant, spiritually generous, but sometimes limited in life lessons. depending on the venue, many com­mencement speakers regurgitate the party doctrine used to de­fine a particular school’s character, e.g., notre dame is defined by “service, catholic character, community.” 
commencement speakers attempt to convey a buffet of thoughts during a limited time on stage. They challenge the graduates to strive for greatness while sharing how they achieved success. They may pepper their remarks with humor but ultimately are remembered for “blah, blah, blah,” followed by decades of memorable cricket chirps. 
my personal notre dame commencement memories are long faded unless i peek at my commencement brochure. i only remember that iconic author and nationally syndicated jour­nalist, carl rowan, received an honorary degree with me. my speaker was the university of minnesota president, an intellec­tual who never personally stimulated my curiosity. 
on the other hand, i vividly remember my sister’s 1979 notre dame commencement, when helen hayes accepted the laetare medal from then-university president Fr. Theodore 
m. hesburgh. i do not remember exactly what she said but rather how she spoke. hayes exuded such enthusiasm that she brought the only fun into an otherwise dull and onerous afternoon. 
humor columnist art buchwald created a so-called “rule of one” standard for commencement addresses. he oftentimes told graduating students that his only goal was for them to re­member one thing about his speech — that they had laughed. with that in mind, 2015 graduates should set a standard going forward of guiding their lives with a question, “what would be the decent thing to do?” 
This year is replete with many “wwbTdTTd” examples at notre dame. The multitude of remembrances at hesburgh’s fu­neral gives pause and exemplifies how grand iconic personages of our time set great, decent standards. my favorite story is one retold in the spring edition of notre dame magazine. The catholic roommates of a Jewish student at notre dame be­littled and bullied the Jewish student to the point that he left the university. hesburgh, after learning of their unchristian — and youthful, stupid — intolerance called them into his office for a sit-down. hesburgh ordered them to travel to the Jewish student’s home and convince him to return to notre dame. hesburgh said that if the Jewish student did not return, the catholics could not return either. Fortunately, all of the stu­dents returned together and graduated from notre dame. 
living decent lives need not be reserved for those entrusted with managing huge institutions. Those in the public’s specter affect others by leading through example. notre dame men’s basketball seniors Jerian grant and pat connaughton acted decently by playing during their senior years. as one of them noted during a television interview, his loyalty lay with fulfilling his commitment to the university on the terms he accepted. in turn, they were rewarded with a ncaa tournament appear­ance, failing just a basket from advancing to the Final Four. 
graduating seniors demonstrate daily that they are caring, decent beings when they generously pay forward at a restaurant just for the fun of it. living a decent life is one that sidesteps greed and a worship of wealth in favor of well wishes to oth­ers who would normally not expect consideration. during christmas week, i vacationed in aruba, where at my resort, i mistakenly canceled my daily towel allotment by not swapping out my first day’s towel. The towel attendant spent special time correcting my error for me. i felt ashamed when i witnessed a college-aged guest bring her a traditional dutch christmas cake — just a decent thing to do during the holiday — which cost about $8 u.s. equivalent. surely i, the knucklehead who canceled my towel allotment on day one, should have offered her something as well. 
The lesson i learned turned even harsher on me when i heard the attendant thank her patron. she said, “i live alone and am going to save this to share with my daughter, who is about your age. she will visit on christmas day. nobody ever gave me any­thing before. you are so kind to think of me.” 
with similar thoughtfulness as a standard, this class of graduating seniors will be good, decent stewards of our society during their generation’s political and religious rein in history. after all, it is the only decent thing to do. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legisla­tive and public affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. Contact him at    GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



Why we should see ‘The Hunting Ground’ 

EDITORIAL 

it’s Friday in south bend, the end of another week in a city with five colleges and uni­versities and countless activities for students. There are parties to attend, friends to see, netflix to watch and perhaps, for the truly ambitious, papers to write and books to read as the semester winds down. 
but amid the parties and papers, we as an editorial board would like to offer the notre dame community an important alternative to these diversions. at 6:30 and 9:30 p.m. Friday, “The hunting ground,” a cnn documentary about sexual assault on college cam­puses around the nation, will screen in the browning cinema at debartolo performing arts center. The film features notre dame and saint mary’s, among other colleges and universities, as well as the institutions’ responses to previous allegations of sexual assault. a panel discussion featuring both students and faculty will follow both screenings. 
not every member of the editorial board has seen “The hunting ground” yet, but we will be at dpac on Friday, and we urge you, students, faculty and staff, to do the same. regardless of how the film portrays notre dame and saint mary’s, past allegations of sexual assault on these campuses or responses from the administrations, “The hunting ground” is already and will continue to be a catalyst for a conversation that must happen. 
nationally and globally, sexual assault — especially on college campuses — is a prob­lem that has increasingly drawn public attention and outcry. it is a problem we cannot hope to address without greater awareness of the facts, but too many in the world of high­er education are reluctant to discuss what happens to about one in five women and one in 16 men during their time in college. 
we hear of allegations at other schools, including Florida state, harvard and north carolina, all of which are also featured in the film, and recognize notre dame is not immune. every year, we receive emails from notre dame security police informing us of incidents of sexual assault. Just this Tuesday, the ndsp crime log included another student-reported rape on campus, though the alleged incident took place in January. 
These emails are always quickly followed by messages from our student government leaders, inviting us to prayer services at the grotto to help comfort those whose lives have been affected by sexual assault and to pray in solidarity with them. prayers certainly aid in the healing of sexual violence survivors, but dialogue is just as important. we ask our fellow students to attend the screening of “The hunting ground” to encourage these exchanges. do not shy away from the film or the ensuing discussion because the topic or the way it might portray notre dame or saint mary’s makes you uneasy. 
Film critics have both praised the documentary’s subject matter and raised questions regarding the comparative lack of interviews with college administrators; The observer cannot yet offer an opinion on the film’s merit in this regard. rather, we choose to view “The hunting ground” with an open, attentive mind. we will be more informed, more aware and better prepared to engage in constructive dialogue and action by seeing it. 
it is the responsibility of each member of the notre dame and saint mary’s commu­nity to create an environment where everyone feels safe, welcomed and included. as the white house’s campaign against college sexual assault, which the notre dame student government has adopted, has taught, “it’s on us.” 
we hope this film, and its screening at both saint mary’s and notre dame, will be the beginning of a new, candid, productive conversation about sexual assault in our com­munity and around the country. The office of student affairs will host a panel discussion entitled “beyond the hunting ground” to address “notre dame’s prevention initiatives and care responses regarding sexual assault” on monday evening at 7 p.m. in the remick commons of carole sandner hall. we hope the dialogue that began last week with the screening at saint mary’s and continues Friday night will only continue to grow at monday’s event and in dorm rooms, dining halls and classrooms across both campuses in the weeks and months to come. 
we applaud college president carol ann mooney for attending and speaking at last week’s screening of “The hunting ground” at saint mary’s. we thank mooney for her candor in addressing the film’s reference to her involvement in one of the sexual assault cases. we hope the notre dame administration can do the same. we invite university president Fr. John Jenkins to follow mooney, join us and become a leader in the dialogues to follow. 
The motto of our lady’s university, the very creed by which we live as a college com­munity is vita, dulcedo, spes — life, sweetness, hope. it is also a reminder of the envi­ronment we should strive for. attend the screening, start conversations, and be a driving force for change. it is our collective duty to care for everyone who comes to notre dame and saint mary’s. This is a chance to ignite discussions that will better our university and college and prove ally week and sexual violence awareness month are not themes fit only for a part of the calendar year. 
go. ask questions. challenge and be challenged. Join the conversation. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Astonishment and admonishment 
dear carol ann mooney, saint mary’s college and administrative personnel, 
This letter is our response to the screening of “The hunting ground” on april 9.  we want to begin by recog­nizing that saint mary’s college offers support resources to victims of sexual assault and, when necessary, reports the assault to the appropriate Title iX coordinator. 
There are aspects of the screening that concern us, including insufficient panel responses and comments from president mooney. her demeanor when introducing the film was suspect based on her refusal to acknowledge that, although she may respect student privacy, she values the financial status of the college more. That was made clear by her reluctance to be interviewed on film and by the stories featured in the film about saint mary’s women. 
as students, we pay thousands of dollars to this insti­tution. This commitment creates an obligation on the part of our college to advocate for, support and protect us. because of its failure to uphold this responsibility, we are extremely disappointed in this college and president mooney. as opposed to answering questions briefly and in ways that protect the institution, president mooney should be more receptive to students’ criticisms of her demeanor as uncaring. 
moreover, we are extremely upset that, because of the media presence, our questions appeared like they were being censored in the hallway outside of the auditorium. This attempt to maintain a good image is disheartening in so many ways. obviously, once again, college officials are putting our concerns second. additionally, although professor Frances kominkiewicz showed deep empathy and compassion for our students, she went along with this censoring because ashley hall was seen pointing out which parts of questions were acceptable to ask the panel­ists — as opposed to reading the full comment card. 
Furthermore, even when answering the questions that were actually posed to the panelists, there was a refusal to fully or directly answer those questions. For example, when a question was asked regarding president mooney’s refusal to appear on film due to privacy concerns, connie adams was expected to answer this question — something she would clearly be unable to do in her position at the college. and the person responsible for answering that question, mooney, chose to maintain her silence and sit in the audience. 
saint mary’s advocacy for its students is lacking. The reporting and investigative processes are completed only to the minimal requirements by law: our administrators appear to feel no further responsibility to their students after informing notre dame’s Title iX coordinator, mark kocovski, of an assault against our students on his cam­pus. officials at saint mary’s have a duty to ensure stu­dents a proper and thorough investigation. The college claims to be a legally separate institution yet does not pressure notre dame to perform a just and complete in­vestigation due to some perceived obligation to the insti­tution across the street. 
both notre dame and saint mary’s are bold, proud, catholic institutions. all administrators representing these schools need to uphold the catholic faith’s values when acting on behalf of these institutions. sexual assault is an affront to the fundamental beliefs of the catholic church and demands sufficient investigation and punish­ment, which is presently absent. 
in conclusion, our college has neglected to adequately advocate for us. as future alumnae, we cannot continue to financially support an institution which has so unequivo­cally failed to uphold its duties to its patrons as a catholic institution. at this point, we would like to end our letter. 
we offer the following recommendations as opportuni­ties for the college to fulfill its duties to its studies: 
be more critical of the Title iX process, which disadvan­tages us as a single-sex institution. 
Further, until administrators fully and publicly support our students by being critical of notre dame, our institu­tion should ensure that students who wish to seek legal recourse are able to do so by providing us with adequate legal counsel. 
push notre dame to disclose the number of reported sexual assaults on its campus, especially regarding our students, and the outcomes of such reports. 
devote more resources to preventative measures as opposed to treating later sexual assaults as administrative issues. 
if changes are not made by the administration, we sug­gest that saint mary’s fully sever ties with notre dame (e.g., no student tickets, no domerfest, no co-exchange) so that we are actually two separate institutions. 
we would also like to add that if saint mary’s does not move toward making these changes, some of which fea­ture minimal expectations needed to promote justice and uphold our catholic dignity as humans, and others which will be more maximal recommendations, then we, as future alumnae, will be unable to financially support this institution as donors and will encourage all signees to do 
the same.  
Michelle Griffin  Justine Bresnahan  
senior  senior  
Anna Nolan  Eleanor Jones  
senior  junior  
Michaela Eby  Giovanna Posselius  
senior  sophomore  
Hillary Mangiaforte  Jenny Ng  
senior  sophomore  
Rachel Wall  Rebekah DuDevoir  
senior  freshman  
Payton Moore  Madelyne Harry  
senior  freshman  
Christa Costello  Veronika Hanks  
senior  freshman  
Logan Nevonen  Claire Stewart  
senior  senior  
april 16  
Tabitha Hackbush  
senior  


By MARC DRAKE 
scene writer 
vinyl is making a comeback. 

Though the resurgence in popularity may come as a surprise to some, the change has been long coming. according to a study done by nielsen soundscan, 14 million lps were sold in 2014, compared to one million in 2001. sales have grown exponentially within that time period, and one of the driving factors behind the resurrection of the lp has been record store day. 
record store day began in 2007 after a few record store owners got together and decided that their stores needed to be cel­ebrated in the same way comic book stores were with “Free comic book day.” what initially was conceived as a day to high­light local independent record stores has flourished into something much larger; re­cord stores from all around the world host parties to acknowledge the special role each record store plays in the community, and artists release special limited edition vinyl that can be found only at participat­ing stores. record store day occurs on the third saturday of every april, and this year that saturday falls on april 18. 
orbit music, games & movies, located at 805 w. mckinley avenue in mishawaka, offers a wide variety of goods ranging from cds and records to dvds and vhs tapes and is one of the sponsored record store day venues. living up to its name, there is truly something otherworldly about orbit music; aside from the foam balls hanging from the ceiling and displays of the solar system, orbit manages to take patrons back to the past. older visitors will be reminded of childhood days spent carefully flipping through rack after rack of new records and the “eureka” moment experienced when the perfect album is discovered. younger patrons will experience firsthand the mag­ic of holding something tangible and po­tentially connect with music in a new way by experiencing the physicality of a record. 
“we opened up in July 1989, and i col­lected records. i wanted to open a record store, i thought that would be the greatest,” store owner doug Zimmerman said over the sounds of led Zeppelin blaring in the background. what originally began as the fulfillment of a dream proved to be diffi­cult as the face of the music industry began to change. 
“now it’s so easy to download music, and people don’t even have to pay for it. it’s re­ally tough to sell new cds,” Zimmerman said. but the advent of events such as record store day has certainly assisted in creating business for independent re­cord store owners, and Zimmerman is no exception. 
Zimmerman’s business has exploded over the past three years, and record store day has definitely been influential in get­ting the word out about the store. 
“it’s the busiest day of the year for me now, more so than christmas or any of that stuff,” Zimmerman said. he has been involved since day one and has found record store day has really helped “mom and pop” shops like his own. 

record store day was created to cel­ebrate the impact of independent record stores on the local community, and i was overwhelmed by how tangible the spirit of community was in orbit music. while i was speaking with Zimmerman, patrons came in on multiple occasions to sell back records they had recently discovered or were willing to part with. patrons who arrived as strangers bonded over shared musical tastes and discussed the extent of their record collections. parents brought their children, and children brought their parents. orbit music seemed to be a place where collectors of vinyl and music lovers could coexist regardless of age. 
Zimmerman said a wide variety of genres are represented in the store, and a cursory glance at all of the different sec­tions confirms this. however, Zimmerman admits certain artists do sell better than others. 
“i do really well with alternative music, mumford and sons and bon iver — that type of stuff. and then classic rock,” he said. 
building a record collection can be a daunting task. unlike many of my peers, i had nothing passed on to me from my par­ents (thanks mom and dad) and a limited supply of money that has prevented me from buying everything that catches my eye. wishing to capitalize on the advice of an expert, i asked Zimmerman what five albums everyone should have in their re­cord collection: The doors “strange days,” captain beefheart “bat chain puller,” gang of Four “entertainment!,” pink Floyd “animals” and rush “2112” were his recommendations. 
although record store day is al­most unequivocally positive for owners, Zimmerman did acknowledge some draw­backs: “They’ve got the list, and you order what you hope you will get. however, you don’t always get what you want.” when i asked about one of the releases i was most excited about, a special record store day, 7-inch-edition of “kim’s caravan” by courtney barnett, Zimmerman informed me that unfortunately he wasn’t able to get any copies of it. still, orbit music certainly boasts an impressive collection with a cou­ple hundred different items in preparation for the day, encompassing about half of the 400 different artists on the list. 
orbit music opens at 10 a.m., but patrons wishing to buy some of the special releases are advised to arrive sooner. 
“people will be lined up. i’m sure the line will wrap all the way around. … we’ll be doing a 20 percent discount off everything, except for the record store day special re­leases,” Zimmerman said. with a forecast predicting sun and a high of 77, showing up a couple of hours early this saturday should be no problem. maybe i’ll see you in line. 
Contact Marc Drake at                   mdrake@nd.edu 
MARC DRAKE and EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 


By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

election season is upon us once again, and with it comes the whirlwind of ar­ticles praising and decrying the battle­field of candidates who hope to become the most powerful person in america. Fortunately, i am not a viewpoint writer, so i am not interested in trivial points such as candidates’ stances on economic and foreign policy, but rather the matter of greatest importance: their fashion sense. if we can’t trust a candi­date to dress while under stress, how we can possibly trust them with the presi­dency? here are the highlights of 2016’s candidates: 
Hillary Clinton 

The current frontrunner for the democrats is also a frontrunner in d.c. fashion, as she has been making waves with her no-nonsense style for quite some time. hillary has rocked the pant­suit since her husband was president, and does not appear to be willing to change this look anytime soon, thereby 
By KATHRYN MINKO 
scene writer 

Trapped. confined. imminent demise. These four words sufficiently character­ize the upcoming movie “unfriended.” as the title conveys, the plot concen­trates on social media in stereotypically cheesy fashion. similar to all horror stories, the film follows a dramatic plot line stuffed with revenge, secrets and, of course, murder. based entirely on so­cial media, the story takes place within blaire’s — one of the main females — computer screen. The audience, there­fore, realistically experiences events exactly as blaire would perceive them. That being said, the action pursues a clichéd, yet certainly suspenseful se­quence of events, which revolves around laura barns’ — a recently deceased high school girl — revenge. 
on the anniversary of her death, laura avenges her suicide by haunting showing her strong traditional and con­servative values. she also has been seen a number of times wearing dark sun­glasses inside, a move that increases her mystique in the eyes of the fashion community. what could she be hid­ing? is it another private email address? whatever it may be, hillary is unafraid to experiment new hairstyles in public, rocking everything from hairbands to scrunchies on the campaign trail. Just as hillary is basically unopposed for the democratic nomination, she is unop­posed in fashionability. 
Jeb Bush 
although he hasn’t officially declared his presidential bid yet, the younger bush brother is one of the better dressed con­tenders for the republican nomination. in his most recent video about clinton, bush can be seen wearing a simple, classic navy polo shirt and glasses. with this style, bush makes it clear that he’s not an elitist, uppity d.c. politician, but rather an elitist, uppity Florida governor pretending to be an average american and not part of a political dynasty. This 
a group of teenagers through a variety of social networking sites. in the midst of an evening skype chat, the friends notice something strange about their computer screens: they all bear an un­usual, blank icon signifying “unknown party” within their group chat. For about 25 minutes, the group tries to rid their screens of the intruder, only to receive strange messages from a girl claiming to be the deceased barns. all of a sudden, laura posts humiliating pictures and degrading comments from one friend’s profile to the next, leading to distrust and eventual panic. since each of these high school students has engaged in some aspect of laura’s cyber-bullying and eventual death, their resistance to her awful vengeance only causes more and more agony. after refusing to let them hang up their phones or close their laptops, laura, whom the audi­ence never actually meets, tortures them mentally, emotionally and, of course, is a look bush has been trying to de­velop for some time, as a number of his Twitter posts show him embracing the “suit with no tie” look, a style that also shows Jeb bush is a modern man and a visionary who is in touch with citizens. while the younger bush may not have his father’s amazing fashion sense (have you ever seen his socks?), he’s far from being the worst dressed republican candidate. 

Ted Cruz 

The worst dressed republican can­didate. The man who shut down the government also appears to be a man who shut down any desire for style. as was pointed out in a recent Jezebel article, cruz does not seem capable of wearing any clothes that fit him what­soever. if he’s not capable of dressing himself, how can he possibly be ca­pable of running the country? it gets worse though: cruz has in fact worn cowboy boots with his suit in public. is cruz trying to get the republican nomination or a role in the next clint eastwood film? 
physically. unable to escape the brutal­ity, the gang also suffers through mind-games that trick them into spilling dark secrets. similar to the trite horror film, the ending of “unfriended” certainly does not bode well for the teenagers, since laura attacks each and every one of them in different manners. ladies and gents, if you’re in need of a happy ending, please save your money for something other than the world’s unhappiest genre. 
Though its climax does not yield a pleasant result, the film intrigues by pre­senting integral problems to the modern day. social media sites have grown expo­nentially through recent years. Though the mobility of modern technology pro­vides great advantages for communica­tion, its disposability comes at a price. cyber-bullying, a recent and ever-pres­ent mode of picking on people, is quite prevalent within society. Typically oc­curring between adolescents, cyber-bul­lying carries serious, and possibly even 
Rand Paul 
as noted by mother Jones, rand paul is a turtleneck aficionado. in spite of this tragic styling decision, paul has some­how managed to rock dad jeans in a way no other candidate seems to be capable of. dad jeans are an important tool in any candidate’s arsenal and show a commitment to comfort over all other factors. For this firm decision to stick by his values of comfort in the face of hard­ship, rand paul receives my support. 
Marco Rubio 
marco rubio has a very good shot at being the republican candidate, and his fashionability only enhances his oppor­tunity. rubio very rarely diverges from the traditional dark suit with a bold tie, just as he very rarely diverges from his Tea party views.  simple, classic and presidential, rubio’s style represents a man who is ready to take on any and all contenders. unless, of course, he gets thirsty. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at                    jkemper2@nd.edu 
lethal, ramifications for all involved. while the movie portrays the effects cyber-bullying to its utmost extremities, it certainly reflects the weight rumors and ugly posts/videos bear on a person. each of the teenagers within the film carries responsibility for posting hor­rifying videos and comments of an in­toxicated laura — videos and comments that lead to her suicide. interestingly enough, these pictures, videos and com­ments would bear absolutely no effect on laura’s livelihood without the presence and apparent abuse of social media. That said, the clichéd horror film pres­ents itself as quite satirical to the world of social media. This satire provides an empathetic, realistic perspective on laura’s feelings and the friends’ remorse and pain, which makes “unfriended” all the more suspenseful. 
Contact Kathryn Minko at            kminko@nd.edu 
EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Where does Peterson fit in? 
Daniel O’Boyle 
sports writer 
since taking the torch from ladainian Tomlinson with his famous 296-yard perfor­mance against the chargers in week 9 of the 2007 season, adrian peterson has been virtually undisputed as the best running back in the nFl. after a year’s suspen­sion amid child abuse allega­tions, the nFl announced his reinstatement yesterday, immediately giving him back the figurative crown. 
There’s still some debate over whether he should re­turn, but the nFl is a league of second chances, and michael vick before him has shown that a player can change, show remorse and be welcomed back. 
when peterson does step back onto the field though, there’s no guarantee it will be for the vikings. with a huge contract and rumors he wants out, where peterson plays the 2015 season is still up in the air. 
signing peterson might seem like a huge risk. sure, there are downsides, but re­member just who we’re talk­ing about. peterson’s been the top running back in the game for years: in 2012, he rushed for over 2,000 yards, despite opponents setting out to do nothing but stop him. and he did it coming off an acl tear. That season, he dragged the vikings to the playoffs despite a terrible secondary, an injury to their only useful receiver and the atrocious christian ponder starting at quarterback. no other non-Qb in the league right now, not even J.J. watt, can single-handedly have that kind of impact on a team. he might be 30 years old, usually over the hill for a running back, but peterson’s body defies all rules. There’s no doubt he has more elite seasons left in the tank. yes, there’s a strong 2015 draft class of running backs, but none of them can provide peterson’s level of instant impact. if there’s any chance of getting adrian peterson, teams need to try. 
so what teams should make a move for the best running back in the league? here are three of the best fits. 
Dallas Cowboys 
The cowboys surely make the most sense as a landing spot for peterson. losing demarco murray, the league’s leading rusher last year, to the divisional rival philadelphia eagles opens up a spot in dallas’s backfield. The cowboys did sign darren mcFadden, but he’s not a player you can count on to stay healthy. 
Tony romo proved last year he can play at an elite level, but he will be 35 years old when the 2015 season starts, and he doesn’t have long at the top. a major win-now piece could be just what Jerry Jones’s franchise needs. The cowboys’ offensive line is al­most certainly the best in the nFl, and behind the likes of Tyron smith and Zach martin 
— while romo and dez bryant keep some attention away from him — peterson would be perfectly set up to succeed. sure, cowboys fans can claim they don’t make flashy moves any more, but this move makes sense. 
Arizona Cardinals 
The cardinals have one of the best defenses in the league, and if carson palmer can stay healthy, they could be a genuine super bowl con­tender. an elite running back though, especially one who can run hard between the tackles like peterson, would be a game-changer. keeping attention away from palmer would turn the cardinals offense from pedestrian to electric, while andre ellington would provide the perfect complement. even if palmer goes down again, peterson can be depended upon to keep arizona in games without great quarter­back play and turn a quietly strong team into an elite one. 
New England Patriots 
it might be a bit of a long shot to see Tom brady hand­ing the ball off to adrian peterson, but it might just make sense. The patriots def­initely need a running back, bill belichick doesn’t seem to have much confidence in any of his options, and it would take a bit more heat off brady, letting him perform at his best a little longer. 
The patriots have regularly gone for big-name trades and free agents before to com­plete the team, and peterson would instantly make the patriots look like an unstop­pable force for 2015. Just one year of adrian peterson in new england would be enough to make a fifth ring for Tom brady look like a near-certainty. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

irish set to begin postseason in greensboro 
By SEAN KILMER 
sports writer 

after a tournament in which they improved their score every day, the irish will play in the acc championships this weekend. 
The bryan national collegiate, notre dame’s last tournament, featured similar grass and similar competition to what the the irish will see at accs. in that meet, they fin­ished tied for seventh but only nine strokes back from first place. The squad’s worst show­ing came Friday, when irish head coach susan holt said her players did not adjust well to the conditions. however, they post­ed the lowest round of the field saturday, and holt was pleased with their response. 
“it was really windy [Friday],” holt said. “The golf course we played was one of the tougher ones we played with all year, and we didn’t deal with the wind very well. on saturday we had a nice comeback, and it came down to attitude and fighting through conditions. we talked about that on Friday night, and i think they took it to heart.” 
The ability of the irish to play well in tough conditions may come into play this week­end, as rain is in the forecast at sedgefield golf club in greensboro, north carolina — the site of the acc tournament. rainy conditions tend to make the course longer because the ball won’t roll out as much, and it also increases the likelihood of losing footing during a swing, holt said. 
despite the rainy conditions, holt said she was very confident in her team’s chances to take home the title. notre dame has beaten many of the teams in the field at least once this season, and holt said she believes her team is just as talented as the other top acc teams. 
“conditions are going to be wet,” holt said. “it’s going to rain tomorrow, and we will be fight­ing rain throughout the week­end. it’s the same for everybody though, and at this point throw talent out the window. we are competitive. we have beaten virginia, Florida state, just not wake Forest. even wake Forest, we have beaten on certain days, just not entire tournaments. This isn’t about talent, but about the teams that deal with the conditions the best. Talent-wise we are right there. The winner is going to be the team who can deal with the conditions the best.” 
overall, holt said she and her squad are enthusiastic simpy to be in the acc and play against top-tier competition. 
“we’re excited to be here,” she said. “we’re excited to be in the acc. it’s a great golf conference. There are six teams in the top 32. if you are winning acc champi­onships, you’re also competing for national championships. There are five of six teams that really have a shot of winning this thing, and it should be a great weekend of golf.” 
The irish will play today and through the weekend in the acc championships in greensboro. 
Contact Sean Kilmer at skilmer@nd.edu 

SMC SOFTBALL | smc 8, albion 0 
Saint Mary’s dominates Albion with a no-hitter 
Observer Staff Report 

with two conference wins, including a combined no-hitter, saint mary’s reached 20 wins for the first time since 2012 with 8-0 and 10-0 victo­ries yesterday over albion. 
The belles (20-8, 7-3 miaa) beat the britons (4-22, 0-12) in five innings in both games. in the first matchup, the belles offense hung eight runs on albion’s sophomore pitcher monica brugnoni. 
saint mary’s junior pitcher sarah burke continued her season with four innings of shutout ball to move her re­cord to 8-2. The belles’ of­fense warmed up early and scored a run in the bottom of the first. Freshman infielder Jamie young led off the game with a single and advanced to second on an illegal pitch. Then the belles took advan­tage of a lucky break to push a run across. while trying to throw out freshman outfield­er cassie young, brugnoni threw the ball away, and young was allowed to score all the way from second. 

in the third inning, the belles tacked on two more runs. with two outs and a runner on first, saint mary’s manufactured two runs af­ter freshman pitcher morgan raymer was hit by a pitch. brugoni threw another wild pitch to advance raymer and junior catcher Jillian busfield to second and third, respec­tively. sophomore infielder caitlyn migawa came up with a two-out bases clearing sin­gle to extend the lead to three. 
The next inning, the belles sprung the game open with five runs. after multiple er­rors and fielder’s choices gave the belles two runs, the belles were waiting to deliver a knockout punch. migawa again delivered when she doubled to right-center to bring home two belles and extend the lead to eight runs. 
in the second game of the day, the belles’ pitchers again delivered a gem. This time, they pitched a combined five-inning no-hitter. Freshman pitcher emily najacht start­ed the game for two innings and was relieved in the third by raymer. raymer pitched three more no-hit innings to pick up her fourth win of the season. 
saint mary’s again got on the board early and notched two runs in the top of the first. after Jamie young led off the game with a fly out to center field, junior outfielder sarah callis singled up the middle to get the rally start­ed. cassie young singled in callis and advanced to sec­ond on the throw. young then scored from second on a wild pitch to finish the scoring for the inning. 
The belles exploded for six runs in the third on seven sin­gles. raymer and junior sec­ond baseman angela dainelli each had two-rbi knocks in the inning. 
The lead was stretched to 10 runs in the fourth, and the mercy rule was called in the fifth to end the game. 
saint mary’s has its senior day this saturday against hope in another league game. The seniors will be honored before the game, which will start at 1 p.m. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish to host ACC foes 
By RYAN KLAUS 
sports writer 
notre dame will host no. 12 wake Forest in its second straight home match and penultimate reg­ular season contest Friday at eck Tennis pavilion. 
The irish (13-9, 5-5 acc) will follow that match with their final match of the season tomorrow against north carolina state. 
“i think the last three four or weeks, we’ve been playing pret­ty well,” irish head coach ryan sachire said. “certainly, to get a win over a good clemson team like we did last week has contin­ued that momentum, and we are really excited about the opportu­nities this weekend.” 
Following their recent victory, the irish welcome no. 12 wake Forest (18-6, 8-3 acc) today. The demon deacons have won five straight, most recently taking both matches of a home double­header against north carolina and The citadel last sunday. sachire, however, said he thinks his team’s tough schedule this sea­son has them well prepared for the challenge. 

“clearly tomorrow, we’re not go­ing to see anything that we haven’t seen this year,” sachire said. “it’s not like we’re going to be in an environment or playing against an opponent that is beyond what we’ve had on our schedule this season. That’s why we scheduled so tough out of conference, to pre­pare ourselves for these matches. i think we’re confident enough to handle what wake Forest is going to have. we just need to go out and execute and play well.” 


despite their stellar overall re­cord, wake Forest’s road record this season is only 3-4, which could be an advantage for the irish, who have been 9-4 at home to this point. 
at no. 1 singles, irish junior Quentin monaghan, who is ranked 9th nationally and has won 11 straight matches, is set to face no. 10 junior romain bogaerts. 
both schools also boast highly ranked doubles pairs. notre dame junior alex lawson and pecor are ranked 12th nationally and will likely be opposed by the no. 10 doubles duo of freshman skander mansouri and redshirt freshman christianseraphim. 
after taking on wake Forest on Friday, the irish will finish regular season play saturday afternoon at home against north carolina state (15-9, 4-6 acc). The wolfpack are below .500 in wconference play but have had success on the road this season. nc state will head into saturday’s contest with a 8-2 road record. 
The irish and demon deacons are set to begin at 3:30 p.m. Friday at courtney Tennis center. notre dame and north carolina state are scheduled for 2 p.m. saturday at eck Tennis pavilion. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at  rklaus1@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

ND to take on Clemson, Duke 

By BEN PADANILAM 
sports writer 
notre dame is set to play its final two matches of the season this weekend, first traveling to clemson, south carolina, to take on no. 21 clemson on Friday before re­turning home to take on no. 23 duke at courtney Tennis center on sunday. 
Following a loss to no. 16 miami at home this past Friday, the irish (14-7, 8-4 acc) are looking to end their regular season on a high note and head into the acc tour­nament with two more wins over nationally ranked con­ference foes. 
The irish will first travel to clemson to take on the Tigers (14-8, 9-4 acc). coming into Friday, the Tigers have won four of their last five matches in conference play. They are led by junior Joana eidukonyte and senior romy koelzer, who are ranked no. 15 and 33 nationally, respectively. 
Following the matchup with the Tigers, the irish will then return home to take on the blue devils (14-8, 9-3 acc) on sunday at courtney Tennis center. duke enters the match coming off a 4-1 loss to undefeated no. 1 north carolina on wednesday, but the blue devils still sit in fourth place in the acc standings. 
with these two matches representing the end of the regular season for the irish, junior Quinn gleason said she believes both matches pro­vide an opportunity for notre dame to gain momentum go­ing into the postseason. 
“The matches against both duke and clemson will be very good tests for us this weekend,” gleason said. “both matches will be great opportunities for us because they are ranked ahead of us, and a win against either team would be huge for us right before the acc tournament next week.” 
despite having to trav­el to clemson, for Friday’s matchup before making the quick turnaround for the duke match back at home on sunday, gleason said she and the team are excited to have the opportunity to end their regular season at home. 
“For me, i always seem to play my best at home, so i’m excited that we get to play duke in south bend,” gleason said. “The extra traveling is worth it to play the blue devils on our home courts.” 
with both opponents ranked ahead of the irish, gleason said it will be impor­tant for notre dame to take the doubles point in both matches to establish momen­tum for the singles matches. 
“i think getting the dou­bles point in each match will be very important for us,” gleason said. “The doubles point creates momentum going into singles and is un­doubtably a major factor in which team comes out on top.” 
as the postseason ap­proaches for the irish with the acc tournament next week, gleason said the team is poised to make a run down the stretch. 
“i think we’re a dark horse in the acc tournament as well as the ncaa tourna­ment, but there’s no position i’d rather be in,” gleason said. “i know, personally, i always play my best when i feel like i’m the underdog and have nothing to lose. we have been able to compete with the very best teams in the country; i know that as a team we are right there with them.” 
The irish will duel clemson at hoke sloan Tennis center in clemson on Friday at 2:30 
p.m. before returning to courtney Tennis center to take on duke on sunday at 12 p.m. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

TRACK & FIELD 

Split squads head to Georgia, Virginia 
By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports writer 
about a month removed from the indoor season and another away from the acc outdoor championships, several notre dame athletes will look to hit their stride this weekend as they split up between charlottesville, virginia, for the virginia challenge and atlanta for the georgia Tech invitational. 
last weekend at the acc/ big Ten invitational, notre dame took a large, somewhat young squad to louisville, kentucky, where the team experienced mixed results. 
“For some of [the under­classmen], it was a great op­portunity and a stepping stone so they can continue their season well as they get to these bigger meets,” irish head coach alan Turner said. “a few didn’t work out as well … but many of them really stepped up.” 
This weekend, the irish distance runners — many of whom sat out at louisville af­ter running in back-to-back meets the two weekends be­fore — will face a strong field at the virginia challenge. eight men and five women will face runners from 35 in­vited schools, primarily from the east coast, but also in­cluding big Ten schools such as ohio state, michigan and michigan state. 
“There’s a pretty good field lined up out there at virginia 
Softball 
conTinued From page 16 
on the orange staff and 59 more innings than the com­bined total of the rest of their staff. 
coming into this week­end’s series, she is 12-14 with a 3.41 era. she’s managed to befuddle opposing hitters throughout the year to keep the orange in games, com­piling 199 strikeouts and holding opposing hitters to a .248 average. 
however, notre dame’s lineup has been just as effec­tive this season, especially during its 20-game winning streak. 
as a team, the irish are hit­ting .334 with 42 home runs this season. 
They’ve also been able to create runs on the base paths, having stolen 67 bases on 75 attempts. 
as a result, the irish are scoring 6.4 runs per game this season, an output in­creasing to 8.2 runs per game during their winning streak. 
in order to come away with three more victories this weekend, gumpf said for distance running,” Turner said. “we’ll look for our dis­tance runners to improve on their [early-season] marks.” 
The remaining squad of sprinters, jumpers and throwers will compete at the georgia Tech invitational. The irish will bring 18 from the women’s side and 16 from the men’s to face a smaller but similarly strong field including the fifth-ranked georgia women’s squad, as well as acc competitors clemson, duke and georgia Tech. 
Turner said he hopes notre dame will hold its own and post impressive scores at both georgia Tech and virginia. 
“The whole purpose of this weekend, when you look at mid-april, this is a time when everyone should be really hitting their stride,” he said. “after this weekend i’ll really know ‘This person is doing well in their event, and they’re probably going to score for us at the acc’ or ‘This person — eh, we may need to try something else in the latter half of the outdoor season.’” 
Freshman parker english will look to follow up her first-place finish and per­sonal best of 23.71 seconds in the 200-meter dash at louisville when she runs the 400-meter this weekend. Turner said both english and senior amber lalla, who won the 400 at louisville, have a 


paid adverTisemenT 
her team needs to remain focused and execute in all aspects. 
“we have to keep this game really simple and really make sure we’re doing the little things really well,” gumpf said. “when we’re playing so many games like we do, we tend to forget about the little things that make us so good. we have to continue to focus on the little things that make us a great team. That’s the main thing we have to do.” 
in addition to the three conference games, this weekend will include the team’s fifth annual strikeout cancer weekend. 
This awareness initia­tive serves as a fundraiser for south bend’s memorial children’s hospital and chil­dren throughout indiana who have been diagnosed with cancer. The event start­ed at notre dame in 2011 as a way to spread awareness about leukemia, the type of cancer gumpf’s daughter was diagnosed with in 2010. 
it has been held annually ever since and is of great personal importance to both gumpf and the team, gumpf said. 
chance to crack the 54-sec­ond mark in that race. 
in throwing events, fresh­man greg bombara will be competing in the jav­elin again after winning the event last weekend, while se­nior dominick padovano will throw the discus coming off a second-place performance. 
Turner said he will be watching to see if senior thrower emily morris can replicate her indoor success this weekend, as well as if sophomore emily carson can reach the 20-foot mark in the long jump after winning in louisville. 
after giving them a breath­er last weekend, notre dame will also return several 
“This weekend signifies so many things,” gumpf said. “The important thing is that we’re playing for more than just ourselves this week­end, and to see those kids come on that field and to see what they’re really battling with is a good reminder of how lucky we are. we have our daily battles, but seeing these kids battling for their lives kind of puts things in perspective really quickly. it’s a good reminder that there are a lot more impor­tant things than this game sometimes that we forget about, and it’s really im­portant that we give back to those who need it. we come to notre dame to do some­thing special, and i think this is one of those things that we can really hang our hats on.” 
The irish will begin the three-game series with syracuse at melissa cook stadium on saturday with a doubleheader starting at 1 
p.m. and will conclude with the third game sunday at 12 p.m. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at  bpadanil@nd.edu 
veteran standouts and all­americans such as senior chris giesting in the 400, senior Jade barber in the 100-meter hurdles and junior margaret bamgbose in the 400. 
“after three meets, we’ve gotten a pretty good idea how strong we’re going to be as a team and who’s going to be strong in what areas and in what areas we think people will develop,” Turner said. “we’re right on schedule [with where we need to be] for the season.” 
irish athletes will compete in their fourth meet of the outdoor season today and saturday. The distance run­ners will be in charlottesville for the virginia challenge, while the sprinters, jump­ers and throwers will head to atlanta for the georgia Tech invitational. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 2015 | The observer 






Baseball 
conTinued From page 16 
irish saw their eight-game win­ning streak snapped wednesday night, when they fell 5-0 to Toledo in nonconference action. after being swept in its first two conference series at home, notre dame turned the tides with a sweep of then-no. 7 Florida state last weekend. 
north carolina state, mean­while, will make the trip to Frank eck stadium having lost five of its last seven games. The wolfpack lost two of three games to north carolina last weekend. 

despite the wolfpack’s recent struggles, they will still bring in a tough pitching staff, aoki said. north carolina state’s pitching years ago and last year, they had scott kerrigan, and sunday’s staff ranks 25th in the nation a disappointing year, but it’s not starter, junior right-hander nick with a 2.99 overall era. like the talent level went down, mccarty, have made enough 
“we’ve faced good pitching just that their talent level is a lit-progress in recovering from in-all year long in the conference, tle bit younger than it was. juries to possibly compete this and we’ll face it again,” aoki said. “with youth, sometimes weekend. “we’ll face talented players up comes a little bit of growing “scotty threw [wednesday], and down their lineup.” pains, but if we don’t come in and he felt pretty good,” aoki 
has a little bit of an unortho­aoki cited north carolina here and get ready to control the said. “we’ve got to see where 
W Lacrosse dox style that we’re not used 
conTinued From page 16 

state’s youth as one of the team’s things we can and be engaged, mccarty is. i don’t think it was 
to seeing, so we don’t get that biggest strengths. sophomore we’ll have our lunch handed to anything too terribly serious, so 
look every day in practice.” infielders preston palmeiro and us.” i would think that he should be 
game. gargan completed her while the two teams were andrew knizer rank second notre dame deviated a little ok, so he should be back into it.” 
hat trick on a goal assisted statistically similar in most ar­and fourth, respectively, in bat-bit from its usual starting pitch-north carolina state and notre 
by sophomore attack heidi eas on the night, northwestern ting average on the team. on ing rotation last weekend, as dame will meet this weekend in 
annaheim before junior at-dominated the draw controls, the mound, sophomore right-sophomore right-hander ryan a three-game series at Frank eck 
tack rachel sexton put notre securing 8 of 10 in the first half hander cory wilder and fresh-smoyer started Friday and stadium. The first pitch of the 
dame ahead 7-6 with 18:23 left en route to a 13-7 edge overall. man left-hander brian brown freshman right-hander brad series opener is scheduled for 
to play. “we had a really off night,” have combined to start 17 of the bass started sunday. The only tonight at 6:05 p.m. saturday’s 
a recurring trend then start-halfpenny said. “[we had] wolfpack’s 36 games, with both certainty for the weekend is that game is scheduled to start at 2:05 
ed to develop. northwestern 20 turnovers. i hadn’t seen 20 pitchers holding sub-3.00 eras. freshman right-hander brandon p.m., and sunday’s first pitch will 
tied the game at 7-7 when craig turnovers from this team in a “They’re a little younger than bielak will make his sched-be at 1:05 p.m. 
scored her second of the night while. … The reality is, you’ve they’ve been the past couple uled start saturday, aoki said, 
but less than a minute later, got to credit northwestern, of years,” aoki said. “ … The but he is hopeful Friday’s usual Contact Brian Hartnett at  
annaheim scored an odd goal they did a great job winning [college world series] team two starter, senior right-hander bhartnet@nd.edu 
to put the irish back ahead. the draw control battle and we 
while northwestern senior knew that would be something goalkeeper bridget bianco ini-that would really push the tially saved annaheim’s shot, game one way or the other.” the ball bounced off her body The irish are straight back in well into the air, coming back action sunday, however, when to earth, bouncing and spin-they host no. 14 lousiville in ning into the net for the notre the final game of the regular dame goal. season. 
This time, it took five min-The cardinals (9-6, 1-5 utes for the wildcats to draw acc**) have lost three straight level, as redshirt senior attack games including a 16-8 loss to kara mupo beat irish sopho-no. 9 syracuse yesterday, how-more goaltender liz o’sullivan ever, louisville may have an with 11:12 remaining to restore advantage on the draws; junior parity to the affairs. midfielder kaylin morissette is 
o’sullivan finished with second nationally, averaging nine saves on 19 goal-bound 11.3 draw controls per game. wildcats shots, a mark above “They have an outstand­her save percentage (41.7%) ing draw control specialist entering the game. … she’s really, really strong,” 
“liz o’sullivan had a great halfpenny said. night, man,” halfpenny said. with a win, notre dame “she came up with nine huge would finish the conference saves when we needed them.” slate with a winning record 
notre dame took its final and get positive momentum lead of the game 39 seconds back heading into the confer-later when junior midfielder ence tournament. stephanie Toy scored an unas-“it would be huge for us to sisted goal off a rebound, but win going into the acc tour-once again, could not hold on nament,” gargan said. “last to the advantage in the game’s year we were kind of linking final 10 minutes. in to the acc tournament so i 
craig finished her hat trick think it would be a huge boost with 4:56 to bring the wildcats to our confidence … and i level at 9-9, setting the stage think we want it. it’s our last for nesselbush’s goal to win home game. the game. “we know what’s at stake.” 
notre dame had chances The first draw between the late but ultimately could not irish and cardinals is sched­beat bianco, who finished with uled for noon sunday at arlotta nine saves. stadium. 
“she’s a good goaltender. we’ve seen her now four years Contact Alex Carson at  in a row,” gargan said. “she acarson1@nd.edu 






M Lacrosse 
conTinued From page 16 
him in attack Jimmy bitter (31 goals, 65 points), attack Joey sankey (26 goals, 57 points) and midfielder chad Tutton (28 goals, 33 points). 
“[bitter, sankey and Tutton] have been mainstays in their attack for four years,” corrigan said. “but i was really im­pressed with how many plays [goldstock] was making with­out detracting from what those other guys are doing. he’s just playing off of what they’re do­ing so effectively.” 
The irish have a more bal­anced offensive attack, led by Tewaaraton award watch list member and junior attack matt kavanagh (17 goals, 39 points) and freshman attack phenom mikey wynne (26 goals, 28 points). kavanagh, who totaled 74 goals over the last two seasons, hasn’t been the prolific scorer he has been in the past but has taken on more of a leadership role in the notre dame offense. 
“he’s making sure that ev­erybody’s involved,” corrigan said. “i think he’s got a great iQ for the game, and he’s a great competitor. he does within the game what he thinks he needs to be doing, and i’m very con­fident in his judgment in that.” 
The irish may need an ex­ceptional day defensively from juniors matt landis and edwin glazener, as well as sophomore garrett epple, to stifle the Tar heel attack. corrigan has praised his defense all year, es­pecially glazener, who he said entered the year as somewhat of a question mark. There are a host of other unsung heroes of the irish squad this year, corrigan said. 
“i think there a lot of guys that you could probably say aren’t getting a lot of atten­tion, but frankly, we’re not really concerned with that,” corrigan said. “we’re con­cerned with our team being the best we can be. and i think those guys are perfectly happy as long as our team is success­ful, and we’re doing the things we should be doing as a group that we don’t care about the attention.” 
with such a big game, corrigan said he knows his team will come under a lot of scrutiny. even so, the irish squad is simply going to go out and play its game, corrigan said. 
“There’s nothing that we’re doing that poorly, frankly, that we could take some great leap forward in that area of the game,” corrigan said. “but we can get a little bit better in a lot of areas. and i think if we get a little bit better in a lot of areas, then we’re going to be a signifi­cantly better team.” 
no. 1 and no. 2 will clash at a sold-out arlotta stadium on saturday at 4 p.m. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 


Loyd 
conTinued From page 16 

“my family has been pre­pared for a situation like this for a long time,” loyd said. “it was the right tim­ing for me, and everything set it up really well. 
“i had to figure out what was best for me, and it just sucks that it was after that game, but at that point, 
i  didn’t have  much of  a  
choice.”  
loyd  ended  her  notre  

dame career fifth on the all-time scoring list, sec­ond in career points per game and tied for first in program history for high­est scoring game, with 41 points against depaul on dec. 10 this season. she was named all-american twice, one of four irish players to accomplish the feat. 
she is also the fourth straight irish player select­ed in the top three of the wnba draft — devereaux peters, skylar diggins and kayla mcbride were taken third in 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. with loyd’s selection, notre dame be­comes the first program in the 19-year history of the draft to have a player se­lected as a lottery pick (top four) in four straight years. 
The storm finished tied for the worst record in the wnba last year (12­
22) but loaded up on tal­ent Thursday night with the first and third picks of the draft. Two slots af­ter loyd, seattle took for­mer connecticut forward kaleena mosqueda-lewis, putting the two college ri­vals on the same side after three years of head-to-head competition. 
“i love playing with kaleena,” loyd said. “she’s a great sport. … she brings a lot of fun, and we’ve been friends on and off the court for quite a while, and i’m 
excited  to  officially  be­ 
come her teammate.”  
loyd’s  salary  in  the  

wnba is expected to aver­age around $50,000 in her first few years, with the potential of more money coming abroad, as many players travel to europe or asia, where salaries are higher. loyd said she has not made a decision about whether she will play out­side the wnba. 
Contact Greg Hadley at  ghadley@nd.edu 





ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 2015 | The observer 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


DOME NUTS | aleXandria wellman 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: act on your instincts and keep close tabs on what others are doing and saying this year. it’s important not to overreact or give in to demands. make changes based on what will bring you the highest returns. it’s time to follow the path you’ve been dreaming about for some time. stop procrastinating and you will get ahead. your numbers are 7, 15, 21, 26, 32, 37, 40. 
Birthday Baby: you are unpredictable, creative and intuitive. you are sensitive and kind. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): a change of location, as well as in your financial situation, is likely. Take care of taxes or other paperwork that could affect your future. an older relative will need help. connect with past business associates and an opportunity will develop. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): help someone in need. don’t fret over the little things. overreacting will lead to setbacks. an incident will alter the way you think or live. don’t make physical or emotional changes. do the necessary research and proceed with caution.  


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you may feel like shaking things up a bit, but if you overdo it or you are impulsive, you will end up making a mistake you’ll regret. stick to what you know and protect your assets. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t fear change. use your intelligence and memory to help you maneuver through whatever you face. your intuition is on point, and with proper application of your skills, you will advance. don’t let personal matters interfere with your productivity. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take care of your responsibilities so that you can get on with the things you enjoy. you’ll discover valuable information from someone you encounter in a competition. love is in the stars, but don’t let it cost you financially. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): a proactive approach to whatever you do will help you set a high standard and bring about favorable lifestyle changes. an emotional situation must be handled carefully to avoid a mishap or loss. don’t be fooled by someone’s sob story. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): a change will take place within your personal and professional relationships. do your best to keep the peace until you feel you have the upper hand. reconnect with people you feel have something to offer you.  


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Forget about what’s going on around you. don’t let anyone coerce you into something you don’t want to do or can’t afford. Focus on home, family and stabilizing your situation as well as altering your surroundings to better suit your needs. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): look at the big picture and make changes that are worth your while. avoid anyone trying to push you into being impractical or overindulgent. don’t take on more than you can handle. strive for greater security, not on accumulating more unnecessary stuff. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): avoid unpredictable people or anyone trying to force changes you don’t want to make. look at your situation at home and figure out a way to cut corners. lowering your overhead using creative accounting will also ease your stress. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): listen carefully. you’ll be inclined to hear what you want to hear instead of what’s being said. step back and consider the changes that will help you the most. The plan should be to get ahead by doing something you enjoy. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): your intuition and imagination will be overactive when dealing with emotional matters. avoid being judgmental and you will be less likely to face opposition from others. keep shooting to succeed in all of your endeavors. don’t lose sight of yourpersonal goals and plans. 


JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Loyd selected first overall 
nd prepares for 
By GREG HADLEY 
editor-in-chief 
one last time, Jewell loyd made notre dame his­tory, one year earlier than expected. 
when loyd’s name was called by the seattle storm in the wnba draft at mohegan sun arena in uncasville, connecticut, on Thursday, she became the first no. 1 pick in program history. she also became the first player from the irish to ever leave for the pro ranks before her senior season. 
“it’s a great feeling to have your name called and to look up and see the num­ber one by your name,” loyd said. “hard work does pay off.” 
Just a day after notre dame lost to connecticut in the ncaa title game for the second straight year in Tampa, Florida, loyd an­nounced she would forgo her final year of eligibility to play in the wnba. she 


By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
if saturday’s showdown be­tween no. 1 notre dame and no. 2 north carolina is any­thing like the last one-two matchup at arlotta stadium, fans will get their money’s worth and more. 
Just three weeks removed from a thrilling home victory over top-ranked syracuse, notre dame (8-1, 3-0 acc) finds itself as the higher-ranked team this time — and with the acc regular season title on the line. 
north carolina (12-1, 3-0) enters the game coming off three straight wins over top-10 and acc teams, duke, virginia and syracuse, scoring 42 goals in the process. in the matchup 

told irish head coach muffet leave notre dame before 
between the Tar heels and mcgraw and her teammates the defeat. 
irish last year, the irish ral­in the hours after that loss 
lied for an 11-10 victory, their but said she knew she would see loyd PAGE 14 
first ever in the acc. This year, 

Tar heel rematch 
north carolina will mark the seventh straight ranked op­ponent notre dame will face; still, irish head coach kevin corrigan said he is not worried about a letdown. 
“our guys have been re­ally good this year [getting up for each game] — it’s been a matter of the maturity of our group overall,” corrigan said. “monday’s work on monday, saturday’s work on saturday. That’s really important to managing a season. i think it speaks to the amount of expe­rience we have and the leader­ship that [our seniors] show.” 
The irish will have to halt a Tar heel offense that scores 
15.08 goals per game, good for fourth best in the nation. They are paced by sophomore at­tack luke goldstock (39 goals, 54 points), who has an expe­rienced trio of seniors behind 
see m lacrosse PAGE 14 

ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE | norThwesTern 10, nd 9 
squad falls to northwestern 
By ALEX CARSON 
associate sports editor 
sophomore midfielder sheila nesselbush scored with just under four minutes left to give no. 7 northwestern a 10-9 win over rival no. 11 notre dame on Thursday at arlotta stadium. 
The wildcats (10-4, 2-1 big Ten) jumped out to an early lead on the strength of their leading scorer, as a trio of quick goals from freshman at­tack selena lasota helped put the visitors ahead 4-1 just 10:45 into the game. 
irish sophomore attack cortney Fortunato scored her first goal of the game unassist­ed with 13 minutes left in the first half to cut into the lead, but northwestern junior mid­fielder kaleigh craig answered nearly four minutes later, re­storing her team’s three-goal advantage. 
From there, the irish (9-6, 3-3 acc) started chipping away. 
with 5:28 left in the half, notre dame sophomore attack grace muller scored to make it 5-3. The irish kept knocking and got one more goal before halftime, when senior mid­fielder caitlin gargan tallied her second of the night with just 1:07 left in the half. 
gargan, who finished the game with a hat trick, said northwestern’s focus on other targets helped her get scoring opportunities. 
“i was just able to exploit — they keyed on cortney, they keyed on [sophomore mid­fielder] casey [pearsall] when she was in the game, they were paying attention to her, so my teammates getting a lot of at­tention really helped me out tonight,” she said. 
in the second half, neither team was able to pull away. The game was tied on five oc­casions, with neither team holding anything but a one-goal advantage the rest of the way. 
Fortunato scored her second goal and 50th of the season on a goal assisted by pearsall just 
5:26 into the second half to tie the game at five. 
but lasota, who also passed the 50-goal mark Thursday, got on the scoresheet for the fourth and final time two min­utes later to give northwestern the advantage. 
Then the irish answered, scoring twice in 55 seconds to take their first lead of the 
see w lacrosse PAGE 13 
BASEBALL 

Notre Dame readies for UNC 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
senior sports writer 

notre dame will begin the start of what irish head coach mik aoki called a “12­game season” this week­end when it hosts north carolina state at Frank eck stadium for a three-game series. 
The irish (24-11, 9-9 acc) still have 20 games left on their schedule, but they have just 12 more opportunities to better their position in the crowd­ed conference standings. notre dame is one of five acc teams with an in-con­ference winning percentage of .500. 
north carolina state (20­14, 8-9) is not one of the teams tied with the irish, but the wolfpack sit just a half-game behind notre dame in the conference’s atlantic division. despite the competitiveness of the conference race, aoki said the irish would not be do­ing anything different to prepare for the wolfpack. 
“it’s just as important as every other weekend series,” he said. “ … This hopefully gives us the opportunity to get off to a good start for a 12-game season.” 
notre dame will enter the series having won eight of its last nine games. The 
see baseball PAGE 13 
ND SOFTBALL 

irish look to stretch streak 
By BEN PADANILAM 
sports writer 

no. 25 notre dame wel­comes syracuse this week­end for a three-game series at melissa cook stadium during the team’s fifth annual strikeout cancer weekend. 
earlier this week, the irish (34-11, 13-5 acc) de­feated bowling green on Tuesday, 8-2, and then fought for a 3-2, walk-off win over northwestern on wednesday to push their win streak to 20 games. This weekend, they welcome the orange (17-22, 1-10 acc) for their penultimate three-game conference series of the season. 
despite their poor record in the acc, the orange pose a challenge to the irish in two big ways this weekend, irish head coach deanna gumpf said. 
“Their record is very deceiving,” gumpf said. “syracuse is always a good team, and they have a very good left-handed pitcher who really does a nice job of tricking hitters a little bit. so we have to be prepared for that and make sure we’re hitting hard ground balls. 
“They also have a lot pow­er in their lineup. so those are the things that really are their strengths: their power in their lineup and [junior Jocelyn cater], who’s been a really good pitcher for them. she’s kept them in a lot of ball games, and she’s really their person to win them ball games.” 
cater has been the go­to pitcher for the orange, throwing 156 innings this season, 102 innings more than any other individual 
see soFTball PAGE 12 





