The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 79 | friday, january 30, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Employers, students attend career fair 
Notre Dame’s winter career fair fosters professional connections, improves student networking skills 
By CLARE KOSSLER 
news writer 
companies and employers representing a wide range of in­dustries came to the Joyce center on Thursday night for the career center’s winter career and internship Fair. students of all class years attended the fair, which featured dozens of employers in­cluding deloitte, abercrombie and Fitch, pricewaterhousecoopers, general electric and many others. 
bp representative and notre dame alumna Therese anderson said the career fair offers the op­portunity for employers to recruit students from a variety of back­grounds and majors. 
“we come here because bp is huge,” she said. “we have so many different business divisions and different areas that we have a need for engineers; we have a need for business majors; we have a need for all different majors and all dif­ferent students, and we always find such great students here, so we keep coming back.” 
anderson said the career fair is a great opportunity for students to explore job opportunities and find jobs they love. 
“i work for bp; i’ve worked there since i graduated, and i found my job here at the career fair, and that was 13 years ago,” she said. 
sophomore James pratt said he attended the career fair to im­prove his networking skills and gain exposure to different types of jobs and employers. 
“i wanted to gain the experience necessary for looking for opportu­nities as i advance in years here at the university,” he said. 
see Fair PaGE 4 

WEI LIN | The Observer 
Students mingle with employers at the Career Center’s winter career and internship fair. For this year’s fair, Notre Dame hosted Deloitte, General Electric and others in the Joyce Center. 


hypnotist performs at saint mary’s college 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 
The saint mary’s student activities board (sab) brought hypnotist dr. Jim wand to campus on Thursday. The free event was open to all students, including notre dame and 
see hypnoTisT PaGE 3 





Spin-A-Thon to raise breast cancer awareness 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news writer 
From 12 p.m. today to 12 

p.m. saturday, students and members of the south bend community will cycle at stu­dios located at the rockne memorial gymnasium and knollwood country club in granger to raise funds and awareness for breast cancer during the annual pink Zone spin-a-Thon. 
sharla lewis, special events coordinator for the notre dame women’s basketball program, said the women’s basketball team, recsports and college of science co-host a spin-a-Thon each year to support the pink Zone initiative. 
“The women’s basketball the pink Zone initiative, for­merly known as ‘Think pink,’ in 2007 by challenging the top-20 women’s basketball programs to try to collect the most mon­ey for breast cancer research and treatment, while simul­taneously bringing awareness to this deadly disease,” lewis said. “it’s no longer a challenge 

coaches’ association began see Fundraiser PaGE 5 
Alumna endows 
first Islamic 


Studies chair 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
editor-in-chief 
last week’s announce­ment of the university’s first ever endowed professorship in islamic studies marks a major milestone for the new keough school of global affairs, since it is the first endowed chair to be insti­
tuted in the school.  
The  mirza  Family  
professorship  of  islamic  
Thought  and  muslim  

societies was established with a $3 million gift from alumna susan scribner mirza in honor of her late husband muzzafar “muzzi” mirza, ac­cording to a university press release. 
scott appleby, dean of the keough school, said notre dame’s catholic identity gives it a distinctive oppor­tunity to study islam. 
“we think that notre dame as a catholic univer­sity has a real advantage in understanding islam and studying it,” he said. “while islam and christianity are very different in their his­torical development and in their doctrines … we as a catholic university have a particular insight into what it means to be religious in a secular world.” 
scholarship on islamic culture will better inform matters of policy, develop­ment and conflict resolution, which are key to the keough school’s commitment to “in­tegral human development,” appleby said. 
“The mission of the keough school … points to the need for efforts at eliminating pov­erty, ending armed conflict, advancing human rights and improving the general con­ditions of human existence,” he said. “any of those efforts should take into account not only the economic and 
see keough PaGE 5 


news PaGE 3 viewpoinT PaGE 6 scene PaGE 9 men’s baskeTball PaGE 16 women’s baskeTball PaGE 16 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 


What song does Notre Dame need to listen to right now? 

Adriana Sanchez 
freshman 
lyons hall 
“‘she’s a riot’ by The Jungle giants.” 

Elena Ezzo 
freshman 
ryan hall 
“‘georgia’ by vance Joy.” 


Gabriela Larumbe 
freshman 
pangborn hall 

“‘The game of love’ by santana Ft. michelle branch.” 



Meghan Freeman 
freshman 
walsh hall 

“‘peaceful, easy Feeling’ by The eagles.” 

Rebekah Hall 
freshman 
mcglinn hall 

“‘Jackie and wilson’ by hozier.” 

Sabrina Singh 
freshman 
walsh hall 

“‘l.i.F.e.g.o.e.s.o.n’ by noah and the whale.” 

Pope Francis offers a warm smile from his corner in the Campus Ministry office in the Coleman-Morse Center. The Campus Minis­try office provides a welcoming environment for students to share in fellowship and prayer throughout the school year. 


Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
emily mcconville Zach klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
madison Jaros mike ginocchio clare kossler owen lane 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
sara shoemake miko malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 

Tennis Match Vigil Mass Basketball Game Tennis Match “Crafting a Strong 
amy ackermann mary kate luft 
Eck Tennis Pavillion Basilica of the Sacred Purcell Pavilion Eck Tennis Pavillion Grant Proposal” 
5:30 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. Heart 1 p.m. - 3 p.m. 5 p.m. - 7 p.m. Brownson Hall Men’s tennis plays 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. Women’s basketball Men’s tennis plays 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. 
Corrections 

Northwestern. Worship service. takes on Wake Forest. Illinois. Undergraduate in a Jan. 29 article about a presentation workshop. to the student senate about a new First year course, paul manrique, the program 
Student Film Festival Fischoff’s Winter Mass in Spanish International Poster “From ‘Awkward 
director for new student engagement 
DeBartolo Performing Gala Dillon Hall Chapel Exhibition and Talk: Black Girl’ to Media 
in the office of the vice president 

Arts Center Morris Inn 1:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. Elizabeth Resnick Maven” 
for student affairs, was inaccurately 
6:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. 6:30 p.m. - 9 p.m. Worship service. Snite Museum Carey Auditorium 
described as the sao program director. 
Films by Silent auction and live 7 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. 7 p.m. - 8 p.m. 
The observer regrets this error. 

undergraduates. painting. Open to the public. Lecture by Issa Rae. 


Faculty group performs music from Bach 
By OWEN LANE 
news writer 
ensemblend, a musi­cal group which consists of four professors from notre dame’s department of music, performed the music of Johann sebastian bach on Jan. 25 at the debartolo performing arts center. 
ensemble nd’s members are associate professor of piano John blacklow, assis­tant professional specialist of piano daniel schlosberg, associate professor of cello karen buranskas and assis­tant professional specialist of violin Tricia park. each member also specializes in performance in his or her role as a professor at notre dame. 
blacklow said ensem­blend chooses pieces which are written for groups but which also provide room for solos, reflecting the ensem­ble’s members’ individual talents. 
“in the professional music world, many musicians are exclusively soloists or ex­clusively ensemble players, but it so happens all four of us have strong interests in both solo playing and en­semble playing and have had careers that have embraced these two areas,” blacklow said. 
blacklow said the en­semble plays once or twice a year at the debartolo performing arts center, and the individual faculty members in the group have their own performances throughout the school year. he said schlosberg will ap­pear in a duo-piano concert and a voice-piano concert, buranskas will appear as a soloist with the south bend symphony chamber orchestra and park with the gesualdo Quartet, which is the quartet-in-residence at notre dame. 
he said the nature of the pieces the ensemble plays allows faculty members to balance their work in en­semblend with their work as professors. 
“we rehearse any time that we have a performance coming up,” blacklow said. “it helps that we include the solo portions because then we can practice on our own, without the difficulty of co­ordinating schedules.” 
blacklow said performance is one of the most important aspects of being a music pro­fessor, akin to researching and writing books for schol­ars in other disciplines. 
“performing and record­ing music is our mode of re­search into the amazing and vast body of music in the world,” blacklow said. “From our own experiences as per­formers across the world, we are able to share our experi­ences in the guidance of the talented nd music majors in our studios.” 
blacklow said ensemblend will not perform together again until the fall of this year. 
Contact Owen Lane at olane@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 

concert for christian unity promotes global peace 
By PETER DURBIN 
news writer 

several student worship groups will come together tonight for the concert for christian unity, a compila­tion of works meant to pro­mote peace and unity in the world. 
karen schneider-kirner, director of the notre dame celebration and handbell choirs, will oversee the mu­sical production. 
“it’s always a pleasure to get to meet the various stu­dent leaders, to see their commitment to their min­istry and to hear their beau­tiful voices and the spirited songs they offer,” schneider­kirner said. 
The event will take place Friday at 7 p.m. in the keenan-stanford chapel. 
“it’s appropriate that we are in a sacred space that is centrally located on campus, and the wonderful acoustics of the chapel are great for 
singing,”  schneider-kirner  
said.  
groups  performing  in­ 

clude the university of notre dame celebration choir, a choir which per­forms at football masses in the debartolo performing arts center; Totus Tuus; a student worship band which is part of the Four:7 catholic Fellowship group; voices of Faith gospel choir; coro primavera, a spanish-language choir; 
Hypnotist 
conTinued From page 1 
holy cross students. 

sab president and se­nior arianna Thelen said the group decided to book wand because it wanted to host a different kind of performance. 
“we decided to bring in dr. Jim wand because we were looking to bring something unique to smc,” Thelen said. “we have not had a hypnotist come in years and thought it would be a great experience for smc students.” 
sab vice president and junior colleen michael said wand, who hypnotized about 30 students during the performance, is “highly qualified.” 
Thelen said wand has performed for over 30 years and does over 200 perfor­mances each year. wand has worked with celebrities such as Jay leno, conan o’brian, rascal Flatts, and Jeff probst and has ap­peared on programs on comedy central, she said. 
and musicians from the iron sharpens iron interdenominationa l Fellowship, who perform 
at  protestant  praise  and  
worship services.  
schneider-kirner  said  

each group will contrib­ute a piece to the celebra­
“When we open ourselves up to other ways of living and thinking, we can join together to work for justice and peace around the world.” 
Karen Schneider-Kirner 
director of ND Celebration and 
Handbell Choirs 

tion, which will culminate in numbers sung by all the groups. 
“each group is teaching a representative piece of their repertoire to the com­bined forces, and everyone sings ‘with full heart and voice’ the other groups’ rep­ertoire,” schneider-kirner said. “it’s a beautiful thing to witness.” 
schneider-kirner said the musical accompaniment will include pianists, guitar­ists, percussionists, flautists and violinists. 
“The sheer sound of all these united voices is powerfully moving,” 
Thelen said once par­ticipants are hypnotized, the performance became a comedy show. 
“dr. Jim wand does any­thing from having the stu­dents dance and sing to having them think they are supermodels,” Thelen said. “no matter how the stu­dents participate, the show will be very entertaining for everyone who comes.” 
Junior kaylee Titsworth said she did not remember most of the experience. she said being hypnotized felt like falling asleep, and the show, which ran about an hour an a half, felt like it was only five minutes long. 
“i remember him telling people to go to sleep … but i don’t remember him doing it to me,” she said. 
once she was told about things she had done on­stage, Titsworth said she started to remember more. 
wand said anyone being hypnotized would wake up feeling re-energized, as if they had slept for up to eight hours. 
“i was tired at the begin­ning of it,” Titsworth said. 
schneider-kirner said. 
schneider-kirner said although christian unity week was last week, the event was scheduled for this week to allow students to at­tend both the concert and last week’s march for life. 
“with 700 students out for the right-to-life march, we wanted to time this when the majority of our students would be around to help cel­ebrate with us,” she said. 
schneider-kirner said she hopes the change to a Friday night will attract more stu­dents to attend. 
“in previous years, we’ve done a prayer service with combined choirs on a Thursday night, which nev­er attracted great crowds of students, as sometimes it’s hard to add in something extra during the work week,” schneider-kirner said. 
although the tradition of christian unity dates back to 1908, schneider-kirner said its message is particu­larly relevant in today’s world. 
“when we open ourselves up to other ways of living and thinking, we can join to­gether to work for justice and peace around the world,” she said. “This fractured world can use much more unity of mind and heart centered around love that stems from our creator.” 
Contact Peter Durbin at pdurbin@nd.edu 
“... i feel more [energized], but i’m not hyper.” 
Freshman makena henell, who was also hypnotized, said the show felt like it lasted over an hour, but her memories of what she did during that hour are spotty. 
“i felt fuzzy in the head,” she said. “…. i felt like i had to make him really happy, and i felt like i had to give the audience a show.” 
The purpose of the event was to foster community, michael said. 
“it is an opportunity to have fun, laugh and create memories together,” she said. 
Thelen said sab has host­ed and will host several similar events throughout the year. 
“we hope to accomplish many things by running these events such as offer­ing relaxing breaks from academics, encouraging campus community and providing opportunities that students could only get from a college,” she said. 
Contact Nicole Caratas at ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 



The observer | friday, january 30, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Writer shares struggle as gay Christian 
By ALLISON SANCHEZ 
news writer 
in a lecture at saint mary’s college entitled “godly but gay,” south bend writer and speaker Joel barrett shared his experi­ences as a baptist pastor, getting married to a woman and attend­ing three years of ex-gay therapy before deciding to accept himself as gay. 
barrett said he grew up in a christian fundamentalist church whose members were hostile to homosexuality. 
“i grew up in a church where the preachers would mock femi­nine men as a way to bond with the congregation,” barrett said. “They would talk about how all gays should be put on an island so that they could die from dis­ease and burn in the hellfires of damnation.” 
“when you spend your whole life knowing that god hates you for something you have no con­trol over, you start to believe it,” barrett said. “i remember there were days where i would look at myself in the mirror and think every bad thought about myself in hopes that if i hated that per­son enough, i could separate that person from myself.” 
barrett said he considered his homosexuality a spirituality problem, which he tried to solve by going to a baptist college, be­coming a pastor, getting married and having children. 
“The goal was to be this good godly person, and that’s what i wanted to be,” he said. “i’ll just keep trying to do that because i didn’t know what else to do, and if no one knew i was gay, i could 

Professor explores Dante’s ‘Vita Nova’ 
By JEREMY CAPPELLO LEE 
news writer 
professor of dante and italian studies Zygmunt baranski spoke Thursday on the significance of dante alighieri’s early work the “vita nova” as part of a yearlong lecture series, “dante’s other works.” 
“The common designation for dante’s other writings was to call them minor works,” baranski said. “The one point i think is very important to stress is that they are anything but mi­nor. each of them makes a major contribution to western artistic and intellectual culture.” 
despite being relegated by scholars as a minor work, dante’s “vita nova” reveals a linguis­tic ingenuity that precedes his better-known work, the divine comedy, baranski said. 
“in the ‘vita nova,’ everything he’s doing at every level is new,” he said. “he develops a new form of literature, a new form of criticism.” 
baranski said dante’s vision for the “vita nova” is a charac­teristically ambitious one. 
“Fundamentally, the ‘vita nova’ is a work about salvation ... which can have a bearing upon any reader to try to work out his or her relationship with god,” he said. 
while it is a work complex enough to engage the educated elite, the “vita nova” also ap­peals to a broader audience, baranski said. 
“The basic point that he’s tell­ing us is accessible to the simple ... the morally pure person,” he said. “dante is working on differ­ent levels ... his texts never have a single audience.” 
in a break with western liter­ary tradition, dante combines christian and secular ideas of love in his writing, baranski said. 
“he brings these elements to­gether in order then to funnel them towards a christian reso­lution based on salvation,” he said. 
baranski said many scholars, however, do not view the “vita nova” as a literary innovation but instead believe it to be a nec­essary preparation for dante’s future works, a perception he said fails to recognize the “vita nova’s” value in itself. 
“i think there’s been a tenden­cy to banalize the text,” baranski said. “people tend to consider the work in light of the [divine comedy] ... that somehow all the books that dante wrote before ... were written to prepare for the [divine comedy].” 
barasnki said scholars have also overlooked the significance of the prose sections of the “vita nova” compared to the poetry sections, failing to consider the work as a whole. 
“you’ve got to look at the text as a whole,” baranski said. “[scholars] have overwhelm­ingly focused on the poetry, and have tended to push the prose into the hinterland.” 
baranski said there is evidence that dante later edited certain poems in the “vita nova” to bet­ter fit the narrative of the work. 
“dante is a great self-propa­gandizer,” baranski said. “[“The vita nova”] ... is part of the fic­tion that he’s constructing, of someone who has experiences, writes poems about them, and at a later stage, realizes that all these experiences...come to­gether to reveal to him a divine providential truth.” 
Contact Jeremy Cappello Lee at jcappell@nd.edu 
keep being godly, but if the mo­ment ever came where someone found out i was gay, then i could no longer be godly because that had been made very clear to me.” 
still, barrett said keeping his secret was “a long slow spiral.” 
“when you’re holding in this secret it doesn’t just stay there; it has to explode at some time,” he 
said.  
barrett  said  he  eventually  
called  a  straight  conversion  
therapist.  

“There is no science behind any of it … i was so in need of therapy that it actually helped me,” he said. “There was no lack of love in my childhood home or in my current life. it made me realize that i couldn’t accept this love because it was conditional; i knew that the only way to see if their love was real was to tell people around me.” 
barrett said he began to devel­op more authentic relationships with others, but he felt no change in identity, after three years of bi­weekly group meetings, weekly counseling sessions, retreats and conferences, barrett said he de­cided to “admit who i was.” 
“i remember feeling really scared about coming out and what god would do,” he said. “i had a talk with him and said, ‘i’m going to start living as a gay man. if you have a problem with it, will you please let me know?’ none of the terrible things my baptist church told me would happen have happened. 
“i have never retreated, never regretted. i don’t believe in ex-gay therapy. while it didn’t hurt me, a lot of people have recanted it or come out with books that it did a lot of damage. if it had come at a different point in my life, it could have been really destructive for me.” 
barrett said while he does not hold the same faith he had as a child, he is not bitter about religion. 
“i look at it in the light that faith is important,” he said. “The god i was taught about, i don’t be­lieve in that god. i’m very open to god showing me what he is; i find church in unexpected places with different people. 
“Today i am married to my husband, together we raised my three children. my kids love us, they’re proud of us, we’re proud of them … life is good and i love it.” 
Contact Allison Sanchez at asanch01@saintmarys.edu 
dame students because notre dame fosters the development of communication skills in students. 
“we’ve had a lot of success with notre dame students,” he said. 
anderson said the most desir­able students and prospective employees are those who appear confident and composed. 
“confidence is huge. if you know what you want to do, that comes across in the way you present yourself,” she said. 
Contact Clare Kossler at ckossler@nd.edu 
fair 
conTinued From page 1 

“being a sophomore, i wanted to get a sneak peak as to what type of opportunities might be in my future.” 
in addition to networking skills, J. cameron wiethoff, a representative for the cancer Treatment centers of america, said communication skills are crucial in securing jobs and internships. 
“having social and personal communication skills is essential to be successful in relationships,” he said. “with our company in particular it just helps if you 
“If you know what you want to do, that comes across in the way you present yourself.” 
Therese Anderson 
analyst for BP 

know how to make relationships, nourish those relationships.” 
wiethoff said the cancer Treatment centers of america has a history of recruiting notre 
paid adverTisemenT 




Keough 
conTinued From page 1 
material aspects of being a human person but also the spiritual, cultural, religious dimensions. 
“and so in the keough school, we want to place the study of religion around the world in a prominent posi­tion because religions are so critical to building peace, fostering human rights and developing societies from the inside. … unless we can understand as profoundly as possible the religious sensibilities and values and practices of the people we’re partnering with to develop their societies, we’ll miss something. we’ll miss a big part of the puzzle.” 
The need to understand religion as not only a set of practices, ideas and belief but also as a “lived experi­ence” and way of life plays a central role in the school’s goals, appleby said. 
“This kind of understand­ing will help us think through the challenges of how to be in solidarity with people who are trying to overcome poverty, oppression, conflict and other challenges to hu­man flourishing,” he said. 
paid adverTisemenT 

Ted beatty, associate dean of academic affairs at the school, said the mirza gift is “a crucially symbolic mo­ment for the school.” 
“Thinking about [the keough school]’s first en­dowed chair at a catholic university being in islamic studies points to the way we want to think not nar­rowly but very broadly, in an integrated way, in the 21st century,” beatty said. “interdisciplinary work will certainly be one of the big themes of the school.” 
in the press release, mirza said her life was “immea­surably enriched” when she married her husband, who was an immigrant from pakistan, and continued to learn about his heritage. 
“learning about the rich culture of the muslim so­ciety he grew up in and the islam faith of his extended family, and sharing that with our three children, i realized quickly that despite our dra­matically different upbring­ings — i was raised irish catholic in suburban new Jersey — we shared common values of the importance of family, friendship, educa­tion, generosity, humor and faith,” she said in the re­lease. “our children and i lost muzzi way too soon. but i can think of no greater trib­ute to him than establish­ing a permanent catalyst for understanding and bridge-building between cultures and religions.” 
appleby said islam is still undergoing a decades-long internal conflict on many different fundamental ques­tions, which makes it in­creasingly more important 

paid adverTisemenT 

to understand the religion and its people. 
“These fundamental ques­tions include the role of ji­had, what jihad means for today, relationships inter­nally within islam, muslims in conflict with other muslims and its relation­ship to the broader world,” he said. “we see this in the headlines every day. 
“and so we need to under­stand islam as accurately and with as much nuance as possible because it’s so important to the world to­day. … if we somehow don’t understand islam, we miss one-sixth of the world’s pop­ulation and that would be foolish.” 
appleby said the person who fills the chair could spe­cialize in any discipline from theology to history to philos­ophy to ethics or beyond. 
“at this point, we want someone who has a profound understanding of modern islamic thought and soci­ety,” he said. 
beatty said the school is still in the early planning stages before its opening in august 2017, but current dis­cussions have focused on a more specific formulation of its academic program and a faculty hiring plan. 
“The school will be seeking to not only support scholarly research in topics of religion, peace studies and global af­fairs generally, but also to support ways we can con­tribute to policy and public affairs,” he said. 
The school will finally bring together several units that have previously been existing independently, in­cluding the kellogg institute for international studies, the kroc institute for international peace studies, the nanovic institute for european studies, the liu institute for asian studies and the initiative for global development. 
“The school brings to­gether these different units and works within them to support what they do and make the whole of the school greater than the sum of its parts,” he said. 
currently, leaders are de­veloping the curriculum for a two-year professional masters program in global affairs, geared toward train­ing people for careers with nongovernmental organiza­tions, government or the pri­vate sector. 
“we have not yet defined a scope of the subject matter within the school,” beatty said. “we really want the keough school to be a cata­lyst for undergraduate pro­grams across the university too, enriching the way un­dergraduates can think about global affairs.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
fundraiser 
conTinued From page 1 

among the top programs, but we continue to participate in the initiatives.” 
gregory crawford, dean of the college of science, said notre dame’s fundraisers are unique because a large por­tion of funds raised are used to support local cancer patients. 
“we have raised more than $150,000 to help women in the community who cannot afford mammograms receive them,” crawford said. “Fighting cancer is a large part of the college’s research effort, in­cluding the excellent work un­derway at the harper cancer research institute. while we are passionate about finding treatments and cures for can­cer, we also fight cancer by helping people in our commu­nity this way.” 
lewis said 20 percent of do­nations are given to the kay yow cancer Fund. The other 80 percent are given to saint Joseph regional medical center and river bend cancer services. 
“our goal every year is to continue to raise breast cancer awareness on campus and in the community,” lewis said. “Through our efforts, we are able to help someone that may not have the financial means to get the treatment and sup­port they need.” 
Tabbitha ashford, fitness and instruction coordinator for recsports, said the objec­tive for this year’s event is to fill all 20 bikes in the cycling studio at the rockne memorial gymnasium for all 24 hours of the event. 
“The more people we get to come out, the more money and support we raise for breast cancer,” ashford said. “ideally, for all 24 hours our entire stu­dio will be full.” 
crawford said the partici­pating groups’ fundraising goal for the event is $30,000. 
“Through the event, we also hope to bring people together to focus on the needs of those in our own community,” he said. 
For a $10 donation, partici­pants in the spin-a-Thon re­ceive a t-shirt and water bottle. The event will provide partici­pants with food and chances to win prizes. participants can sign up and donate on-line or on the day of the event. additionally, each hour of the event will feature a different theme. 
“one hour might be an actu­al cycling class, while another might just consist of watching a movie or playing a game,” ashford said. “it’s as intense and interactive as you want it to be.” 
ashford said the spin-a-Thon is a great example of the notre dame community’s dedication to service to those in need. 
“a lot of dorms or club sports teams sign up to cycle together,” ashford said. “it’s awesome to see such a large turnout from our own student population.” 
crawford said the event is a good way for notre dame to connect with the greater south bend community. 
“The unity and commitment of our partners both on cam­pus and beyond are an inspira­tion to everyone as we seek to solve problems and serve the well-being of others,” he said. 
Contact Katie Galioto at kgalioto@nd.edu 




insidE Column 

Time is flying 
Brian Lach 
multimedia editor 

it seems like just yesterday i was just a tiny toddler tumbling around campus with my parents, eager to see a notre dame football game, even though i hadn’t the faintest idea how everything worked. my only care in the world back then was how many of the different sights i could see during my brief visits to campus. but now that i’m here, i worry that if i blink, i just might miss it. 
Fast forward to 2015, and i’m al­ready almost three-quarters through my college career. little did i know back then that i would eventually get to come to south bend for more than just the occasional football game, but what i really didn’t expect was just how quickly time would pass in my time at notre dame. 
i still remember freshman year, unpacking my room, making new friends, learning my way around the grounds. Teaching myself all the lingo was a must —“okay guys, we’re sitting right-right in sdh at the Jesus table.” paddling for my life at the swim test, barely surviving the fit­ness test, Theology and philosophy and requirements galore. Football. Tailgating. notre dame. 
sophomore year, too, has come and gone. Friends become closer, you feel entitled to laugh at fresh­men asking where geddes hall is and you start to think that maybe dorm parties aren’t all they’re cracked up to be. you graduate to being a tour guide whether you like it or not, flaunting your knowledge of the campus to tourists. majors are declared, classes get harder, nights get longer — but in the end, it’s still all worth it. 
and now, even junior year feels fleeting. answering career fair after career fair. answering the ques­tion of “do you have an internship yet?” Junior parents weekend is just around the corner. Friends are abroad. older friends are getting ready to graduate, and you’re start­ing to feel old compared to everyone else. everything is beginning to come full circle and as senior year looms ahead, i find it hard to believe that i only have one year left. 
sure, this might sound sappy and sentimental, but i’m positive many of you know exactly what i’m talking about. i hope we are all able to make the rest of our time here last. 
as lou holtz famously said, “if you’ve been [to notre dame], no explanation is necessary. if you haven’t, none is adequate.” 
Contact Brian Lach at blach@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
ESPN lawsuit raises questions 

EDITORIAL 
we’ve read espn’s lawsuit against notre dame, and it has answered only some of our questions. 
remaining legal questions will be debated and re­solved at an upcoming trial. but whether ethical ques­tions will be answered remains uncertain. 
at stake legally is the classification of notre dame security police (ndsp) as a public or private agency. if public, ndsp would have to provide access to public records under indiana law. 
indiana employs a public access counselor (pac) who provides non-binding legal advice on such matters, and three previous advisory opinions classified private university security police as private entities, which are therefore not subject to indiana public access law. 
one of those opinions argues ndsp’s powers were granted “not to ndsp, but to ‘the governing board of an educational institution.’” Therefore, although ndsp exercises police powers granted by the state, it does not do so directly, which keeps the agency private. 
regardless of whether it is private or public and what­ever way it acquired its privileges, ndsp officers have police powers, such as the ability to carry weapons and arrest suspected offenders. Those powers should not go unchecked. 
The lawsuit cites ndsp’s website as stating the force “is fully authorized as a police agency by the state of indiana” and officers “have the same legal authority as any other police officer in indiana.” 
if the department has the same powers as any other force in the state, why is it not subject to the same checks? citizens have access to public documents in order to ensure public officials responsibly use their power to act faithfully in the name of communities and for their good. 
we thank ndsp officers for their service to the com­munity but question the organization’s desire for se­crecy. if ndsp can make arrests, why can’t the public access those records, as they could in the case of an arrest made by the south bend police department? 
The policy keeps campus policing matters internal, but that means we who are being policed have no way to know how our complaints, investigations or disci­plinary procedures are dealt with. 
in response to a 2010 complaint to the pac from The chicago Tribune, the pac writes the complainants sought access to records “pertaining to sexual assaults and/or witness tampering on the university of notre dame campus.” 
That’s serious information that remains inaccessible to the public. 
a community should trust its police force, but that does not mean having blind faith in its operations. Trust requires transparency and an appropriate bal­ance of power. communities trust their police forces because these agencies are staffed by good, diligent, honest people, who perform their job well and offer op­portunities for citizens to pursue and find the answers to questions. 
when police can broadly deny access to records, communities lose those channels for pursuing produc­tive questions. when communities ask questions and police respond, however, everyone benefits. 
The court might find ndsp’s refusal to make docu­ments public lawful. but that doesn’t mean it’s healthy for our community. 
we have tried but failed to think of a reason why withholding records would benefit the community more than releasing them would. what community in­terest does this serve that would outweigh the benefits of open communication between police and campus? 
if there is such a reason or interest, we genuinely hope to hear it. we hope to move beyond asking what’s legal and how many loopholes we can count in the law. we hope to hear dialogue on what’s actually best for our campus and its safety. 
whether ndsp is public or private, notre dame needs to answer these questions. 
Editorial Cartoon 


The observer | friday, january 30, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Up close learning, far away 
Alex Caton 
modest proposals 

if you are a sophomore or ambitious freshman, then you’ll soon get an email telling you whether, after all the information sessions, recommen­dation requests and essays you pounded into your macbook at the last minute, you have notre dame’s blessing to spend a semester in this or that corner of the world. 
“study abroad” evokes images of getting tossed from a bar by a bouncer with a funny accent, pet­ting alpacas as you overlook machu picchu, taking the ever-reliable ryan air across europe from hos­tel to hostel and posting every step of the journey for all of Facebook to “like.” 
with that in mind, i became less and less sure last year about giving up a semester and a foot­ball season for washington d.c., a place i thought i could plug into via c-span. cutting away from notre dame to venture into the exotic and unfa­miliar can be scary. my biggest fear two autumns ago was venturing into the banal. “This Town” speaks english in a flat, familiar accent and the only strange animals you’ll see are caged in the national Zoo and in congress. 
but if you like politics and policy, then don’t con­fuse proximity with familiarity. my experience in 
d.c. was an educational adventure that i could not have had elsewhere and certainly not on-campus. 
possibly the only reason to tolerate the exponen­tially-growing tuition and fees to attend a school of this caliber is to be constantly surrounded by talented and interesting people — peers and pro­fessors who will push you to discover or realize plans you might not have know about otherwise. breaking the bank even further to study in another part of the world makes sense only if it puts you in touch with people who are just as interesting (if in completely different ways) and provides you some other intangible benefit unavailable to you in south bend, indiana. 
in d.c., i found a town full of young, fascinat­ing and underpaid people who want to help other young, fascinating and underpaid people. my semester there put me at the same tables as bob woodward, a titan of investigative reporting, and white house deputy chief of staff rob nabors, a notre dame graduate whom The washington post called “the most important player you’ve never heard of.” i worked four days a week in a senator’s office and witnessed how a bill does or does not become law, what political grandstanding looks like in person, the difficulty of explaining your boss’s stances on foreign policy to constituents when it “hits the fan” and paul ryan’s widow’s peak. 
There are types of learning that are only acces­sible by travel. you could read about high rates of burnout among junior hill staff, or you could sit in on a meeting between a 26-year-old legislative aide out of princeton and two lobbyists making 10 times her salary. you could swim for months in empirical studies on the polarization of congress and the electorate over the past four decades, or you can watch up close as a combination of forces beyond the comprehension of veteran congressio­nal staffers pushes the nation to the point of con­sidering default. you could read michelle nunn’s leaked campaign memo and its page on “message discipline,” or you could get chastised by your su­pervisor for giving an off-the-record statement to keep an angry constituent from coming unglued on the phone. 
my study “abroad” in d.c. might only make sense for somebody whose dad made them watch “meet the press” from the age of four onward. but i think there’s a lesson there for how to make your off-campus experience a continuation of — or a starting point for — your personal notre dame adventure. whether it takes you to our nation’s capital, another nation’s capital or somewhere in between, do your research and don’t miss out on the up-close learning experiences away from northern indiana. at the very least the weather will be better. 
Alex Caton is a senior political science major in the one and only St. Edward’s Hall.  He welcomes commen­tary at acaton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
From the golden dome to the classroom 
Dennis Latimore 
guest writer 

playing basketball for the Fighting irish was a huge part of my life at notre dame. i loved my classes in o’shaughnessy hall, my friends, nights at Finny’s bar, but i also always looked forward to the next time i could step onto the Joyce center floor in my blue and gold jersey. playing basket­ball taught me so much — from how to execute of­fensive plays and improve my free-throws, to time management and teamwork. but it wasn’t until i thought about what i wanted to do after i’d hung up my jersey that i realized how playing for notre dame had prepared me for a job few of us on the team had given much thought to: teaching. 
i first realized the parallels between my life as a basketball player and the work on education’s front lines when i noticed the paradox of suc­cess for many african-american college-athletes: often achieving on the sports field and falling behind in the classroom. i wanted to explore the multitude of factors causing this opportunity gap. i also knew i had the potential to serve as an example against the stereotypes facing children of color. so i applied to Teach For america, where i planned to hold my students to high expecta­tions, support them on the way to meeting them and show them that their futures were their own to design. 
as i found my feet in the classroom, i had to grow quickly in areas like explicit instruction and classroom management. as i did, many of the traits that had propelled me to my starting spot at notre dame, drove my work as a teacher forward too. all those times you had to play, and play well, in front of thousands of people — that taught you how to perform under pressure. Those games where you knew you were the underdog, but you continued to push forward — That translates to resilience. The hundreds of hours you’ve spent playing the game with your teammates, working together to strategize, communicate and press toward your goals — these built the foundation of skills and mindsets that principals and parents look for in the teachers they want for their kids. 
as Fighting irish, we hold ourselves and each other to high standards. daily, we live out our community’s commitment to resiliency, team­work and overcoming adversity. as a teacher, i bring those mindsets to the classroom and work to cultivate them in my students. my kids and i are a team and, in order to succeed, we have to work together, communicate, trust one another, take responsibility for and learn from our mis­takes and overcome the significant challenges in front of us to reach our goals. in short, we have to leave it all on the court. 
and when we reached our goals – when my students began to write and express their emo­tions, create poetry and articulate their thoughts and speak with confidence and conviction — i felt the same rush i used to get from dunking in front of 9,149 screaming fans in the Joyce center. That feeling that drives your commitment to your sport – that sense of deep pride that comes only after practicing and working and persevering to do your part for the people counting on you – it doesn’t go away when you trade your jersey for a jacket and tie. as athletes, we strive to jump higher, run faster, push farther. when we become teachers, we ask our kids to do the same – give their all and reach new heights. it’s a legacy that lives on long past any conference title or national championship. 
one of my proudest moments in the classroom was hearing Tyler, a fifth-grade student who started the year reading at a second-grade level, begin to practice reading fluency lessons daily. he attended intervention, retook tests, completed homework and ultimately built the work ethic to read 136 words per minute – one word above grade level. victory never tasted so sweet. 
Dennis Latimore is a former forward for the Fighting Irish (Notre Dame ’05) and a Teach For America alum. He teaches 7/8th grade English at ICEF Inglewood Middle Charter Academy and is head basketball coach for View Park High School in Los Angeles, CA. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | friday, january 30, 2015| ndsmcobserver.com 

By MADDIE DALY 
assistant scene editor 

calling all football, food and February fans: this sunday is super bowl XliX as well as Feb. 1, so we have double the rea­son to celebrate (or mourn for second-semester seniors like me who are just that much closer to graduation). This year, the seattle seahawks and (con­troversial) new england patriots will go head to head to fight for the title. however, even if you are not the big­gest sports fan out there (like myself, who has no loyalty whatsoever to either team), you can still partake in the day’s festivities and have a grand ol’ time. 
First of all, at least in my opinion, the most exciting part of most super bowls comes in between minutes of play; the commercials are what keep me watch­ing. This year’s commercials have re­mained for the most part mysterious, but most of the usual contestants are participating, so we can keep our expec­tations high. 
besides the commercials and the 
By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 

i discovered the punch brothers in the ideal hipster way. drifting through the pixelated expanse of hip music blogs, i fatefully stumbled upon a “best albums of 2012” list from the depths. an album titled, “who’s Feeling young now?” stood atop the list, perhaps ask­ing me if i was indeed too youthful to check out a record the blog had la-belled “bluegrass.” i was 19 and ready. 45 minutes later, i was convinced that the grass really was bluer on the other side of the fence. 
The brilliance of punch brothers is their fusion of complex indie-rock songwriting with standard bluegrass instrumentation and virtuoso perfor­mance. it isn’t every bluegrass band that covers kid a, after all. however, punch brothers is more than just a mu­sical genre mish-mash. “who’s Feeling young now?” showcased gorgeous ar­rangements and production, filling ev­ery nook and cranny with one stringed instrument or another. chris Thile’s vocals coaxed, snarled and soared to fit his clever lyrics, managing to shine 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 

football, another great reason to huddle around the television sunday is for the halftime show. out of three potential acts, katy perry was chosen to be the main performer, beating out coldplay and rihanna. known for her over-the­top performances, perry will be sure to put on a great show for everyone. in addition, just a few weeks ago she an­nounced that lenny kravitz will also be appearing on stage — perhaps to appeal to a wider audience. 
Finally and perhaps most important­ly, if nothing else interests you about the super bowl, how can anyone deny that the food itself is reason enough to put down the books and “watch” the biggest football game of the year? admittedly, my roommates and i are less excited this year, as we have all gone on a health kick due to the rapid approach of spring break, but i have found some reasonable recipes for sunday that won’t (severely) blow any diet. 
Zucchini fries 
ingredients: 

atop the band’s collective sound. 
unfortunately, the latest record is struck by the “phosphorescent blues,” as its title suggests. The fifth record from the punch brothers jumps from one style of music to the next but seems to have a great bit of the magic the band captured on previous albums. gone are bursts of energy and great rushing tempos that make bluegrass so engaging. gone are the bone-chillingly beautiful moments that highlighted “who’s Feeling young now?.” The pret­ty melodies and catchy choruses are less pretty and less catchy. The record is instead chock-full of overlong transi­tion periods between areas of interest that serve essentially as stretches of merely pleasant jamming. 
because of this, “The phosphorescent blues” often falls clumsily under its own weight. “Familiarity,” the al­bum’s opener, is a primary example of this. The track shifts from section to section with interesting yet under­whelmingly gripping chord progres­sions. unanchored by any verses or choruses and lacking a rewarding lat­ter half, “Familiarity” does, in fact, seem familiar upon first listen because 2 zucchini 
¼ cup milk 

½ c. shredded parmesan cheese 
½ c. seasoned breadcrumbs 
vegetable cooking spray 
preheat oven to 425 degrees. cut zuc­chini into 3-inch sticks. whisk an egg white in a small bowl, and add milk. combine parmesan and seasoned breadcrumbs in a separate bowl. dip zucchini sticks into egg mixture, and then roll in breadcrumb mixture. coat a baking sheet with cooking spray, and place zucchini on sheet. bake for 25–30 minutes or until golden brown.            (courtesy of health.com) 
mini Corndog muffins 
ingredients: 

1/2 cup melted butter 
1/2 cup sugar 
2 eggs 

1 cup buttermilk 
1/2 teaspoon baking soda 
1 cup certified gluten-free cornmeal 
1 cup gluten-free baking blend or   
there’s absolutely nothing that would make it stand out as new or unusual. ultimately, the track is 10 minutes of dead weight at the opening of the re­cord that inspires very little more than a press of the skip track button. 
The rest of the record presents bet­ter but similarly disappointing tracks. “Julep” is a pretty, ambling track that clumsily attempts and fails to recon­cile the themes of a relaxing drink and dying in one’s sleep. The next track, “passepied,” is a rather nice debussy cover that recalls the penguin cafe orchestra without making a case for its superiority to the aforemen­tioned group’s material. The songs on “phosphorescent blues” that most recall the best of the band’s previous record, singles “i blew it off” and “my oh my,” play as less-energetic versions of their predecessors. The folky cre­scendo-to-choir end of “little lights” recalls sufjan stevens but can’t stand next to those tracks (see any track on “michigan”). in fact, the only outside-inspired track that merits its place on the record is “boll weevil,” a stomp-along jam which could easily hold its own on the “o brother, where art     all-purpose flour 1/2 teaspoon salt 8 - 10 all-beef hot dogs, cut into 1” bites 
preheat oven to 375 degrees. combine butter and sugar in a bowl, then whisk to combine. add eggs, then whisk to in­corporate, and then add buttermilk and whisk to incorporate. 
in a separate bowl, combine baking soda, cornmeal, flour and salt, then stir to combine. whisk into wet ingredients in two batches. 
spray a mini-muffin tin very well with non-stick spray, then spoon one table­spoon of batter into each mini muffin cup. place one hot dog bite into the mid­dle of each cup. 
bake for 8 - 12 minutes, or until cornbread is golden brown. cool in mini-muffin tin for five minutes before serving. store leftovers in the refrigera­tor, then re-heat for 20 - 30 seconds be­fore serving. 
Contact Maddie Daly at                            mdaly6@nd.edu 
Thou” soundtrack. 
There’s ambition and inspiration aplenty on “phosphorescent blues,” but this time around, the punch brothers don’t seem to make the most of it. in the past, they’ve seamlessly adopted different styles of songwriting and arrangement into the bluegrass sound, creating unique and excellent takes on disparate kinds of music. it’s not a record that signals the downfall of the band, but rather one that acts a placeholder until hopefully superior songs arrive in the future. here’s to hoping for another blog-worthy punch brothers record in the future. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 
“Phosphorescent Blues” 
Punch Brothers 
Label: Nonesuch 
Tracks: “I Blew It Off,” “Boll Weevil” If you like: Mumford & Sons 


The observer | friday, january 30, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Allie Tollaksen 
scene editor 
kanye west is a genius. 

That’s why the rapper/artist/mogul premiered his new music video for the song “only one” on “The ellen degeneres show” yesterday. The video, directed by spike Jonze and co-starring daughter north west, is an adorable accompaniment to kanye’s collaboration with paul mccartney. what’s more, kanye’s accompanying interview with ellen showed the art­ist’s new style for 2015: fatherhood. 
in order to get a better idea of why it was brilliant of kanye to premiere his new video on daytime television, just look back on his appearance on the talk show last year. 
when he premiered his music video for “bound 2” on “The ellen degeneres show” last year, the video was laughed off, parodied or rejected by the mainstream (and especially ellen’s audience). but kanye’s choice to debut the video on daytime tele­vision with one of america’s most beloved celebrities was by no means a mistake. kanye knows ellen’s audi­ence, and the video appropriated the very american culture that tunes into the show every day, making it his own. The move represented the message of “yeezus” as a whole: a commentary on race and culture in america, and kanye wanted not just the attention of his fans, but of the whole country (i should note that i’m not the first per­son to make this claim. There has been plenty of online discussion about and analysis of the video, critics like Jerry saltz and ayesha siddiqi have written about this at great length). 
what’s most interesting about the interview, though, is that despite the video being mocked and dismissed, kanye’s appearance on the show was still wildly successful. unlike his ap­pearance with Jimmy kimmel, west expertly released the “bound 2” video and embraced ellen and all of her viewers’ reactions with open arms. whether people “got it” or not, west walked away laughing with the audi­ence (and maybe at them, too). 
it makes sense then that kanye would premiere his newest video with ellen at his side. he knows, like last time, he can reach a far and wide au­dience with the help of his friend and host. This time, however, kanye’s mes­sage was clear: he’s a family man. a lovable, charming family man. 
The video opens on kanye stand­ing outside and alone, with a shooting style like that of amateur home footage (albeit beautiful amateur home foot­age). he is soon joined by daughter, north, as the pair walk hand-in-hand, intercut with shots of kanye holding and singing to the two-year-old. it’s a beautiful video that accompanies an emotional song — ellen explains that “only one” is written in the voice of kanye’s mother singing to him. 
along with sharing the video, kanye opened up about his joys, fears and ex­periences as a new father. he says that being married and having a family has made him a “better human being” and gives the classic husband lines about compromise and doing whatever his wife, kim kardashian (west), wants. 
it’s clear that while kanye shares that he “hasn’t found the vibe” for his new album, his vibe is 100 percent dad. The video and interview introduces a new kanye with a full-fledged family man image. i mean, the song is in col­laboration with paul mccartney — can you get more dad than him? 
when i talk about kanye’s new per­sona or image, however, i’m not sug­gesting he is being disingenuous by any means. There’s no reason to doubt that the experience of fatherhood has impacted the artist, or that he’s excited to share it. kanye is a loving father and husband — and i love hearing about it 
— but i also think his appearance with ellen is just as intelligently calculated as his last one was. 
kanye deliberately and perfectly introduces his image as a family man, but the best part of the interview is his response when ellen follows up a ques­tion by describing kanye as “calmer” and “less angry.” he half-agrees, but never apologizes for being angry in the first place. he responds, “There’s things i’ve done in the past that were considered negative, but i was really jumping in front of the tank for other people, or for culture, in a way. so now, i always have to have that in my mind that i have a family that i have to pro­tect, too.” 
kanye’s rhetoric is perfect. he never backs down from anything he has said and instead redirects the conversa­tion back to his family. he also directs the conversation to his collaboration with adidas, opening up about being an artist and trying to gain acceptance and creative opportunities when the rest of the world thinks of him as only a rapper. 
“my daughter, she wants to express herself but she just doesn’t have the words for it,” kanye said. “For me, there’s so many things i want to do with film and clothing, and i just didn’t have the words or the resources or the backing or the perception that i could do it, being a rapper.” 
This is the same message kanye has delivered for years in interviews that were mocked and parodied by people like kimmel. now, squeezed in with his jokes about being a father and husband, this self-disclosure is just an easier, sugarcoated pill for his audi­ence to swallow. 
again, i don’t think kanye is being anything but honest in sharing his feelings about fatherhood. kanye’s new video is representative of the person he is today: a dad, a husband and an artist. he’s also a mastermind 
— promoting his music and adidas line on national daytime television with a smile. he artfully talks about his growth without ever saying sorry or dismissing the person he has been. instead, he basically says to ellen, “i’ve been here the whole time.” 
it’s not that kanye is a new man or a “calmer” man, or that he ever really needed to be — it’s just that he knows that now people are finally willing to listen. 
now that he is finally getting america’s ear, i can’t wait to hear what else he has to say. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at             atollaks@nd.edu 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


sPorts autHority 

Tracking Cavaliers’ erratic season 
Tyler Wojciak 
sports writer 
immediately after lebron James announced his inten­tion to return to the cleveland cavaliers, expectations for the team skyrocketed. with the con­tract extension of all-star point guard kyrie irving and the trade that landed elite power forward kevin love, the cavaliers became the favorites to win the eastern conference basically overnight. 
while some nba analysts sug­gested that these expectations were a bit premature, no one could really blame cleveland fans for being so enthusiastic about their chance at winning the city’s first major sports championship since 1964. with the best bas­ketball player in the world and a perennial all-star accompanying irving, their star-in-the mak­ing, fans had every reason to be excited. 
but as the cavaliers enter the second half of their first season with James, irving and love, it is clear that they have not lived up to those expectations. whether they ever really had a chance to do so without going undefeated up to this point is up for debate, but no one can argue that this team has experienced a rocky start. 
Through 47 games, the cavaliers are 27-20, currently fifth in the eastern conference standings. embarrassing losses to bottom-tier teams such as the 76ers and the knicks and a few blowout losses at home have been storylines this season, and media reports that suggested tension be­tween the players and new head coach david blatt certainly have not helped matters. 
i’m certainly not arguing that the cavaliers don’t have a lot of work to do if they want to com­pete with the likes of the bulls, hawks or wizards to win the eastern conference. but writing off this team completely at this point in the season would be imprudent. 
when critiquing this cavaliers team, most are compelled to compare them to the 2010-2011 miami heat team — the first year for miami’s big three of James, chris bosh and dwyane wade. but when making these compari­sons, fans and analysts alike have a tendency to only look at the final product of that heat team and forget about the similar struggles they faced during the first half of that season. 
The miami heat started off the year with a 9-8 record through the team’s first 17 games. There were even media reports that suggest­ed tension between James and heat head coach erik spoelstra, and it was very clear that the new-look heat were struggling to mesh their new stars’ games together. some fans of the nba had already started proclaiming the team as a “bust.” 
amid all of the negative media attention, the heat went 21-1 over the team’s next 22 games. looking like a completely differ­ent team, the players were able to mesh their playing styles to form one of the most dominant teams in basketball. ultimately, the heat lost a six-game series in the nba Finals to the dallas mavericks, but it was clear that miami was going to be a force for years to come. 
while many have been waiting for the cavaliers to figure out how to play with each other and go on a hot streak like the heat did, it must be understood that this cavaliers team is very different than that particular heat team. 
neither love nor irving have ever played in an nba playoff game, while wade had already won an nba championship when James joined the heat, and bosh had played in several playoff series. The only cavaliers player outside of James with any significant playoff experience is anderson varejao, but he is out for the season with a torn achilles tendon. The heat roster had an average of 9.8 years of nba expe­rience per player, compared to the cavaliers’ figure of 8.6. 
despite the lack of experi­ence among key players on the cavaliers roster and the disap­pointing start to the season, one cannot argue that the team is loaded with talent. The flashes of greatness when the team works together have become more frequent, most notably during the team’s current eight-game winning streak. whether or not this streak will continue and resemble that of the heat’s 21-1 tear in 2010-2011 is yet to be seen, but it appears that the cavaliers are beginning to mesh like most expected to happen long ago. recent trade acquisitions in 
J.r. smith and Timofey mosgov have already impressed in just their first few games, and once newly-acquired iman shumpert recovers from a shoulder injury, the cavaliers could be even more dangerous. 
after a rocky start, the cavaliers are nearly at full health once again and are entering the sec­ond half of the season with a full head of steam. i’ve backed off from my preseason prediction that the cavaliers were going to represent the eastern conference in the nba Finals at the end of this season, but i fully expect the cavaliers to be a serious force throughout the second half of the season and into the postseason. 
Contact Tyler Wojciak at twojciak@hcc-nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

nCaa mEn’s basKEtball | ohio sTaTe 80, maryland 56 
Loving shines in Buckeyes’ win over Terps 
Associated Press 

columbus, ohio — marc loving scored 19 points and d’angelo russell added 18 points and 14 rebounds to lead ohio state to an 80-56 vic­tory over no. 16 maryland on Thursday night. 
Jae’sean Tate, starting his third game in a row, added 16 points and eight rebounds for the buckeyes (17-5, 6-3 big Ten), who have won three in a row — including the last two over ranked opponents at home. 
dez wells had 12 points and Jake layman 10 for maryland (18-4, 6-3), which had won four of five. 
melo Trimble, who came in leading maryland in scoring at 16.3 points per game, had a forgettable night. he missed all eight shots from the field, including four 3-pointers, and ended up with three points, one rebound and one assist. 
one of the top rebounding teams in the conference, the Terrapins were pummeled on the boards, 51-32. 
ohio state was 10 of 17 be­hind the arc, with loving making all five of his 3-point attempts. 
ahead by eight points at halftime, the buckeyes took control early in the second period. 
up 41-32 just 3 minutes in, the buckeyes went on a rapid-fire 7-0 run. shannon scott assisted on Tate’s layup, then slashed through the lane to flip in a drive. russell then fed sam Thompson for a 3 in front of the home bench to make it 48-32. 
loving hit consecutive 3s to push the lead to 54-38 with under 14 minutes left, and maryland never got the deficit down to single digits again. 
russell, the big Ten’s most recent player and freshman of the week, was spectacular in the opening half, scoring 12 points to go with seven re­bounds and five assists. 
The buckeyes led 16-15 after wells’ 3-pointer at the 6:35 mark — but the Terrapins didn’t score again for the next 
2:58. They missed all five shots from the field with a turnover. 
meanwhile, ohio state strung together several stops on defense while making enough plays at the other end to go on a 12-0 run. 
after loving hit a pull-up jumper and lee a foul shot, russell showed why many nba mock drafts have him go­ing among the top five picks should he elect to leave school early. he hit a long, arching 3 in transition while being fouled, then converted the free throw for a four-point play. he later took advantage of a late-recov­ering defender to hit another 
3. Tate then popped in two free throws for a 28-15 lead. 
russell later added anoth­er highlight play. with the Terrapins hedging on a pick at the top of the key, he twice dribbled behind his back and, with two defenders on him, poured in another 3. 

nCaa womEn’s basKEtball | Tennessee 73, kenTucky 72 
Tennessee narrowly defeats Kentucky 
Associated Press 

leXingTon, ky.  — isabelle harrison and cierra burdick combined to score 25 second-half points and sixth-ranked Tennessee held on to edge no. 10 kentucky 73-72 victory Thursday night. 
Trailing 33-27 just after the break, the lady vols’ two post players took charge inside to seize control of a game that was tight throughout. 
harrison scored 13 of her 19 points in the second half, while burdick added 12 of her 16 in the final 20 min­utes as Tennessee (18-3, 8-0 southeastern conference) earned its first true road win over a top-10 opponent since 2008. 
makayla epps’ consecutive 3-pointers got kentucky (16-5, 5-3) to 73-72 with 1:16 remain­ing and the wildcats had sev­eral chances to win it in the final 16 seconds. but epps and Jennifer o’neill missed jump­ers, Jordan reynolds blocked alexis Jennings’ shot with 2 seconds left and andraya carter blocked o’neill’s jump­er as time expired. 

bashaara graves added 11 points and harrison had 10 re­bounds as Tennessee shot 67 percent after halftime for its 14th win in 15 games that ex­tended its sec-best winning streak to 15 games dating to last season. 
epps scored a game-high 23 points, including three 3-pointers for the wildcats, who made 8 of 19 from long range but lost for the third time in five games. o’neill and Jennings had 12 points each for kentucky. 
The lady vols also end­ed their two-game slide in memorial coliseum while ending kentucky’s 13-game streak on its home floor. but it took weathering a furious final sequence in which the wildcats had several good chances that bounced off the rim. 
motivated to stay within reach of the sec leaders, the wildcats figured to make it tough for their biggest rival. That set the stage for more intrigue in the schools’ first meeting since the lady vols earned a 71-70 win over the wildcats in last year’s sec tournament championship. 
considering they’ve split the last two games by four points, the back-and-forth first half that followed wasn’t a surprise. 
momentum seemed to lean toward Tennessee thanks to its 2-3 zone defense that frus­trated a kentucky team that started poorly from the field. The lady vols used it to build a 20-15 lead through 15 min­utes before Jelleah sidney’s seven points down the stretch, mostly on putbacks, lifted the wildcats. 
o’neill shook off three ini­tial misses to make three of five attempts for seven points, while Jennings added a put-back as kentucky outscored Tennessee 16-5 en route to a 31-25 halftime lead. not bad considering the wildcats shot just 31 percent. 
Tennessee wasn’t done, drawing within 54-53 thanks to six straight points by burdick before harrison and arial massengale each added five. The tone was set and the lady vols went on to a big win to stay unbeaten in league play. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


smC basKEtball | Trine 70, smc 58 
Trine rides quick start to win 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 
saint mary’s fell to confer­ence opponent Trine, 70-58, at angela athletic Facility on wednesday night. 
The Thunder (12-7, 6-4 miaa) got off to a quick start in the first half, scoring the first 12 points of the game and cruising to an early 27-8 lead. The belles (3-16, 1-9) answered with an 8-4 run with baskets by junior guard sarah macius and sopho­more forward kelsey ronan to make the score 31-16 with just over six minutes left in the first half. The Thunder responded with a 12-7 run to close out the half and go into the locker room with a 43-23 halftime lead. 

“we did not get off to a great defensive start on wednesday,” saint mary’s coach Jennifer henley said. “we had troubles matching up in transition, and Trine shot the lights out. we ad­justed some things at half­time and played a much better second half.” 
The belles cooled the Trine offense in the sec­ond half, allowing only 27 points. belles’ senior guard ariana paul, junior forward eleni shea and junior guard sarah macius combined to score the last 12 points of the game, but it was not enough in the end and the belles lost by 12 points. 
Three saint mary’s play­ers were tied for most points on the team in the contest. sophomore forward kelsey ronan scored 11 points and added four rebounds, shea had 11 points to go along with five rebounds and one steal and paul netted 11 points, pulled down nine re­bounds and had five steals. 
saint mary’s shot 34.9 percent from the field and made 65 percent of its free throws. Trine shot a blister­ing 6-for-7 from beyond the three point line for a 85.5 percent 3-point field goal percentage in the first half alone and finished the game shooting 64.3 percent from beyond the arc. 
“in preparing for hope, we can’t come out flat on de­fense,” henley said. “hope is a solid team and recently [moved to the ranking of] no. 12 in the country among division iii schools. we cer­tainly have a challenge on saturday, but a great oppor­tunity to play some tough competition.” 
The belles and the Flying dutch will square off at angela athletic Facility on saturday at 3 p.m. 
Contact Michael Ivey at       mivey@hcc-nd.edu 
traCK and fiEld 

ND travels to face top-flight field 



By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports writer 
preparing for what could po­tentially be a season-defining performance, notre dame is set to travel to Fayetteville, arkansas this weekend, where it will face a daunting field in the razorback invitational. 
The irish has faced increas­ingly stiff competition as its season progressed, and the up­coming invitational is posed to continue this trend. The meet boasts a field of 14 teams, 10 of which are ranked in the top 25, in either or both of the men’s and women’s polls. 
“we have to be ready,” irish coach alan Turner said. “The preliminaries, so to speak, are over – we’re really getting into the meat of the season, facing a lot of the powerhouse programs this weekend.” 
arkansas, the host of the meet, is currently the no.3 men’s team and the no. 5 wom­en’s team, while no. 2/1 Florida has the strongest overall team, based on rankings. no. 4/3 Texas a&m, no. 10/7 Texas, no. 7/10 stanford, no. 15/11 Florida state and no. 16/13 oklahoma state round out an impressive list of programs featured in the invitational whose men’s and women’s teams are both ranked. 
Turner said he believes the meet will be a pivotal moment for the irish. 
“one of two things is going to happen,” he said. “we’re either going to step up and use this to rocket ourselves into being a top-20 program, or we’re going to get beat pretty bad and po­tentially struggle the rest of the season. so this meet right here could definitely be a turning point for our team.” 
in addition to housing some of the top track and field ath­letes in the country, arkansas’ facility for the invitational will help create favorable condi­tions for a fast meet. The banked 200-meter track at arkansas’s randal Tyson Track center has a reputation for being one of the fastest indoor tracks in the world, with several collegiate and world records having been set there. 
“it’s very conducive to run­ning very fast 200-meter [dash], 400-meter [dash] and 4x400­meter [relay] times,” Turner said. “i wouldn’t be surprised if we have several school records broken this weekend.” 
in particular, Turner said he is looking forward to the per­formance of senior and two-time all-american sprinter chris giesting, who looks to break the school record of 45.92 seconds in the 400-meter race. 
in the women’s 400-meter, Turner said junior sprinter margaret bamgbose also has the potential to break the notre dame record, which currently stands at 52.73 seconds. 
The meet features several top long-distance programs, including stanford, oklahoma state and arkansas, which Turner said provides a great opportunity for notre dame’s long-distance duo of senior Jake kildoo and junior michael clevenger to make their mark in the 3000-meter race. 
“our top athletes are used to this level of competition, so we’re expecting them to lead the way,” Turner said. “when you put a lot of top athletes on the track at the same time, you’re going to get some incred­ible times.” 
The irish will compete in the razorback invitational this weekend with the first gun go­ing off at 4 p.m. Friday and 11 
a.m. saturday. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 


The observer | friday, january 30, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

nd womEn’s tEnnis 

Irish welcome No. 15 Michigan 

By BEN PADANILHAM 
sports writer 
no. 19 notre dame will wel­come no. 15 michigan to eck Tennis pavilion this sunday at 2 p.m. for an early-season top-20 showdown. 
Following a doublehead­er sweep against western michigan and detroit mercy on Jan. 17 in their season opener, the irish (2-0) will host a wolverine squad about to embark on its first road trip of 2015. michigan (2-0) is coming off wins against yale and Tulsa and will host Tennessee on saturday be­fore it travels to take on the irish. 
irish coach Jay louderback said he believes the team’s season opener served as an opportunity to gauge the team’s depth and view poten­tial lineups, which will ben­efit his players going forward. 
“one of the biggest things [from the doubleheader] was that we tried a couple of dif­ferent lineups in doubles,” louderback said. “one of our kids was out that will be back this week, but it helped us [to] get a chance to see what we wanted to do in doubles. That was a big factor. and we got to play some different ones in singles because we played two matches in the one day. it helped us get our depth [so we know] what we’re going to do if we get some injuries.” 
last weekend, the irish had a bye weekend, something they are not used to this early in the season, louderback said. with the extra time off, the team struggled in prac­tice last week but has man­aged to rebound over the last few days, louderback said. 
The team is also adjusting to a new format in its match­es, which the players were first exposed to in the season opener.  some of the changes include no warmups between opponents prior to a match, removing advantages so that any point scored after deuce wins that game and shorten­ing doubles matches from eight games to six. 

“everything is really short, and it goes a little quicker than normal,” louderback said. “it’s something that each match we play, we’re go­ing to get used to it a little bit more.” 
The matchup against a highly-ranked michigan team provides notre dame with two significant opportu­nities, louderback said.  First and foremost, the coach said he wants his younger players to gain some much needed experience. 
“we have two [girls] who will be playing in really their first big-time dual match, which is good,” louderback said. “so it will be good to see how they react in a tight, tough match because michigan is [no.] 15, so it should be a really good match for us.” 
louderback also said he hopes this matchup provides the top of the irish lineup with a strong test. 
“They’re very good at the top of their lineup,” louderback said of the wolverines. “Their top three players … are three of the top-five in our region. i think their strength is at the top of their lineup, so it will give us a feel for how good we think we can be at the top of our lineup.” 
notre dame will square off against michigan on sunday at 2 p.m. at eck Tennis pavilion. 
Contact Ben Padanilham at bpadanil@nd.edu 
mEn’s tEnnis 

nd preps for northwestern 
By RYAN KLAUS sports writer  
after splitting of matches in kickoff weekend,  a the the  pair iTa­no.  

14 irish continues its home stand this evening against northwestern. 
The irish (2-1) opened last weekend by beating no. 24 oklahoma state, 4-3, which put them in the champion­ship match against no. 13 columbia. despite winning the doubles point against the lions (2-0), the irish eventu­ally lost 4-2. 
“we were really proud of the effort our guys gave over the weekend,” said irish coach ryan sachire. “it’s nice that this is a little bit of a quick turnaround sunday to Friday. The mindset has kind of been to get our legs back underneath us and make sure we’re fresh and healthy going into tomorrow night. 
“at the same time, we’ve gotten to address some of the individual needs in our guys’ games that they maybe struggled with last weekend and have tried to cover those weaknesses up heading into tomorrow night.” 
Though the irish have only played three matches so far this season, this will be the first time they will play fol­lowing a loss. 
“certainly you want to see a team that is determined and hungry not to see the same fate that we saw on sunday,” said sachire. “The energy has been good in practice. The attitude has been good. The effort has been good. so i have every reason to feel very confident that we will play a great match tomorrow night. The biggest thing for us is being the most competitive team in the building.” 
The match against the wildcats (2-2) is the first of several upcoming con­tests against big Ten teams for notre dame. after play­ing the wildcats on Friday, the irish will host illinois on monday and will also take on michigan, wisconsin and ohio state in February. 
“obviously, we’re very for­tunate that there are a num­ber of top-30 schools and programs that are within driving distance of our cam­pus,” sachire said. “we typi­cally play all of those [big Ten] teams during our non-conference schedule just due to the proximity of the campuses.” 
like the irish, the wildcats played at an iTa-kickoff weekend event this past weekend. northwestern defeated arkansas on saturday 4-2, which set up a sunday match with host no. 2 oklahoma, where the wildcats fell 4-1. 


The match against northwestern continues a series of home contests for notre dame that started last weekend and will continue through Feb. 8. 
“The scheduling just worked out that way, but we’re going to take advan­tage of it,” sachire said. “we love playing in our build­ing. we love playing at home. we feel like we have a strong home court advantage here and there is something to be said for keeping your guys in a familiar and comfortable environment. we’ll be able to sleep well, rest well, be healthy and hopefully play our best tennis.” 
notre dame is set to take on northwestern at 5:30 p.m., at the eck Tennis pavilion. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT 


when you finish off your sea-
Hockey m bball 
son with providence, boston 
conTinued From page 16 conTinued From page 16 

university and boston college.” senior guard and team cap-
freshmen defensemen, despite handing freshman tain pat connaughton said of 
they’ve got a young goalten-goaltender cal petersen four his team’s recent comebacks. 
der i think,” Jackson said consecutive starts, Jackson “There’s just something about 
of the wildcats. “… There’s said that he has not written us that when we’re down, we 
some similarities between off sophomore chad katunar never think we are out. we are 
them and us. They’ve always as an option at the position. able to rally around each oth­
been a good program, they’ve “i’m not done with chad,” er; someone sets a spark, and 
always been well-coached Jackson said. “… i don’t want then we’re able to make plays. 
and they’re gonna be chal-to lose chad mentally; i gotta i think we’d like to improve so 
lenging ... they had a tough keep him sharp, and i still that we don’t get ourselves in 
weekend last weekend and so think he has the ability to be those kinds of situations.” 
did we.” a number-one guy. cal had irish coach mike brey said 
Jackson pointed to taking moved ahead of him a little a lot of the credit for notre 
care of the puck as a key area bit, and chad is certainly dame’s comebacks belongs to 
of focus heading into the still in the mix to play this connaughton and grant. 
series. weekend.” “we make a habit of [fall­
“For us it’s about trying “[cal] had a great game ing behind], but you can’t 
to sustain possession, make Friday night. … saturday, i say enough about our two se­
good plays at both blue lines thought that he could have niors,” brey said. sophomore forward michael four games, grant has scored 
to where we don’t turn pucks stopped a few of the goals saturday, notre dame young has taken the reigns as at least 23 points and dished 
over,” Jackson said. “They’ve and that’s where i have to puts its undefeated acc road pittsburgh’s scorer this sea-out at least six assists. his 6.7 
got a very good group of for-get him over the hump. you record on the line against son, leading the team in both assists per game are tied for 
wards and if you make mis-have a good night, and then pittsburgh (13-8, 3-5). The scoring and rebounding with seventh in the country. The 
takes with the puck, they’re you have to come back with a panthers started out the 13.2 points and 7.8 boards per senior said he believes notre 
gonna come after you.” good night.” season 7-0 at home, but game. dame has become an elite 
while the irish have strug-after starting the year with they are just 2-2 at petersen last season, pittsburgh team after a 15-win year last 
gled as of late, they still sit just a six percent success rate events center in confer-defeated the irish, 85-81, in season. 
seventh in the hockey east through 21 games — a mark ence play after dropping overtime at purcell pavilion “we are definitely up there,” 
standings; a three-point that was last in the nation — games to clemson and no. 10 on march 1; however, grant grant said. “obviously, [no. 2] 
weekend would jump them the irish power-play unit has louisville. did not play in that game. virginia is undefeated. They 
into fifth, while a pair of scored in five straight games. The panthers have strug-This year, the senior has so-came in here and beat us, but 
wins could see them climb as “we have to sustain it,” gled this season, ranking lidified himself as one of the hopefully we get another shot 
high as fourth. Jackson said of the power­183rd nationally in points best players in the country, at them. i definitely think that 
“To me, i met with our play success. “we’ve been per game (67.3), 175th in re-and brey said grant deserves we are in the top tier. “ 
leadership group and the getting a goal a game and if bounds (34.9) and 165th to be considered among col-The irish look to push 
most important thing is that we can sustain that, it helps in field-goal percentage lege basketball’s elite. their winning streak to six 
we need to try to come up us a lot. (43.7%). pittsburgh, which “he’s got a big basketball games when they travel to 
with points every weekend,” “both units are scoring too finished 11-7 in the acc last iQ,” brey said of grant. “he the peterson events center to 
Jackson said. “… we have and that’s a great thing.” season, lost guard lamar knows our sets, he knows our play pittsburgh on saturday 
to take care of the games looking to defend their patterson and forward Talib system. he loves the moment. at 12 p.m. 
in our building as much as home ice, Jackson said the Zanna, last season’s lead-he is such a bright lights, big 
possible.” irish find an extra spark ing scorer and rebounder, stage guy. he’s really clutch.” Contact Manny De Jesus at 
after this weekend’s series when the crowd is a factor. respectively, to graduation. in three of the team’s last mdejesus@nd.edu 
with new hampshire and “when the student sec-a trip to maine next week-tion is full and the band is 
paid adverTisemenT 

end, the irish finish their there in full complement, it’s season playing three top-15 an impressive building and teams – home series with our team feeds off of that,” no. 12 providence and no. 14 Jackson said. “it creates a boston college sit on either home-ice advantage for us. side of a trip to no. 2 boston our guys, when they see that, university — and Jackson they get energized.” said that the team is con-puck drop for tonight’s scious of their tough finish game between the irish and ahead. wildcats is slated for 7:35 
“we want to put ourselves p.m., while saturday’s con-in the best position in the test is set to get underway at conference standings so we 6:35 p.m. can go into the playoffs on a positive note,” Jackson said. Contact Alex Carson at     “… it’s going to be tough acarson1@nd.edu 




The observer | friday, january 30, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


w bball 
conTinued From page 16 
forward Taya reimer also had a standout game, the most recent in a chain of sol­id efforts. 
“Taya reimer had 10 re­bounds,” mcgraw said. “she’s really doing her job on the boards, doing a fantastic job. she’s been close to a double-double i think the last couple games in a row. she’s really put together a good string of rebounding games.” 
The inside game was one of the most significant strengths notre dame exhib­ited against virginia Tech, mcgraw said. 
“i thought we really re­bounded well,” mcgraw said. “They only had single-digit offensive rebounds, and that was probably the best stat of the game.” 
notre dame will next take on wake Forest (10-12, acc 1-7) at home sunday. irish assistant coach carol owens said notre dame will have to focus on containing wake Forest’s star player, senior forward dearica hamby. 
“The core of their team is dearica hamby,” owens said. “she’s one of the best post players in the country, we believe, let alone our confer­ence. she’s the glue person, the one that gets their of­fense going. They have a very young team with the excep­tion of her, with three fresh­men. however, they’re a very athletic team.” 
owens said notre dame will utilize its advantages in the outside game to mini­mize the influence of hamby. 
“although wake Forest is a good 3-point shooting team, the key is again limiting hamby on the inside,” owens said. “she’s a special player. you’re not going to keep her scoreless, of course, but any time we can get her not catch­ing the ball, that’s a good pos­session for us. i think we have a lot of experience on the pe­rimeter. we need to really ex­ecute and find opportunities and attack them on defense.” 
The demon deacons will visit purcell pavilion to chal­lenge the irish on sunday at 1 
p.m. sunday’s game will also be the team’s annual ‘pink Zone’ game, honoring former north carolina state coach 
kay  yow,  who  succumbed  
to  breast  cancer  in  2009.  
donations  from  the  game  

benefit both local and na­tional breast cancer founda­tions, and the irish will wear special pink jerseys with pink accenting. 
Contact Renee Griffin at         rgriffi6@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




Crossword | will shorTZ 
2 1990s Senate majority leaderand family 
3 Like a joule and a watt-second, e.g. 
4 Learns by doing 5 Informal states? 6 Bait fish for 
pike angling 7 Unbending 8 Fish caught in 
pots 
9 Skosh 
10 They get booted 
11 Options for 
reduced fare 
12 In ___ heat 
13 Mimic Mae West 
14 Simon of opera 
20 William of “My 
Three Sons” 
23 Dish garnished with crushed peanuts 
24 Getting a charge out of 
25 Speed Six maker 
27 Winner of seven French Opens 
28 What some 
counters count 
29 Out 
30 “___ see” 
31 Genealogy word 
32 Refuel, in a way 
33 Like Elvis Costello, but not Elvis Presley:Abbr. 
Across 
1 “The Black Stallion” hero and others 
6 Option for reduced fare 15 Pillbox relative 16 New York City has six 17 Onetime 25-Down rival 18 Potential result of fear 19 Info about touchdowns 20 Many man caves 21 Detective work 22 On the decline? 24 Quarters 26 Sing in court 
30 Statement resulting inhand-raising 
36 Minimal conflict 

37 First commandment? 
38 Bowery boy, say 
39 Bluff 
42 Fortuitously 46 Member of a loving trio 

47 On the way out? 
50 Azadi Stadium setting 
51 “Great” 18th-centuryruler 

54 Sure to be won 
55 Lana Turner’s “Mr. Imperium” co-star, 1951 
56 Bebé’s nourishment 

57 #1 hit song that asks “Are yousomewhere upabove?” 
58 Ruins 
Down 
1 Thrown 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
A C T E D  V E G  R E A M S  
H  I  R E S  A L  I E  A B B  I E  
A V A N T  P  I  Z Z A J O  I  N T 
B  I  D  R O T A R Y  
LE U N I O N  I  S U R E  A R A N T X A  
B  N T S  A P E S  B R E A K  
E  S U E S  S O S  I  M  
L  E N  O A H U  B A  I  
L  C K  T E E N  A M  N  
A  T  P O R  D A B S  T  
A H S O  B E A  S  
E G O T R  I  P  G O E S M A D  
S P L  I  T S E C O N D  P A W  
H A  I  R S  A D A N O  
S A E N S  K N E E  M A R C O  
E S S A Y  E S T  I N T E L  

HiGHly PunliKEly | chrisTopher brucker 

domE nuts| aleXandria wellman 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  14  
15  16  
17  18  
19  20  21  
22  23  24  25  
26  27  28  29  
30  31  32  33  34  35  
36  
37  
38  
39  40  41  42  43  44  45  
46  47  48  49  50  
51  52  53  54  
55  56  
57  58  


Puzzle by Martin Ashwood-Smith 
34 Command level: 43 Player of TV 
Abbr. detective 35 Like some sgts. Spenser 39 Jeweler’s 
44 Auxiliarycreation 
memory for fast40 Elicit eye-retrieval popping 
45 Pants parts 

41 She went to Haiti, in a Cole 47 “Time’s up” Porter song sound 48 Dix et un 
49 Fire 

52 Org. whose seal has a flower 
53 Currency unit taken out of circulation in 1953 

54 Pay extension? 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
sudoKu | The mepham group 
HorosCoPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: put more emphasis on home, family and making the positive changes that will ensure greater success in both your personal and professional life. balance should be your goal, and stability the end result. Financial improvements are doable if you make an innovative investment, sell what you don’t need, cut corners and accumulate what will grow in value. your numbers are 2, 9, 13, 21, 23, 38, 43. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): discuss your options with someone you have worked with in the past. don’t let an emotional incident interfere with your productivity or how you get along with someone of influence. make the appropriate changes to help you advance. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): expanding your mind and your self-awareness will bring about a change of attitude and an increased appreciation of friendships. you can influence others by sharing your thoughts and offering an alternative way to live. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): your curiosity will mount. Trying something new will bring you in contact with people who can influence your life. don’t be too eager to make a leap of faith. your research will show that you are better off following your own path.  


CANCER (June 21-July 22): romance, a trip to exotic destinations and trying something new will give you the boost you need. good fortune awaits if you are willing to put more effort into the way you present who you are and what you want. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): deception is apparent where money and joint ventures are concerned. you can make changes, but do so for the right reasons and only after you have done sufficient research to warrant moving forward. Too much of anything will work against you.  

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): re-evaluate your current personal and professional relationships. if you feel someone is working against you, look at your alternatives and do whatever is necessary to avoid creating a scene. rely on facts and figures, not hearsay. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): size up your situation and make your move. you have plenty to gain by using your intelligence to maneuver your way through any discussion that can have an impact on your relationships in business or in your personal life.  


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): someone close to you will show signs of instability. look for a unique way to compensate for someone’s loss or confusion. positive change will help to bring you closer together and improve the way you live and do things in the future. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): don’t let someone’s personal interest in you cause confusion. you are best to make positive changes at home that will help you re-evaluate what you already have. someone pretending to offer what you want will mislead you.  


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t allow the changes going on around you to cause stress. if you don’t like something, make positive moves rather than complain. revert back to the situations, people and places that have worked best for you in the past. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t let opposition scare you. Focus on your family, your home environment and making changes that will bring greater happiness and joy to you and those you love. don’t give in to someone trying to control what you can and cannot do. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): keep a tight lip to avoid being called a meddler. emotional matters will escalate quickly, causing problems for you that can influence your personal and professional status. don’t fold under pressure or reveal sensitive information. observe, but do not take action. 


Birthday Baby: you are inquisitive, trendy and sensitive. you are unique and intuitive. 
jumblE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 

make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 

city      state Zip 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

The observer | friday, january 30, 2015| ndsmcobserver.com 
nd womEn’s basKEtball | nd 74, virginia Tech 50 
irish power to early lead, hold on over hokies 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
no. 4 notre dame defeat­ed acc foe virginia Tech on Thursday in a 74-50 rout in blacksburg, virginia, and will return home to face wake Forest on sunday. 
The irish (20-2, acc 7-1) took a commanding 43­17 halftime lead and never looked back. The hokies (10­11, acc 1-7) had trouble get­ting into a rhythm on offense and stopping irish scorers on defense. 
“i felt we got off to a pret­ty good start,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said. “The first half was good, i liked the tone that we set. we executed well offensively, we guarded them pretty well, so i was pleased with what we were doing.” 
notre dame could not quite replicate its success from the first half in the second but still maintained a secure lead, mcgraw said. 
“we got a little bit compla­cent with the lead,” mcgraw said. “we could’ve been a little more in touch in the second half. we missed a lot of free throws, missed a lot of layups and didn’t shoot the ball particularly well, and we didn’t guard them quite as well in the second half. i think that’s the youth of our team, sometimes not having the killer instinct.” 
mcgraw said she also liked the performance of bench players who played signifi­cant minutes as the starters rested with the game in hand in the second half. Freshman forward kathryn westbeld especially stood out, she said, netting a career-high 17 points. 
“i thought kathryn westbeld and [junior guard] hannah huffman in partic­ular both played very well,” mcgraw said. “kathryn of­fensively was very aggressive, really did a nice job. hannah was a really good high-post player against virginia Tech.” 
mcgraw said sophomore 
see w bball PaGE 14 


JODI LO | The Observer 

Irish junior guard Jewell Loyd rises up for a shot during Notre Dame’s 88-77 win over Tennessee on Jan. 19 at Purcell Pavilion. Loyd led all scorers with 34 points and chipped in five rebounds and four assists. 
mEn’s basKEtball 

Notre Dame looks to stay perfect on road in ACC play 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
no. 8 notre dame is only the second team in the ncaa to reach 20 wins thus far into the season, and after a win against no. 4 duke on wednesday, it is riding a five-game winning streak into a matchup with pittsburgh on saturday. 
although the irish (20-2, 8-1 acc) are second in the conference, four of their last five contests have been come­back victories. Jan. 14 against georgia Tech, notre dame was down by 12 near the end of the first half to georgia Tech on Jan. 14 before storming back to win. The irish also mounted a comeback win after being down 12 points against miami (Fl.) on Jan. 17. notre dame overcame an 18-point deficit against north carolina state on sunday, and irish senior guard Jerian grant led yet an­other comeback wednesday after his team trailed by 10 points midway through the second half. 
“it’s the winning mentality,” 
see m bball PaGE 13 


HoCKEy 

Russo suspended for weekend games 
By ALEX CARSON 
sports writer 
notre dame will be without senior defenseman robbie russo when it hosts new hampshire for a two-game series at compton Family ice arena tonight and saturday. 
russo, the nation’s leading scorer amongst defensemen, was suspended two games following an incident in the final minute of a 4-2 loss at northeastern on saturday. russo was initially handed a two-minute slashing minor, however, upon further review, hockey east opted for the suspension. 
“The slashing play by russo was deemed a dangerous play that was subject to supplemental discipline,” hockey east director of communications brian smith said in an email response to a request for comment. “it was similar to an incident from the previous season where there was a swinging slash on a player shooting into an empty net and a two-game suspension was issued. 
“hockey east received input from others who are in the busi­ness of issuing supplemental discipline and their responses ranged from one game to three games. as safety of the ath­letes are a major concern to the league, a two-game suspension, consistent with precedent, was deemed the appropriate league response.” 
irish coach Jeff Jackson was unavailable for comment on the suspension; however, he dis­cussed russo’s contribution to the team this season wednesday. 
“[russo]’s been huge,” Jackson said. “… he plays with poise of­fensively, and he’s learned to be able to mix defense with offense.” 
while notre dame (10-13-3, 5-4-3 hockey east) will be with­out russo as it looks to rebound from an empty weekend at northeastern, it will get center dawson cook back this week­end after the freshman missed the last three games with a concussion. 
The wildcats (8-14-2, 3-8-1) sit tied at the bottom of the hockey east standings after being swept by maine last weekend. Jackson drew parallels between new hampshire and his team. 
“They have three or four 
see hockey PaGE 13 




