


COMMENTARY 

Kelly must innovate without Folston 


Brian Plamondon 
Sports Writer 
Let’s get this out of the way first: No matter how bad Texas looked last Saturday night, Notre Dame was impressive in all facets of the game. 
To be expected, the Irish are getting love from the polls (No. 9), pundits (Kirk Herbstreit has them as his No. 4 team after week one) and even the com­puters, where ESPN’s Football Power Index says only Ohio State, Baylor and TCU have a better chance of finishing the regular season undefeated. 
Although the rankings may be warranted at the moment, does Notre Dame have a shot to live up to all the hype now that workhorse Tarean Folston is done for the year with a torn ACL? Is the College Football Playoff still on the horizon, or is it a distant dream? 

The easy answer to those questions is, we’ll wait and see. 
The more complicated an­swer is that it all depends on head coach Brian Kelly and the offensive play calling. 
For as good as Malik Zaire was against the Longhorns, it still was only his second career start. Plain and simple, the Irish won’t get to where they want to go by altering their game plan in Folston’s absence by having Zaire launch the ball downfield 35 to 40 times a game. 
Kelly knows how to deal with an inexperienced quar­terback, as evidenced by his approach to Everett Golson during the 2012 undefeated regular season. Drawing on that blueprint, Kelly must find a way to take pressure off the running backs without heap­ing everything on Zaire’s arm. One answer may lie in Zaire’s legs, however. His nine carries for 16 yards won’t cut it when Folston and Greg Bryant aren’t a part of the offense anymore. 
“[Zaire] should have been nine carries for 60, 70 yards, maybe more,” Kelly said dur­ing his Tuesday press confer­ence. “There’s a lot of room for improvement in there — he’s very capable.” 
Although the reflex reaction after a top running back goes down is to ease in the backup and shift to throwing the football, Kelly should instead double down on the running game. It’s no coincidence the best season on the ground in the Brian Kelly era was in 2012, when the Irish averaged 
4.9 yards per rush while rack­ing up 2,462 total yards — 377 more yards than any other year. 

While Notre Dame did rush the ball 52 times against Texas, it only averaged 4.1 yards per carry. While respectable, that number needs to go up. 
One answer? 
Kelly, offensive coordinator Mike Sanford and their cre­ativity with the offense. 

Without Folston, a player who could have carried the ball 25 times a game when asked, the offense needs to be innovative in the running game. That could include jet sweeps, trusting Zaire more with the read option or getting slot receiver Amir Carlisle, a former running back, a few carries. It could even include getting the deep crop of other receivers involved — what team wouldn’t be thrown off by Will Fuller and his 4.3 speed in the backfield? 
Most importantly, Kelly must commit to a multifaceted at­tack in the backfield. Looking back at 2012 again, the Irish had three running backs with over 50 carries. There shouldn’t be any worry about converted slot receiver C.J. Prosise as the starter — Theo Riddick made the same move in 2012 — but he certainly can’t do it alone. Freshman Josh Adams, and even his classmate Dexter Williams, must be utilized in Folston’s absence. 
It’s not often that a team’s Doak Walker Award watch list running back can go down with it still harboring na­tional championship hopes, but that can be the case with Notre Dame. The Irish have the talent across the board to offset the loss of Folston. The season’s outcome will depend, however, on the sped-up devel­opment of their current stable of backs combined with a little ingenuity from Kelly. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



RECRUITING 


Irish impress recruits over Texas weekend 
By GREG HADLEY 
Editor-in-Chief 

Notre Dame did not add any commitments to the classes of 2016 or 2017 this past week, but all the same, the Irish recruit­ing team enjoyed a successful weekend. 
While the No. 9 Irish domi­nated Texas in Notre Dame Stadium on Saturday, several high-profile recruits watched and left impressed, according to Andrew Ivins, an Irish re­cruiting analyst. 
Notre Dame had the added recruiting advantage of play­ing at home for the opening weekend of the season, said Ivins, who covers Notre Dame recruiting for Rivals.com affili­ate Blue and Gold Illustrated. While other top programs such as Alabama, Auburn, Michigan and Baylor either played at neutral sites or took to the road, the Irish hosted arguably the best group of recruits in the nation. 
“This was one of the premier games on a college campus, and I think Notre Dame had one of the top groups of visitors out there,” Ivins said. “Notre Dame capitalized on playing a premier opponent at home in week one and set the founda­tion for them to shore up the class year moving forward into the rest of the season.” 
Thus far, Notre Dame has 14 commitments for the class of 2016 but is still looking to add top-level talent, including the class’s first five-star recruit, per Rivals ratings. 
To that end, the Irish host­ed two five-star prospects this past weekend: receiver Demetris Robertson on an offi­cial visit and linebacker Daelin Hayes on an unofficial trip. 
Robertson is ranked as the seventh-best recruit in the na­tion by Rivals and was com­mitted to Alabama last spring. Since then, however, he has reopened the process and had a good experience at Notre Dame this past weekend, Ivins said. 
Former, current and fu­ture Irish players courted Robertson. Receivers Golden Tate, now with the Detroit Lions, and Will Fuller met with the Savannah, Georgia, native, and fellow recruit and offensive lineman Parker Boudreaux, who has already committed to Notre Dame, spent a good por­tion of the weekend with him. 
Boudreaux, along with other commits, came for the Texas weekend with the expecta­tion that he would help to re­cruit his peers, Ivins said, and Robertson posted a picture of himself with Boudreaux and other offensive linemen to Twitter. 
Hayes is top three at his posi­tion, per Rivals, and is current­ly committed to USC. However, he and his mother came for the Texas game and received plen­ty of attention from the Irish staff and players. 
“He’s starting to waver a little bit more [on his commitment to USC],” Ivins said. “This was his first time he’s been on cam­pus in a while, so that was big for the staff to lure him here. That’s a credit to Brian Kelly, who’s been heavily involved in his recruitment. He and his mom met with Kelly before the game for about 20 minutes. … His mom asked a lot of ques­tions. His mom, she’s going to be key to his recruitment. 
“She asked Coach Kelly a lot about, ‘How are you going to develop my son into a man?’ and non-football related stuff like that. From all accounts that I heard, it went very, very well and productively, and I think it’s setting the stage for Notre Dame to potentially flip Daelin down the line.” 


Kelly and the Irish have had a recent run of success get­ting players to switch their commitments, flipping eight players in last year’s class, in­cluding quarterback Brandon Wimbush. 
Two other top targets, Donte Vaughn and D.J. Morgan, en­tered the weekend as safe bets to commit to Notre Dame. Both reported positive experiences, Ivins said, but Vaughn has al­ready said he will not officially announce his commitment until Oct. 12, his birthday. 
On the other hand, some analysts thought Morgan, a safety, might make his decision official as soon as this week­end, but no such announce­ment came, though Ivins said the silence does not mean there is any change in the likelihood 
that Morgan will  commit  to  
Notre Dame.  
While  the  Irish  are  in  

Charlottesville to face Virginia this weekend, recruiting will naturally slow, Ivins said. The mid-Atlantic area of Virginia, Maryland and Washington, D.C., has been a particular area of focus for Brian Kelly’s staff in recent years, Ivins said, with se­nior running back C.J. Prosise, junior cornerback Devin Butler and sophomore offensive line­man Sam Mustipher all com­ing from the area. 
In the current cycle, the Irish have a three-star commit from Virginia in Jalen Elliott, who is projected to be a defensive back on the collegiate level. Ivins said it is possible Kelly or someone from his staff will check in with Elliott while the Irish are in the area. Otherwise, Ivins said, the recruiting im­pact of the game will likely be negligible. 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out BlueAndGold.com. Email Andrew Owens at aowens@blueandgold.com and tell him The Observer sent you. 


Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 



NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2015 | THE OBSERVER 


feel like I didn’t get my chance 

By MARY GREEN 

Assistant Managing Editor to, you know, get in there and 
hit a little bit on defense, but all 
It all started with a dunk. I’m saying is, I think that I’m a 
When Irish head coach Brian physical player, but we didn’t Kelly was searching through really get to see it that much on his next crop of recruits in the defense, I guess.” high school class of 2012, he It’s not that Prosise wasn’t saw a feat of athleticism out a physical player as a safety, of Woodberry Forest School in Kelly said. In fact, the head Virginia that had him eager to coach said that asset made the get C.J. Prosise in a Notre Dame senior’s transition across the uniform. line of scrimmage and then to 
“I saw him dunking a bas-the backfield a bit easier. ketball at his high school, and “He just plays the game fast I saw this athlete, and I said, and physical,” Kelly said. “He ‘I don’t know where he’s going doesn’t think about it. So I just to play, but we’ve got to take think that he’s not afraid of him,’” Kelly said Tuesday. “He’s contact. He’s somebody that, just that good of an athlete. whether he’s running the ball Loved his personality. Again, or he’s catching the ball, he’s his makeup, great fit from a always played that fearless great school. We’ve just got to kind of game.” find a place for him to play.” Prosise said he’s always had 
Little did Prosise know the mentality that he wants to back then — he admitted, help the team win in any way in retrospect, he can’t recall possible, so he wasn’t upset Kelly seeing him play basket-when he was moved after his down in the first quarter with at wide receiver because he usual — about 50, Prosise es-ball — but that dunk would freshman season, but it did a torn ACL, Prosise had to step runs around, catch the ball. timated, made up of family have him leaving his home in take some adjusting. up and take the bulk of Notre But now you get the ball in members and friends. Many of Petersburg, Virginia, headed to “Moving [from defense to of-Dame’s carries. He showcased his hands early and be able to them will make the hour-and-Notre Dame for his freshman fense] at first is kind of like, you how naturally he seemed to make plays and make people a-half drive from Petersburg to year as a safety. get a little skeptical because have made the transition by miss. Obviously, he’s incred-Charlottesville to see the run-
Three years later, Prosise re-I’m not used to catching pass-tallying a game-high 98 yards ibly fast.” ning back play in person for the turns to Virginia with the Irish, es from a college quarterback, on 20 rushes — a figure Kelly Though he was officially first time in an Irish uniform. but this time, he will line up but once you kind of get into said he can maintain through-named the starting running “I’m going to be pumped up,” in the backfield as the team’s the groove and get used to it,” out the season. back earlier this week, ahead of he said. “I’ve actually been starting running back. he said. “ … I don’t know, I feel However, Prosise admitted true freshmen Josh Adams and pumped up this whole week, 
It’s a chain of events Prosise like I’d still be a good safety if I getting out of bed the next two Dexter Williams, Prosise still so it’s definitely going to be a said he couldn’t have predict-was still back there, but that’s mornings was more challeng-only has one actual game at great time.” ed when he first came to South not how it worked out, but I’m ing than usual. the position under his belt. He However, he said he isn’t na-Bend. happy where I’m at right now.” “I was sore, but you’re go-said there’s still more room for ïve enough to expect a friendly 
“You never know where As a receiver his sophomore ing to be sore after a football improvement, and he and his crowd on the road against an you’re going to be needed, and junior years, he appeared game,” he said. “That’s just head coach agreed on where ACC opponent, which happens and I’ve always just wanted to in every game, making nine kind of how, kind of the life I that needs to come. to be the first school that of-be here for my team, and I’ve starts, and recorded 36 re-chose, but I felt, for the most “I think the fundamentals fered him a scholarship in high wanted to do whatever I can ceptions for 588 yards — 516 part, I felt good. I was hurting really of the position — stance, school. to make my team be the best of those in 2014 — and two a little bit, but you’ve just got to pocket for taking handoffs, “I might be going home, and team in the country, so if that touchdowns. move on, get in the ice tub, get the right steps,” Kelly said. “I I might be playing in front of a means I was at safety, line-But last spring, his coaches treatment and get back on the think really — why he’s been lot of family, but it’s still going backer, receiver, now running told him he would be on the field.” able to move into the posi-to be at Scott Stadium, and I back, I’m just doing whatever I move again, this time to the Teammates have differ-tion that he is in is because of know they’re gonna be rowdy can to help the team,” he said running backs’ room under ent theories as to why Prosise his physical ability, his matu-and ready for us to come in Wednesday. first-year coach Autry Denson. was able to transition into the rity and understanding the of-there and play them,” he said. 
His freshman year, Prosise Kelly, Denson and his team-backfield without many vis-fense. But it’s certainly a work With his friends and fam­practiced with the safeties mates praised the quickness ible growing pains. Last week, in progress as it related to the ily watching him play in the wearing a No. 34 jersey, but he and dexterity with which Folston attributed it to his fundamentals. blue and gold for the first time, didn’t see much of the playing Prosise made the switch nature as “a freak athlete,” “You’re not seeing some of much less the first time as a field as the Irish made their throughout the spring, and the while graduate student cor-the things that I’m seeing fun-running back, Prosise himself trip to the BCS Championship new back showed those skills nerback Matthias Farley said damentally that need to con-will still be enjoying the new Game. The next year led to a off at the team’s Blue-Gold Wednesday it was his combi-tinue to grow for him because feelings that come from this new position and a new num-Game in April, collecting 64 nation of speed and size, at they could end up hurting us latest transition in his career. ber — lining up with the re-yards on 12 carries, including a 6-foot-1/2 and 220 pounds. down the road if we don’t get “Oh, it’s so much fun,” he ceivers as No. 20 — because, team-long 15-yard rush. “He doesn’t really look that better at them, and he knows said. “When you just hear peo-Kelly said, “he wasn’t a big He continued that momen-big,” Farley said. “He walks that, too. So it’s the work that ple talking and you just get go-hitter.” tum into his second public ap-around, he doesn’t look that we have to do every day in ing and then you see the O-line 
With a steady confidence a pearance as a running back, big, but when you see him in practice on the fundamentals running in, hitting, I feel like little quieter than that of some but this time, it mattered a lit-practice, you’re like, you’re a of the position that are really there’s nothing better in foot-of his teammates, Prosise tle more, in last week’s season large individual. central to his development.” ball to see.” begged to differ. opener against Texas. “He’s really, really shifty, The next time he takes the 
“I would say I slightly dis-With starting junior running which I don’t think we got to field, he will do so in front Contact Mary Green at  agree,” he said with a grin. “I back Tarean Folston going see too much of when he was of more familiar faces than mgreen8@nd.edu 




CHRIS COLLINS | The Observer MICHAEL YU | The Observer 



CAVALIERS PASSING 

Junior Matt Johns steers a Cavaliers passing attack that lived on short throws against UCLA last weekend: Only two Virginia pass plays went for more than 20 yards all game. Senior receiver and team captain Canaan Severin will have his hands full with whoever matches up against him in the Notre Dame secondary, but he can expect a heavy dose of senior cornerback KeiVarae Russell after leading the Cavaliers in receptions, yards and touchdowns last season. 
The Cavalier aerial attack against the Bruins was actually led by junior running back Taquan Mizzell out of the backfield. Mizzell hauled in eight catches for 100 yards and a touchdown, so Notre Dame will have to key on him out of the backfield. 
Like Tyrone Swoopes last weekend, Johns has the ability to make plays with his feet if he doesn’t have anything downfield. Junior line­backer Jaylon Smith handled Swoopes pretty well, though. Look for the Irish to keep him facing the quarterback when he drops into coverage. 
EDGE: NOTRE DAME 


CAVALIERS RUSHING 

Texas ran on the Irish defense 29 times last weekend for a grand total of 60 yards. 
Virginia kept it on the ground 34 times against the Bruins and gained 90 yards. 
Granted, Texas was basically one dimen­sional, so the Irish could key on the run. Johns and the air attack provide a little more of a threat Saturday, but this is still an offense reli­ant on the running game. Mizzell and fellow junior running back Albert Reid split the ma­jority of the carries last week, but only Johns broke off a run longer than 10 yards. 
Despite the loss of senior defensive line­man Jarron Jones, Notre Dame’s defensive line more than held its own against Texas, and a deep and hungry linebacking corps waits be­hind them. 
It’s hard to see this one turning out well for the Cavalier offense. 
EDGE: NOTRE DAME 


CAVALIERS OFFENSIVE COACHING 
It’s no secret Virginia coach Mike London finds himself on the hot seat. After an 8-5 season in 2011, London and the Cavaliers have won just 11 games in the past three years. London has done a decent job of re­cruiting at Virginia, but the results on field haven’t translated. 
While last week’s loss to the Bruins seemed lopsided, it would have been a lot closer, at least early on, if Virginia had been able to finish on a couple drives early in the game instead of settling for short field goals. If the Cavaliers are going to upset the Irish, London and his offensive staff have to find a way to punch it past Notre Dame defensive coordi­nator Brian VanGorder’s defense. 
EDGE: NOTRE DAME 

CAVALIERS SPECIAL TEAMS 
Cavaliers senior kicker Ian Frye went a per­fect 3-for-3 on field goals against the Bruins, connecting on attempts from 42, 39 and 19 yards out. Despite what that may say about the Cavaliers’ inability to finish drives with touchdowns, Frye has proven himself a ca­pable backup plan. His career field goal per­centage stands at 79.5 (31-for-39), including an 81.5 percent (22-for-27) mark last year. 
Junior punter Nicholas Conte saw his first collegiate action against UCLA and re­sponded by averaging 50.5 yards on four punts. Notre Dame sophomore punter Tyler Newsome averaged only a little over 40 yards per boot against Texas. 
Mizzell and Reid will handle the kickoff re­turn duties for the Cavaliers, while Mizzell is slated to field the punt returns. Neither was particularly noteworthy against the Bruins, but that goes both ways: Neither broke a re­turn, but neither coughed it up either. 
Consistency, or at least a lack of inconsis­tency, pushes this one to the Cavaliers. 
EDGE: VIRGINIA 

CAVALIERS SCHEDULE (0-1) 
Sept. 5   @ UCLA (L 34-16) Sept. 12 Notre Dame Sept. 19 William & Mary  
Sept. 25    Boise State  
Oct. 10  @ Pittsburgh  
Oct. 17  Syracuse  
Oct. 24  @ North Carolina  
Oct. 31  Georgia Tech  
Nov. 7       @ Miami  
Nov. 14  @ Louisville  
Nov. 21  Duke  
Nov. 28  Virginia Tech  





HEAD TO 
3:30 P.M. SCOTT STADIUM 
VIRGINIA 


(Jr.) Keeon Johnson (Fr.) David Eldridge (So.) Andre Levrone (Jr.) Kyle Dockins  
(Jr.) Taquan Mizzell (Jr.) Albert Reid  5  RB  (R-Fr.) Evan Butts (Sr.) Charlie Hopkins (Jr.) Michael Mooney(So.) Jack English (So.) Jack McDonald (Sr.) John Pond  
(Jr.) Matt Johns (Jr.) Conner Brewer  2  QB  (Jr.)  Jackson Matteo (Sr.) Ross Burbank  





(So.) Quin Blanding 
(Jr.) Divante Walker 

S
11 


(So.) Micah Kiser 
(Fr.) Dominic Sheppard 


(Jr.) Kelvin Rainey 

S
(Jr.) Wilfred Wahee 28 


(Sr.) Kwontie Moore 

DE
(Sr.) Trent Corney 43 


(Sr.) David Dean 

DT
(Jr.) Andre Miles-Redmond 56 
30 
MLB 


(So.) Andrew Brown 

DT
(Jr.) Donte Williams 93 
(Sr.) Mike Moore 

DE
(R-Fr.) Darrious Carter 6 

(Jr.) Zach Bradshaw 

59 
SLB 


(Sr.) Ian Frye 
(Jr.) Dylan Sims 


(Jr.) Nicholas Conte
 (Jr.) James Coleman 


(Jr.) Taquan Mizzell 
(Sr.) Ross Burbank 
(Jr.) Sean Karl 


(Jr.) Eric Smith 
(Sr.) Jay Whitmire 

(Sr.) Canaan Severin 
(Fr.) Olamide Zaccheaus 
(Jr.) Mark Hall 


(Sr.) Demetrious Nicholson 
(R-Fr.) Darious Latimore 

91  PK  (So.) Andrew Mackay  H  
32  P  (Jr.) Taquan Mizzell(Jr.) Albert Reid  5  KR  
PR  (So.) Tyler Shirley  LS  





Greg Hadley 
Editor-in-Chief 
The strongest part of Virginia’s defense is supposed to be its secondary, and UCLA’s true freshman quarterback Josh Rosen torched the Cavaliers last week. Malik Zaire should have no problem doing the same, especially if he remains as accurate as he was against Texas.
      With the loss of Tarean Folston, the run game is obvious­ly an area of concern for the Irish, but under C.J. Prosise, it should be enough this week to set up the passing game.
       Notre Dame’s defense will clean up against Virginia, whose offense is only marginally more competent than Texas’s. With the rust of injuries and layoffs busted, players like Joe Schmidt and Jarrett Grace will be all over the place. The Cavs won’t make it into the red zone or onto the score­board until this game is well in hand for the Irish. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 35, Virginia 7 



Mary Green 
Assistant Managing Editor 
The Irish will take their first trip to the Commonwealth of Virginia this weekend, and they won’t leave Charlottesville with a loss. 
Malik Zaire may not be able to keep up the production and consistency he showcased against Texas last week, but he and his talented receiving corps shouldn’t struggle too much this week against a Virginia defense that allowed over 350 passing yards to UCLA on Saturday, even with a defen­sive backs unit anchored by Quin Blanding. 
There’s no doubt Texas brought a struggling offense to South Bend last week, but credit also goes to the overall front-to-back strength of the Irish defense, which should have a similarly lockdown performance against a Cavaliers offense that generated just one score against the Bruins. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 37, Virginia 10 



86 

67 

60 

65 

62 

77 

33 


(Sr.) Maurice Canady



LCB 
(Jr.) Tim Harris 5 
(Fr.) C.J. Stalker 



WLB 
(So.) Malcolm Cook 27 

39 

RCB 


Zach Klonsinski 
Sports Editor 

So I was sort of right about last week: The game wasn’t that sloppy, there were big plays made (even Texas had one bomb to set up its only score of the game), and C.J. Prosise made a name for himself in the backfield, albeit for unfore­seen reasons. 
I just abominably underestimated Notre Dame’s defense. 
Now that we have a sample size, though, expect more of the same against the Cavaliers this weekend: Prosise and Josh Adams following the big boys up front and opening up the play-action game for Zaire again. The Cavaliers’ offense isn’t quite the catastophe of the Longhorns’, but it’s not ex­actly high-powered either. 
My hesitation this time around is it’s the season’s first road test, but I owe the team a little more faith this week. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38, Virginia 17 

WR WR 


TE LT LG C RG RT 
WR 



NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2015 | THE OBSERVER 




O HEAD 

ON ABC 
NO. 9 NOTRE DAME 


MICHAEL YU | The Observer MICHAEL YU | The Observer 
IRISH PASSING dominate a team like Notre Dame did Virginia’s secondary, lead by preseason all-against Texas, and it should stay that way 


KeiVarae Russell (Sr.) 
ACC sophomore safety Quin Blanding, was if the Irish play like they did last week. 
RCB 
12 Devin Butler (Jr.) 

supposed to be the Cavalier defense’s stron-With all the hype surrounding Virginia’s gest area. secondary taking a blow from UCLA and Jaylon Smith (Jr.) That didn’t stop UCLA’s true freshman Rosen, head coach Brian Kelly, offensive 
WLB 

4 Te’von Coney (Fr.) 

S 
quarterback Josh Rosen from completing 28 coordinator/quarterbacks coach Mike 
23 Elijah Shumate (Sr.) of his 35 pass attempts for 351 yards and three Sanford and receivers/associate head 

Drue Tranquill (So.) 

DE 
Romeo Okwara (Sr.) touchdowns. coach Mike Denbrock just need to not get 
98 Andrew Trumbetti (So.) 

DT 
Irish junior quarterback Malik Zaire found in their offense’s way with the game plan. similar success against Texas, including a 66-If the Irish establish the run game early 

Sheldon Day (Sr.) 
93 Jay Hayes (So.) 


Joe Schmidt (Gr.) yard bomb to junior wide receiver Will Fuller like last week, even with the loss of junior 
MLB 
59 Jarrett Grace (Gr.) 


for a score in the third quarter. Zaire’s Notre running back Tarean Folston for the year 

Daniel Cage (So.) 


Dame Stadium debut (19-of-22, 313 yards and due to a torn ACL, the play-action game 
DT 
99 Jerry Tillery (Fr.) 

Max Redfield (Jr.) three scores) was helped out by a running should be wide open. 
S 


41 Matthias Farley (Gr.) 
DE 
Isaac Rochell (Jr.) game that steamrolled over  the Longhorn 
55 Jonathan Bonner (So.) 
defense. If the Irish rushing attack has a day EDGE: NOTRE DAME anywhere near what it did against Texas, 


James Onwualu (Jr.) 
48 Greer Martini (So.) 

SLB 
Zaire and the receiving corps should have no IRISH SPECIAL TEAMS trouble finding making themselves at home Freshman kicker Justin Yoon looked solid 

Cole Luke (Jr.) 

LCB 
24 Nick Coleman (Fr.) in Charlottesville. enough in his first collegiate game, con-Even if it doesn’t, Rosen and the Bruins necting on his first career collegiate field proved this Cavalier secondary is still quite goal attempt from 38 yards out and drilling 


Will Fuller (Jr.) 


vulnerable. For a team as deep at receiver as all five of his extra-point attempts. 
WR 
86 Equanimeous St. Brown (Fr.) 

TE 
Notre Dame, Zaire just needs to keep the ball There were a couple shaky snap-and­in their hands, not Virginia’s. hold combinations on those Yoon kicks, Durham Smythe (Jr.) especially on the first extra-point attempt. 

13 Tyler Luatua (So.) 
EDGE: NOTRE DAME Sophomore quarterback DeShone Kizer al-

RT 

Mike McGlinchey (Jr.) most dropped the ball but got it up in time 
75 Mark Harrell (Sr.) 
IRISH RUSHING to meet Yoon’s foot, though it went largely 


C.J.Prosise (Sr.) 
33 Josh Adams (Fr.) 


62 Steve Elmer (Jr.) RB 
The largest negative for Notre Dame last unnoticed. 
RG 
Colin McGovern (Jr.) 
weekend was the season-ending injury to ju-The Irish return game totaled nine yards 


Malik Zaire (Jr.) 
Nick Martin (Gr.) 

C 
53 Sam Mustipher (So.) QB 
14 DeShone Kizer (So.) nior running back Tarean Folston in the first combined between freshman receiver C.J. quarter. Besides that, though, there was little Sanders’ muffed punt and graduate student 

Quenton Nelson (So.) 
71 Alex Bars (So.) 

LG 
Notre Dame’s running game couldn’t do. receiver Amir Carlisle’s near-knee debacle 
LT 

Ronnie Stanley (Sr.) Senior running back C.J. Prosise tore up the on a kickoff return. 
70 Hunter Bivin (Jr.) 
Longhorn defense behind an inspired effort Until the Irish special teams units get from the offensive line, and freshman run-back to consistency, it’s hard to put com-

WR 

Chris Brown (Sr.) ning back Josh Adams made a flashy debut plete faith in them. 
88 Corey Robinson (Jr.) 
by scoring a touchdown on his first collegiate 


Amir Carlisle (Gr.) 

WR 
16 Torii Hunter Jr. (Jr.) carry before adding another one later. EDGE: VIRGINIA 
Texas’s front seven was supposedly one of the best around despite the team’s overall IRISH SCHEDULE (1-0) struggles. Virginia’s isn’t in that discussion. Sept. 5 Texas (W 38-3)               Even with Rosen throwing for over 350 yards, Sept. 12 @ Virginia the Bruin running game combined for 152 Sept. 19 Georgia Tech yards on nearly 20 fewer carries than the Irish Sept. 26 Massachusetts 


DeShone Kizer (So.) 
Justin Yoon (Fr.) 

H 
PK


4 Montgomery VanGorder (So.) 
43 John Chereson (Jr.) against the Longhorns. Oct. 3 @ Clemson 
The offensive line needs to clean up the Oct. 10 Navy 


Amir Carlisle (Gr.) 
Tyler Newsome (So.) 
9 C.J. Sanders (Fr.) 42 Jeff Riney (Fr.) 

KR 
P 
penalties, but this one is still easy to call. Oct. 17 USC 

C.J.
Sanders (Fr.) Oct. 31 @ Temple 

Scott
 Daly (Sr.) 



LS PR 

99 Hunter Smith (Sr.) 7 Will Fuller (Jr.) 
EDGE: NOTRE DAME Nov. 7 @ Pittsburgh Nov. 14 Wake Forest IRISH OFFENSIVE COACHING Nov. 21 vs. Boston College  Coaching gets easier when you thoroughly Nov. 28 @ Stanford 


Alex Carson 
Associate Sports Editor 
At the end of the day, there’s probably not too much of a talent difference between Virginia and Texas — both are at a far inferior spot to Notre Dame at this point in time. Of course, going on the road is always more difficult than playing at home, but that’s really the only thing that should give Irish fans cause for concern heading into this one. 
UCLA true freshman quarterback Josh Rosen burned the Cavaliers defense for 351 yards and three scores last week, and I’m not sure Virginia will do a much better job against Malik Zaire and the Irish offense this week. Another strong defensive performance from Notre Dame should help see this game sealed up by the end of the third quarter. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34, Virginia 10 


Brian Plamondon 
Sports Writer 
In what may turn out to be a surprise to all who fol­low Notre Dame football, Virginia might end up being a superior opponent to Texas — but still not enough to make this a close game. The Cavaliers will be playing hard for hot-seat candidate Mike London, but the talent gap between the two teams is just too immense. 
If UCLA’s true freshman quarterback can pick apart a supposed above-average Virginia secondary, Malik Zaire should have no trouble replicating his Texas per­formance. Still, look for Notre Dame to run the ball ear­ly to see what it truly has at the position before Georgia Tech comes to town. 
Notre Dame has never been a team to put up 50 points, but look for another convincing win nonetheless. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34, Virginia 13 



THE OBSERVER | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2015 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Blanding, secondary lead Cavalier defense 
By ALEX CARSON 
Associate Sports Editor 
When Cavaliers sophomore safety Quin Blanding was making his college decision, he had plenty of elite pro­grams to choose from — the last two national champions recruited him, Florida State and Ohio State, and he had an offer on the table from Notre Dame. 
The impressive offers were what you’d expect from a player considered by many rankings to have been the best safety in his class, but instead of heading to one of those programs, the Virginia Beach native stayed in state, making the move to Charlottesville and Mike London’s Virginia program. 
And as a true freshman with the Cavaliers, Blanding didn’t disappoint. He led all freshmen nationally with 123 tackles and added three in­terceptions en route to ACC defensive rookie of the year and Freshman All-American honors. 
This year, he was named to the preseason all-conference team, as well as being made a part of his squad’s “leader­ship council.” 
Irish head coach Brian Kelly offered up his own praise of the defensive back ahead of the teams’ clash at Scott Stadium on Saturday. 
“Quin Blanding is an outstanding player,” Kelly said Tuesday. “I think he was one of the better players in the conference last year.” 
Blanding’s ability to both jam the run at the line of scrimmage and drop back into pass coverage makes him an integral cog in the motor that is defensive coordinator Jon Tenuta’s high-pressure scheme. 
“[Tenuta] certainly is not a bend but don’t break defen­sive coordinator,” Kelly said. “He likes to be controlling tempo, and he’s aggressive.” 
The Irish head coach later compared Tenuta, the Irish defensive coordinator in 2009, to current Notre Dame defensive coordinator Brian VanGorder, 
“I think they both probably drink from the same well,” he said. “ … I think Brian and Jon would definitely both tell you they’d much rather be exotic and bring pressures if they could.” 
Saturday marks a chance for the Cavaliers to respond after a lackluster defensive performance last week in a 34-16 loss at No. 13 UCLA, when Bruins true fresh­man quarterback Josh Rosen threw for 351 yards and three touchdowns in his collegiate debut. 
Virginia head coach Mike London said while his cor­nerbacks got beat deep in the season-opening loss, he wanted to see more pressure from his team against the No. 9 Irish on Saturday. 

“You want to have a chance to affect the quarterback’s ability to not just stand in the pocket and have all day to throw with rushers, with stunts, with schemes,” London said. “ … We could not get to [Rosen] and apply enough pressure to affect his throws. 
“ … Obviously, we have to do a better job in terms of the coverage standpoint, but it goes back to the pressure as well, the pass-rush pressure.” 
And while it wasn’t the greatest of games on the field for the Virginia defense against UCLA, Blanding car­ried on as his usual self, re­cording 10 tackles in the loss. If the sophomore merely keeps the pace he’s set in the first 13 games of his career, he will break Jamie Sharper’s school record for career tack­les midway through his se­nior campaign. 
But at the end of the day, it’s a trying time for the Cavaliers program. While Blanding turned down offers from big­ger programs for the culture London creates, the Virginia head coach is likely on the hot seat in Charlottesville 
— since being hired in December 2009, London’s squads have made just one bowl game and posted a 23­38 record. It’s led many to speculate as to whether or not he will make it through the season if the Cavaliers get off to a slow start. 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu 




NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2015 | THE OBSERVER 


Defensive line looks to build on strong start 

CHRIS COLLINS | The Observer 

Irish junior defensive lineman Isaac Rochell (90) helps bring down Longhorn quarterback Tyrone Swoopes last Saturday during Notre Dame’s 38-3 win over Texas at Notre Dame Stadium. Rochell, who contributed a sack as well, was part of a defensive line that held the Longhorns to 60 totalr ushing yards. 
and team captain Sheldon first time playing didn’t look quarterback. It’s cool to get carried by a pair of junior run-
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 

Sports Editor Day. like a freshman at all, just quarterback pressures, but ning backs in Taquan Mizzell 
“It was good seeing every-watching him fly around, that’s quarterback pressures, and Albert Reid. 
The noise was nonstop this thing that we went through make plays, have fun, finally it’s not a sack. It’s something “It’s about dominating the offseason and all throughout over the summer, spring ball see some excitement with we talk about a lot. offensive line, so we are defi­fall camp. and fall camp, the way [de-football. Definitely good to see “VanGorder uses the term nitely focusing on getting off, 
The Notre Dame defense fensive line] coach [Keith] him and Daniel play well, kept ‘almost guy,’ and he harps on hands and footwork, and so we was getting nearly everyone Gilmore has been on us about his gap and did everything we not being an ‘almost guy.’ … are definitely trying to make back after injuries decimated pass rush and how much we asked him to do.” We don’t want to be ‘almost sure we work our technique it last season, particularly at beat our work with the pass Day, Cage, Tillery, Rochell, guys,’ we want to make plays this week,” Day said. linebacker. The secondary was rush, and just to see it kind of senior Romeo Okwara and and be on the ball.” UCLA held the Cavaliers’ also going to benefit from the come together and be success-sophomore Andrew Trumbetti Day said he communicates offense to just 98 yards on return of senior cornerback ful at it,” Day said Wednesday. combined for a dozen tack-his personal quest for im-the ground, but Virginia ju-KeiVarae Russell when he was “That’s part of our mindset: les on the day, including four provement to the entire defen-nior signal-caller Matt Johns finally cleared by the NCAA. that we want to play with a lit-tackles for loss and a sack sive line. should provide a greater 
The biggest news up front tle bit of an attitude,” junior de-apiece from Day, Cage and “It’s definitely easy to get threat through the air than on the defensive line, how-fensive lineman Isaac Rochell Okwara. complacent, but we haven’t the Longhorns. Rochell said ever, was the loss of senior de-said. “I think it’s a big deal and Day in particular wreaked really [done] anything,” Day the Irish are looking forward fensive lineman Jarron Jones, it results in a winning culture. havoc in the Longhorn back-said. “So we are always trying to the challenge. who went down for the year [Defensive coordinator Brian] field, earning four quarter-to do what we can to get better “The biggest thing with with an MCL tear. In his place, VanGorder stresses that all the back hurries on the stat sheet. each and every day, especially [Virginia] is attitude,” Rochell sophomore Daniel Cage and time, and a lot of that stems All the same, Day said he was in the D-Line room. So much said. “They approach the freshman Jerry Tillery found from last year. When he called not pleased with his inability room for improvement.” game with an intensity that we themselves responsible for the defense soft, we changed to finish plays off. That ferocity and hunger haven’t seen, and that’s a big filling the void. Then came the our mentality. And in the first “I definitely left some sacks separates this season’s defen-deal, especially on the road. So NCAA’s denial of graduate stu-game, I think we did a good out on the table,” Day said. sive line from last year’s, Day I think it’s going to start with dent Ishaq Williams’ petition job. We were gang tackling, “I’m all about evaluating my-said. us coming out in the first and for a fifth year of eligibility. getting there, and that has a self with my finishing abil-“[It’s] just the way our cul-second quarter and really get-Suddenly the Irish defensive lot to do with attitude.” ity. So I would definitely say ture is in the defensive room, ting after it.” line became the question Day said Cage and Tillery, I didn’t grade out that well just trying to make sure we The Irish and Cavaliers mark on defense. thrown into the front line, personally.” have a dominating perfor-kick off from Scott Stadium 
One game, three sacks and were particularly impressive “We left so many sacks on mance every time we step on at 3:30 p.m. Saturday in 60 total rushing yards later, in their debuts. the field,” Rochell said, agree-the field,” Day said. Charlottesville, Virginia. the Irish defensive line has “They played out of their ing with the captain. “We Like Texas last week, made its statement, according minds, just running around for had a lot of quarterback pres-Virginia will look to attack the Contact Zach Klonsinski at to senior defensive lineman the ball,” Day said. “[Tillery’s] sures, but we want to get the Irish with a power-run game, zklonsin@nd.edu 

MICHAEL YU | The Observer 

The Irish defensive line — junior Isaac Rochell (90), senior Sheldon Day (91), freshman Jerry Tillery (99) and sophomore Andrew Trumbetti (98) — looks to the sideline for a play call during Notre Dame’s 38-3 win over Texas last Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. The defensive line totaled three sacks and seven quarterback hurries against the Longhorns. 




