



Administration plans ceremony 
ndsmcobserver.com 

Jenkins said. “due to the on saturday,” hurley said. and departments plan the 
By KAYLA MULLEN 
P.o. box 779, notre dame, In 46556 

Associate news editor outstanding hard work of “Undergraduate stu-academic components of in­
024 south dining hall, notre dame, In 46556 

our architectural and facili-dents have their degree dividual ceremonies.” 
Editor-in-Chief 

After an Aug. 28 email an-ties team here at notre dame conferred by Fr. Jenkins at “The office of campus 
Greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager nounced commencement and our construction part-the University ceremony safety oversees the secu­
                      Jack rooney cristina Gutierrez 

would be held in the Purcell ners and the blessings of a on sunday morning, then rity and safety protocols at 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary Green 

Asst. Managing Editor: Wei Lin Pavilion of the Joyce Athletic relatively good streak of win-receive their diploma at events.” 

Asst. Managing Editor: Lesley stevenson 

and convocation center ter weather, construction is various college or depart-In the case of severe 
News Editor: margaret hynds 

(JAcc) due to campus ahead of schedule, giving us mental ceremonies on weather  — defined as light-
Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski crossroads construction, a window to make the stadi-sunday afternoon.” ning, high winds and heavy 
Scene Editor: erin mcAuliffe 

Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen students were dismayed to um available for commence-commencement will be-and persistent rain – the 

Photo Editor: Zach Llorens 

learn each graduate would ment and making it possible gin at 9 a.m. in the stadium commencement ceremony 
Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: brian Lach 

be limited to three tickets for all family and friends of on sunday, while the college will be moved into the JAcc, 

Online Editor: michael Yu 

Advertising Manager: elaine Yu each. however, University the graduates to attend.” and departmental ceremo-the commencement website 

Ad Design Manager: Jasmine Park 

President Fr. Jenkins an-over 3,000 students are nies will begin at 1 p.m. that said. each graduate received 
Controller: cristina Gutierrez 

nounced in a town hall meet-graduating this weekend same day, according to the three “severe Weather” tick-

Office Manager & General Info 

ing Feb. 17 that a mild winter in 19 different ceremo-commencement website. ets; all other guests without 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 

Fax: (574) 631-6927 and faster-than-expected nies, University registrar Planning for a “severe Weather” ticket Advertising work by the construction chuck hurley said. nearly commencement is year-will be able to watch the cer­
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

crew made it possible to tem-23,000 guests are expected round, hurley said. emony live, which will be 

Editor-in-Chief 

porarily halt construction for to attend the University “[There are] over 100 com-broadcasted in auditoriums 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

commencement weekend. commencement ceremony mencement-related events in nearby large buildings, 

Managing Editor 

(574)631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu “We know the decision to in the stadium, he said. this week,” hurley said. “The the website said. Assistant Managing Editors relocate commencement to “Post-baccalaureate stu-office of the registrar coor­
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu 

the Joyce center troubled the dents have their degrees con-dinates the commencement Contact Kayla Mullen at 
wlin4@nd.edu, lsteven1@nd.edu 

senior class in particular,” ferred and receive diplomas ceremonies.  various colleges kmullen2@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of notre dame du Lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, Assistant managing editors and department editors. commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact information. 





saint mary’s selects valedictorian 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 

Post office Information said. rehearsal.” school in their mid-to-late 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
The observer (UsPs 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 

except during exam and vacation periods. saint mary’s editor The idea of writing a Under the direction of mu-20s.” 
A subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 

semester. speech for graduation is both sic professor Laurel Thomas, miller said her decision to 
The observer is published at: 

024 south dining hall Editor’s note: This article exciting and daunting, miller who became miller’s “men-attend saint mary’s was in­
notre dame, In 46556-0779 

Periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices previously ran in the March said. tor, teacher and inspiration,” fluenced by what she calls 
PosTmAsTer 

send address corrections to: 19 print edition of The “I am planning to discuss miller said she flourished at the college’s perfect pairing 
The observer 

P.o. box 779 Observer. my personal experience at saint mary’s. of the voice and dance pro­
024 south dining hall 

notre dame, In 46556-077 saint mary’s and the values According to a college grams, the opportunities to 
The observer is a member of the Associated Press. 

press release, Thomas said be exposed to science and 
All reproduction rights are reserved. senior sarah miller has 


been named the valedictori­miller is a determined indi­the sisterhood she experi­

an of the saint mary’s college 
class of 2015. 
miller, a music major vidual with great dedication ence during her first visit. 


to the arts. “I absolutely loved all of 

“sarah has the personal the girls I met when I toured 
and dance minor, is origi­strength, the patience to saint mary’s and imme-

News Sports 
nally from carmel, Indiana. 
miller has been involved on continually work toward her diately knew it was were I 

margaret hynds Zach Klonsinski haleigh ehmsen renee Griffin 

goals, the passion for music wanted to be,” miller stated 
Kayla mullen marek mazurek 

and learning that is vital to a in the press release. “The op-
campus as a member of the 


Graphics Scene 
erin rice erin mcAuliffe 

smc dance Team and has of sisterhood and indepen-life in the arts,” Thomas said. portunities are endless, and 
Photo  Viewpoint  
Wei Lin  Tabitha ricketts  
Corrections  

The observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
performed in the college’s choir, musicals and operas throughout her undergradu­ate years. 
Upon finding out she had received the title of valedic­torian, miller said she was pleasantly surprised, accord­ing to a college press release. 
“[I] feel so honored to represent women that I have learned so much from throughout my four years at saint mary’s college,” miller dence that I have gained here,” she said. 

miller said she believes her most important moments at saint mary’s stem from her experience as a music major. 
“my immersive experi­ences on stage have been the most influential,” she said. “I have learned so much about my voice and myself through the hours that I have spent alone in a practice room as well as onstage in opera 
Following graduation, miller said she plans to at­tend graduate school for vocal performance and is currently in the process of auditioning. 
“This is an extremely long and difficult process,” she said. “I’m crossing my fingers that I will get into a school next year, but many singers have to wait a couple years to let their voices mature. many opera singers go to graduate I encourage current and in­coming students to not only take advantage of learning in the classroom but also from your peers outside of that environment. 
“Finding a balance in col­lege can be difficult, but luck­ily you will always have the saint mary’s sisterhood as your support system.” 



Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 





Senior Anna Kottkamp named ND valedictorian 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
news editor 
senior Anna Kottkamp — the class of 2015 valedictori­an — learned early on in her college career that success would require a careful bal­ancing act. 
A member of the Glynn Family honors Program hailing from Wenatchee, Washington, Kottkamp has immersed herself in a wide array of extracurricular ac­tivities ranging from varsity rowing to the voices of Faith Gospel choir to research and service in south bend and abroad. 
Through it all, the envi­ronmental science major has maintained a 4.0 grade point average (GPA) and earned a spot on the dean’s List each semester that she has been on campus — a feat she attributes to finding an area of study that fascinated her. 
“I started out, as many people did, going into pre­med classes and pursuing a pre-med track,” she said. “I thought that was super in­teresting and maybe some­thing that I wanted to do, but then I worked in a clinic the summer after my fresh­man year. I quickly realized it just wasn’t my passion. 
“I had always been inter­ested in natural systems and the natural world and es­pecially how land use both effects humans and is af­fected by humans. That was a big turning point, when I switched my majors to envi­ronmental science. 
“ … It was probably one of the best decisions I’ve ever made, because I just love my classes all the time. I love what I’m learning and think that’s one of the most im­portant things for academic success — it’s about doing what you love.” 
of her status as a varsity athlete, Kottkamp said it had certainly proved a chal­lenge, but a welcome one, especially in her first few months at the University. 
“[being an athlete] makes a difficult transition for time commitment being in athletics was initially, so it just makes you have to shift some of your priorities. but in some ways, that’s a really good thing. 
“ … It forces you to choose things that you care about, the things that are going to be your priorities, and to pick those involvements and do them very well. There are so many awesome ways to be involved on campus, that I would have just been over­whelmed if I had tried to do all the things that I initially wanted to.” 
Although she walked onto the rowing team her fresh­man year without competi­tive experience, Kottkamp now has a full athletic schol­arship and is an ncAA elite 


“It was probably one of the best decisions I’ve ever made, because I just love my classes all the time. I love what I’m learning and think that’s one of the most important things for academic success — it’s about doing what you love.” 
Anna Kottkamp  
Notre Dame valedictorian  
anyone  even  more  diffi­ 89 award winner, Atlantic  
cult. You come into  notre  coast  conference  scholar- 
dame thinking about be- Athlete of the Year, collegiate  
ing a student first, and then  rowing coaches Association  
you throw the word ‘ath­ national  scholar-Athlete  
lete’  on  there,” she said. “I  and  Acc  postgraduate  
didn’t realize how big of a  scholarship  recipient,  the  
PAId AdverTIsemenT  

press release said. she is also a member of the athlet­ics department’s rosenthal Leadership Academy. 
off the water, Kottkamp said she had made use of several University programs and grants allowing her to go abroad for her interdisci­plinary studies. 
“After my sophomore year, I interned in Peru because I’m also studying interna­tional development,” she said. “That was related to agriculture and being in the jungle … but it was an awe­some first experience in­ternationally, and that led me to my second summer [abroad]. 
“[This past summer], I was in bolivia working for an or­ganization that works with farmers in the highlands. Their situation is inspiring because they face a lot of en­vironmental challenges, and they have to be really resil­ient and adaptable in the face of that.” 
reflecting on her time at the University, Kottkamp said she had relied heavily on her community and her family. 
“I’m not perfect at all, and I don’t think that’s what I’m pretending to be,” she said. “I’ve been really blessed with opportunities and sup­port from others to pursue whatever it is that I love. That’s been key, and that takes a lot of hard work that you can’ t do on your own. 
“The availability of men­tors and friends in my life that have pushed me and challenged me but also freed me to pursue those things has been incredible. my parents have never put any pressure on me in that way 
— they’re just proud of who I am, and that has allowed me to go far.” 
Paraphrasing a quote by writer George bernard shaw, Kottkamp said that discov­ering her passion and active­ly pursuing it was a key part of her success. 
“honestly, that’s been the best thing for me … realiz­ing that life is about making yourself,” Kottkamp said. “And a lot of that comes from taking time to decide what is really important to you and then pursuing what you love day in and day out. 
“You can’t get tired of it and you can’t be disappoint­ed with yourself because you’re doing what you love. no matter what happens 
— if you have a bad test or anything like that — you’re always willing to go further and try again.” 
According to a University press release naming her as the valedictorian, Kottkamp plans to help develop ed­ucational programming for fifth-graders at the columbia Gorge ecology Institute in oregon as part of the Jesuit volunteer corps before pursuing graduate education in environmental science. 
Kottkamp will deliver the valedictory address at the University commencement ceremony may 17. 

Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 




The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 15, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 




neville to receive Laetare medal 
Observer Staff Report 
Editor’s note: A version of this story ran in the March 16 edition of The Observer. 
The University will award Grammy-winning singer Aaron neville the Laetare medal at its 2015 commencement, director of media relations sue Lister announced sunday. 
The Laetare medal is the old­est award given to American catholics, having originated in 


1883, according to the press re-



SMC to confer two honorary degrees 
By KELLY KONYA 
senior news Writer 
Editor’s note: A version of this story ran in the March 25 edition of The Observer. 

saint mary’s 168th com­mencement ceremony will take place on Le mans Green in front of the iconic Le mans hall on saturday, may 16, to celebrate the graduation of approximately 350 students who constitute the class of 2015. This year’s gradu­ates herald from 30 states, one United states territory and five countries besides the United states — includ­ing canada, china, mexico, rwanda and singapore. 
At the ceremony, sr. rosemary connelly, will deliver the commencement speech. connelly and Terri Kosik will receive honorary degrees from the college. The 2015 valedictorian, mu­sic major sarah miller, will also address her graduating class. 
According to a college press release, president carol Ann mooney said both now executive director, as stated in the press release. misericordia home provides programs, service and resi­dential care to more than 600 children and adults with developmental and physical disabilities. 
named  administrator  of  
misericordia  home  in  
chicago  in  1969  and  is  

The organization’s mis­sion is to ensure that each person is encouraged to achieve his or her greatest potential through educa­tional, spiritual, vocation­al or recreational outlets. According to the press re­lease, the college wishes to recognize connelly for playing an integral role in misericordia home’s de­velopment into a loving, challenging and dignified environment to its residents. 
connelly has received nu­merous awards and honors throughout the years, in­cluding seven honorary doc­torate degrees from notre dame, Loyola University, dePaul University, Lewis University, marquette University, dominican herself to promoting qual­ity programs for children, their parents and teachers throughout Indiana. Kosik said the ecdc fits perfectly within the saint mary’s mis­sion, particularly in terms of religious sensibility and so­cial responsibility. 
“[At the ecdc,] we pro­vide unconditional love and acceptance. our classrooms are positive and full of joy­ful interactions and sup­port,” Kosik said. “Ages 0-5 are the formative years in brain development, social/ emotional development and cognitive skills. so it is im­portant for children of all races, ethnicities and faiths to to have high-quality ex­periences with dedicated and skilled professionals. And that’s what we deliver at the ecdc and have been do­ing for 40-plus years.” 
Kosik also teaches a course at saint mary’s each fall se­mester that pertains to the early childhood minor, as well as, graduate and under­graduate courses at other institutions. 
“What I love most about various majors … the real-life experience that takes what they are reading and hearing from their faculty members in class,” Kosik said. “They have a chance to come into the environment and observe children learn­ing and communicating.” 
Kosik said she was over­joyed upon learning she would receive an honorary degree from the college this may. 
“I must say that I was ut­terly surprised and speech­less, and so honored that I would be considered yet alone selected for such a prestigious award from saint mary’s, where I’ve spent 41 years on the cam­pus,” Kosik said. “I started at [age] 21 when the ecdc was tiny, and I had these wonderful people mentor­ing, coaching and support­ing me. carol Ann mooney’s children came to ecdc and so did my children and then my granddaughter. 
senior Audrey Kiefer said she is all the more excited for the commencement cer­emony now that these two 
lease. The University awards the medal each year to a catholic “whose genius has ennobled the arts and sciences, illus­trated the ideals of the church and enriched the heritage of humanity.” 
University President Fr. John Jenkins described neville as a man who uses his own strengths to express his faith. 
“Aaron neville proudly em­braces and honors his faith through his God-given musical talents,” Jenkins said in the press release. “Through tumultuous times in his life, Aaron turned to God, the blessed virgin mary and st. Jude for strength, for­giveness and salvation. 
“his example of repentance and devotion shine bright for all who see him perform.” 
In his prolific career as a mu­sician, neville released four albums that achieved plati­num status, created four top 20 hits in the United states, recipients of the honorary degrees are women who have devoted over 40 years of service to their respective ministries, offering educa­tion and support to children and adults. 

“At saint mary’s we chal­lenge our students to promote human dignity throughout their lives,” mooney said. “We are de­lighted to honor these excep­tional women for dedicating their lives to some of our most vulnerable citizens.” 
connelly, who is a member of the religious sisters of mercy, was University and Lewis University. 
Kosik also provides dedi­cated service to a minis­try ensuring educational opportunities to children at both notre dame and saint mary’s — the early childhood development center (ecdc). 
The ecdc program serves children ages two through kindergarten during the school year and children through age 10 in their sum­mer day camp program, ac­cording to the press release. 
during her 41 years with the ecdc, Kosik dedicated my job is supporting the de­velopment and learning of young children, but almost equally, I love supporting the learning and develop­ment of pre-service teach­ers as they cherish young children and learn the im­portant non-cognitive skills in children’s lives — con­fidence, love of learning, enthusiasm, empathy,” she said. 
Kosik said she especially enjoys the opportunity to provide future educators with hands on experience. 
“We offer for all the saint mary’s students from women will be honored. 
“As seniors, we’re all readying to go out and use all that saint mary’s had taught us in order to change the world,” Kiefer said. “here are two prime examples of women who have dedicated their lives to servicing oth­ers and providing aid where its needed. 
“I couldn’t think of two better people to be honored at our commencement, and I’m really looking forward to it.” 


Contact Kelly Konya at  kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Patten to give commencement speech 
Observer Staff Report  we are equally delighted that he will join us this year,”  Kong and policing reforms in northern Ireland, and he is a  Party after his graduation from balliol college, oxford.  
Editor’s note: A version of this  University President Fr. John  leading catholic who led the  In 1979, he was elected as a  
story ran in the Feb. 27 edition  Jenkins said in a press re- planning for Pope benedict’s  member of Parliament for  

won the 1989 Grammy Award 
of The Observer. 
for best Pop Instrumental very successful visit to Great bath. he served in the posi-


britain. his experience and tion until 1992, when he was 
Performance and best Pop oxford chancellor expertise are certain to reso­named governor of hong 

Performance by a duo or christopher Patten, Lord nate with our class of 2015.” Kong. he served as gover-

Group with vocals and was Patten of barnes, has been Patton, who has been nor until the territory was 

named a 2015 Grammy hall of named notre dame’s 2015 chancellor of oxford since handed over to the People’s 

Fame recording Inductee. commencement speaker, ac­2003, has also served as republic of china in 1997. 

The 74-year-old attended cording to a University press chair of the bbc Trust, the recognized as one of the 

catholic school in new orleans release. governing body of the british most influential catholics in 
as a child and dedicated each of his albums to the apostle st. Jude, patron saint of hope and impossible causes, the press re­lease stated. 
In winning the Laetare medal, neville joins the ranks of other American catholics includ­ing President John F. Kennedy, dorothy day, Walker Percy, 

Patten was slated to de­liver the commencement address last year, but health concerns led to a change of speaker. 
“We were very disappoint­ed that Lord Patten was un­able to attend last year, and lease. “he is a highly respect­ed statesman in Great britain and around the world who has taken on and helped re­solve complex international issues, including the trans­fer of governance in hong broadcasting corporation, and chancellor of newcastle University. In 2005, he was bestowed the title of baron. 
Patton began his career as a desk officer, and later a director, in the research de­partment of the conservative britain, Patten has worked with Pope benedict and Pope Francis. 
notre dame’s 170th commencement ceremony will be held sunday, may 17 at 9 a.m. in notre dame stadium. 
martin sheen and many others. 
The University’s 170th commencement ceremony will be held may 17 in notre dame stadium. 





Alumnae name Rabach as Outstanding Senior 
By MARTHA REILLY 
news Writer 
In sixth grade, Kaitlyn rabach decided she want­ed to attend saint mary's. since then, rabach has re­mained devoted to the college, and the Alumnae Association board of directors named her this year's outstanding senior. (Editor's note: Rabach served as Saint Mary's Editor for The Observer from 2013-2014.) 
recipients of this award display values of scholarship and leadership, according to director of media relations Gwen o'brien. 
"As the valedictorian rep­resents the mind, and the Lumen christi Award re­cipient reflects the soul, the outstanding senior embod­ies the heart of the graduat­ing class at saint mary’s," o'brien said. 
rabach, a political science major with minors in global studies as well as gender and women's studies, said saint mary's granted her unique opportunities such as work­ing with women from around the world to implement change in their communities. 
"saint mary's has taught me that helping women is really important and that raising up women is really important," rabach said. "The president of my col­lege is a woman. That doesn't happen everywhere." 
rabach's devotion to women's leadership is evi­dent through her social jus­tice work, according to her political science professor sonalini sapra, who nomi­nated her for the honor. she said rabach worked well with 20 college students from five countries during the study of the United states Institute (sUsI) on Global Women's Leadership in 2012 and 2013. 
"I was the lead faculty for that institute and got to see firsthand the great in­tercultural leadership and sensitivity demonstrated by Kaitlyn," sapra said. "she showed maturity well be­yond her years." 
rabach has also raised awareness about contem­porary slavery by founding saint mary's college new Abolitionists, sapra said. her passion for seeking jus­tice and promoting women's education make rabach the best choice for outstanding senior, sapra said. 



"she challenges everyone around her to always think carefully about what they read and say and pushes oth­ers to do their best work," sapra said. "she’s a truly gifted, deeply serious and morally decent human being whom I’m proud to have as a student. I can’t think of any­one I know who deserves this award more than she does." 
rabach said she plans to move to London in may to pursue a master's degree 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 
in social anthropology. she credited her saint mary's ed­ucation with giving her the ability to pursue the move. 
"saint mary's has given me the confidence to feel like I can tackle anything that comes my way," she said. "saint mary's gave me the tools to tackle all the barriers and obstacles in my way with a positive attitude, and that's something I'm really thank­ful for." 
rabach said she appreci­ates fellow leaders within the saint mary's community. 
"I think that the heart of saint mary's is centered on social justice and advocacy, and every day I am surround­ed by so many of my peers doing such great work in the saint mary's community and the south bend community and really at the world at large," rabach said. "To be recognized for the social jus­tice work that I've been doing here on campus is truly hon­oring and humbling." 


Contact Martha Reilly at  mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 




ND announces honorary degree recipients 
according to the release. 1999 to 2008. According to from both the University and the rector emeritus 

Observer Staff Report 

mcAuliffe serves as the the release, mcAuliffe is also of california, berkeley and of the Tantur ecumenical Editor’s note: A version of this director of the John W. a scholar of the Qur'an and harvard medical school. Institute in Jerusalem, will 
early Islamic history. receive a doctor of laws 
story ran in the April 6 edition of 
Quiñones-hinojosa works degree. According to the 
The Observer. 


as a professor of neurosur­
gery and oncology and di­
rector of the brain tumor 
surgery program at Johns 
hopkins hospital and will 
receive a doctor of science 
degree. According to the re-release, stransky contrib­
uted heavily to one of the 
second vatican council's 
most important documents, 
the 1965 declaration on the 
relation of the church to 
non-christian religions. In addition to com­
mencement speaker Lord 
christopher Patten, the chan­
cellor of oxford University, 
notre dame will award six 
honorary degrees at its 170th 

commencement ceremony lease, he was born in a small 

Freeman A. 
Hrabowski III 
president 

Kluge center at the Library 
of congress, which gives 
scholars the opportunity to 
research and interact with 
members of congress, and 
will receive a doctor of laws 
degree. she has previously 
worked as the president of 
bryn mawr college from ryan, who along with her 

son corbett, a 2005 notre 
dame graduate, are the 
namesakes of ryan hall, will 
receive a doctor of laws de­
gree. she is a trustee emerita 
of the University and served 
on the national council on 
disability, which led to the 
on may 17, the University an­nounced in a press release monday. 
The honorary degree recipients, whose ac­complishments span the fields of education, busi­ness, medicine and re­ligion, are: Freeman A. hrabowski III, John e. Kelly III, Jane mcAuliffe, Alfredo Quiñones-hinojosa, shirley 2008 to 2013 and as as dean American with disabilities stransky is also a former of Georgetown college at village outside of mexicali, Act, the release stated. president of the Paulist Georgetown University from mexico, and graduated stransky, a Paulist priest fathers. 

PAId AdverTIsemenT 

senior vice president 

Welsh ryan and Fr. Thomas 
F. stransky. 
hrabowski, who has served as the president of the University of maryland, baltimore county since 1992, will receive a doctor of laws degree, the release stated. A mathematician who grew up in birmingham, Alabama, during the peak of the civil rights movement, hrabowski also serves as the chair of the President’s Advisory 
commission  on  educational  
excellence  for  African  
Americans.  

Kelly, senior vice president of solutions portfolio and re­search for Ibm, will receive a doctor of engineering degree. he has held several differ­ent positions at Ibm, begin­ning in 1980, and helped redesign the semiconductor processing and device fabri­cation clean room in stinson­remick hall of engineering, 





seniors receive student leadership awards 
By CLARE KOSSLER 
news Writer 
Editor’s note: A shortened version of this article ran in the April 20 print edition of The Observer. 
seven graduating seniors received awards from notre dame’s division of student Affairs at the annual student Leadership Awards banquet held march 31, according to a University press release. 
The press release stated student Affairs will also hon­or graduate student Aamir Ahmed Khan at the Graduate school Awards ceremony on may 15. 
“humbled” was the de­scriptor of choice for stu­dents who received awards. 
senior matthew Wong, who received the rev. Theodore hesburgh, c.s.c., Award, said he was “very surprised and honored and very hum­ble for sure.” 
This year’s recipient of the ray siegfried Award for Leadership excellence, se­nior megan heeder, said she was “very humbled and grateful for the recognition that I’ve been somewhat suc­cessful in my desire to make a positive impact on the lives of other people here.” 
According to the press release, each of the eight awards acknowledges par­ticular leadership qualities in students “who have made exceptional contributions to the notre dame community.” 
The rev. Theodore hesburgh, c.s.c., Award celebrates a senior who has promoted a spirit of diversity and inclusion during his or her time on campus and was awarded to Wong for his ser­vice as chair of the diversity council of notre dame, ac­cording to the press release. 
“I think [this award] re­ally shows that notre dame is putting diversity and in­clusion at the forefront,” he said. “It’s acknowledg­ing students who are tak­ing steps to making notre dame more welcoming, re­gardless of socioeconomic background, race, gender, ethnicity — whatever it may be.” 
Wong said the accom­plishments of the diversity council — which include last year’s submission of a 10-point resolution contain­ing recommendations on di­versity to the administration 
— are the result of the com­bined efforts of the entire board. 
“Without them, all of the stuff we’ve done as a council would have been impossible. There’s no way I could have carried all that weight by myself,” he said. 
The ray siegfried Award for Leadership excellence, presented to heeder for her involvement in the robinson 

community Learning  
center’s Youth development  
Americorps and the center  
for social concern’s summer  
service Learning Program,  
honors a student who has  
demonstrated leadership,  
athletic ability and a love for  
the catholic faith, according  
to the press release.  
heeder, who participated  
as a three-sport varsity ath­ 
lete her freshman through  
junior years, said she was  
honored to receive the award  
because it acknowledged her  
“some degree of success in  
creating a positive change in  
the lives of other people.”  
“because if I leave here  
without doing that, then  concerns of  others around  
what was the point of being  us.”  
here at all?” she said.  rangel,  who served as the  
The mike russo spirit  2014-2015  campus ministry  
Award highlights a student’s  multicultural  intern, also  
service and personal char- co-founded  and became  
acter and was given to for- president  of  the student  
mer student body president  coalition  for  Immigration  
Lauren vidal for her efforts  Advocacy  in order to raise  

“I’ve been blessed to have free time and to 
have resources to proivde to other people 
who need them more. Getting to use that 
for a greater purpose and for an issue 
that’s really important to me — hunger 
and malnutrition and healthy eating — 
and getting to pair that up with meeting 
people from the South Bend community, I 
think is really cool.” 
Christina Gutierrez 

recipient, John W. Gardner Student Leadership Award 
regarding campus safety, awareness about immigra­mental health awareness tion issues and to stimulate and community outreach, outreach to undocumented the press release stated. students, he said. 
“having an opportunity to “I feel so lucky to have met really listen to those around so many people on cam-me and speak on their be-pus who have supported me half in larger conversations through my crazy endeav­about campus climate or ors,” he said. need fueled my efforts each The blessed basil moreau, day,” vidal said. “I learned c.s.c., Leadership Award, that it is only when you fol-given to senior Grace carroll low the needs of your peers for her work coordinating and school, when you put this year’s campus ministry their needs first, that you Freshman retreat, honors truly lead in the role.” a student “who embodies 
The rev. A. Leonard blessed Fr. moreau’s vision collins, c.s.c., Award was of educating heart and mind, presented to former student as well as someone who government chief of staff has demonstrated signifi-Juan rangel for his dedica-cant effort to advancing the tion in serving the inter-catholic character of the ests of the student body, University,” the press release according to the press re-stated. lease. Particularly, the “I was really surprised to award recognized rangel’s get the award, never expect-commitment to increasing ed to get it,” carroll said. support for students of high “I’m just doing what every-financial need and undocu-one around me is trying to mented students. do, and that’s just trying 
“I think, especially with us to be a better person every all being college students, day.” it’s really easy to become carroll, also the campus individualistic and think ministry representative in about the needs and neces-student government, said sities that we ourselves have she believes the freshman 
— we need to go to office retreat and campus ministry hours, and we need to get are important to the campus good grades, and we need community because they en-to find a job,” rangel said. courage students to reflect “but there’s so many con-upon their daily lives. cerns that we have ourselves “our generation, often we that we sometimes forget the find God in relationships, and we find God through service,” she said. “I think it’s really important that when we’re doing service, we’re remembering why we’re doing it, and I think in campus ministry, we’re try­ing to make that connection more intentional.” 

The John W. Gardner student Leadership Award recognized senior christina Gutierrez for her commit­ment to service in the greater south bend community, ac­cording to the press release. Gutierrez said she specifi­cally received the award for her work volunteering and fundraising for the monroe Park Grocery cooperative in south bend and for her ser­vice as president of the notre dame chapter of the World hunger coalition. 
“I’ve been blessed to have free time and to have re­sources to provide to oth­er people who need them more,” she said. “Getting to use that for a greater pur­pose and for an issue that’s really important to me — hunger and malnutrition and healthy eating — and getting to pair that up with meeting people from the south bend community, I think is really cool.” 
Gutierrez said she has been involved with the monroe Park Grocery cooperative since the end of her fresh­man year and that during her sophomore year, she di­rected a project to design and sell a calendar cookbook which raised nearly $5,000 for the cooperative. 
“It’s a great sense of ful­fillment knowing that you can engage in a community that you don’t necessarily live in, but that you’re still more broadly a part of,” she said. 
The denny moore Award for excellence in Journalism acknowledges a graduating senior who, according to the press release, exhibits exem­plary character and writing ability. 
The press release stat­ed this year’s recipient, Jonathan Warren, was granted the award for his achievements as the former editor-in-chief of scholastic and for his service as the public relations director for The shirt Project. 
“I think notre dame’s val­ues, those of educating the whole person and serving others, values I’m told denny moore exemplified, really 


“I learned that it is only when you follow the needs of your peers and school, when you put their needs first, that you truly lead in the role.” 
Lauren Vidal 
recipient 
Mike Russo Spirit Award 
lend themselves to a mean­ingful education in journal­ism,” Warren said. “I’ve been grateful to work with other students, professors and mentors who have helped me to explore journalism as a practice of empathy and ser­vice to others. 
“my role with scholastic has allowed me to meet so many incredible people, and students in particular, whose stories have inspired me. … Ultimately, I owe so much to the writers, editors and our adviser, bob Franken, for their help and for giving me the platform to try to deeply explore this campus.” 
The sister Jean Lenz, o.s.F., Leadership Award, to be presented to Khan for his accomplishments as the 2012-2013 and 2013-2014 president of the muslim student Association, distin­guishes a graduate student who promotes a welcoming and diverse atmosphere on campus, according to the press release. 
“I was very overwhelmed,” Khan said, recalling the mo­ment he learned he was to receive the award. “This is undoubtedly the biggest ex­tracurricular recognition that I have ever received throughout my career.” 
Contact Clare Kossler at  ckossler@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 15, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND, SMC student body leaders reflect on past year 
Vidal/Devine administration focused on community initiatives 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
news editor 
Editor’s note: A version of this story ran in the April 1 edition of The Observer. 
As their tenure came to a close march 31, outgoing stu­dent body president and vice president Lauren vidal and matthew devine reflected on their year in office, sharing in hindsight the issues that proved to be their greatest triumphs and challenges. 
In particular, the two said, they took pride in the wide range of programming and initiatives they took on to respond to the di­verse opinions and needs of the student body. 
“We’ve been able to meet so many people and to learn many perspectives and stories through all the different things that we’ve done this year,” devine said. 
Highlights 
In particular, vidal said this administration tried to focus on community, both on campus and in the greater south bend area, by tackling issues such as the Alma mater policy after football games and the 29 for 29 program, which paired residence halls with needy families from the south bend community. 
“At the beginning of the year, we sat down with the Football Unity council and looked at the Alma mater policy and why it was eliminated after home games and then discussed all the concerns in a very honest conversation,” vidal said. “Going forward, we es­sentially assured that we would be promoting a supportive envi­ronment in the stands.” 
The Football Unity council will continue to address the Alma mater policy annually. 
devine said he and vidal hope the 29 for 29 initiative would go beyond the holiday season and become a permanent fixture on campus. As of right now, a stu­dent government focus group has been assembled to review the program, and vidal estimated that 10 to 15 residence halls are still actively engaging with their assigned families. 
“[29 for 29] was a really or­ganic effort to bridge our under­standing of how students see the south bend area but also at the same time develop really strong relationships with needy fami­lies around the area and to bring them to campus to be honorary members of the dorms,” devine said. “The goal was to enrich stu­dents’ understanding of south bend, but also to develop those personal connections.” 
Challenges 
vidal said throughout the pro­cess of working with the Worker Participation committee — which addressed the University’s “china Policy” — she and devine struggled to connect the feel­ings of the student body with the University’s administration. 
“We really tried to engage the campus, really giving it my all,” she said. “ … We did get some pushback after the fact; students were discouraged by the fact that they thought that they didn’t have enough of a forum for conversa­tion or input. We understand that a gap between students and the [University] administration has always been present. 
“That’s something that every [student government] adminis­tration has struggled with, try­ing to bring the two together. What we’ve learned is that the [University] administration is extremely open to speaking with the students at all times. 
“I think there’s work to be done building that communication. … It’s just something to main­tain and keep healthy.” 
Moving forward 
Although the two are free from nearly all their student govern­ment obligations for the rest of the year, they have several lin­gering commitments, including their board of Trustees report and communiversity day. Additionally, vidal will chair the campus Life council for the re­mainder of the academic year. 
Looking forward to next year, devine predicted several key is­sues would remain at the fore­front of the minds of students and community members. 
“one of the big conversations we’ve had is surrounding cam­pus safety, but also with students moving off campus and the con­siderations they have for campus safety and out in the community as well,” devine said. 
“something that I think will come up a lot next year — and has begun at the end of this year 
— are students of different socio­economic backgrounds as well as undocumented students. That’s something that’s been publicized more recently, but I think that will continue to be something the university talks about.” 
‘An extreme privilege’ 
of the team’s year in office, vidal said she was grateful for the ability to speak with and learn from so many of her fellow students. 
“This has been an extreme privilege,” vidal said. “matt and I have really been given a unique opportunity to have input on be­half of our peers and on how the University is moving forward, and we’ve seen that as a great honor. We haven’t taken one day for granted … we’ve really tried to give it our all, every day. … We’ve learned, truly, what a spe­cial place this is.” 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 


Schuster/Moorhead administration aimed to increase student involvement in school activities 
By AUBREY CLARK 
news Writer 

Last February, seniors mcKenna schuster and sam moorhead found out they would be the new 2014-2015 student body president and vice president, respectively. schuster, a business ad­ministration major with a minor in psychology, and moorhead, a chemistry and spanish double major, had been previous acquaintanc­es, but running together was not the original plan. 
“It wasn’t something we really planned on,” schuster said. “one day sam came up to me and said, ‘You’re run­ning for president? can I be your vP?’” 
The student body presi­dent and vice president po­sitions are tasked with many responsibilities through­out their one-year term. schuster and moorhead said these tasks were not always what they expected but turned out to be rewarding all the same. 
“I expected it to be really busy but really fulfilling,” schuster said. “We knew that other people were going to be counting on us to get things done.” 
schuster also said be­ing able to watch various plans come into action was exciting. 
“I think seeing what our committee chairs accom­plished was really fun, espe­cially Love Your body Week and support a belle, Love a belle in the fall semester,” schuster said. “sam and I didn’t work on that person­ally, but those were things we were able to encourage our other members of sGA to get going and be successful with.” 
schuster and moorhead said although they did not expect to be working with administration as much as they did, it ended up being an enlightening part of the job. 
“It was a cool experience to be able to work so closely with them and know things that are going on in our com­munity,” moorhead said. 
“It was mostly administra­tive work and team work,” schuster said. 
during their time in office, schuster and moorhead ac­complished many tasks pre­

“One of our biggest goals was restructuring and formattting the constitution so that it was a more cohesive, concise document and was more applicable to all of the student organizations on campus. ... In a month Sam and I had brought members of SGA together to get that done.” 
McKenna Schuster 
Saint Mary’s student body 
president emeritus 
vious administrations had begun work on. one of the achievements they were able to fulfill was a substantial revamp of the saint mary’s student body constitution. 
“one of our biggest goals was restructuring and for­matting the constitution so that it was a more cohesive, concise document and was more applicable to all of the student organizations on campus,” schuster said. 
“That was a big task that sGA has been working on for the past four years, and it wasn’t working. In a month sam and I had brought members of sGA together to get that done.” 
Another task the seniors set out to accomplish was the updating of the finance guidelines. 
“It will now be way easier for students and organiza­tions to understand how to apply for money, how to receive sponsorships and travel grants and work better with our vice president of fi­nance and administration,” schuster said. 
schuster and moorhead said they aimed to increase student involvement in ac­tivities over the course of the 2014-2015 academic year. 
“The smc cards that we launched first semester were really successful,” moorhead said. “There was a huge in­crease in involvement in events this year, which is re­ally exciting for us to see.” 
Their advice for future student government lead­ers is to stay organized and work together. 
“Find someone you work well with,” schuster said. “I could not have done this without sam at all.” 
both schuster and moorhead have plans for post-graduate life. In the up­coming year, moorhead will be working for a company in Indianapolis, and schuster will most likely be moving to chicago to discover what’s next for her. 
“I’ll be working through the orr fellowship in Indianapolis next year for a company called Apparatus,” moorhead said. “That’s what I know for now.” 
Contact Aubrey Clark at aclark02@saintmarys.edu 



Seniors celebrate last week on campus 
Notre Dame Senior Week Committee hosts service projects, trip to Chicago, Commencement Ball for class of 2015 
By WEI LIN 
Assistant managing editor 
For notre dame seniors, senior Week celebrates not only the academic achieve­ments of the entire class, but also the lifetime friendships fostered at the University. The class of 2015 will come together for one last time to enjoy each other’s presence, appreciate the University that brought them together and participate in numerous activities that highlight the notre dame experience. 
hermona Abera, 2015 senior Week committee chair, said senior class council presi­dent martin Walsh asked her to spearhead the planning because of her experience coordinating Junior Parents Weekend 2014. 
senior Week began sunday with two service projects ben­efitting the south bend com­munity, the last class mass and the class of 2015 Picnic. 
“I think that this [was] a re­ally nice way to end the year,” Abera said. “I wanted to struc­ture this in a nice thematic way. starting off with sunday, in a typical notre dame fash­ion, we go to mass. We go give back, we reflect and we have a fun picnic.” 
on monday, seniors em­barked on a day trip to chicago to see the chicago cubs face the new York mets at Wrigley Field. The class attended their last tailgate at Legends and participat­ed in a night of activities at strikes and spares bowling on Tuesday. 
Wednesday was titled as the day of Lasts, featuring the last dining hall dinner and Grotto trip. 
Underground tunnel tours and hesburgh Library penthouse tours were held throughout Wednesday and Thursday, and the week concluded with the commencement ball at century center on Thursday night. 
“The commencement ball is a very unique event,” Abera said. “We never had a time at notre dame when the entire class — beside the domerFest, which doesn’t re­ally count — when the entire class is together in a nice for­mal environment. It’s almost like a prom. … It’s a nice op­portunity for the first and last time we’ll have a formal event as a class. It’s a nice way to end the week.” 

According to Abera, tickets for many of the events sold out within hours of becom­ing available on the online student shop. Technical dif­ficulties further complicated the process, and a number of seniors were not able to pur­chase tickets before they sold out. Abera explained she un­derestimated the number of 
“It goes by so fast. The mindset in senior year is you want to enjoy every second of it.” 
Adelle Barte 
senior 

people interested in attend­ing the events because last year the turnout was less than expected. 
“It’s unfortunate so many of these events are so limit­ed,” she said. “If I had known there was such an interest, I would’ve tried to find dif­ferent venues and different events. 
“I’m so excited that so many people are so interested in this. We’re notre dame, so we get very passionate, and we get very excited, and we want to go to all the events.” 
senior Adelle barte said she was as excited as Abera about the senior Week events. 
“I signed up for every­thing,” barte said. “I’m all in. They’re really great deals, and all of my friends signed up for them. I’m pretty easy­going so whatever they were going to do, I was totally cool with doing. 
“The senior class council put a lot of effort into putting this together for a reason, and I think it’s worth it at the end of the day.” 
Aside from senior Week events, barte said she wanted to treasure this last week with her friends. 
“my friends and I have been going out to dinner,” she said. “We just lounge around. Last night, we watched a chick-flick before going out. We’ve just been trying to find time to spend together. … It doesn’t really matter what we’re doing. It’s the company that matters.” 
barte said she was able check one last thing off her notre dame bucket list by participating in this year’s Fiestang, the annual Filipino dinner and cultural show. 
“It goes by fast,” barte said, reflecting on her senior year. “The mindset in senior year is you want to enjoy every sec­ond of it.” 
senior Andrew hosbein said he planned to attend the chicago cubs game, but since he and his friends were in chicago the day before and would be required to re­turn to campus to board the University sponsored buses, they decided to purchase their own tickets to the game. 
Aside from the cubs game, hosbein also said he planned on attending the senior Week events on Wednesday and the commencement ball. 
“I think the [tunnel tours] are the most unique and let us see a part of campus most of us have never seen,” he said. 
senior monica mcevoy also tried her best to enjoy this last week with her friends. 
“I don’t think you have to make extravagant plans,” mcevoy said. 
“I just got back a freshmen year letter that I wrote to my­self on the first day of orien­tation, mcevoy said. “ … one thing I really like was that I wrote, ‘You’re going to make so many great friends that you’ll have for a lifetime.’ And I think that I did; I definitely did. Like I have a great group of friends — different group of friends, too — that I think are just really special, and I will hold onto those friends as I go on from notre dame.” 
To  the  seniors,  “class  
of  2015”  carries  different  
meanings.  

“It really has become home and a family to me,” barte said. “no matter when I met anyone, there is some sort of connection I have with them. That’s always going to be there. so I would definitely say it’s a home, it’s family, and it’s a safe space for me. “ 
“I’m a numbers person, so ‘class of 2015’ will obviously just be the year I graduated from notre dame,” hosbein said. “ … but I think more importantly I’ll remember the specific people — friends, teachers, etc. — who helped make these four years so special.” 
Contact Wei Lin at  wlin4@nd.edu 
Belles end their time at Saint Mary’s with scavenger hunt, Yacht Dance 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN and OLIVIA JACKSON 
saint mary’s editor and news Writer 
At saint mary’s, senior Week activities sought to commemorate the tradition and rich sisterhood of the college. 
vice president of the senior class Lauren osmanski said the week kicked off may 8 with a Yacht dance in chicago. The Yacht dance was a new addi­tion this year because the se­nior class raised a surplus of money, she said. 
After the dance, official events resumed monday with an alumnae brunch at 11 a.m. in noble Family dining hall. Later in the afternoon, se­niors departed for chicago again to attend a chicago cubs baseball game. 
osmanski said the senior Week activities incorporated some new events and some traditional ones to help se­niors say goodbye to the college. 
“I hope that the students can end senior Week believ­ing that they were able to give saint mary’s a proper good­bye,” she said. “our senior Week is designed to bring the 
“I hope that the students can end Senior Week believing that they were able to give Saint Mary’s a proper goodbye.” 
Lauren Osmanski 
vice president 
Saint Mary’s senior class 
seniors to campus and visit all best spots on campus and just enjoy the campus as stu­dents before they leave.” 
Wednesday, osmanski and the senior class coun­cil planned a scavenger hunt on Library Green and field day activities on dalloway’s Green, ending the eve­ning with karaoke in rice commons. 
seniors were able to leave a physical mark on campus with handprint painting in the Le mans tunnel Thursday. 
“every saint mary’s stu­dent has walked through that tunnel, and placing our handprints in the tunnel is a great way to leave saint mary’s knowing that we are leaving something behind,” osmanski said. 
The Le mans bell Tower was open for seniors to ex­plore Thursday from 12 p.m. to 2 p.m., and the opening of the circle ceremony began at 3 p.m. closing of the circle happens during first-year orientation, and opening of the circle signifies the way students are sent forth from saint mary’s campus and into the world beyond after gradu­ation, osmanski said 
This year at the opening of the circle ceremony se­niors will be presented with letters written during the senior Letter Writing Project, osmanski said. 
The senior Letter Writing Project is a new tradition osmanski said she hopes will carry on to the future. The project has allowed students, faculty and family members of the class of 2015 to write letters to individuals in the graduating class. 
senior class president Tori Wilbraham said the project began as a way for members of the senior class to show grati­tude to one another and to the saint mary’s community. 
“our hope is that the saint mary’s community will take a few minutes to say thank you to one another for their pres­ence and influence during their time at saint mary’s,” Wilbraham said. “I think writing letters is such a beau­tiful way to preserve a feeling or relationship.” 
senior nora clougherty participated in the project and wrote letters to her peers. 
“I have written letters to all of my friends who have im­pacted my life, even if it was a small memory we shared,” clougherty said. “It has been so great to relive memories and let people know the im­pact they have made in my own life.” 
clougherty said she also hopes other classes adopt the letter writing project as part of their senior Week festivities. 
“This project is a great way for friends, family or profes­sors to let the seniors know what a big impact they have made or to let a senior know how much they mean to them,” she said. 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu and Olivia Jackson at ojacks01@saintmarys.edu 


PAId AdverTIsemenT 




Seniors commit to teach with ACE program 
By GABRIELA MALESPIN 
news Writer 
As seniors contemplate and prepare for their postgradu­ate opportunities, a handful have already committed to spending the next two years teaching children in un­derserved catholic schools as part of the Alliance for catholic education (Ace). 
Founded in 1993 by Fr. sean mcGraw and Fr. Timothy r. scully, Ace seeks to strength­en catholic education in under-resourced schools in the country. The organiza­tion has sent more than 1,200 teachers to catholic schools across the United states. 
more than 30 members of this year’s graduating class have committed to serve as Ace teaching fellows. In ad­dition to teaching for the next two years, they will also engage in intensive studies at notre dame during the summer. 
matthew Gelchion, re­cruiting coordinator for Ace teaching fellows and a 2009 graduate of notre dame, credits the tight-knit and formative environment of the Ace community with the relative success of the program. Gelchion said Ace teachers are distinguished by their willingness to embrace challenge and their unique energy and noted how their experience with Ace left them transformed for the better. 
Anthony barrett, a se­nior from stanford hall and english major with minor in education, schooling and society, said he decided to become a teacher after work­ing with ninth graders dur­ing one of his summers as an undergraduate. barrett, who will work in st. Pius X middle school in denver, colorado, said his internship at Ace during his senior year moti­vated him to apply and join the program. 
“Working with the other people in the Ace program was just really incredible, and every person I talk to, whether they’ve already committed to Ace or whether they’re thinking about it, got me more excited about teach­ing,” barrett said. 
emily voorde, a senior from ryan hall with a ma­jor in political science, said she was introduced to Ace by her high school principal and teacher — both gradu­ates of the program — and was drawn towards Ace’s in­tense curriculum and close community. voorde, who will be teaching second grade at resurrection catholic school in Pascagoula, mississippi, said she hoped to ultimately inspire a love of learning and faith in her students. 
“I think I’m really looking forward to the purpose and reward that comes from in-address some of those sys­temic problems. murphy said the program’s catholic nature and focus distin­guishes it from other service programs. 

“[Ace] is not only catholic in name but also catholic in practice, so that’s one of the main focuses when we enter a classroom. We don’t just want to help the kids learn social studies or history, but we want to help them grow in virtue and as catholics,” murphy said. 
“once you’re invested in catholic education or catholic schools in America, you can’t leave that behind after two years,” murphy said. 
mary ostrowski, who will also teach in Texas, said the Ace program is an opportu­nity for deep and meaning­
“Working with the other people in the ACE program was just really incredible, and every person I talk to, whether they’ve already committed to ACE or whether they’re thinking about it, got me more excited about teaching.” 
Anthony Barret senior 
fluencing these kids in a pos­itive way,” voorde said. 
“I want to be able to look back and say, ‘I provided these kids with not only this great academic formation but also just [instilled] in them a confidence that maybe they don’t get at home,’ and just instill in them a love for their faith and a love for their aca­demics,” voorde said. 
maria murphy, a senior from Pangborn hall, said she decided to apply to Ace af­ter examining the systemic problems in the American education system through the University’s education, schooling and society minor. murphy will be teaching in corpus christi, Texas, and said she hoped her experi­ence with Ace would provide her with the opportunity to ful service rather than just a two-year commitment, not­ing how most students in the program aim to stay involved in education after they finish, whether through teaching or involvement in education policy. 

“You hear all the stories of people who have done Ace, and they’ve just grown so much as a community and have been able to form that network that extends beyond those two years of classroom teaching, as well as learning how to put others (especially students) before yourself. The next two years are going to be a huge growing and learning experience, and I’m really ex­cited,” ostrowski said. 
Contact Gabriela Malespin at gmalespi@nd.edu 
Thirteen students win fellowships, national awards 
By KAYLA MULLEN 
Associate news editor 
Thirteen students from the class of 2015 have received fellowships this year from prestigious programs such as the Fulbright U.s. student Program and the national science Foundation, dr. Jeffrey Thibert said. 
“This success is a testa­ment to the outstanding un­dergraduate education that our students receive, not only in terms of their academic work but also in terms of the scholarly engagement activi­ties that they pursue beyond the classroom both in the U.s. and abroad,” said Thibert, the assistant director of nation­al fellowships for the center for Undergraduate scholarly engagement (cUse). 
“cUse looks forward to continuing to work with the class of 2015 as they become alumni — it’s never too late to apply for some of these fellow­ships, and every year, alumni receive major awards like the rhodes scholarship, the Gates cambridge scholarship or the Fulbright.” 
Fulbright 
The Fulbright U.s. student Program provides grants for international research or study projects and english teaching assistant programs, according to the program’s website. nine se­niors received Fulbright grants this year, and notre dame had 17 recipients as an institution, the most the University has ever had, Thibert said. 
claire donovan will travel to Togo in West Africa to research “micronutrient Fortification and maternal health in Togo: A model for sustainable Aid” on a fellowship. 
christina Gutierrez received the Fulbright/casten Family Foundation Award to study at the University of Gastronomic sciences in Italy. Gutierrez is a hesburgh-Yusko scholar, Fellowships provide funding for research-based study lead­ing to a master’s or doctoral degree in the sTem fields (sci­ence, technology, engineering and math), according to the Fellowships’ website. 
The program receives more than 16,000 applications for 2015 and awarded 2,000 fellowships. 
The three recipients of the fellowship were Ashley Armstrong, a mechanical engineer; Patrick marino, a physics and mechanical en­gineering double major; and Annie stephenson, a physics major. 
Udall Native American Congressional internship 
Tyler barron, a sociology and American studies double major, was awarded the Udall native American congressional internship. The internship pro­vides American Indian and Alaska native students an op­portunity to understand the government-to-government relationship between native Tribes and the federal govern­ment, the program’s website said. barron is the first recipi­ent from notre dame in the school’s history, Thibert said. 
Austrian  Teaching  
Assistantship  
Two  students  received  
the  Austrian  Teaching  

Assistantship, which provides graduates with an interest in Austrian students to work at secondary schools through­out Austria, the website said. eric donahue and rachel ruddick, both majors in bio­logical sciences with minors in German, both declined for the Fulbright U.s. student Program. 
eric donahue also was awarded the dAAd (deutscher Akademischer Austausch dienst, German for ‘German Academic exchange system’) study scholarship. 
cUse encourages the class of 2015 to continue to apply for fellowships; alumni are eligible to apply for schol­arships such as the rhodes and marshall scholarships, Thibert said. 
“These fellowship oppor­tunities can significantly enhance a recipient’s profile while advancing their aca­demic and professional tra­jectories in unique ways and connecting them to future leaders in a variety of fields,” Thibert said. 
To learn more about these opportunities, visit http:// fellows.nd.edu/fellowships 
Contact Kayla Mullen at  kmullen2@nd.edu 
as well as a Kellogg Institute International scholar. (Editor’s note: Gutierrez is the business manager for The Observer.) 
A Kellog Institute International scholar, Alexis Palá will be studying in chile on a Fulbright. 
Three students earned english Teaching Assistantship grants from the Fulbright pro­gram: Leila Green, Kendra reiser and ryan schultheis. Green will be teaching in south Africa, reiser in Indonesia and 
schultheis in mexico.  
NationalFoundation The national   Science science  

Foundation Graduate research 

The Observer News department would like to thank the following seniors for the  countless hours they spent in the newsroom and on location to uncover the truth and  
report it accurately.  
Ann Marie Jakubowski Kelly Konya Kaitlyn Rabach  Carolyn Hutyra Rebecca O’Neil Peter Durbin  

PAId AdverTIsemenT 




Seniors to enter religious life after graduation 
Sam Bellafiore
senior 
something very deep inside 
By MADISON JAROS 

news Writer of me that still kept wanting to do this.” 
Like most notre dame stu-That part of him that dents, senior sam bellafiore wanted to become a priest had an idea of what his fu-grew throughout his time at ture career would be when notre dame, bellafiore said. he was still in high school. “really from the first day but at the time, bellafiore I was here — I met someone wasn’t thinking about be-in my section as a freshman coming an accountant or a the first week of class, and lawyer — he was thinking we talked about discern-about becoming a priest. ment,” he said. “People are 
bellafiore, who will en-just in general more open ter saint Joseph’s seminary to the idea of someone be-in Yonkers, new York, this coming a priest or religious september, said he has been [at notre dame] than you’d drawn to religious life for find in a lot of other places. 

so the fact that people were open with it and thought it was an okay thing to do – it makes it a lot easier to think about.” 
men that join a semi­nary can choose either to forward to most as he pre-priest, just spending time I can’t say exactly why I’m join an order — like the pares to enter religious life. with people, ministering to called to them.” congregation of holy cross What will be even more im-them, learning from them serena said there are many quite a while, even though — or a diocese. bellafiore portant to him than that, and bringing whatever I can reasons she loves the order. there were many times he said he considered joining though, will be the mass, he share to them.” “I love the dominicans’ said he wished he wasn’t. an order, but ultimately de-said. senior christina serena, commitment to study,” 
“I started thinking about cided to join a diocese so he “If I became a priest, the who will join the dominican serena said. “I love that [becoming a priest] late in could serve the city where he most important thing in my sisters of mary, mother of they’re the order of preach-high school, and you don’t grew up. life — and if I don’t become the eucharist in August, said ers, because I think that’s so particularly like the idea of “I was really drawn to serv-a priest, the most important she is most looking forward important, especially with not getting married, or not ing the people in the place thing in my life — would be to giving her life “entirely to all the people in our cul­owning very many things that I’m from, the place that mass, when God actually God” after graduation. ture today who don’t rec-or having to spend every raised me and formed me continues to take flesh in “rather than waiting for ognize christ. They’re also day helping other people,” and helped me become who the world and be with us,” that time to test out my vo-very monastic. I love all the bellafiore said. “[religious I am,” bellafiore said. “And bellafiore said. “That would cation, I’ll actually get to traditional ways of pray-life is], on the face of it, not I want to go back and help be the most important thing. live it and see it with clearer ing, and they wear the tra­particularly attractive. And people there.” There’s nothing more im-eyes than I’ve been able to so ditional dominican habit. I kept finding that, on the bellafiore said serving the portant than that. but I’m far,” serena said. but they’re also very young surface level, even though it people of his community also looking forward to, in When she first arrived at and joyful; their average age wasn’t attractive, there was is something he’s looking seminary and if I become a notre dame, serena said she is 30 and the average age of 
didn’t want to be a religious those who enter is 21. PAId AdverTIsemenT 
sister. but like bellafiore, “so I’m already over the her love for religious life average. one of the pre-pos­grew during her time as an tulants was asking me how undergraduate. I felt about being old,” she 
“Through my Foundations said with a laugh. of Theology course and To those discerning their through my prayer and get-vocation, bellafiore said the ting to know God better in most important thing he has that way, it became clear learned throughout the pro-to me that God was calling cess is not to be afraid. me to consider [religious “Fear is not something that life],” serena said. “The comes from God,” bellafiore more I prayed about it, the said. “he always speaks more I learned about the through peace. There’s also dominicans, the more it at-no reason to be afraid be­tracted me. And there just cause he’s totally good and became a point where I fell totally in love with you and in love with religious life, wants nothing but what’s and during prayer one morn-good for you.” ing said, ‘Yes, this is what I serena agreed. want to do.’ And that’s what “I think oftentimes when I’ve wanted to do since.” people are trying to figure 
by the time she was a out God’s will, they think of it sophomore, serena had de-as something that God knows cided she wanted to join the and he won’t necessarily tell dominicans. them unless they do every­
“I don’t think I would thing perfectly, or they re-have been able to discern ally think about it and obsess my vocation without an im-about it,” she said. “but the age of religious life,” serena vocation is something that said. “And the first sisters I God has already implanted ever encountered were from in you through baptism, and my community, in spain at he actually desires for us to World Youth day. And after know our vocations more [God] introduced them to than we do ourselves. so as me it was most natural for long as you’re staying close to me to begin, first of all, dis-God through the sacraments cerning with them. And lat-and through prayer, he will er, meeting other religious reveal your vocation to you orders, I realized that God at the right time.” introduced me first to the order that was right for me. Contact Madison Jaros at  It’s a matter of the heart, so mjaros@nd.edu 





The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 15, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 15, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


ERIN RICE | The Observer 


Thank you for both homes 


Ann Marie Jakubowksi 
editor-in-chief emeritus 

Which is a better indicator of how much you love someone: tears and the ache of absence when you leave them, or the ability to pack up and leave joyfully knowing that a perfectly happy and all-around satisfactory reunion will come eventually? 
That question has popped up several times during my years at notre dame — facing that first yawning, interminable summer after fresh­man year, feeling as if I had to pack up and leave my friends just as I found my rhythm here. And then, in the middle of August, gathering up all my things again and carting them down to campus just as I remembered how much I love the home I belonged to before I ever heard the phrase “home under the dome.” 
It’s no exaggeration to say this duality between loving my time on campus and longing for more time spent with family has defined my years at notre dame. It’s the twin desires to define myself in a new place full of former strangers and the desire to hold on to the identity and sense of direc­tion I owe to my family and community at home. Looking back, I know there’s nothing more im­portant I could say in my last observer piece ever than a big, heartfelt-yet-perhaps-clichéd thank you to my parents, who offered me the chance to belong to both places. 
As a parent, what would it feel like when the ac­ceptance letter tells your child “Welcome home” in big, exuberant letters, and yet you can’t help but think home is the place your child is leaving, not the place they’re going to? What do you say when your child calls home looking for advice on switching majors from pre-med to english, on studying abroad for a summer or a semester, on accepting an internship across the country? on choosing how to spend the next few years after college? 
remembering all my parents have done for me in each of those times I stumbled in the past four years, what can I possibly say but thank you? 
At what point are the words “thank you” not enough to contain my gratitude; when do I need to couple my written platitudes with decisions and the kind of actions that proverbially speak louder? And when that time comes, what could I do that would show you the same love, compas­sion and support you’ve shown me time after time? 
These few column inches are a shoddy start, but I want to say — with the witness of anyone else who stumbles upon this piece in print or online 
— thank you. Thank you for years of effort prepar­ing me to make my way through college and, alas, make my way out of it this weekend. Thank you for saying yes to everything good in my life and for helping me say no to the opposite. Thank you for teaching me that there is a difference between right and wrong, and that the right is always within reach. 
notre dame has become a second home for me, a home you sent me away to instead of a home you built up around me. Thank you for both of them. 
Ann Marie Jakubowski is graduating with majors in English and Spanish and a minor in the Gallavant Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. She would like to thank Shakira, Taylor Swift and her roommate for four years of entertainment. For book or recipe recommendations, email annmarie.jakubowski@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Mike Monaco 
senior sports Writer 
It’s time. 

I’ve put off this one last contribution to The observer long enough, unfairly prolonging the senior Week days of our underclassmen working in the south dining hall basement. 
It’s a writer’s block in a different way, equal parts not knowing how and not wanting to say these things, a fear of finality that becomes all the more real with each inter­mittent keystroke. 
It’s time to say goodbye. 
Goodbye to the most incredible group of people by which I’ve ever been and might ever be surrounded. 
In high school, college is hyped up as this four-year objective, the ambiguous endgame of sATs, AcTs, AP exams, guided tours and info sessions. Then you arrive on campus, settle in, make friends and go to class, and college is more than the place you’ll spend “the best four years of your life.” It becomes your life. 
Weird as I am, I’ve had those big-picture moments when I try to contextualize what we’re doing here. Tucked away in northwest Indiana, there are 8,477 undergradu­ate students, plus all the professors, staff and faculty, working toward goals — learning, serving, teaching. I’ve had those moments when I’ve thought I’ll never be around as talented a group of people. 
but as the years went on, my thinking changed. I’ll never be around a better group of people. Yes, the talent of everyone here is remarkable. but it’s the overall quality of person that continually strikes me. 
An overworked senior who carves out time to send well-wishes to a sick dining-hall worker. An underclass­man who organizes uplifting messages and gifts for the family of a student that just lost a parent. A graduate who stays connected and stays available for a local fatherless teenager. A professor who pores over and questions every word in every paper, prompting us to be better. A south bend elementary school teacher who extends his days with rowdy students so they can receive extra tutoring. 
It’s time to say thank you. 
Thank you to all these wonderful people and so many more. To my parents and grandparents, who’ve given me the chance to live here and who’ve supported my every move, read my worst articles and remained my loyal (and sometimes only) broadcast listeners. To my sister, who’s always just a phone call away, whether she was living her own college years in Pennsylvania or starting her new life in the working world in boston. 
Thank you to my friends, for an endless dropbox of memories, laughs, smiles, pick-up games at the rock, late-night conversations of opposite extremes of serious­ness and walks to the Grotto. Thanks for the dorm-room radiators, Wednesday night river races, tabletop tears, unending support and understanding (I swear this is my last bit of work for The observer). 
Thank you to my co-workers and professors, and thanks for changing those labels to simply friends. Thanks for the late-night YouTube clips (cousin Terio, looking at you) in the observer office and the should-be-out-right-now investigative reporting (bruno’s night blackout, great timing). Thanks for giving me chances, challenging me, questioning me and showing me. 
It’s time. And that’s sad. That’s exciting. That’s scary. That’s fulfilling. That’s regrettable. That’s rewarding. 
but there’s comfort in knowing these friendships, these memories and these years defy time. 
Mike Monaco is graduating with a degree in film, television and theatre, as well as minors in the Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy and business economics. He will remain a Chiptole addict and proponent of the number 42. He can be reached through jmmonaco.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Who I have become 


Samantha Zuba 
Assistant managing editor emeritus 
I like to distance myself from the high school version of me. 
she knew a lot less, balanced her life a lot less, was a lot less confident. And I don’t like that. 
my fiancé wrote a column the other day though, “Four years and one lifetime ago” (April 22), that got me thinking maybe I’ve been wrong. 
he reread and reflected on his college entrance es­says and offered this advice: “change in ways that would make that optimistic high school senior proud. I can only pray that my former self would approve of my new answers and who I have become.” 
my first thought: “Wow, I’m glad I said ‘Yes’ when he asked me to marry him at the Grotto. he rocks.” 
my next thought was that I have spent so much time disapproving of my former self that I have forgotten to wonder if she would approve of me. 
When I came to notre dame, I was wildly optimistic about what I could accomplish. some of it I got around to. A lot of it I didn’t. There just weren’t enough hours. but at the end of the day, I’ve learned to be proud of who I am, and I like to think the high school senior who thought I could do anything would be too. 
I think she’d be proud because of what I consider the best thing I learned. 
I’m the type of person who likes to plan her day down to the minute, checking off as many things as possible. I’ve learned, though, that what’s more important than how many things I get done in a day is doing every one of those things I check off with joy and my whole heart. 
I’m not sure I would have received that lesson so clearly somewhere else, and that’s why I love notre dame. 
my favorite part of my career here is that I enjoyed fully every one of the things I did accomplish. I had professors, friends and classmates who encouraged me to think this way, to love what I invest my time in. singing in the Women’s Liturgical choir and working for The observer helped too. 
I’m incredibly thankful that notre dame encourages this kind of education of the heart. Without it, I would be much less prepared for whatever comes after my time at notre dame. 
I know now to take 15 minutes to stop at places like the Grotto, to listen to a friend’s story about a squirrel outside the dining hall or to grab quarter dogs with my roommate. I know to invest in these moments and love each one of them. 
I was always happier for it. my work came out bet­ter too. It always seemed like I had accomplished more than if I had finished my assignment a half hour earlier. 
I’m glad high school me thought I could accomplish so much. I’m happy she was motivated and arrived at notre dame hoping to learn from anyone and anything she encountered here. 
I’m just as hopeful about my future after notre dame. 
I hope that in three years, when I graduate from law school, I can look back on the notre dame senior who was so hopeful and know she’d be proud. 
Samantha Zuba is graduating with a degree in English, as well as a supplementary major in German and a minor in the Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. She would like to thank her parents for making it possible for her to attend Notre Dame, her sister for making her laugh and her fiancé for always making her want to be a better person. In the fall, she will attend Georgetown Law and can be contacted at the email address she created as a middle-schooler, canthelpsinging2@comcast.net 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 15, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Thank you, saint mary’s 

Kelly Konya 

saint mary’s editor emeritus 
I’ll admit, it took me a while to appreciate the “all-women’s school” eccentricities, which first appeared to me mostly as foibles. everyone al­ways talked about the “sisterhood” and the value of being a “belle,” though I saw these things as abstractions for much of my first two years as an undergraduate. but sometime in the mix, I de­veloped a deep and unexpected passion for saint mary’s, and as I reflect back on these four years, I can only attribute my bond to the college to the people who revealed its value and inspired the person I’ve become. As they say, it’s always the people who make the place, and since I’m a fan of lists, I want to dedicate my last column to all those who I will forever appreciate and who made my four years the best possible: 
To the friends who became my sisters — our maps would never have crossed if it weren’t for this place, as we hail from distances as far-reaching as new Jersey and Los Angeles. but now, we share the Avenue, which will always lead us home, and I couldn’t be happier to have shared this road with you. 
To the professors in the english department who became my mentors and scholarly family — you all have inspired me more than words, in all of their power and beauty, can describe. If I grow to be half the professor any of you are, I know I’ll be doing just fine. 
To my rome girls — there’s nothing like expe­riencing la città eterna with new friends by your side, and I wouldn’t have wanted to share cap­puccinos, cornettos, God squad and scholars with anyone else. 
To the observer staff, and especially my saint mary’s editorship predecessor Kaitlyn rabach and successor haleigh ehmsen — journalism will simply never be the same, and I’m eter­nally grateful for the dedication and organized chaos that harmonized in our south dining hall dungeon. 
To the sorin otters of 823 notre dame Ave. — thank you for being great friends and even great­er representations of what it is to be notre dame gentlemen; I’m already looking forward to seeing you all again for reunion tailgates and endless jokes. 
To my parents — you have always been my biggest fans and sent me all the support (and care packages) I could ever wish for, and I love that you love saint mary’s as much as I do. 
And lastly, to everyone else that made this place so meaningful in big or small ways: my favorite cabbie, ollie; all of the wonderful librar­ians; the Queens court girls; the staff and con­tributors for chimes, our literary journal; Gwen o’brien, our director of media relations; and Fr. John Pearson and regina Wilson in campus ministry. 
It’s been a wild, sometimes stressful, busy, ful­filling and, all in all, fun four years, and I just want to say thank you to everyone who’s been there through it all. being a belle would mean nothing without all of you. 
Kelly Konya is graduating with a degree in English literature and writing. She’ll continue to feed her love for poetry, fish & chips and the “craic” while studying at Trinity College Dublin next year. Any and all care packages of ramen or peanut butter are appreciated. If you want to visit, be pen pals or chat books, e-mail Kelly at kmkonya01@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

From hate to love: My Notre Dame story 

Kevin Song 

Assistant managing editor emeritus 
I hated notre dame. 

That’s right, I said it. I hated notre dame at one point. here’s my story. 
These aren’t the words that traditionally adorn these pages of tearful, emotional and heartfelt reflections from our newest batch of college gradu­ates, but I’m not ashamed to say them. college is filled with emotion — the links of brotherhood and sisterhood that hold us together are bonded to­gether by our memories of failed exams, late nights in LaFun eating quarter dogs that we live to regret, heartbreak, failures on the gridiron, and yes, all of the victories too. 
my first year here, I felt out of place and lost. I skipped out on Frosh-o, choosing to keep high school alive with a trip to the edinburgh Fringe Festival instead. I wasn’t catholic. I hated many of my classes. dining hall food was terrible, with few options for outside nourishment. I didn’t particu­larly care for football. I couldn’t help thinking to myself: have I made a huge mistake coming to this middle-of-nowhere place? 
After a few months of feeling forlorn, I started to feel down, like I didn’t belong. everyone talks about the “notre dame family,” and I didn’t think I was a part of it. even the famed residence hall life felt empty and soulless to me. I’ve only confided this in two people before, but I spent much of my freshman year contemplating a transfer to another school and shed more than a few tears in the pro­cess. I’ll spare you the details. 
soon, that all changed. 
my sophomore year, I decided I was too cowardly to transfer. I moved off-campus with a few friends. I took the classes that I wanted to, not ones my First Year of studies advisor put me in. I became more involved with The observer and Asian American Association and immersed myself in joining new clubs and meeting new people. I told myself I was just doing this to distract myself from being un­happy, that this was just immersion therapy. 
but something strange happened — I made new friends and started to actually enjoy being in south bend. I felt happy for the first time in ages and, for the first time, felt a bit of the “notre dame family.” 
so for anyone who’s reading this that feels lost at notre dame or anywhere else, I encourage you to try new things and find your place because every­one has one. maybe it’s not all about reaching out to your support network but sometimes about find­ing the right support network. 
After some time, I finally found mine. And for that, I’m sorry to report that I’ll need to return to the sappy traditions of these storied pages. 
To the friends I’ve made over the past four years, thank you for believing in me. To the awesome people at The observer, whom I am eternally grate­ful for all I’ve learned and experienced, thank you for everything. To the photo department at The observer, where I grew up, you guys are awesome, and thank you for memories. 
To my wonderful girlfriend, Amanda, thank you for making me the best version of myself and stay­ing by my side through the thick and thin, no mat­ter what. I couldn’t have done it without you. 
And finally, thank you to the famed notre dame family that I’ve come to know and love. 
Without each and everyone one of you, from my closest friends to people I’ve never met before, this wonderful place would not be the same without you. 
In words that I believe in now more than ever, love thee, notre dame. 
Kevin Song is graduating with a degree in finance, a supplementary major in computer applications, as well as a newfound love for tigers. He would like to reassure everyone reading his column that he really does love Notre Dame. If you’d ever like to chat, he will probably be somewhere up in the air on a plane at any given moment, but can be reached at hello@ksong.me 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

consideration of what he has to say about his belief or 
FR. THEODORE HESBURGH 
unbelief, his certainty or uncertainty; where differences 
“ Notre Dame can and must be a crossroads where all the of culture and religion and conviction can co-exist with vital intellectual currents of our time meet in dialogue, friendship, civility, hospitality, respect and love; a place where the great issues of the Church and the world today where the endless conversation is harbored and not are plumbed to their depths, where every sincere inquirer foreclosed.” is welcomed and listened to and respected by a serious  —From “The endless conversation” video, 1975 

The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 15, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
What makes Notre Dame special 

Brian Hartnett 
managing editor emeritus 

What is it about notre dame that makes this place so special and so beloved? 
This is a question I have grappled with for years. It started when I was applying to colleg­es, and deep down, I knew notre dame was the place I wanted to go, even though I hardly men­tioned it to others, and my visit there was far from ideal (snow in April will tend to do that). 
It’s a question I asked as I struggled through my freshman year, seeking to find if I would ever fit in here, and as I became more comfort­able in my sophomore and junior years, to the point where I’d dread leaving the University even for just a few days. 
And it’s a question I was recently asked as I showed a prospective freshman around cam­pus. he later committed here, but I don’t think it was my scatterbrained answer that convinced him. And it got me thinking all over again. 
now, I could simply answer this question with Lou holtz’s quote about the mystique of notre dame, but that would be a notre dame cliché, and my attempts at being a journalist the last four years have taught me that clichés drag down a story. 
Therefore, I will appeal to the investigative reporting side of journalism and provide poten­tial solutions — ok, anecdotal evidence — that might tackle this question. 
What makes notre dame special is what partially drew me to the University originally — the culture, particularly in regards to cam­pus life, is different. Where else can you live in the same building for four years surrounded by people of all different years, majors and backgrounds? sure, there are drawbacks to residence life here, but there’s also a unique sense of camaraderie and identity that re­sults, particularly when you live on the fringes of chicago’s eastern suburbs — shoutout to carroll hall. 
similarly, I’ll never know what human or computer decides the living arrangements at notre dame, but I must say they do a pretty darn good job. It never ceases to amaze me how groups of 18-year olds randomly thrown together end up developing what promise to be life-long friendships. 
What makes notre dame special is what caused me to look up some transfer applica­tions my freshman year — the people here are accomplished, and I got a much-needed dose of humility that year. As I went along, how­ever, I found that many of these same people are down-to-earth and willing to lend a hand. despite my freshman rationalizations, I also found that there is a niche here for everybody 
— finding it comes in the form of a class you’d never thought you’d enjoy, feedback from a pro­fessor or editor or even a compliment from a classmate. 
What makes notre dame special is what helped me feel more ingrained in the commu­nity as I became an upperclassmen — it offers so many opportunities. From walking through Trafalgar square every day on my way to class in London to reporting on the improbable men’s basketball run to the elite eight this sea­son to making a presentation before the former president of Ireland in my last undergraduate class, I went some places and experienced some things I never expected. 
And these were just some broad categories that covered my life at notre dame. I could go on and on about the little things — walking past the dome, visiting the Grotto in the snow, late-night trips to steak n’ shake, playing sand volleyball on carroll’s lawn, attending some incredible sporting events — that really do en­capsulate what life is like at notre dame. 
I fully realize that the reasons why I find notre dame to be special are probably not uni­versal. my experience is different from that of the person next to me, and there are over 2,000 different stories that could be told this senior week. 
but these stories, as varied as they may be, had the combined effect of making this campus a home. And perhaps that is what most sets this unique place apart. 
Brian Hartnett is graduating with a degree in marketing, as well as a minor in the Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. After being a resident of Carroll Hall for four years and spending most of his free time in The Observer office the past year, he’s looking forward to actually seeing the sun and having a shorter commute to work. Tweet all questions, comments and concerns to @BrianGHartnett 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The best years of my life, so far 

Isaac Lorton 

Assistant managing editor emeritus 
I didn’t want to write this column. It felt too much like I was writing an obituary of my time here at notre dame. how do I want to be remembered? 
Isaac Lorton was a 22-year-old man (child), from Prescott valley, Arizona, who attended the University of notre dame. he majored in the Program of Liberal studies and minored in Journalism, ethics and democracy. he liked to read, talk about ideas and argue about little things for the hell of it. he is preceded by 172 notre dame senior classes. he is concurrently passing on to the next life with a great gang of friends and a bunch of other people he wishes he had the time to meet. he is survived by The observer staff, the native American student Association, future PLs majors and about 6,000 students, 2,000 of whom will endure the same fate as him next year. he was something. he had a love-hate relationship with notre dame; he loved his major and minor and actually be­gan to feel some love towards south bend near the end of his time here. It was kind of like stockholm syndrome. he would like donations to go to his roadtripping-around-the-world fund. he accepts all payments. Graduation is a ticketed event, but all are welcome to attend the memorials leading up to that day. 
so that’s how my obituary would read, but my time here was much more than what an obitu­ary can convey. Yet, I don’t know how to put my four years here into words well either. That’s about the best I can do. 
They say that college covers the best years of your life. I don’t know who “they” are, but they aren’t necessarily wrong, yet. I have had some amazing times at notre dame, in Keenan hall, at The observer. I’m grateful for the fantastic experiences I have had, the people I’ve met and the friends I have made. I don’t regret sleep­less nights in The observer office, all-nighters looking out a club hes window writing a paper or trying to run a club without any funding. I don’t regret any of my experiences here because they have been the best four years of my life up to this point. but my biggest advice to anyone crazy enough to get this far into this column is to not listen to these omniscient generalizing “they.” 
I say “yet” because I hope people will go into everyday and every new year thinking this is the best year of their life. nostalgia can be fun, but regret or living in the past can be crippling. how am I able to pick out my favorite memories when time hasn’t had the opportunity to erode away the memories that matter now but won’t matter in 40 years? of course there are things that stand out in my four years, but only with time will I know if these are actually memorable memories. maybe I am afraid my memories later in life won’t be the best years of my life, but that doesn’t matter because right now they are the best years of my life, and for that and for all the people who have made them so great, I am ut­terly grateful. 
Isaac Lorton is graduating with a degree in the Program of Liberal and a minor in the Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. He would like to thank coffee and wants everyone to know it is a legal performance-enhancing drug. In the future he can be reached. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 15, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
That island of misfit toys in the centerfold 

Allie Tollaksen 
scene editor emeritus 

When I started at notre dame, I was con­vinced I was going to be a doctor. If not a doctor, I told myself, then a public health specialist. If not a public health specialist, I insisted, I’d be a success story in some other noble health-related profession. This was how I got through two years of chemistry labs. 
This story is not a new one. many of my friends have similar tales of dropping their pre-health major or abandoning engineering dreams. notre dame students come into this University and are told we’re smart enough and disciplined enough to do anything we want. And if we can do anything we want, we think, we should do what will make us most successful, helpful or charitable. 
This is all great. but what we’re not told is that pasting a collage of respectable careers on the wall and blindly throwing a dart at one is prob­ably not the best way to discern your future. 
That’s how I got to be a sophomore at a dorm gathering who, after struggling through a day of studying organic chemistry, decided the best use of her time was to engage in one-sided con­versations about movies and films with uninter­ested classmates. Picture girl walking around a dark common room touting pop-culture advice and opinions at anyone who would listen, which was no one in particular. That was me. 
Finally, a brave stranger decided to give me some advice: stop barraging unsuspecting par­tygoers with your interests and instead find an outlet. This stranger bestowing advice, I soon learned, was The observer’s scene editor at the time. he suggested scene as an outlet. (Thank you, Kevin.) 
Two-and-a-half years later, The observer ended up being not only a channel for my pop-culture opinions but a huge part of my life at notre dame. It was, at times, a service for my mental health, allowing me to say the things I couldn’t yell at parties. To be fair, at other times, it proved to be a tax on my mental health, when dropped stories lead to late nights and frantically-written emails. 
It was also a place to meet people interested in the things I was and be inspired by students who thought about and wrote things infinitely better than I could. And The observer was where I found not just something I could do but something I wanted to do. While there are more than a few articles I’m sure I won’t look back on proudly (I may or may not have written a defense of Justin bieber once), my time at The observer set me on a path I’m excited to con­tinue exploring after graduation. 
I didn’t have anything close to a typical notre dame experience, but being a part of scene 
— that island of misfit toys in the centerfold of the newspaper — brought me closer to the University than anything else in my four years. Writing, editing and getting thrown into the chaos of a daily newspaper was an education I never anticipated as a bright-eyed, pre-health major freshman, but it’s one I’ve come to appre­ciate and am thrilled to put into practice. 
Allie Tollaksen is graduating with a degree in psychology and a minor in poverty studies. She would like to thank her parents, her professors and everyone who wrote for Scene, even if it was just one article she talked you into signing up for. She will be spending the next year as an au pair, writer and living cliché in Paris, but can be found on Twitter at @allietollaksen and reached via email at aktollaksen@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

An unexpectedly rewarding experience 
Keri O’Mara 
Graphics editor emeritus 

While studying in dublin during the fall of ju­nior year, I received an e-mail from the Graphics editor at The observer, expressing her interest in my joining the graphics team for the paper. I knew people that had worked at the paper in that mysterious room in the underbelly of south dining hall, but still felt a sense of strange sense of wonder toward the idea of becoming a part of this behind-the-scenes journalistic crew. 
Joining The observer felt like the opportunity to get an inside look at santa’s workshop, where elves were nightly editors, and instead of toys, they produced papers. so, out of curiosity and a desperate desire for some cash, I decided I’d join the graphics team upon my return to notre dame in the spring semester. Little did I know at the time, I would be interviewed and asked to be the new Graphics editor only two weeks after my start at the paper. This was as much of a surprise to me as anyone. even more surprising, I said yes. 
however, this abrupt evolution of my involve­ment with The observer didn’t intimidate or overwhelm me. I felt honored to be so wholly accepted and embraced into this community, despite being an inexperienced newcomer. I felt challenged to live up to the enthusiasm and hard work of prior and fellow editors. I felt excited to be able to contribute my own personal vision to the paper, to be a leader among this community and to use this role in order to understand and influence the role of graphics in the news. 
being Graphics editor was so much more than simply sitting at a computer and making art to go along with stories. being Graphics editor meant late nights of deadlines and technological frustration and stress-eating gummies. It meant convincing everyone I was a real-life wizard whenever using Photoshop. It meant spending hours in a conference room conversing ideas with people dedicated to sharing voices and sto­ries with truth and accuracy. 
A year later, I can say that my somewhat im­pulsive acceptance of the role as Graphics editor turned out to be one of the most unexpectedly rewarding experiences from my time at notre dame. A simple description of my job would be that I sat at a computer and made art to go along with stories. but the reality is that I became a part of a bigger community. A community of tal­ented, passionate, hardworking people who are dedicated to not only to producing a newspaper, but also making it the best possible daily source of news. I feel lucky to have been a part of this community, to have had the shared experiences only those brave enough to wander into that mysterious basement office will ever be able to understand. 
Keri O’Mara is a graduating senior BFA in visual communication design. If you want to share any corgi-related media with her, or just pictures of dogs in sunglasses, send it over to @keriomara on Twitter. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTES OF THE DAY

 “A college degree is not a sign that one is a finished product but an indication a person is prepared for life.” 
Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. University president emeritus 
QUOTES OF THE DAY 

“education is the guardian genius of democracy. It is the only dictator that free men recognize, and the only ruler that free men require.” 
Mirabeau Buonaparte Lamar Texas politician, poet, diplomat and soldier 



The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 15, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR: FOUR YEARS IN REVIEW 
on hearing you might transfer 
To a student of color, on hearing you might transfer: 
recently we learned you have become so disheartened by racism at notre dame that you are considering transferring to another school. 
We were told you and other students received several racist messages on Yik Yak, the so­cial media app that allows people to post anonymous messages for others to read. We don’t subscribe to Yik Yak, but one of our students shared one of the messages you saw. 
We were sickened. The message was racist, and it was infuriating. As awful as it was, we understand this may not be the only instance of racism you have encountered on the notre dame campus. so we can understand why you might want to leave. And we support, cat­egorically, your right to make decisions that will enable you to feel safe, to flourish and to be happy — whatever those decisions might be. 
We write this letter to share our thoughts with you and other students of color as you con­sider the future. We want you to know: 
Your faculty and staff care about you. We want to do everything we can to help you learn, grow and thrive at notre dame. We want to teach you, and we want to learn from you. And we will do all we can to help you feel that notre dame is truly your home. 
You have allies among your fellow students. As tragic as it is that some notre dame stu­dents are so lost in personal webs of ignorance and fear, many more students believe in the notre dame mission of promoting learning in the service of justice.  The student who showed us the racist message was distraught at the thought you might leave. That student and others like her are your allies and your friends. 
You make notre dame a better place. diversity in all of its expressions, whether racial, ethnic, economic, linguistic, aesthetic or other forms, makes for a stronger, smarter, more wholly human community. While it is not your responsibility to make notre dame a better place, we want you to know that your presence in this university matters. 
You belong here. When you received your letter from the admissions office telling you that you had been accepted to notre dame, this became your university.  The library, the dorms, the classrooms — these are your places. The quads, the lakes, the Grotto — they are here for you. no one has the right to take these from you, and no one can. Let the haters leave, if that’s what they choose. We will wish them better days and hope they someday learn to love others as God intended. notre dame belongs to you, not them. Why should you leave? 
As you well know, a hallmark of the United states’ past is institutionalized racism; and the struggle for justice and equality continues. The racist message you received makes clear that that struggle is taking place, too, at notre dame. 
We write as notre dame faculty members to say your struggle is our struggle. We will stand beside you, and we will denounce all forms of hate speech as intolerable and unac­ceptable. We wish you everything good as you consider your bright future, and we offer you our support. 
sincerely, 

John Duffy 
english professor Jan. 18, 2015 
To view the complete list of the 157  authors who have signed their names to this letter, visit ndsmcobserver.com 
No regrets, one request 
We have no regrets. We booked our hotels greatest games in our history, we failed to after the Pittsburgh game. We booked our acknowledge maybe our greatest tradition, flights after Usc. We prayed we would win and that is standing together as one family tickets in the lottery. ninety-nine percent and singing our praise to our beloved Lady of us didn’t. We appealed to our spouses of the Lake. our feeling of emptiness in the and better sensibilities that this was a once stands grew ever deeper when we could in a lifetime event. They submitted. And not acknowledge the good fight and send then we paid way too much for tickets. We off our team properly for having one of the begged our parents to take the grandkids greatest seasons we can remember, and for for a few days. They couldn’t say no. We had giving all of us alumni the opportunity to used up our fun tickets for the year by Jan. 7. experience what we did. maybe it was the We flew from places like r.I., s.d., Idaho and overwhelming grief of the moment. maybe Texas. We arrived in south Florida to eter-it was the bureaucracy of the orange bowl nal sun and optimism. We may have had committee and their stages and ensuing a cocktail (or two). We saw dear friends we presentations. but I ask you, next time, haven’t seen in 10, 15 or 20 years. We felt an make it happen. Give us the opportunity to energy, a passion and a part of something thank the team for a tremendous season, that we haven’t felt in a long, long time. It felt and show us a little love for the sacrifices we like home. We tailgated like champions. The all made to be there in support. misery loves blues and greens outnumbered the reds at company, and we all could have used a little least three-to-one. of the 55,000 domers in family love around about 0:00. We are nd. the stadium, we were the 40,000 who stayed until the clock hit 0:00. We have no regrets. Andrew Nachman We would do it all over again, even if we alumnus already knew the ending. We thank you. class of 1997 
We have one request. At one of the Jan. 16, 2013 
SMC at the BCS 
I found it incredibly disheartening to read cheerleading squad, take pictures for The the article, “championship ticket tension” observer and hold leadership positions in and the comments that have arisen from it. clubs and activities. both schools boast of I’m a proud student at saint mary’s, and I’ve the great relationship and community be-been so blessed to attend the school that tween the two, but that community seems I do. however, I’ve also considered myself to fall flat in reality. blessed to have notre dame right across I could argue about how the ticket lottery the street. These two institutions have such system is fair or unfair, but in all honesty, a strong history, and it’s sad that instead of I don’t care that much about it. It’s disap­this historic season bringing the communi-pointing to find out that all of the contribu­ties together, it’s tearing them apart. tions from belles, both past and present, 
As a belle, I’ve cheered notre dame onto go unrecognized by members of the notre victory, along with the rest of you, and I’ve dame student body, as we’re referred to, yet taken advantage of many opportunities again, as “just” saint mary’s students. Why that notre dame has provided through don’t we all focus on the hard work and ef­clubs and activities. These comments from fort that our football team has put forth and notre dame women that I’m “only from the celebrate as one community with them as sister [school]” make me question whether they head to miami? Go Irish! my contributions to the notre dame com­munity and the contributions of my fellow Linsey McMullen belles go unnoticed. senior 
saint mary’s women are members Le mans hall of the notre dame marching band and dec. 4, 2012 
A call to remember 
If you drive around my suburban, north chicago neighborhood around christmastime, you see a wonderful assortment of lights and decorations. You get the icicles, the beautiful wreaths, the big, bright colored bulbs, but then every few houses or so you see something different. Warm pink lights, wrapped around a bush or two, contrast the typical reds and greens of the seasons and piqued my curiosity back in 2010 when they first began to appear. I asked my mom why all these houses had pink lights, to which she solemnly responded, “They’re for Lizzy.” 
I write this article due to the recent statements by Prince shembo, a former linebacker for notre dame, claiming himself innocent of the alleged sexual battery of a saint mary’s student named Lizzy seeberg in fall of 2010. Ten days after the events, she com­mitted suicide. Lizzy lived and grew up in my hometown of northbrook, Ill., which is why I heard the story in the first place. I never knew Lizzy, but I did know some of her relatives through my school and my community. 
The death of this young woman and following inquiry into the events left my com­munity devastated and heartbroken. I’m sure some were wondering how this could’ve happened, why notre dame was being portrayed in such a bad light, what texts like, “messing with notre dame football is a bad idea” mean in the context of a girl’s life. 
And here’s the truth: I don’t know. I don’t know the details. I can’t and won’t pass judg­ment on shembo, on how notre dame should have handled the issue, what the culture of football at this University means, who said what, what the big story is. All I really know is that Lizzy is gone, and this tragic fact is the only thing that matters in the end. 
but the reason why I’m really concerned is this: I was talking with a few friends the other day, and someone in conversation said something along the lines of, “oh, did you hear that they found out more about the football player involved in the sexual assault a few years ago?” I responded with an “oh, really?,” didn’t give it a second thought and moved on with my day. only later when I found out that this was Lizzy seeberg in ques­tion did I care to give it a second glance. 
Am I that quick to forget? I clearly remember the details as they occurred back in 2010, I remember how distraught the community was, and I remember thinking about how close to home the whole situation felt, despite my obvious distance from the events. I heard what my friend said about a football player and threw it away like it was nothing. I strongly feel  this is not something our community as a whole can simply forget, but I didn’t care until it directly related to me. but what about people who this didn’t relate to? Is our community as a whole so numb to alleged forms of violence such as this? 
I’m referring not just to athletes and the football program, but the campus as a whole after several sexual assault incidents this year. I would hope that for the amount we talk about the notre dame family we actually support this claim when people’s lives and dignity are at stake; this suicide is not something we should forget. The “one is Too many” movement is an excellent start and is something that I fully put my weight be­hind. but it doesn’t change the fact that any kind of disregard for these events is a crime against the victim and her family and is something of which I myself am guilty. 
no, I never knew Lizzy seeberg or Prince shembo, and maybe this article is just a useless reminder of a terrible tragedy from which notre dame and the seeberg fam­ily would like to move on. but right after reading shembo’s statement, I remembered the pink lights that I saw this year and that I will see every time I return home during christmas. I have a reminder of Lizzy. What will it take for notre dame to remember as well? 
Danny Martin 
sophomore Knott hall Feb. 26, 2014 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 



The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 15, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

saint mary’s seniors receive service awards 
By NICOLE CARATAS and STEPHANIE SNYDER 
news Writers 
Four saint mary’s gradu­ates from the class of 2015 were honored with unique 
c.s.c.
 awards for service in a variety of disciplines. The 

c.s.c. 
awards are given by the office of civic and social engagement (ocse) to stu­dents who are devoted to community-based learning and volunteering. 


The mission of the college is to discern needs and re­spond, and each award is a tribute to the mission of the founders of saint mary’s, according to a press re­lease. Appropriately, five of the seven c.s.c. awards are named for sisters of the holy 
cross.  
Sister  Christine  Healy  
Award  
The  sister  christine  
healy,  c.s.c.  Award  for  
service  with  Women  was  

awarded to political sci­ence major Kaitlyn rabach. 
(Editor's note: Rabach served as Saint Mary's Editor for The Observer from 2013-2014). 
According to Laura elder, assistant professor of global to get this award because throughout my time at saint mary’s, I really focused on this idea of a feminist edu­cation,” rabach said. “A lot of my service work as well as my course load has been tailored towards women’s issues ... and helping others find their own agency. 

“This award was really meaningful to me in the fact that my work has been rec­ognized as having some sort of impact on women’s issues in both the south bend and the larger global communi­ty,” she said. “It was a great honor to have two of my pro­fessors recognize the work I’ve been doing over the past four years.” 
Sister Olivia Marie Hutcheson Award 
nursing major sarah hossfeld received the sister olivia marie hutcheson, 
c.s.c. Award for service in the health Field. 
Associate professor of nursing Annette Peacock-Johnson said she believes hossfeld deserves the award because of the service she provided through raising awareness and creating pro­grams regarding healthy body image for young girls 


at st. margaret’s house in 
After graduation, voltz education and become a spe­
south bend. hossfeld orga­
nized events for the Girls’ 
club and engaged young 
girls in activities to give 
positive reinforcement and 
good role models as they will be headed to Komga, cial education teacher so she 
south Africa, to work with can directly help students 
57 children in a home that with autism. Until she can 
was started by notre dame attend graduate school, she 
alumni. she will be there for hopes to continue to spread 
a year to work on starting an awareness. 
studies and intercultural studies, this award is giv­en “to honor saint mary’s college students who pro­vide significant support to women in the community.” 
rabach began serving women as soon as she came to saint mary’s, elder said. 
“Just after she arrived [on campus], she was interested in human trafficking and or­ganized a series of sessions on what you can do here on grow up. 
“sarah is a true trailblaz­er,” Peacock-Johnson said. “she did not wait for others to come forward and create a program where she could volunteer. Instead, sarah identified the need and cre­ated a program in outreach to the local community.” 
Associate professor of nursing ella harmeyer said hossfeld’s drive, initiative and expertise were evident cases, I learned more than I taught other people or gave back to the community,” hossfeld said. “I think I gained a lot from my experi­ences. I felt very blessed that the nursing department and those who nominated me felt that what I had done was important enough for this award." 
hossfeld said winning the award gave her a sense of validation in knowing her work made a difference in the lives of other people. 
“service work is just so needed,” she said. “It’s some­thing that I hope to continue to do in my life, whether I’m recognized for it or not.” 
Sister Olivette Whalen Award 
The sister olivette Whalen 
c.s.c. Award for General service was awarded to Jaclyn voltz, a biology ma­jor. This award is given to a saint mary’s student for her exemplary service involve­ment in the areas of civic engagement, environmen­tal concern, animal welfare, 
criminal  justice,  hunger,  
homelessness  and  commu­ 
nity development.  

As the president of the ser­
vice club, circle K, at saint mary’s, and a resident ad­visor in Le mans hall, voltz has experience serving the community both on and off the saint mary’s campus. 
“I make sure girls get to have the opportunity to leave the saint mary’s bub­ble and go to south bend to do service,” voltz said. 
Amy Gillan, assistant professor in the education 
department, and Kimber 
Jaclyn’s boundless energy when it comes to sharing her strengths and passions with those in the saint mary’s community and beyond,” Gillan said. “Jaclyn clearly thrives on serving others and reflects leadership and optimism in doing so.” 
After voltz’s two years as circle K president, nelson will take over for the 2015­2016 school year. before leaving, voltz had a signifi­cant role in helping nelson create a plan for the club next year, she said 
“I have super huge shoes to fill; Jackie has been awe­some all year,” nelson said. “I definitely look up to her.” 
voltz said she did not ex­pect to receive the award at all. 
“I was very surprised,” voltz said. “doing service is more of a fun stress-reliev­ing activity for me; I was sur­prised to receive an award.” 
she attributed her achieve­ment to her saint mary’s education. 
“saint mary’s definitely gave me the confidence to pursue these leadership roles,” voltz said. “I don’t think I would’ve been able to do this without my saint mary’s education.” 
to help, and Lazovich was eager to join. 
The mission of students supporting Autism is to spread awareness of autism to the local community and to raise funds for two local autism organizations. 
“I loved the idea of spread­ing awareness to the cam­pus community and raising funds that would go to local centers to support families,” Lazovich said. 
Turner, Lazovich and students supporting Autism managed to raise over $1,300 for those affected by autism in the first year of the club. 
“It is very important that people be educated on the topic and that we do what we can to help families who might not know much about autism yet themselves if they have a family member who is just being diagnosed,” Lazovich said. “I think dr. Turner and the college rec­ognized our efforts to in­crease awareness and raise funds for the families in the community and gave me this honor because of the work I was able to do with the club this year. 
Lazovich said her long­term goal is to get her mas-ter's degree in special 
after-school tutoring pro­gram for the children. 
While she is in south Africa, voltz is hoping to stay in touch with nelson to begin a pen pal program for the children with the help of circle K, nelson said. 
Sister Maria Concepta McDermott Award 
senior education major Angelina Lazovich received the sister maria concepta 
“I hope to inspire my stu­dents in the same ways that saint mary’s has inspired me, by teaching them that their dreams can come true,” Lazovich said. “I also want to continue to spread aware­ness about autism and teach my students to be respectful and accepting of everyone.” 
Lazovich attributed her achievement to both the ed­ucation and opportunities saint mary’s provided her. 
“saint mary’s has helped 
turn me into a better leader, 
listener, student, teacher, 
friend and overall person,” 
Lazovich said. “I am so 
grateful to the college for 
their support in our endeav­
ors all year.” 
Lazovich said she is proud campus and at the interna­


tional level,” elder said. “she 
volunteered at three differ­
ent 
 organizations through­
out her time here. What she 
was 
 doing was citizenship nelson, newly-appointed 
circle K president, both 
nominated voltz for the 
award. 
Gillan met voltz in her 
secondary education sci-
classes, language classes 
ence methods course this 
and general support for women and children.” 
even with her heavy course load and extracurriculars, rabach was dedicated in ev­erything she did, elder said. 
elder also included rabach’s dedication to The observer in her nomination. 
“I consider that service to women as well which is ed­ucation, information, and thoughtful articulate dia­logue,” she said. “It’s getting the word out there.” 
rabach said she was hon­ored to received the award. 
“I was really honored and obvious in her nursing clinicals. 
Additionally, harmeyer said it was an honor to pres­ent her with this award because of “sarah’s well-rounded science knowledge base in nursing, her com­passionate care of patients and families and especially her vision for what is public health nursing at its best.” 
hossfeld said she was humbled to win the award. 
“I love all the work I did in the community, and I think it’s safe to say that, in most past fall. They worked to­gether, along with two Indiana University south bend (IUsb) secondary sci­ence education students, in support of the local Green bridge Growers social jus­tice initiative to create a curriculum on aquapon­ics — a water purification system intended for autistic students. 
during this time, Gillan said she was able to see voltz’s devotion to the com­munity as well as her desire to get others involved. 
“I am impressed with mcdermott, c.s.c. Award for service in education. 
Lazovich was nominat­ed by dr. nancy Turner, the chair of the education department, for her work with the new organization students supporting Autism at saint mary’s. 
Lazovich has been work­ing with Turner since the end of the 2013-2014 school year to establish the club. According to Lazovich, it was Turner’s idea to begin the club at saint mary’s. Turner asked for volunteers of everything students supporting Autism has accomplished. 
“I wish that I could share the award with all of the members, because without them, none of our success would have been possible,” Lazovich said. “I am so sad to see my time here end, but I will keep all of the lessons that I have learned here in my heart forever.” 
Contact Nicole Caratas at ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu and Stephanie Snyder at  ssnyder02@saintmarys.edu 



ND ROTC commission next year’s officers 
multiple field training exer-
By ANDREA VALE 

news Writer cises, a military staff ride to 
Gettysburg, participation in 

The new Army roTc of-Father Ted's funeral activi­ficers for notre dame’s up-ties and an Army ball.” coming 2015-2016 academic The newly announced of-year have recently been an-ficers include cadets from nounced and will be com-several nearby colleges and missioned during a ceremony universities; notre dame, saturday. holy cross college, saint 
“It's been a fantastic aca-mary’s college, bethel demic year, and the seniors college, Indiana University did a great job leading the south bend (IUsb) and Fightin' Irish battalion and valparaiso University, mentoring the underclass Although some of the cadets,” Lieutenant colonel cadets do not attend the John Polhamus, notre University, they are all a part dame’s professor of mili-of the notre dame roTc pro­tary science, said, “This past gram, Polhamus said. year the cadets participated "our ceremony is a joint in many activities including commission ceremony for all … the military Appreciation services and all schools," he Football Game, a veteran's said. "All other schools pro-day vigil and ceremony, vide a representative leader 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 

PAId AdverTIsemenT 


to participate in the ceremo­ny as part of the stage par­ty — [University executive vice President] John Affleck-Graves is notre dame's rep­resentative. even though some of the cadets go to oth­er schools ... we hold one big commissioning ceremony." 
According to Polhamus, 13 cadets are being com­missioned to second 
Lieutenants.  
From  notre  dame,  the  
following  cadets  will  be  
commissioned:  

•	 
eric Peace, who will com­mission into active duty and become an Infantry officer. 

•	 
John Pearl, who will commission into active 


duty and become a Field Artillery officer. 
•	 
colin o'shea, who will commission into ac­tive duty and become an Infantry officer. 

•	 
chris croushore, who will commission into ac­tive duty and become an Infantry officer. 

•	 
catherine hogan, who will commission into ac­tive duty and become a signal corps officer. 

•	 
connor rademaker, who will commission into the national Guard and be­come a Quartermaster officer. 

•	 
michael Loftus, who will commission into active duty and become a Field Artillery officer. 


From valparaiso University, the following cadets will be commissioned: 
•	 
Angelina Goheen, who will commission into the Army reserve and be­come a medical service corps officer. 

•	 
david ramer, who will commission into the Army reserve and become an ordnance officer. 

•	 
nicole maenza, who will commission into the national Guard and be­come a Transportation officer. 


From saint mary’s, cadet meghan mcveigh will com­mission as an Active duty nurse. 
From bethel college, cadet chelsea Ward will commis­sion into the Army reserve and become a military Police officer. 
From IUsb, cadet ray donovan will commission into active duty and become an Armor officer. 
All 13 cadets will be com­missioned during a cer­emony saturday at 9 a.m. at debartolo Performing Arts center. The ceremony will be held by the Tri-military notre dame roTc and pre­sided over by Lieutenant General david halverson, commanding General of the 
U.s. Army Installation and management command. 
“As their professor of mili­tary science for the last four years, I'm very proud of the class of 2015,” Polhamus said, “I'm very confident that they will be outstanding military officers, and I'm excited to hear about their future suc­cesses. They are fit and ready to join the Army team, and I wish all of them the best of luck in their careers.” 
Contact Andrea Vale at  avale@nd.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 15, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

smc senior chronicles life of south bend resident 
Observer Staff Report 
Graduating senior morgan carroll will remember saint mary’s for her education and experiences, but most especially her connection with south bend resident sheila muhammad. 
The interaction between carroll and muhammad started because of muhammad’s de­sire to leave a written legacy for her family about her challenges and triumphs since she was first diagnosed with AIds 25 years ago, according to a press release from the college. 
muhammad expressed her wish to share her life’s story, her longtime friend holy cross sister Linda bellemore said. bellemore then reached out to the college and assistant pro­fessor of communication stud­ies marne Austin, who taught a class about chronicling oral histories. 
When Austin told the class there was an opportunity for someone to document muhammad’s story, carroll and Faye Kennedy of stillwater, minnesota, who graduated in 2014 with a degree in business administration, volunteered. 
muhammad lost her sight in 1995 due to cmv, or cyto­megalovirus, which she may have contracted because of her compromised immune system. muhammad said in the press re­lease she wanted to leave a lega­cy for her three children and six grandchildren, as well as other people battling AIds. 
“I wanted to leave some­thing for my kids about my life and help others who have the virus and are dealing with the struggles I went through,” muhammad said. 
muhammad said a positive at­titude keeps her going each day. 
“I try to keep positive. I put one foot in front of the other. my motto: ‘don’t let anyone tell you that you can’t do something.’ I try everything. I am a fighter,” muhammad said in the press release. “I’ve been employed by sodexo at holy cross college for 12 years — I wash dishes. I try to be as normal as I can be. Losing my sight does not mean I lose my ability to work.” 
carroll felt the desire to talk with muhammad because of her own personal experience with vision problems. According to the college press release, carroll was born with a condition that could have left her blind, if not for surgeries at riley hospital for children in Indianapolis. 
“This experience has put my personal situation into perspec­tive and helped me appreciate the vision I have been blessed with. sheila is truly a role model in the way she lives her life de­spite the many challenges she faces,” carroll said in the press release. “I deeply appreciate all that she has [taught] me.” 
According to the press re­lease, the project of chronicling muhammad’s story left an im­pact on carroll. 
“each time I left sheila’s house, I got a deeper understanding of how amazing she is. her inspir­ing attitude and outlook lifted my spirits. she is one of the big­gest inspirations in my time at saint mary’s,” carroll said. 
bellemore remembers the mo­ment when carroll and Kennedy presented muhammad with the finished product, according to the press release. 
“Witnessing sheila’s excite­ment that her greatest wish for her anticipated short life was fulfilled, and hearing her ex­pressed gratitude for a task that she had been unable to accom­plish herself, confirmed for me that the mission of saint mary’s college is alive and impacting our world,” bellemore said in the press release. “Indeed, these women were prepared to make adifference in the world, and they already are.” 

PAId AdverTIsemenT 


PAId AdverTIsemenT 






ON AUG. 25, NOtRe Dame football players voted to join their peers in singing the Alma Mater after every home game, win or lose, for the 2014 season. 
Unity Council of the Notre Dame football team met with members of student government to finalize their decision, which the council had been discussing with the football team for several weeks, according to sophomore receiver Corey Robinson. Robinson also served as the athletics representative to student government. 
the Football Unity Council will revisit the decision at the start of each season, according to student body president emeritus Lauren Vidal. 


IN A tOWN hALL meeting on Feb. 17, University President Fr. John Jenkins said the Commencement ceremony location change comes due to a relatively mild winter, which led to better-than-expected progress on the Campus Crossroads project. “Campus Crossroads won’t be finished,” Jenkins said of the project. “there will be a little inconvenience, but I’m sure it will be minimal, and it will be a great Commencement.” Jenkins said he “can’t speak definitively” on the location of the 2016 Commencement, but did not rule ou the possibility of having the event in Notre Dame Stadium. 


ON OCt. 6, the U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear appeals of decisions striking down bans 
on same-sex marriage, making same-sex marriage recognized under Indiana law. 
In accordance with this decision, Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s extended benefits to all legally married spouses, including same-sex spouses. While the University endorsed a Catholic definition of marriage, it would follow the relevant civil law, the University announced in an email to staff on Oct. 9. 
“Apart from these questions and any legal obligations, however, we recognize an urgent call to welcome, support and cherish gay and lesbian brothers and sisters, who have been too often marginalized and even ostracized, and many of whom bear the scars of such treatment,” University President Fr. John Jenkins said. “At Notre Dame, we have undertaken initiatives to support and welcome gay and lesbian members of our community. these efforts must not and will not flag. 
“Our abiding goal, rather, is to learn better how to love one another and together build a less imperfect community of love,” he said. “that is the mission of Notre Dame, and we remain committed to it.” 

eSPN FILeD A LAWSUIt against Notre Dame on Jan. 15 after Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) refused to grant eSPN reporter Paula Lavigne’s requests for incident reports related to student-athletes on two separate instances. eSPN claimed the University’s refusal to release campus police records violated Indiana’s Access to Public Records Act (APRA). 
A verdict was issued in Notre Dame’s favor by St. Joseph Superior Court Judge Steven hostetler on April 20. the case hinged on whether or not Indiana law considered NDSP to be a public agency. 
In his ruling, hostetler wrote the Court considers Notre Dame and other universities that appoint campus police officers to be “state actors,” not public agencies. 
Indiana Public Access Counselor (PAC) Luke Britt issued two separate opinions, in October 2014 and January 2015, stating that he considered NDSP to be a public agency and subject to APRA. Britt’s opinions differed from previous opinions issued by Indiana PACs in 2003, 2009 and 2011. 
hostestler wrote that he shared discomfort with Britt about the notion of a private party exercising police powers without having to provide its records to the public. however, he said the current version of APRA cannot be interpreted to apply to private colleges and universities. 
UNIVeRSIty PReSIDeNt eMeRItUS FR. theodore hesburgh. whose unprecedented 35-year tenure as president of Notre Dame revolutionized the University, making him one of the most influential figures in higher education, and whose dedication to social issues brought him world wide recognition, died Feb. 26. he was 97. 
When hesburgh became the 15th president of Notre Dame in 1952, the University was comprised of all males. Notre Dame was owned and operated by the holy Cross Order with an endowment of $9 million and yearly student aid to tuition at $20,000. 
When hesburgh retired in 1987, Notre Dame’s student body included both men and women, with a total enrollment of 8,477 in 2014. he transitioned the school’s governance to a combined board of lay and religious trustees that still operates the University today. the endowment had grown to $350 million over 35 years and student aid hit $40 million. 
his presidency transformed the school into the top-tier educational institution it is today. But hesburgh was, first and foremost, a simple priest. 
“I would say if there is one thing that my whole life has been dedicated to, I’ve been a priest now for about 70 years, and I would hope they remember me as a priest,” hesburgh told the Observer in May 2013. 
“‘Fr. ted’ is the best title I have. Not ‘former president of the University of Notre Dame.’” 

IN SPRING 2015, CNN released “the hunting Ground,” a documentary on campus sexual assault that featured Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s among other prominent universities. Both the University and the College hosted screenings of the film followed by panel discussions addressing sexual assault on both campuses. 
SMC President Carol Ann Mooney hosted a closed conversation April 28 with students and announced a Presidential taskforce that will include students, faculty and administration to discuss how to properly handle and address sexual assault on the SMC campus. 
Notre Dame showed the documentary April 17, followed by a panel discussion. 
the University held a second panel April 20 to hear about the “University community perspective on the film,” director of the Gender Relations Center Christine Caron Gebhardt said. 




Fr. Theodore Hesburgh dies at 97 


on Feb. 26, Fr. Theodore reflections at the memorial service martin W. rogers, class of 1988; for-evaders, third-world development hesburgh, 15th president of the for hesburgh on march 4 in Purcell mer Wyoming sen. Alan simpson and immigration reform. University of notre dame and one Pavilion. and former Pennsylvania sen. “next to notre dame’s founder, of the most influential figures in other speakers included harris Wofford. Father edward sorin, c.s.c., no higher education, died at the age carter’s wife, former First Lady University President Fr. John one has had a greater impact on the of 97. Friends, family and the notre rosalynn carter; former president Jenkins described Fr. hesburgh as University than Father Ted. With his dame community came together of Princeton University William a moral force in a statement sent to appointments to the faculty, his cre­to celebrate his life at his funeral bowen; Indiana sen. Joe donnelly, the student body. ation of great centers and institutes held at the basilica of the sacred class of 1977 and Law school class “While serving four Popes and for scholarship and research, his heart on march 4. of 1981; dillon hall rector Fr. Paul accepting 16 presidential appoint-commitment to our catholic char-
Former President of the United doyle; former football head coach ments, Father Ted was a moral force acter, an,d most of al,l his leadership, states Jimmy carter and former Lou holtz; archbishop emeritus of in virtually all major social issues of charisma and vision, he turned secretary of state condoleezza Washington cardinal Theodore his day, including civil rights, peace-what was a school well-known for rice, m.A. class of 1975, topped a mccarrick; Indiana Gov. mike ful uses of atomic energy, campus football into one of the nation’s great long list of dignitaries who offered Pence; board of Trustees member unrest, treatment of vietnam draft institutions for higher learning.” 
eight nd, smc students lost in four years 
Fifth year student Xavier murphy outside of saint mary’s entrance on In 2013, connor sorensen died on engineering, died Jan. 1. sharma afternoon of Feb. 6, 2015. Kim, a died oct. 11, 2011 after a battle with state road 933. Zhang was a dual-dec. 20 after a lifelong battle with was from India and served as a new Jersey native, was a business leukemia. murphy was a student degree student at saint mary’s who lung diseases among other health-teaching assistant. student and former fencer. his manager for the football team. his also took engineering classes at related issues. sorensen, who grad-saint mary’s first-year madelyn friends remember him as humor-story caused the men of Zahm to notre dame. uated early despite his deteriorating stephenson died Jan. 3 when her ous and academically involved. start the “raise an X for X” cam-First year master’s student health, was described by his friends car was hit on the driver’s side by a senior and finance major Lisa paign and hold blood drives in his michael Thigpen, aged 23, died as relentless and motivated to find semi-tractor. Friends and family de-Yang died on march 3, 2015 after honor. on the morning of nov. 13 at his cures for diseases due to his person-scribed her as a shy, smart girl with a what was ruled a suicide by the st. 
Two students died in unrelated off-campus residence. Thigpen al experiences. passion for learning Arabic. Joseph county coroner’s office. cases in 2012. saint mary’s sopho-was professional musician who is In 2014, notre dame and saint In the spring of 2015, notre dame Yang was a resident of mcGlinn more Ziqi Zhang died on oct. 18, remembered by his loved ones for mary’s lost two students. Akash lost two students. sophomore hall. Friends said Yang had a dis­2012 from injuries caused by a col-his caring nature and desire to help sharma, a third year Ph.d. student daniel Kim was found dead in tinctive laugh and was naturally lision between her bike and an sUv people. in chemical and biomolecular his off-campus residence on the good at anything she tried. 
notre dame initiates suit over hhs mandate 
Aug. 24, 2012 

on may 21, 2012, notre dame filed a law­suit to challenge the constitutionality of the department of health and human servivces (hhs) mandate that requires employers to provide con­traceptive services in their minimum health insur­ance plans. 
The supreme court remanded the case to the court of appeals on march 9, 2015. 
University recognizes LGbTQ organization Dec. 5, 2012 

on dec. 5, 2012, the University released a for­mal statement informing the public of the result of a five-month review process that resulted in increased administra­tive support for students identifying as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgen­der, and questioning, including the recogni­tion of the student orga­nization now known as Prismnd. 
students abroad witness papal election 
March 19, 2013 

on march 13, 2013, Jorge mario bergoglio, now known as Pope Francis, was chosen to succeed Pope benedict after two weeks of deliberation by the conclave of cardinals. Pope Francis is the first Pope from Latin America and the third consecutive non-Italian to hold the po­sition. many notre dame and saint mary’s students abroad were for his holi­ness’ historic selection. 

University unveils campus crossroads 
Jan. 24, 2014 

The University an­nounced the “campus crossroads Project” on Jan. 24, 2014. The $400 million undertaking is a large renovation to the stadium which will in­clude the addition of new classrooms, recreational facilities, meeting rooms, and a new student cen­ter. The project is meant to bring every element of campus life together in a central location. 
mendoza ranks no. 1 for fifth consecutive year April 9, 2014 For the fifth year in a row, the mendoza college of business ranked  no. 1 among undergraduate business schools by bloomberg buisnessweek. mendoza dean roger huang said the contin­ued success speaks to the mendoza’s commit­ment to equipping grad­uates new skill sets that help them in the global marketplace. 

esPn sues notre dame for record access Jan. 22, 2015 on Jan. 15, 2015, esPn filed a lawsuit against notre dame claiming ndsP officials violated Indiana’s public records law by refusing to release campus police records. on April 20, 2015, a judge ruled in favor of notre dame in the lawsuit stat­ing that Indiana’s Access to Public records Act does not apply to private universities that appoint police officers. 



The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 15, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND, SMC seniors to volunteer, enter workforce 



58 percent of Notre Dame seniors secured full-time employment in 2014; numbers expected to stay the same for 2015 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
Associate news editor 
This August, computer science major Tera Joyce will head to seattle. she’ll be a software devel­oper for microsoft, writing code for the office 365 platform. 
“I think the position will be really exciting but testing,” she said. “I am definitely excited for the new adventure but nervous about the challenges I am sure I will have to face.” 
Joyce is one of many notre dame seniors entering the work­force after graduation. nationally, the job market is friendlier — em­ployers are 9.6 percent more like­ly to hire new college graduates than they were last year, accord­ing to the national Association of colleges and employers, and this is no different for notre dame 
graduates,  director  of  notre  
dame’s  career  center  hilary  
Flanagan said.  

each year, the career center and the office of strategic Planning and Institutional research con­duct a “First destination” survey on what members of each class do after they graduate. data for the class of 2015 will not be avail­able for several more months, but Flanagan said she does not antic­ipate any major deviations from previous years. 
58 percent of 2014 graduates, for example, secured full-time employment after graduation, according to the survey, though percentages vary widely from col­lege to college. nearly 28 percent chose graduate or professional school, eight percent participated in a service program, two percent went into the military and two percent were still seeking em­ployment. Flanagan said notre dame graduates differ from col­lege graduates nationally both in terms of what they decide to do and where they decide to do it. 
“We tend to have a greater per­centage of students who commit to service experiences as their first destination than the na­tional average,” Flanagan said. “I would not anticipate a change on that data point. our graduates also tend to spread out geograph­ically and throughout industries in more diverse patterns than the national average. This would also likely stay the same this year.” 
many seniors seek the help of the career center’s services, Flanagan said. 
“Typical results in the senior survey conducted by Institutional research show that over 80 per­cent of seniors use the career center for their job searches,” Flanagan said. “of course, the majority of seniors connect with our services in some way, wheth­er they are conducting a job or graduate school search.” 
Joyce said the hiring process with microsoft began at notre dame with the career center’s engineering Industry day in september. 
“I applied for the position there and got my first interview on campus a few weeks later,” she said. “After the local interviews, I flew out to seattle to do an on-site interview with the team I will be working for.” 
other graduating seniors plan to pursue a postgraduate de­gree in order to improve their job prospects. Jiatai Zhang, who majored in accounting and mathematics, will attend a three-semester master of science in computational finance program at carnegie mellon University. 
Zhang, who is from shenzhen, china, said he chose the program partly because of its strong place­ment rate in the financial servic­es industry, but also because he will apply for an h-1b visa after he graduates. The temporary visa allows people to work in the U.s. in “specialty occupations” like science or technology if an em­ployer sponsors them, and those with graduate degrees have a bet­ter chance of getting a visa. 
“due to the h-1b lottery pro­cess, only 25 percent to 30 percent of international students who found jobs will be able to work in the U.s.,” Zhang said. “The odds are better for students who have masters or Phds, due to [U.s. citizenship and Immigration services] policies. The fact that the program falls into the sTem category — science, technology, engineering, mathematics — also helps with the visa process.” 
Zhang said the program will help him both find and keep a job. 
“The program has an es­tablished brand name among financial services professionals, so that part really helps,” he said. “Also, the skills taught through the program are very practical and used in the real world. In oth­er words, you won’t find a course useless when you start working in the real world.” 
While Zhang is going to gradu­ate school in order to get a job, others are getting jobs in order to prepare for further education. brenna Gautam, who majored in history and peace studies, said she will work for the geopolitical consulting firm Wikistrat for the next year while she applies to law school. Gautam said she found out about the organization, which bills itself as a “crowd-sourced consulting” compa­ny, while she was working in Washington, d.c. last summer. 
“It was very much word of mouth,” she said. “After that, I read up on the company, reached out to them online and started finding out more through one of their recruiters.” 
Gautam said she will edit policy recommendations and analyses, as well as participate in “crowdsourced simulations,” which help government agen­cies predict and plan for various political, economic and military scenarios. 
“Participation in the simula­tions requires researching the issue and contributing written analyses, which are then ag­gregated into a final analysis,” Gautam said. “so it will change on a day-to-day basis, depending on what the geopolitical issue being examined is.” 
she said she will apply to law schools this fall, and she is considering working with the center for Undergraduate scholarly engagement to apply for a Fulbright scholarship to go to Kosovo. her goal is to go into international law. 
“I’m very interested in space law and cyber law and have been speaking to advisers and men­tors about post-law school op­portunities in these fields,” she said. “Ideally, a dream job would be legal advising in those fields through the U.s. government.” 
Contact Emily McConville at  emcconv1@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s office of institutional research conducts post-graduate survey; more than 52.6 percent employed 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
saint mary’s editor 
The saint mary’s office of Institutional research conducted the annual “Graduation destination survey” to find out what students are doing after graduation. 
According to the survey, of the 320 women in the class of 2015, 274 responded for a response rate of 85.6 percent. 
The data showed that 52.6 percent of the class of 2015 will enter the workforce, 
26.6 percent will go on to graduate school, 10.1 per­cent will participate in ex­ternships and internships, and 6.1 percent have com­mitted to voluntary service. 
director of career crossings stacie Jeffirs said compared to last year’s sur­vey, the number of students pursuing voluntary service is just about the same. she said the number was 6.1 percent this year and 6.8 percent last year, which is the equivalent of about a two-student difference. 
The results showed that 
4.3 percent answered “oth­er” to the survey. Jeffirs said the other category includes fellowships, continuing at notre dame to obtain an engineering degree, start­ing a business or entrepre­neurship and other plans. 
The survey revealed less than .5 percent will go on to military service. 
Jeffirs said the survey data is representative of saint mary’s mission. 
“The college prepares students to go out and pur­sue wherever their passions may lie, whether this is a workplace setting through employment or post-grad internships/externships, g raduate/professiona l school, military service or voluntary service,” Jeffirs said. 
After graduating, senior marissa Pié will work at southwest Airlines corpo­rate headquarters in dallas, Texas. Pié interned with southwest last summer. 
“I’ve accepted a job in the marketing department on the customer segment and engagement team,” Pié said. “After such an incred­ible internship experience with the company, I could not be more excited to get to work.” 
Pié said saint mary’s has gone above and beyond in terms of preparing her for the workforce. 
“It was at saint mary’s that I discovered my con­fidence, learned how to ef­fectively communicate and maintain relationships and pushed myself to reach my full potential,” she said. 
before saint mary’s, Pié said she lacked self-con­fidence and was afraid to speak her mind. 
“saint mary’s has equipped me not only with technical and professional knowledge, but a sense of self-assurance that I am sure will transcend into the workplace,” she said. “receiving a liberal arts ed­ucation pushed me, but also made me realize I could do anything with a little bit of hard work.” 
Pié said professors at saint mary’s have become friends and confidants. The whole college commu­nity supports and encour­ages growth of students, she said. 
“everyone here wants you to succeed and will go that extra mile in order for that to happen,” she said. “Additionally, saint mary’s taught me the importance of taking risks and leaving my comfort zone. After return­ing from a semester abroad in seville, spain as a mere sophomore, I could tell my perspective and world view would be forever changed.” 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 


THE OBSERvER | friday, May 15, 2015 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 
football | 8-5  Men’s basketball | 32-6, 14-4 ACC  
Irish end 2014 with bowl  ND reaches first  
victory after late woes  Elite Eight since ‘79  

By MARY GREEN 
Assistant Managing Editor 
A single play does not dictate how an entire season will go, but one play did seem to serve as a turning point of sorts in 2014 for Notre Dame, which started 6-0 but finished the season with a fi­nal 8-5 mark. 
Back on Oct. 18, the then-No. 5 Irish were down four and faced fourth-and-goal against No. 2 and undefeated Florida State with 17 seconds left. Senior quarterback Everett Golson fired a short pass to a wide-open Corey Robinson for what would have been the go-ahead and game-winning touch­down, but junior receiver C.J. Prosise was whistled for a contro­versial pass interference. 
The call allowed the Seminoles to pick off Golson the next play to freeze the score at 31-27, and Notre Dame left Tallahassee, Florida, with its first tally in the loss column. 
“You gotta take the belt from 
see FOOTBALL PaGe 31 


By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
Sports Editor 
After a pair of free throws, Jerian Grant flew up court while thousands held their breath. Working his way to the corner in front of the Irish bench, the se­nior guard pulled up and let fly a desperation 3-pointer. Nervous fans clad in blue exploded as the shot sailed past the rim, and Kentucky moved on to the Final Four, surviving Notre Dame’s upset bid, 68-66. 
“The one thing I did tell them, I said, ‘When we walk out of here, man, we’re champions now, we’re going to get cham­pionship rings’ — this group won a championship, and hope­fully it’s something to build on,” Irish head coach Mike Brey said during his postgame press conference. 
As painful as the ending was 
— Brey said it would “still be a little raw until tomorrow” — the group that walked off the court in Cleveland more than earned 
KEVIN SONG | The Observer 

Irish junior offensive lineman Ronnie Stanley celebrates with the Music City Bowl trophy after Notre Dame’s 31-28 win over LSU. 
its spot in Notre Dame lore. 
Although Irish have reached the Final Four before, in 1978, no team has complied a more im­pressive résumé than this year’s squad. 
The team’s 32 wins were the most the program accumulat­ed since the 1908-1909 season, when it went 33-7 under head coach Bertram Morris. 
Their ACC tournament title was the first-ever postseason tournament championship in the 110 seasons of Irish men’s basketball. The only previous conference championship of any sort came in 2001, when the pro­gram won the Big East regular-season crown. 
This squad claimed three wins against the four teams that even­tually made it to the Final Four. One came in overtime against Michigan State on Dec. 3 at Purcell Pavilion, the venue that also witnessed Jan. 28’s 77-73 up­set of Duke, the first of two Irish victories over the Blue Devils. 
Notre Dame won six games 
see M BASKETBALL PaGe 33 

oUtstandinG senior athletes 
leadership, not accolades, define seniors 
Two-sport star Pat Connaughton delivers final run with team to Elite Eight, place in Irish history 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
Sports Editor 

Sitting on his bed late one night during 

amassed an 11-11 record and 3.03 ERA in 32 appearances, 30 of which were starts. He was drafted by the Baltimore Orioles in the fourth round (121st overall) of the 2014 MLB Draft and pitched for the Aberdeen IronBirds for a couple of months this summer. Out of high school he had been drafted in the 50th round by 
always been more about 
the people. 

see CONNAUGHTON PaGe 30 
American record-holder Emma Reaney departs Notre Dame as program’s most decorated swimmer 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
Sports Writer 

After becoming Notre Dame’s first-ever swimming national champion in 2014, Irish senior Emma Reaney faced a daunt­ing task trying to live up to her past exploits. She did just fine during the 2014-2015 sea­son, garnering three more All-American scrolls at the NCAA championships. 
Reaney’s career ended at the champi­onships in Greensboro, North Carolina, in late March, when she took home All-America honors in the 200-yard individual medley (fourth place, 1:55.13), 100-yard breaststroke (third, 58.43) and 200-yard breaststroke (fourth, 2:07.10). In the 100 breaststroke race, Reaney was part of a photo finish at the wall, where four swimmers clocked in within .21 seconds of each other. 
Those honors bring her career total to a pro-gram-record 13 All-America or honorable men­tion All-America citations in addition to her national championship last year in the 200 breaststroke, which also set an American record that still stands. 
“It was really important [to build off last year’s success],” Reaney said. “It kind of solidified in my mind that I was good enough, that I can be the best. I didn’t feel like a ton of pressure going into this year from anyone other than myself really. Using the confidence from last year was definitely something that I did to stay mo­tivated this year.” 
Reaney began this season without the familiar face of her coach, Brian Barnes, who abruptly resigned to spend more time with his family in September. Barnes was replaced by longtime Irish men’s swim­ming and diving coach Tim Welsh on an interim basis. Welsh said having Reaney on the team did not factor into his decision, but it cer­tainly was a plus hav­
ing her on the roster. 
“Having that chance to coach her was a bonus,” Welsh said. “Emma is a spectacular person, wonderful role 
see REANEY PaGe 30 


THE OBSERvER | friday, May 15, 2015 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

Connaughton 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 29 
“I love the two sports, obvi­ously, they’re my life, but I think the most important thing to me are the people I surround my­self with, whether it’s family [or] friends ... that are family to me because I was an only child,” Connaughton said. “The people enjoyed it. To put a smile on peo­ple’s faces because of something you’re fortunate to be able to do [was great].” 
The St. John’s Prep product said he and senior guard Jerian Grant were in contact over the summer about returning for one last ride. 
“It was something we were al­ways kind of leaning towards,” Connaughton said. “As the sea­son came to an end and as the draft came to an end for me, I was able to work through and get the deal where I could come back and not have to worry about it. We talked, and I knew he was coming back at that point. 
“He always made the joke that if I wasn’t coming back, he wasn’t coming back, and we kind of knew we were in it together, and we wanted to make sure we ac­complished things together.” 
Under the pair’s leadership this season, the Irish won the ACC championship and reached the NCAA tournament’s Elite Eight for the first time since 1979, coming a mere two points from shocking then-undefeated No. 1 seed Kentucky and advancing to the Final Four for only the sec­ond time in program history. 
“Pat, this season I wouldn’t be where I am without you,” Grant said while addressing those gathered at the banquet. “You helped me lead. You helped me become a better person on and off the court.” 
Grant also recalled Connaughton asking him to be a captain with him for the post­season run, bringing Grant with him to the referee meeting at center court before each game. 
“I don’t know if that was al­lowed, but we did it,” Grant said. “My whole career here at Notre Dame, I’ve never been able to go up there with the captains, so for him to ask me to do that meant a lot to me.” 
Despite standing only 6-foot-5, Connaughton bulled his way all over the court into leading the team in rebounds (7.4 per game) while also averaging 12.5 points per game, good for third on the team behind Grant and junior forward Zach Auguste. 
“That’s a skill that you’ve got to give him a lot of credit for,” Auguste said at the banquet. “Not a lot of [6-foot-5] guys can lead the team in rebound­ing, let alone be up there in the conference.” 
Connaughton was quick to point out this was one of the clos­est teams he had ever been a part of, which made his job as team captain much easier. 
“Obviously on the court, every­one just had the desire to win,” he said. “Personal goals come second. But most importantly as we grew was the off-the-court stuff: we were genuinely friends, we were genuinely family, and that was the most important thing because I didn’t really feel that the three years prior to this. Obviously you feel it with some guys, but I’ve never felt it with all 13 guys, and that’s what eventu­ally put us over the top.” 


In his four-year basketball ca­reer at Notre Dame, Connaughton appeared in all 139 games the Irish played, starting 123, includ­ing the last 120 games of his ca­reer. That streak started with one of Connaughton’s favorite memo­ries, a 67-58 win over undefeated No. 1 Syracuse at Purcell Pavilion on Jan. 21, 2012. 
“To beat the No. 1 team in the country that was undefeated was the true meaning of court storming,” Connaughton said. “You see them do it now for every little thing, but that was the true meaning of one, and to be a part of it was awesome.” 
Reflecting on his senior year on the hardwood, Connaughton said it was only a “stepping stone” for the program. 
“Jerian and myself wanted to right the ship, so to speak, and leave a program that deserves so much success in a place where it can attain success on a consis­tent basis,” he said. 
However, Connaughton said Notre Dame had a much larger impact on him than he did on it, teaching him how to be “a Notre Dame man.” 
“It’s a phrase that really rings true in this community,” he said. “Being from the Boston area, you don’t hear anyone say, ‘You’re a BC man.’ It just doesn’t sound as good. You’re a Notre Dame man, and that’s something Jerian and myself have learned throughout the four years. I think you come in and you think, ‘Well, I’m at Notre Dame now, I must be a Notre Dame man.’ As you con­tinue to go through you realize you have to go through the four years to learn that.” 
As he moves to his post-Notre Dame life, Connaughton said both baseball and basketball are still very much open to him. 
“I think for me it’s day-by-day. ... Both are an option as the sum­mer comes along,” he said. 
Whatever the future holds, the senior’s impact will be felt long after he receives his manage-ment-consulting degree from the Mendoza College of Business at graduation. His coach sum­marized it best: 
“I don’t know if we’ve had a student-athlete like this.” 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at  zklonsin@nd.edu 
reaney 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 29 
model, and having her as a member of the team strengthened everything we did.” 
Although Reaney may not have put up the gaudy numbers she did last year, this year was undoubt­edly a success. Heading into the NCAA championships, she was seeded 12th in the 200 IM and fifth in the 100 breast; when all was said and done, she came in well ahead of those marks. Welsh said he at­tributed Reaney’s success to three points about her character. 
“The first thing about Emma is her focus,” Welsh said. “She never takes a sloppy stroke. She’s fo­cused on doing an excellent job in everything she does, and she’s focused all the time on becoming better. 
“The second thing is that she’s very trusting, which makes for an interesting combination. She trusts her coaches, her teammates and the program. She’s able to give herself to the program because she trusts it. 
“The third thing about Emma that makes her so special is that she’s very practical and realistic. She puts everything she has into every practice and every race until it’s over. She doesn’t obsess about them though, and to do that is a talent, and she has it.” 
Reaney has dominated on the NCAA level, but she also has helped establish Notre Dame’s credibility as a new member of the Atlantic Coast Conference. This year at the ACC championships in Atlanta, Reaney won her second consecutive ACC title in the 100 breaststroke. She placed second in the 200 breaststroke as well, bringing her two-year ACC cham­pionship total to four individual championships, a runner-up fin­ish and five all-ACC scrolls. 
“All of her accomplishments while she’s been here establish at the highest level that this is a pro­gram on the rise and that wants to compete at the top,” Welsh said. 
Reaney has been a force to reckon with all year. In January, at the Shamrock Invitational, which doubled as Senior Day, Reaney came away with three individual wins, four relay victories and four pool records (two individual, two relay). 
Further, at a nonconference meet in mid-January, Reaney went three-for-three in individual events against swimmers from ranked programs Wisconsin and Indiana. In that meet, she domi­nated the 200 breast by close to six seconds. Still, Welsh said one of the greatest traits he notices in Reaney is how she is much more than just an accomplished swimmer. 
“She’s a team player, a role mod­el … [and] you can’t coach that. [so] having the chance to coach her is just a wonderful joy,” Welsh said. “She’s just an amazing per­son, and that’s something she’d have even if she couldn’t swim a stroke. But she swims a lot of them, and really well, too.” 
Reaney will now train to swim professionally, a journey that be­gins in August in South Korea at the World University Games. After, Reaney will train with her club team in North Carolin,a with the end goal qualifying for the 2016 Olympic Games at the 
U.S. National Team trials next June. Reaney said she will use this season as motivation moving forward. 
“[The ending] was bittersweet,” Reaney said. “I’m sad that my Notre Dame career was over. I was sad that I got fourth [in the 200 breaststroke at the NCAA championships]. I was also really proud of what I had been able to do.” 
Reaney said her last race was emotional, especially experienc­ing it with her senior teammates. After a stunning career, she will go down as the greatest swim­mer in Notre Dame history, and she credits her environment with helping her get there. 
“I really didn’t think I’d find a place that I could call home more than my actual home, and Notre Dame has been able to do that for me,” Reaney said. “I want every­one to know how awesome this place is, and how much I love it. If I can do that through my swim­ming, then I’ve been successful.” 
Contact Brian Plamondon at  bplamond@nd.edu 




football 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 29 
the champion,” Irish head coach Brian Kelly said the day after the game. “You can’t leave it up to a decision that’s made at the end.” 
However, that defeat at Doak Campbell Stadium kicked off a downward spiral for Notre Dame that lasted the rest of the regular season. 
The 2014 slate began with a promising start, an unblemished record sustained until the trip to Tallahassee in Golson’s long-awaited return to South Bend. 
The senior lit up the stat sheet and showed he was better than ever in his first game back at Notre Dame Stadium, a 48-17 beat down of Rice on Aug. 30. Golson threw for 295 yards and two touchdowns and ran in three more scores, only the third time an Irish quarter­back has tallied three touchdowns on the ground in a single game. 
“Obviously, the story of Golson was electric,” Kelly said after the win. “And I thought he did that today extraordinarily well. He came back today and I think really showed the kind of player that he can be.” 
Will Fuller paced the receiving efforts with four catches for 85 yards, an early start to a breakout season for the sophomore. He led Irish receivers with 76 receptions and 1,094 yards, averaging 84.2 yards per game, more than double the average of Robinson, Notre Dame’s second-most prolific receiver. 
The Irish rolled into their most anticipated game of the season the next week, when they hosted Michigan on Sept. 6 for the final scheduled time. Notre Dame’s defense made the difference in the rivalry matchup, picking Wolverines quarterback Devin Gardner off three times and keep­ing the visitors off the scoreboard as the Irish steamrolled Michigan, 31-0. 
The shutout was the first in the series since it was renewed in 1978 and the first time the Wolverines have failed to score since 1984. 
“We wanted it bad,” Golson said. “I think that we wanted to just be successful every time we step on the field. I like to think that it add­ed a little bit extra motivation be­ing the last time we played them.” 
The Irish cruised to consecu­tive wins over Purdue, 30-14, and Syracuse, 31-15, the next two weeks on the road before head­ing back home with a 4-0 mark to face Stanford and the nation’s No. 1 defense. 
Notre Dame trailed by four, 14-10, with 69 seconds left in the game, and it faced fourth-and-11 on the Stanford 23, looking to make a late effort to keep its record perfect. Golson hit a falling target, senior tight end Ben Koyack, in the back corner of the end zone for the score, and the Irish earned their first comeback win of the year. 




Notre Dame’s defense allowed the team to stay in the game, with sophomore cornerback Cole Luke grabbing two interceptions — he and senior cornerback Matthias Farley tied for the season-high with four apiece — and the unit forcing eight Cardinal punts while giving up just 205 yards of total offense. 
“We prepared so great this week,” sophomore linebacker Jaylon Smith said. “We all knew going into the week, Stanford week, it was going to be physical. They are going to try to hit you in the mouth, and we just had to match that intensity, and penetra­tion was key.” 
After a 50-43, shootout victory against North Carolina at home, the Irish headed down to Florida to take on Florida State and reigning Heisman Trophy recipient Jameis Winston in the country’s marquee matchup of the weekend. 
Notre Dame got out to a quick start, never trailing until the 7:39 mark of the fourth quarter, and limited Winston to 273 yards and two touchdowns, while Golson outdueled him with 313 yards and three scores. 
After the Seminoles’ go-ahead score in the final minutes, the Irish had two final drives to over­come the deficit but couldn’t find the end zone, forced to punt on the first and called for the decisive pass interference on the second. 
After that point, Notre Dame was hit by the injury bug and struggled for the rest of the regular season. 
The Irish lost senior linebacker Joe Schmidt to a broken and dis­located ankle the next weekend in a close 49-39 win against Navy, when they encountered their an­nual problem of containing the Midshipmen’s option offense. 
After that game, injuries began to pile up on defense, and Notre Dame was forced to play inexpe­rienced freshmen who did not expect to see time on the field in their first seasons. 
In the secondary, senior safety and captain Austin Collinsworth, hampered by MCL and shoul­der injuries, dressed for just five games, graduate student Cody Riggs missed the Arizona State (Nov. 8) and USC (Nov. 29) con­tests with a stress reaction in his foot, and freshman safety Drue Tranquill’s early emergence was cut short by an ACL tear suffered Nov. 22 against Louisville. 
On the line, junior captain Sheldon Day sprained his MCL against Northwestern, missing the losses to Louisville and USC, while fellow junior Jarron Jones suffered a Lisfranc injury against Louisville and was sidelined the rest of the season. 
After the victory against Navy, Notre Dame did not taste another win until Dec. 30 in the Franklin American Mortgage Music City Bowl against LSU, with losses to Arizona State and USC on the road and Northwestern and Louisville at home. 
Notre Dame fell behind early Nov. 8 versus the Sun Devils, trailing by as many as 31, before making a late push and cutting the deficit to 34-31 in the fourth quarter. However, it gave up three touchdowns in the final five minutes, including a pick-six off Golson, whose struggles to hang on to the ball became a trend in the second half of the season. 
“If you look at it really closely, we turned the ball over five times. You can’t turn the ball over. Our guys were ready to play, and you can’t play sloppy like that,” Kelly said af­ter the game, referring to it the next day as “the debacle in the desert.” 
The Irish failed to rebound the next weekend against Northwestern, allowing the Wildcats to kick a field goal to tie the game at 40 with 19 seconds left. Senior kicker Kyle Brindza missed a three-pointer in the extra period, and Northwestern responded with a make to hand Notre Dame a sec­ond straight defeat. 
The Irish missed a key opportu­nity to put points on the board in the fourth quarter, when Kelly de­cided to go for two instead of kick an extra point after a touchdown. The conversion attempted failed, letting the Wildcats stay within reach. 
“I went for two when I should have kicked the extra point,” Kelly said three days after the loss. “ … I’m not getting paid to make stu­pid decisions like that. You fall into that. I can’t let our players fall into that.” 
Similar heartbreak ensued the next two Saturdays, with a close, 31-28 loss to Louisville on Senior Day at Notre Dame Stadium and a 49-14 pounding at the hands of rival USC on Nov. 29. 
With a 6-0 start ending in a 7-5 regular season, the Irish accepted a bid to the Music City Bowl in Nashville, Tennessee, on Dec. 30 to face LSU. 
With Golson’s struggles late in the season, especially hanging on to the football, Kelly named sophomore Malik Zaire the start­ing quarterback against the Tigers, though he and Golson split drives during the game. They switched off on the afternoon’s final drive, which set up a game-winning field goal from Brindza as time expired to halt the losing streak and end Notre Dame’s season on a high note. 
“Coming off the losses we had, I think it was important that we took advantage and did whatever it took to win, and when we focused on winning, this team came to­gether, and we got the job done,” Zaire said after the game. 
Until last week, the only signifi­cant losses for 2015 the Irish faced to graduation were Koyack, Riggs, Brindza and running back Cam McDaniel, with nine players plan­ning to exercise fifth-year options at Notre Dame. 
However, Golson announced May 7 he would transfer to another university for next season, making Zaire the nearly clear-cut starter in 2015. 
“We, of course, have approached our preparations for the upcom­ing season with this possibility in mind,” Kelly said in a statement. “The emergence of Malik Zaire, based on his performance in the Music City Bowl win over LSU, and throughout spring practice, has given our staff supreme confi­dence that he can lead our team to great success in 2015.” 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 




so much fun playing together,” 

M basketball sophomore guard Demetrius 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 29 
Jackson said before the Butler 

game. overall in the postseason: three The team chemistry was evi­in the ACC tournament and an-dent all season, a mesh created other trio en route to the Elite before the season even started. Eight. After an early test from “It started in Italy,” Auguste Miami (Fla.), the Irish rattled said after the season came to an off commanding, back-to-back end. “We had a great trip, and we wins over perennial ACC power-built something that was really houses Duke and North Carolina special that this program hasn’t in Greensboro, North Carolina, scene in a long time.” just miles from their respective The team traveled to Italy dur­campuses. The Irish took their ing the summer, spending nine second from the Blue Devils by days playing exhibition games, 10, 74-64, and then outgunned sightseeing and bonding in what the Tar Heels, 90-82, in a title Brey said from the beginning game that’s final score was only “was a great advantage.” close because of a late Carolina “It comes at a great time for our surge. program with the year that we 
In the NCAA tournament, the had, Grant coming back, some Irish shook off an early test from you guys that we need to do more Northeastern, then eliminated this year, to get those 10 practic-Butler in overtime two days later es, those four games and to kind to advance to the Sweet 16. Once of be together in game mode,” there, Notre Dame breezed past Brey said Oct. 15. Wichita State behind shooting 75 While the trip allowed play-percent from the field in the sec-ers like Jackson and Auguste to ond half. mature and play with the start-
This set up the dance with ers, it was even more important Kentucky in what many called for what was the team’s biggest the best game of the 2015 tour-question mark coming into the nament, a game in which neither season: Grant’s return from an team held a lead larger than six, academic suspension that side-to give the Irish the lead; then block. “It was a big play our cap-offense and establishing him-and Notre Dame led for almost lined him for the spring semester the drive and kick to a wide-open tain made, and now we can go self as one of the best defenders double the time the Wildcats did. in 2014. sophomore guard Steve vasturia win it in overtime.” in college basketball. 
Not bad for a team that fin-To say the senior qui-for 3; and finally a block on the Yet it was in his leader-Jackson also provided a few ished 15-17 and missed the eted his critics would be an defensive end to preserve the ship the team captain made highlight-reel moments of his NCAA tournament altogether understatement. lead. There was also the dunk his largest impact. Just before own: dunking over Purdue’s the year before. The guard from Bowie, against Georgia Tech, where he Connaughton made the re-seven-foot-two sophomore cen-
Yet for all the accolades, there Maryland, led the Irish in scor-skied so high he touched the rim sounding block against Butler, ter Issac Haas at Bankers Life was one common refrain heard ing (16.5 points per game), assists to his stomach. Auguste double-dribbled while Fieldhouse and going behind his throughout the Notre Dame (6.7 per game, seventh nation-Grant’s classmate and guard/ the Irish were trying to break back on a dribble before feeding locker room all season. ally), steals (63) and minutes per forward Pat Connaughton made the Butler press, handing the a no-look pass to Auguste for a 
“One thing I definitely remem-game (37.1, 18th nationally), but his share of big plays as well, in-ball back to the Bulldogs with slam during the NCAA victory ber is being on the court with all Irish fans will remember a num-cluding the block at the end of a chance to win the game. over Northeastern. 12 of my brothers,” junior for-ber of highlight-reel plays from regulation against Butler that Auguste, visibly upset with him-Auguste and vasturia, for ward Zach Auguste said after the the year as well: the final minute helped the team to the NCAA self, began walking back with their parts, each averaged dou-Kentucky game. during the first Duke win, when tournament win. his head down. That’s when ble-figure scoring totals, 12.9 
“The biggest thing [a win] he lost the ball going up for a “We’re going to overtime to Connaughton swooped in. and 10.4, respectively. Auguste would mean for us is we’d get to 3-pointer, recovered it and hit a win this game,” Grant said of his “I said to him, ‘Hey, that’s played strong inside in the keep playing together. We have floater over a Blue Devil defender thoughts after Connaughton’s dead and gone. There’s nothing NCAA tournament, highlight-we can do about the mistakes ed by his seemingly constant we made. The beautiful thing put-back dunks on the way to about it is we have complete putting up 20 points against control over the outcome of this Kentucky after dealing with his game,’” Connaughton said. own academic issue that caused Connaughton said at the him to miss the game at Georgia season-ending awards banquet Tech in mid-January. vasturia he and Grant, who shared the found himself hitting crunch­team’s MvP honor, wanted to time buckets as the season pro-change the perception of Notre gressed, perhaps most notably Dame men’s basketball. his corner 3 in the first win over 
“We just wanted to make Duke. you guys proud,” he said to the With the returning core of crowd. “We wanted to make our Jackson, vasturia, freshman for-teammates proud. They’ve done ward Bonzie Colson and sopho­so much for us. The coaching more forward v.J. Beachem, staff, everybody in this com-Brey said after the Kentucky munity has done so much for game he couldn’t help peeking us. We came back this year, at next season. talked about it before we came “I think I was in denial be-back, and we wanted to not just cause walking down the hall change the culture but change it [to the interview room], I had so you guys were proud and so Auguste and vasturia, and I was that you guys had something to talking about next season; that write home about.” was my way of thinking ahead a 
Jackson, a highly touted re-little bit,” Brey said. cruit and the heir apparent in Still, next year has a tough act the Irish backcourt, also ex-to follow. ploded onto the scene following “It’s a team that captured the a freshman season that failed nation,” Brey said at the awards to live up to expectations. The banquet. “Certainly it captured guard was suspended by Brey our fan base and fans. … But and missed a pair of games last it captured the country. What spring before becoming one of a fun and energizing group of the team leaders this season, guys to be around.” averaging 12.4 points a game and trailing only Grant in steals Contact Zach Klonsinski at while operating the Notre Dame zklonsin@nd.edu 




THE OBSERvER | friday, May 15, 2015 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 


AUG. 15 Notre Dame announces it is investigating suspected academic dishonesty by four members of the football team. None of the four play in the 2014 season while a fifth, Eilar Hardy, is added to investigation but later cleared. 
SEPT. 6 Football shuts out Michigan, 31-0, in the last scheduled game of the series between the traditional rivals. 
SEPT. 13 Football routs Purdue, 30-14, in the Shamrock Series at Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis. 
SEPT. 14 Women’s golf begins its season by winning the Mary Fossum Invitational. It is the second time in five years the Irish won the Invitational. 
SEPT. 25 Women’s soccer upsets No. 2 Virginia Tech, 2-0, to snap the Hokies’ 10-game winning streak. 
OCT. 10 Men’s soccer outlasts No. 16 Louisville, 3-2, in overtime with junior midfielder Patrick Hodan’s golden goal. 
OCT. 18 Football loses to No. 2 Florida State, 31-27, on a controversial offensive pass interference call against Notre Dame. 
NOV. 22 Women’s cross country finishes 29th out of 30 teams in the NCAA champion­ships. Junior Molly Seidel earns All-American honors. 
NOV. 22 Football loses on Senior Day to Lousiville, 31-28. 
NOV. 23 Women’s soccer is defeated by No. 5 Texas A&M, 2-1, in the round of 16 the NCAA tournament. 
NOV. 29 Football falls to USC, 49-14, to fin­ish its regular season with a 7-5 record. 
NOV. 30 Men’s soccer is upset by No. 16 Virgin­ia, 1-0, in the round of 16 of the NCAA tournament. 
DEC. 4 Notre Dame announces head volley­ball coach Debbie Brown will not return to the team in 2015 following a 19-41 record in her last two seasons. 
DEC. 6 Women’s basketball falls to No. 3 Connecticut, 76-58, despite junior guard Jewell Loyd’s then-career-high 31 points. 
DEC. 30 Football beats LSU, 31-28, in the Franklin American Mortgage Music City Bowl in Nashville, Tennessee, on senior Kyle Brindza’s game-winning field goal. 
DEC. 30 Men’s basketball beats Hartford, 87-60, to finish the month of December with a perfect 7-0 record. 
JAN. 5 Men’s basketball squeaks by No. 18 North Carolina, 71-70, to improve to 15-1 on the year. 
JAN. 24 The men’s and women’s track and field teams finish second and fifth, respectively, at the Notre Dame Invitational. 
JAN. 28 Men’s basketball topples No. 4 Duke at Purcell Pavilion, 77-73. 
FEB. 16 Karen and Kevin Keyes donate $5 million to mark the women’s head basketball coach as the first endowed Notre Dame coach­ing position. 
FEB. 16 Women’s basketball takes down No. 10 Duke at home, 63-50. 
FEB. 26 Women’s basketball defeats Pittsburgh, 87-59, to clinch a share of the ACC regular-season title. 
FEB. 28 Hockey claims 3-1 victory against No. 9 Boston College as freshman goaltender Cal Petersen makes 55 saves. 
FEB. 28 Women’s track finishes third in the Indoor ACC championship. Molly Seidel is named meet MVP. 
MARCH 2 Head football coach Brian Kelly adds former All-Americans Todd Lyght and Autry Denson to the football coaching staff, along with Mike Sanford and Keith Gilmore. 
MARCH 3 Jewell Loyd and freshman forward Brianna Turner named to All-ACC women’s basketball first team. 
MARCH 8 Women’s basketball cruises past No. 7 Florida State, 71-58, to win its second straight ACC tournament. Jewell Loyd was named the tounament MVP. 
MARCH 13 Eight track athletes earn All-American honors at the Indoor NCAA cham­pionship. Junior Margaret Bamgbose finishes sixth in the 400-meter dash, and Molly Seidel finishes sixth in the 5,000 meters. 
MARCH 14 Men’s basketball defeats No. 19 North Carolina, 90-82, to win the program’s first ACC tournament. Senior guard Jerian Grant is named the tournament MVP. 
MARCH 15 Hockey ends season with a 6-4 loss against No. 14 UMass Lowell in the Hockey East tournament quarterfinals. 
MARCH 21 Senior swimmer Emma Reaney places fourth in the 200-yard breaststroke to earn All-American honors for the third straight year. 
MARCH 26 Men’s basketball beats Wichita State, 81-70, to advance to the Elite Eight for the first time since 1979. 
MARCH 28 Men’s basketball falls to No. 1 Kentucky, 68-66, to finish the season with a 32-6 record. 
MARCH 29 Women’s basketball defeats Baylor, 77-68, to advance to the Final Four for fifth consecutive season. 
APRIL 7 Women’s basketball falls to Con­necticut, 63-53, in the national championship game in Tampa, Florida. 
APRIL 7 Women’s lacrosse downs No. 7 Syracuse, 12-11, in overtime on senior mid­fielder Caitlin Gargan’s game-winning goal. 
APRIL 8 Jewell Loyd announces she will en­ter the WNBA draft and forego her final season of eligibility at Notre Dame. The Seattle Storm would select Loyd with the first overall pick in the draft April 17. 
APRIL 10-12 Baseball sweeps No. 7 Florida State to notch an eight-game winning streak. 
APRIL 18 Men’s lacrosse comes out victorious against No. 2 North Carolina by a 15-14 margin to clinch the ACC regular season title. 
APRIL 24 Men’s lacrosse is defeated by No. 6 Duke, 13-8, in the ACC tournament semifinals. 
APRIL 26 Men’s golf finishes eleventh in the ACC championship tournament.  
APRIL 26 Softball loses to North Carolina, 7-3, to snap a 24-game winning streak. 
MAY 1 Senior rower Anna Kottkamp — an environmental science major and ACC scholar-athlete of the year — named valedictorian for 2015 commencment ceremoney. 
MAY 7 Quarterback Everett Golson an­nounces he will transfer to another school to complete his collegiate career. 
MAY 8 Men’s tennis loses 4-1 to Vanderbilt in the first round of the NCAA tournament to finish the year with a 14-12 record. 
MAY 9 Women’s golf finishes in eighth place at NCAA regional tournament and misses a chance to advance to the NCAA championship by six strokes. 
MAY 9 Men’s lacrosse defeats Towson, 12­10, in the first round of the NCAA tournament to advance to the quarterfinals for the sixth straight year. 
MAY 8-10 Baseball sweeps No. 20 North Carolina, highlighted by junior Kyle Richard­son’s walk-off home run in the third game. 
MAY 10 Women’s lacrosse suffers a season-ending, 16-11 loss to Northwestern in the second round of the NCAA tourna­ment. 
MAY 10 Softball receives No. 16 seed in the NCAA tournament and will host the NCAA South Bend regional. 








After a disappoint­ing NCAA tourna­ment in 2012, Notre Dame advanced to the College Cup the next season and bested Maryland in the final, 2-1, to win its first NCAA cham­pionship. The victory marked the first na­tional title for Irish coach Bobby Clark in his 27th season as a college coach. 


Notre Dame ac­cepted an invitation to join the the Atlan­tic Coast Conference in all sports except football after being a member of the Big East since 1995.  
Notre Dame agreed to play five football games an­nually against ACC teams and joined the ACC’s non-BCS bowl package. 


After a standout sea­son, senior linebacker Manti Te’o finished second in the Heisman Trophy voting behind Texas A&M redshirt freshman quarterback Johnny Manziel. 
Te’o ended with 321 first-place votes, and Manziel received 474. Te’o tied for second-most interceptions in the NCAA with seven and tallied 113 tackles. 
Irish undefeated in regular season; streak ends Jan. 7, 2013 
In Irish coach Brian Kelly’s first two years, Notre Dame turned in a pair of 8-5 seasons. 
Despite losing players to the NFL, the Irish were more suc­cessful in Kelly’s third season, going undefeated against their regular season schedule. 
Regular season highlights in­cluded a rout of Navy in Dublin, a 20-3 upset of Michigan State, an emotional 13-6 victory over Mich­igan, an overtime goal-line stand against Stanford, a road victory over Oklahoma and a come-from­behind, three-overtime win over Pittsburgh. 
The Irish reached No. 1 in the polls after a Senior Day victory over Wake Forest and sealed a berth in the BCS National Cham­pionship Game with a 22-13 vic­tory over USC on Nov. 24. 
Traveling to Miami to face off against Alabama in the national championship game, the Irish struggled to contain the Crimson Tide’s offense, as Alabama rolled out to a 28-0 lead at halftime. 
In the end, Notre Dame fell to the Crimson Tide, 42-14, ending the program’s first national title run since 1988. 







A Final Four appear­ance in 2015 was the fifth in a row for the Irish, and a win over South Carolina gave Notre Dame its fourth championship game berth in five years. 
In the title game, the Irish fell to Connecticut for the third consecu­tive year, this time by a score of 63-53 at the Amalie Arena in Tam­pa. 
The largest build­ing project in Notre Dame history should be completed in 2017. Athletic director Jack Swarbrick said Rolfs Sports Recreation Cen­ter would be converted into practice space for the basketball teams. 
The 2015 Blue-Gold game was moved to LaBar Practice Fields as a result of the sta­dium construction. 
The Irish defeat­ed Michigan, 3-1, to claim the CCHA title in the final year of the conference’s 42-year existence, as it was disbanded after the 2012-2013 season due to conference realign­ment. Notre Dame moved to the Hockey East conference. 
Notre Dame went on to fall to St. Cloud State in the NCAA tourney. 



In 2013-2014, the Irish finished with a 15-17 record in their first year in the ACC. 
Just one year lat­er, Notre Dame re­bounded with one of the most successful seasons in program history, winning the ACC tournament and reaching the Elite Eight before falling to top seed Kentucky, 68-66. 
After going 11-5 in the 2014 regular season, the Irish plowed through postseason oppo­nents to capture the ACC title and ad­vance to the cham­pionship game in the NCAA tourna­ment. 
Playing for the title in Baltimore against Duke, Notre Dame fell, 11-9. 
Thanks to a $15 mil­lion donation from the Compton family, the Irish hockey program had a new place to call home — the Compton Family Ice Arena. 
Notre Dame had played all of its hockey games in the Joyce Center before moving to the new facility. The Irish opened the build­ing with a 5-2 win over RPI. 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 




nd WoMen’s basketball | 36-3, 15-1 ACC 
Irish ‘overachieve’ in championship game run 
wanted the ball.” 
By GREG HADLEY 

Editor-in-Chief Four days later, the Irish were 
driven by then-No. 25 DePaul 

To the casual observer, it was to the brink of their first losing the same old story for Notre streak in five years. Down six Dame this year. Another domi-points with 2:50 remaining on nant regular season. Another the road, Notre Dame turned to conference title. Another Final Loyd, who responded by scoring Four berth. And ultimately, an-14 of the team’s next 22 points, other defeat to Connecticut on including the game-winning free the biggest stage. throws in overtime, to scrape out 
But after losing Natalie a 94-93 win. Achonwa, Kayla McBride and “She has been amazing all year Ariel Braker to graduation and long, but tonight was just phe­still posting a 36-3 record and nomenal,” McGraw said after the 15-1 mark in the ACC, Irish head win. “ … I mean, she played the coach Muffet McGraw doesn’t entire game, [had] great defense view things that way. and did so many good things. 
“I’ll be proud,” McGraw said She just never quit. We gave her when asked how she will remem-less than a minute’s rest, and she ber the 2014-2015 campaign. “We was still able to find it in the tank lost three starters and two All-to finish the game.” Americans. We overachieved. I On the night, Loyd tallied 41 thought maybe we were a year points, tying a program record. away from the Final Four.” On the season, she averaged 19.8 
Entering the season, McGraw points and finished with 772 to-said her goal from the team was tal points, four short of Notre a national championship fol-Dame’s single season record. She lowing four straight semifinal was named an AP and WBCA All-Sophomore forward Taya Final Four appearance, joining Four and second straight cham­appearances. But she also kept American for the second year in Reimer did not even make the a group of three other programs pionship, Notre Dame and things in perspective. With an a row, voted the ACC’s most out-trip to Miami with the Irish. to advance to that many in a row. Connecticut faced off. While entirely new frontcourt and no standing player and was a final-Midway through the season, “I’ll tell you, this one was the Turner was healthy for the Irish senior starters, she was fairly ist for the Wooden Award, Wade she missed two games for unex-hardest,” McGraw said. “ … I this time around, they still certain a fifth straight Final Four Trophy and Naismith Trophy, all plained reason, but McGraw said think we played the toughest could not find a way to solve the would not be as easy as in years given to the nation’s top player. she came back renewed and re-schedule in the country, so we Huskies, falling short once more, past. Loyd was one of three Irish energized in her return against learned a lot through it. … But 63-53. 
“We’re going to take some players selected as an AP All-North Carolina on Jan. 15. this one is incredibly satisfying, Notre Dame and McGraw lumps early, and we’re going to American; Turner and sopho-“She really came on strong,” to see what this team was able to have not won a national title have a lot of games that could more guard Lindsay Allen were McGraw said. “She made a con-do together.” since 2001, but she said she go either way, and we’ll see what both honorable mentions. scious decision to lay it all on the In Tampa, Florida, McGraw does not feel as if there is any happens,” McGraw said Nov. 12. Turner was also named the ACC line. … She took over some lead-and the Irish were far from just mental block the team needs to 
However, the Irish started the freshman of the year, while ership of the freshmen and really happy to be there but did adopt overcome. season with eight straight wins, Allen was a finalist for the Nancy stepped up like a veteran.” a more light-hearted approach “There are probably 350 rising to a No. 1 ranking in the Lieberman Award, given to the The Miami defeat was Notre than in years past. schools in the country that USA Today coaches poll and best point guard in the NCAA. Dame’s first conference loss “We were trying to have fun,” would love to be in the position topping opponents, including a Allen in particular impressed as a member of the ACC, but McGraw said. “We just wanted we’re in, so we don’t look at it in Maryland team that would end McGraw this season, as she the Irish followed it up with 14 to enjoy the experience and play those terms,” McGraw said. “We up in the Final Four, by an aver-stepped up from a supporting straight wins to end the regu-loose. Especially with a young look at it as being incredibly suc­age of 43.5 points. role last year to become a vocal lar season, including a six-week team, they don’t need to feel any cessful to get to the Final Four 
Notre Dame then welcomed leader and legitimate scoring stretch between Jan. 15 and Feb. pressure. They just need to play five years in a row. … Certainly No. 3 Connecticut to Purcell threat in her own right. She im-23 in which they defeated four their game, and that’s when they we come in every year with the Pavilion on Dec. 6 for the Jimmy proved her stats from 6.2 to 10.4 top-10 opponents: No. 10 North play their best.” goal of winning it all, and we just v Women’s Classic. The meet-points per game and 3.9 to 5.2 as-Carolina, 89-79; No. 5 Tennessee, Facing No. 1 seed South need to shoot the ball a little bit ing between the Huskies and sists per contest, and her assist-88-77; No. 10 Duke, 63-50; and Carolina in its first ever Final better. It comes down to some the Irish marked a rematch of to-turnover ratio of 2.14 ranked No. 8 Louisville, 68-52. Four appearance, the Irish took pretty basic things.” the 2014 NCAA title game, when 32nd in the nation. “We came through unde-12-point leads in both the first In the immediate aftermath of Connecticut ran away with 79-58 “Last year, she was able to feated,” McGraw said. “So it was and second halves, only to have the loss, McGraw reiterated her victory. come in and simply run the team sometime in early February we the Gamecocks battle back. goal of reaching a sixth semi-
Similar to the championship without having to be vocal,” really started to think we had a Finally, with 1:12 left to play, final next season and trying to game, Notre Dame entered the McGraw said. “ … This year, we chance [to reach the Final Four].” South Carolina took its first lead knock off the Huskies, who have contest without its star front-asked her to do more. We asked For the second straight year, of the game on a layup from now won three straight titles court player. Last year, forward her to score more. We asked her the Irish claimed the regular freshman forward A’ja Wilson. and 10 overall. Natalie Achonwa was out with a to be more involved in the of-season ACC championship, then Loyd, who led all scorers in However, about an hour after torn ACL, and this season fresh-fense, to be more vocal, to be the traveled to Greensboro, North the game with 22 points, missed the defeat, Notre Dame’s hopes man forward Brianna Turner true leader of the team.” Carolina, and claimed the tour-a jumper with 21 seconds left, for the 2015-2016 campaign were was sidelined with a shoulder But while Allen, Turner and nament title as well. In the cham-but senior guard Madison Cable dealt a serious blow when Loyd injury. Loyd played well all season long, pionship game against Florida came in unboxed for a quick informed the team she would be 
Turner’s absence in the post the young Irish squad still expe-State, Notre Dame owned the rebound and layup to give the forgoing her senior season to en-cost the Irish, who lost the re-rienced growing pains. On the boards against the third-best re-team the lead. ter the WNBA draft. A week later, bounding battle, 52-34, and road against Miami (Fla.) on Jan. bounding team in the country, On the following posses-she was selected first overall by were outscored in the paint, 44-8, the trio produced 82.5 percent grabbing 39 to the Seminoles’ 27. sion, senior guard and two-time the Seattle Storm. 
28. But afterwards, McGraw did of Notre Dame’s offense, while With an automatic berth and SEC Player of the Year Tiffany With the loss of Loyd, the not blame the loss solely on her the rest of the team shot 18.5 No. 1 seed in the NCAA tourna-Mitchell tried to break past ju-Irish will have to replace near­frontcourt. She also faulted the percent from the floor in a 78-63 ment, Notre Dame hosted its first nior guard Hannah Huffman but ly a quarter of their offensive inexperience of her players. loss. two games, handling Montana was denied, sealing the victory production. Still, a small piece 
“I don’t think we’re tough “You never like to lose, but and DePaul by double-digit mar-for Notre Dame and marking of good news has emerged for enough,” McGraw said following we’re just so darn young some-gins. Then, in the Sweet 16, the their fourth title game appear-Notre Dame this spring: Cable, the defeat. “I don’t think we have times that we needed maybe a Irish stormed by No. 14 Stanford ance in five years. who sat out her freshman season the mentality of toughness that kick in the pants to kind of say in Oklahoma City. “I was just amazed,” McGraw due to injury, will return for a the last four [Final Four] teams we need to come out ready,” In the Elite Eight, Notre Dame said immediately afterwards. “I fifth year. McGraw called Cable have had. McGraw said following the loss. and Baylor faced off in a rematch think Maddie makes a great play, the “best sixth man in the coun­
“We looked like a deer in head-“I don’t know mentally what they of last year’s regional final. and then we get a great defensive try” this past season. lights. … When things [went] were thinking before the game, Behind a career-best 28 points stop. So yeah, I was pretty happy bad, [junior guard Jewell Loyd] but we were uncharacteristically from Allen, the Irish emerged after that one.” Contact Greg Hadley at  was the only one who really bad in the first half.” on top for their fifth straight For the fifth straight Final ghadley@nd.edu 


THE OBSERvER | friday, May 15, 2015 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

hoCkey | 18-19-5, 10-7-5 HOCKEY EAST 
Youth proves problematic early for Notre Dame 
heels of victories over eventual Anders Bjork, Evans and Connor 
By ALEX CARSON 

Associate Sports Editor national champion Providence, Hurley all reached the double­runner-up Boston University digit mark in points on the year. 
Notre Dame’s 2014 campaign and then-No. 9 Boston College, Despite the impact his fresh-followed the arc of the stereo-when freshman goaltender Cal men had, Jackson said there is typical young team: inconsistent Petersen made 55 saves in a 3-1 strong room for improvement early with a few veterans car-win. moving forward. rying the team before hitting a For Jackson, with a young “Maybe with one exception, I groove as the season drew to a team, he saw his team’s pro-think they all had good years, not close. gression as a positive to carry great years,” Jackson said. “And I 
The year started out rough for forward. think that bodes well for them to Irish head coach Jeff Jackson’s “The most important thing be motivated going into the off-squad. With 10 freshmen on the is that we got better as the sea-season, and I think that most of roster, the Irish lost their exhibi-son progressed,” he said. “ … To them finished with a fair amount tion contest to Waterloo before some degree, you expect fresh-of confidence, knowing what to falling twice at the Ice Breaker men to step up and have the op-expect from college hockey, and Tournament at home. But then portunity to prove themselves, I think they’ll be better prepared they came back and won five especially with the amount of coming in as sophomores.” straight, pushing their record time they played and they cer-While Jackson expressed con-back above .500 early in the year. tainly did a good job for us as the cern over a “sophomore slump,” 
It was a false dawn for Notre season progressed. he said he felt his newcomers Dame, however, which won just “They got some experi-could have added more this year, five of its next 20 games, plac-ence, gained some confidence. and that should help them push ing it outside the NCAA tourna-Whether it’s the goaltender, the forward next season. ment conversation by the end of defensemen or the forwards, “I think sometimes sopho-January. they all made improvements and mores, for so many of them, ex-
For the Irish, the right mix just certainly helped us in the second pectations get in the way, and wasn’t there. half.” they don’t have the kind of year “You know, we started off very After reaching the Hockey that they probably should,” he inconsistent,” Jackson said. East quarterfinals following a said. “But it’s a lot easier for them 
Perhaps that inconsistency first-round series victory over going into their sophomore year was on display best at the Florida Massachusetts, the Irish bowed if they didn’t really achieve their While Russo’s departure was can fill those roles for his squad College Hockey Classic. out on the road in Lowell, expectations in the first year. expected, Hinostroza’s was a lit-moving forward. 
With seven minutes to play Massachusetts, eliminated by So my thoughts are that they’ll tle less so; the sophomore signed “I felt like at times we weren’t Dec. 28 in Estero, Florida, Notre UMass Lowell, 2-1. be better for it and more geared a professional contract with the a good four-line team, and that’s Dame trailed rival and then-No. The win in that series though towards having a real good year Chicago Blackhawks on March always our game, so I’m pretty 5 Miami by a 2-0 margin. meant the Irish knocked off [next season].” 21. confident that our depth will be 
In the blink of an eye, it all each of the four teams that fin-It is likely the Irish will need The center led the Irish in both better [next year],” he said. “We’ll changed. Freshman forward ished ahead of them in the final further contributions from their points scored (44) and assists have more production from four Jake Evans ignited the Irish, as-standings; Providence, Boston youngsters next year, after the (33), and Jackson said he was lines, as opposed to two or three, sisting on a goal to bring the defi-University, Boston College and team’s two leading point-scorers most upset Hinostroza would and with the growth by some of cit to one before tying the game UMass Lowell, in the final month from this season, senior defense-likely not have the ability to fin-the young defensemen and Cal up with 23 seconds left to send it of the season. man Robbie Russo and sopho-ish his degree at Notre Dame. Petersen and Chad Katunar, that to overtime. The catalyst for much of that more center vince Hinostroza, “You certainly like to see ev-we’ll be better coming out of our 
There, he scored the winner. success was Petersen, and while who were both named first-team ery player be in a position to own zone and playing in our own 
The next night, it seemed a a 55-save performance would All-Hockey East, departed the earn their diploma from the zone. That’s a good starting point foregone conclusion for the Irish; often be the hallmark one for a team. University of Notre Dame, and to build on. they faced Lake Superior State goaltender in a season, it wasn’t For Russo, it was a story of re-this will probably make that an “I’m excited about the poten­in the final, a team which ended for the freshman; he set the demption in his senior year. The impossibility leaving this early,” tial of this class coming in. We’ve up winning one nonconference NCAA record with 87 saves in the defenseman was suspended Jackson said in an interview got a couple of guys who are pure game all season. longest game in college hockey midway through the 2013-2014 March 22. “That’s my biggest offensive guys, and we’ve got 
That game was that night in history, a 4-3 quintuple-over-season and returned to the team disappointment.” a couple of guys that are more Florida, against the Irish. time loss to Massachusetts in the in the fall with one year of eligi-Jackson, however, did get a power-type forwards. We’re gon-
But after Notre Dame’s 5-2 first round of the Hockey East bility left. boost May 8, when junior for-na have more balance with the loss at New Hampshire on Jan. tournament. He made the most of it, shar-ward Mario Lucia announced he type of players we bring in.” 30, which dropped it to 10-14-3, Petersen was far from the only ing the lead for all defensemen would return to school for his se-He also thought his team could the team figured something out. freshman to have a significant nationwide in goals scored (15) nior season. improve at home, where the Irish The Irish lost just five more times impact for the Irish; defense-and finishing second in points The Minnesota Wild draftee went just 10-10-3 this season. over the season’s remaining 15 man Jordan Gross tallied 28 tallied (41). was Notre Dame’s leading goal-“I want to make sure that we do games, soaring to a fifth-place points from the blueline in his “I think he responded really scorer this season, lighting the better at home, play more con-finish in Hockey East on the rookie campaign, while forwards well to some personal adversity lamp 21 times, improving on his sistent at home,” Jackson said. 
from the previous year,” Jackson 16 goals the prior year. “I think our nonconference re-said. “I think he took a big step, Jackson said he is excited to cord is going to have to be better, especially with such a young de-have his team’s most-prolific and it’ll be another challenging fense, playing with a freshman scorer back but indicated the ju-year within the conference; we [Gross] all year.” nior’s leadership off the ice may always want to get to the point 
But for everything Russo did in be more important than his play where we can get to [TD Garden the goalscoring category, Jackson on it. for the Hockey East semifinals].” pointed out his leadership “We’re thrilled that he’s com-Jackson said to reach the growth; the senior was named ing back,” he said. “Mario’s an team’s goal of hoisting the hard-a co-captain prior to Notre important part of our team; I ware in April, it must focus on Dame’s series with Providence think he’s grown a lot over the these short-term goals first. on valentine’s Day weekend. last two or three years, both as a “Everything else takes care of 
“He did a great job leading player and as a young man, and itself,” he said. “The end result, back there, not just with his he’s certainly going to make a making the NCAA tournament, production but his overall de-big difference in our lineup and, is a precursor to winning an meanor and his approach to the more importantly, in our locker NCAA championship, and that is game,” Jackson said of Russo. room.” the long-term goal for this team. “He had a great year offensively, Jackson attributed many of … We always aspire to reach that but I thought he did a really good his team’s struggles to a lack of pinnacle. But we have to look at job on the defensive side of the depth — the Irish often struggled staying focused on what’s im­puck as well.” to get consistent performances portant in the short term.” 
Russo capped off his 2015 hon-from their third and fourth lines ors by earning a spot on CCM’s — and he said looks toward next Contact Alex Carson at  All-America team. year’s freshmen as players who acarson1@nd.edu 





baseball | 33-18, 15-12 ACC 

Irish rebound, look to add to postseason history 
By MARY GREEN 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Above the right-field corner of Frank Eck Stadium stands a board listing each year Notre Dame has earned a bid to the NCAA tournament, with the most recent trip in 2006. 
The Irish won’t know for an­other week if “2015” will be printed on that board when they open their season next year, but head coach Mik Aoki is keep­ing his team’s success in 2015 in perspective, no matter what the postseason holds. 
“It’s like I told our guys going into this thing is that, look, one year ago today, we were com­pletely eliminated, and we were sort of playing out this stretch, and the way that we had played the first 48 games dictated that that was the case,” Aoki said. “This year, the way that we had played the first 48 games dictat­ed that we’ve changed that.” 
One year ago, Notre Dame struggled in its first season in the ACC, when a prolonged win­ter kept them from competing at Eck until May 9. The team toiled to a 22-31 record, picking up just nine of those wins against con­ference opponents. 
It’s safe to say the second time around in the ACC has been the charm for the Irish, who sur­passed last year’s win total with an April 11 victory over Florida State and have compiled a 33-18 record headed into this week­end’s series at Boston College. 
“To a certain extent, I think there’s a breaking-in period with this conference, especially when you go from the Big East, which, rightly or wrongly, isn’t really perceived as a baseball power conference, going to a place like the ACC, which is perceived as a baseball power conference. To make that transition, I think there needs to be a little bit of a level of familiarity,” Aoki said. 
Notre Dame has proven it can keep up with the perennial powers of its new conference, collecting 15 wins against ACC teams this season, including three-game sweeps of then-No. 7 Florida State, No. 20 North Carolina and Pittsburgh and series wins over Clemson and North Carolina State. 
Aoki said he attributed the turnaround from last year’s dif­ficulties to this year’s success to a complete culture change within the program, stemming from its veteran players. 
“Our kids are excited about coming to the field on a daily basis, and I think that a lot of that has to do with the way the se­niors have led us and kept it loose and kept it fun, and they’ve shown some of these younger kids who have made such a ma­jor contribution to our team the right way of sort of going about the process, so I think this is a great reward for them,” he said. 
The Irish kicked off the sea­son by taking 10 of their first 11 games, including two on the road against Oklahoma. Aoki said that hot start validated the hard work Notre Dame had put in during the offseason more than boost­ing its confidence. 
“I think we, to a certain ex­tent, redefined where confidence comes from, and confidence comes from the work we put in, the way in which we control the process of trying to be good,” he said. “ … I think our confidence doesn’t go up and down with the ebbs and flows of the season. We should, if we’re doing it right, our confidence should stay at a pret­ty high level because we’ve paid the price to be successful.” 
A few months after those first few weekends of competition set the tone for Notre Dame’s re­bound season, the Irish closed out their home season last week­end with the sweep against the Tar Heels, capped by a walk-off home run from junior center fielder Kyle Richardson in the se­ries finale. 
Aoki said being able to practice and compete for the entirety of the season on the one-year-old FieldTurf of their stadium has allowed the Irish to put in that work and build their confidence. 
“The playing surface is the same today as it will be in July, if we’re fortunate enough and Mother Nature cooperates and we can get out in December,” he said. “ … So this thing has been an absolute, 100-percent game changer for us.” 

Notre Dame wraps up its regu­lar season this weekend with a series against Boston College in Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts, before heading to Durham, North Carolina, for the ACC tournament, beginning May 19. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 

nd softball | 40-13, 17-6 ACC 
Historic win streak highlights ND’s season 

By MIKE GINOCCHIO 
Sports Writer 
Heading into the 2014-2015 year, the Irish looked to build on a highly successful 2013­2014 season. 
They did not disappoint. 
Notre Dame finished the regular season with a record of 40-12, a conference re­cord of 17-6 and a near-per­fect 18-1 record at home in Melissa Cook Stadium. 
As senior third baseman Katey Haus viewed it, the added experience transition­ing from last year to this paid major dividends. 
“I think our experience has shown this year,” Haus said. “We know what it takes to get the job done, and we’ve made sure we’ve taken care of business.” 
Haus was one of six Irish named to the ACC All-Conference first team, along with senior ACC Player of the Year and two-time All-American center fielder Emilee Koerner, sophomore 
All-American  left  fielder  
Karley  Wester  and  junior  
All-American  first  base­ 
man  Micaela  Arizmendi.  
Sophomore  right-hander  

Rachel Nasland and fresh­man shortstop Morgan Reed capped off the Irish presence on the list by making the 
All-ACC second team. 
It is the large core of suc­cessful players, as well as the length of time that they have played together, that Haus said fuels their success. 
“I think a big component of our success is our team chemistry,” Haus said. “We feed off one another, and if someone is struggling, some­one else is there to pick her up.” 
After losing to Florida State on March 14, Notre Dame put together a streak of 24 straight victories. During that time, the Irish outscored their opponents by a stag­gering 204-39 margin, and at one point, were a perfect 17-0 at home. 
Yet Haus said the streak 
barely  registered  on  the  
team’s radar.  
“Honestly,  the  streak  

wasn’t a huge factor for the team,” Haus said. “We always focus on taking one game at a time, regardless of what hap­pens the game before. The team as a whole has stepped up. One through nine has gotten their jobs done, and it has really shown as the sea­son progressed.” 
Overall, the Irish have com­piled an impressive season, with several key performers standing out. On the mound, Nasland went 16-7 with a 2.79 
ERA and 161 strikeouts in 
165.2 innings pitched, while junior lefty Allie Rhodes led the team in wins (19-5) and ERA (2.76) while also strik­ing out 113 batters in 121.2 innings. 
At the plate, two Irish broke 
a .400 batting average, with Wester hitting a team-high .432 and Haus coming in second with .409. Haus was also tied for the team lead in home runs with Arizmendi, each cranking out 11 over the course of the regular sea­son. Haus and Koerner also cracked 50 RBIs on the sea­son, with the former leading the team with 53 and the lat­ter coming in with 50. 
It has been these individ­ual performances that fuel Haus’ confidence as the Irish head towards the rest of the playoffs. 
“I think we are looking good,” Haus said. “The team is excited to get into the postseason and make things happen.” 
After losing to Pittsburgh on May 7 in the ACC quarter­finals by a score of 8-1, the Irish earned the No. 16 seed in the NCAA tournament and will host Ball State on Friday at Melissa Cook Stadium. 
Contact Mike Ginocchio at mginocch@nd.edu 


THE OBSERvER | friday, May 15, 2015 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

Men’s laCrosse | 10-2, 4-0 ACC 
Irish rebound after 2014 championship loss 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
Sports Writer 
All season long, the Irish tried to bounce back from be­ing just a couple of goals away from hoisting the program’s first national championship in 2014. Notre Dame respond­ed to that defeat in a big way, winning the regular season ACC title and capturing the first No. 1 overall seed in pro­gram history in this year’s NCAA tournament. 
In their second year in the ACC, the Irish (10-2, 4-0 ACC) have handled the pressures of arguably the nation’s top con­ference by beating virginia, Syracuse, Duke and North Carolina. Those teams are seeded seventh, second, fifth and fourth, respectively, in the NCAA tournament. 
Looking at the improve­ments from last year’s team to this year’s squad, Notre Dame faced a completely different challenge, sophomore goalie Shane Doss said. 
“This season has definitely been different because last year we really dug ourselves a hole and had to win a cou­ple big games just to make the NCAA tournament,” Doss said. “We’ve been more suc­cessful early on this year which is obviously good but does present unique chal­lenges in staying focused and not letting our egos get too big.” 
Notre Dame’s win over Syracuse midway through the season cemented the Irish as the top program in the na­tion. In a matchup that pit­ted the country’s top two teams against each other, the then-No. 2 Irish defeated the then-No. 1 Orange in a dou­ble-overtime thriller. Notre Dame was rewarded with the No. 1 overall ranking after the win. 
In the following game, the Irish traveled to Durham, North Carolina, with re­demption from their last loss to Duke in the 2014 national championship game in their mind. Dominating the score­board early and limiting the Blue Devils’ offense, the Irish came away with a convinc­ing 15-10 victory on the road. However, Notre Dame lost to Duke, 13-8, in the first round of the ACC tournament. 
In the final game of the regular season, Notre Dame was faced with another No. 1 vs. No. 2 battle when North Carolina visited Arlotta Stadium. From start to finish, the Irish and Tar Heels were neck-and-neck until three Irish goals in the game’s last 75 seconds overcame a two-goal deficit and gave Notre Dame a 15-14 win. 
“It was a great season to really learn about ourselves,” Irish head coach Kevin Corrigan said. “We played most of the best teams in the country, and you learn a lot about yourself because every one of those teams present a different challenge to you.” 
This year’s squad was more balanced than last year’s, which was carried by junior attack Matt Kavanagh’s 42 goals and 33 assists. This sea­son, Kavanagh, a finalist for the Tewaarton Award, which recognizes the best player in the country, was supported by a cast of offensive weap­ons including sophomore midfielder Sergio Perkovic (24 goals, six assists), senior attack Conor Doyle (24 goals, 17 assists) and freshman at­tack Mikey Wynne (32 goals, 3 assists). 
Several other players on the team have stepped up this season to give Notre Dame an extra push, Doss said. 
“Our captains Jack Near, Conor Doyle and Jim Marlatt have done a great job lead­ing us on and off the field,” Doss said. “Near is really the emotional leader of the team, and it shows in every game, but other guys always step in when we need them to. Matt Kavanagh is another guy who leads by example and is al­ways fighting no matter what, which has kind of been the identity of our team all year.” 
Corrigan believes the bal­ance of the team has made Notre Dame one of the most potent offenses in the country. 
“We’re a harder team to prepare for because if you’re just preparing for Kavanagh, you’re going to be in trouble with some of our other guys out there,” Corrigan said. “We have experienced guys all over the field that have helped us with several roles as well.” 
The Irish are not looking back at what happened last season or even at what lies ahead in the remainder of the NCAA tourney, Corrigan said. 
“We’re trying to make sure that our guys have fresh legs and understand who we are heading into the tournament, but we’re not worried about long term. We’re totally one game at a time and focus­ing on strictly learning about how to make ourselves a bet­ter team,” Corrigan said. 

In the first round of the NCAA tournament, Notre Dame rallied past unseeded Towson at home to win 12­10, and advance to its sixth straight quarterfinals. The Irish will play Albany on Saturday in Denver with a re­turn to the Final Four on the line. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 

nd WoMen’s laCrosse | 11-9, 3-4 ACC 
Wins at virginia highlight ‘roller coaster’ year 
overtime before suffering a narrow, came in the first round of the ACC sports,” Halfpenny said. “Every 34 caused turnovers, putting her 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 

Sports Writer 10-9 loss to No. 9 Northwestern. tournament. The Irish advanced dog has their day, and unfor-in the top 25 of the NCAA for both “This group came out and said, to play No. 2 North Carolina, the tunately we had one down in categories. 
This year was a season of firsts ‘We want to be part of something conference’s top seed, and lost, Durham. … The beauty is, we Sullivan, who was sidelined for for No. 17 Notre Dame en route to new here; we want to do things for 18-4. Earlier in the season, the Tar didn’t dwell in misery. We basical-almost all of 2014 with a back inju­an 11-9 overall record and 3-4 fin-the first time,’ and they did,” Irish Heels escaped an Irish upset with ly got right back up, responded and ry, won ACC Defensive Player of the ish in ACC play. head coach Christine Halfpenny a 9-8 win at Arlotta Stadium. went on that late run where we al-Year and was also named a finalist 
Notre Dame upset No. 8 virginia said. “Beating virginia for the first The 19-day span in which the most knocked off the No. 2 team in for the Tewaaraton Award, given to twice, both times on enemy turf. time ever in the history of the pro-Irish defeated virginia twice and the country, North Carolina. That the nation’s best collegiate men’s The program’s first ever win over gram, and not only beating them Syracuse once marked the first was a close defeat, but it was a win and women’s lacrosse players. the Cavaliers (11-6, 4-3 ACC) on but beating them away on their time Notre Dame beat three top-10 for our program.” Notre Dame traveled to April 4 kicked off a three-game home field, added an exclamation teams in a single season. Halfpenny said the team really Evanston, Illinois, for the NCAA win streak during which the Irish point to it.” The Irish faced a challenging developed and came together with tournament, where it met up with also took down No. 3 Syracuse in The second win over virginia schedule, taking on four other top-time, especially with underclass-Ohio State in the first round May 
10 teams on the road in the first men playing such a large role on 8. Behind a seven-goal run, the half of the season. All were losses, the field. Irish defeated the Buckeyes, 13­as they fell 12-10 to No. 10 Stanford, “We’re still identifying exactly 10, to set up a rematch with host 17-3 to No. 6 Duke, 15-6 to No. 6 where our strengths are going to Northwestern (14-6) on Sunday. Boston College and 9-5 to No. 4 be, and we’re relying on a lot of The Wildcat offense came to life Stony Brook. sophomores,” Halfpenny said. in the second half, scoring nine 
“You have to look at the entire “We’re led by an incredible group goals and turning a 7-7 tie at half-picture and say we play one of the of seniors, three of them are on the time into a 16-11 victory that ended hardest schedules in the coun-field for us. … You just saw the nat-Notre Dame’s season. try,” Halfpenny said. “We weren’t ural progression of a team that is Before the NCAA tournament just coming up against teams that growing and learning who they are began though, Halfpenny praised were rollovers. Every single time and battling throughout the course her team’s overall performance out we were tested, both in confer-of the season.” this year. ence and out of conference, espe-The Notre Dame offense was “Watching our team come to­cially down the stretch.” led by sophomore attack Cortney gether, watching our leaders step 
Halfpenny said while the team Fortunato, who ranks 15th in the up, watching our younger kids struggled in the losses, specifi-NCAA in goals scored with 52, grow up and give us incredible con­cally the lopsided defeat at Duke earning her a spot on the All-ACC tributions … it’s been an awesome on March 1, she was proud of how second team. journey,” she said. it responded. On defense, meanwhile, senior 
“It’s a roller coaster ride, those captain Barbara Sullivan domi-Contact Renee Griffin at  are just the ups and downs of nated with 73 draw controls and rgriffi6@nd.edu 



Men’s soCCer | 12-5-4, 6-1-1 ACC 
Tournament loss to Cavs halts title defense 
ACC) found itself walking off the Alumni Stadium pitch with a 1-0 loss to the 16th-seeded Cavaliers in the third round of the NCAA tournament after virginia scored a goal in the 82nd minute. 
“The game we lost we domi­nated. That’s sport, and that’s why you play games,” Irish head coach Bobby Clark said. 
It was the not the first time Notre Dame was forced to settle for a bitter defeat in a game in which it was the better side. The Irish also dropped a 1-0 deci­sion at home against Kentucky on Sept. 8 and another by the same score on the road Oct. 3 at Boston College. 
“The Irish luck kind of some­how deserted us this year, but that’s ok. I was very proud,” Clark said. “I thought the team responded very well to [winning the title] the year before. … They certainly didn’t rest on their lau­rels, and they played very, very well.” 
The Irish controlled the final game against the Cavaliers but couldn’t find room to put shots on net against a different de­fense than they shredded just two weeks before during their 3-0 win in the ACC tournament. 
“ … I know having spoken to the virginia coaches, after we beat them they changed their tactics right through the rest of the tournament,” Clark said. “ … They changed from play­ing with three defenders to four defenders, so they actually changed their tactics. That game altered their thinking a lot and quite possibly, as they said, won them a national championship.” 
The Cavaliers went on to win the national championship, the second time in three years the No. 16 seed has done so — and also the second time it went through a top-seeded Notre Dame en route. Three years ago, eventual champion Indiana left Alumni Stadium with a 2-1, dou­ble-overtime win in the third round. 
Despite the unsatisfying fin­ish, Clark said he was proud of how the team handled the pres­sure following the program’s first-ever national champion­ship last season. 
“Every team you played last year, you got their A-game … and I thought the team responded to that very well, and I thought they came through that test well,” Clark said. 
This graduating senior class leaves Notre Dame soccer among the most decorated ever. The team won a national cham­pionship, back-to-back ACC reg­ular-season championships and the 2013 Big East tournament title, as well as earned two No. 1 overall seeds and a No. 3 billing in the NCAA tournament while compiling a 55-15-15 overall record. 
“The last four years were very successful, there’s no question about that,” Clark said. “Arguably, I don’t even have to check records, but I think it would be the most successful four years in — we’ve had a lot of good years, so it could be close, but no team had won the na­tional championship, and then you’ve won three other major trophies in two of the best con­ferences in the country. 
“They’ll all go out and hold their heads very high.” 
Senior midfielder Brendan Lesch even added a Bengal Bouts championship this spring to the class’s long list of accolades. 
“That cost me a lot of money,” Clark said. “I put him on $20 a round, so he was on an incen­tive. I said I would put money into the Bengal Bouts mission fund per round. So he got me there. He stung me there all the way through.” 
While seniors midfielder Nick Besler (Portland Timbers) and defender Luke Mishu (DC United) will continue their ca­reers in the major leagues, oth­ers — such as graduate student goalkeeper Patrick Wall, an aerospace engineer — will make good use of their Notre Dame education. 
“We’ve put over 30 kids into the MLS now, but every one has graduated, which for me is very important,” Clark said. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
Sports Editor 
It was an all-too-familiar story for Notre Dame. The Irish dominated another game which they lost, only this 
time, it ended their season and the quest to repeat as national champions. 
After earning a road draw and a 3-0 win over virginia in the two teams’ prior meetings, No. 1 seed Notre Dame (12-5-4, 6-1-1 


nd WoMen’s soCCer | 14-6-2, 7-2-1 ACC 
Season ends with Sweet 16 heartbreaker 
slow for Notre Dame. After two 

By RENEE GRIFFIN Sports Writer  wins against unranked Illinois and  
Oakland, the team lost at home to  
No. 11 Notre Dame suffered  Southern California and No. 14  
only three losses in the months  Texas Tech in consecutive game.  
of  September,  October  and  However, the Irish bounced back  
November, before a Sweet 16 loss to  from there, with the only other reg- 
No. 4 Texas A&M on Nov. 23 ended  ular season losses coming against  
their 2014 season.  No. 8 North Carolina in double  
Notre Dame (14-6-2, 7-2-1 ACC)  overtime on Sept. 20 and No. 2  
came close to upsetting the Aggies  virginia, who fell to Florida State in  
(23-3-2, 9-1-1 SEC) on their home  the national title game, on Oct. 5.  
turf in College Station, Texas, but  “It’s always interesting to watch a  
a goal in the game’s 82nd minute  team evolve over the course of the  
propelled Texas A&M to a 2-1 win.  season,” Romagnolo said. “There  
“Things didn’t go our way in  were a lot of different people who  
terms of goals that were put in  stepped up, but as a whole we were  
the back of the net, but overall I  becoming more dangerous as the  
loved the way we played in that  season went on.”  
game,” Irish head coach Theresa  After the narrow loss to virginia, WEI LIN | The Observer  
Romagnolo said. “We gave 100 per- in which the Cavaliers scored the Notre Dame freshman midfielder Sabrina Flores brings the ball downfield during a 1-0 win over Baylor at  
cent of our effort, we executed on  game-winning goal in the final Alumni Stadium on Sept. 12. The Irish finished the season with a 14-6-2 overall record.  
the most part on everything that  minute, Notre Dame went on a  
we talked about.”  five-game  winning  streak  and  Contributions from a number  scoring goals,” Romagnolo  said.  On the whole, the season went  
Before that, the Irish qualified  closed out the regular season with  of different players were crucial to  “Lauren Bohaboy had a good sea- well, Romagnolo said.  
for the four-team ACC tournament  a 1-1 tie against Boston College.  the Irish attack, Romagnolo said.  son for us, and especially started  “We could have definitely gone  
and fell 3-1 to No. 1 Florida State  “We were defending really well at  Sophomore  midfielder  Morgan  to peak as we got into the meat of  further  had some things gone  
in the semifinals. The Seminoles  that point in the year,” Romagnolo  Andrews, who has since trans- the ACC schedule. [Forward] Karin  our  way and had  we  found the  
went on to win both the ACC and  said. “The back four was very co­ ferred  to  USC, led the  team  in  Simonian had a good year I think  back of the net in that Sweet 16  
NCAA titles.  hesive.  [Sophomore  goalkeeper]  points with 17, followed by se­ as a senior as well.”  game,” Romagnolo said. “I was re­ 
“I thought that we showed great  Kaela Little can come up with any  nior forward Lauren Bohaboy (16  Romagnolo named players like  ally pleased with the strides we  
character [in the postseason], and I  save on any given day. …When you  points)  and  freshman  forward  junior defenders Katie Naughton  made from August to the end of  
thought that we were playing some  look back, most of those games  Karin Muya (11).  and Cari Roccaro as important  November.”  
of our  best soccer,” Romagnolo  were still 1-0 victories, so it’s not  “When I think about our strik-team leaders, while praising fresh- 
said.  like we were a prolific goal-scoring  ers, we had a lot of people who kind  men like defender Sabrina Flores  Contact Renee Griffin at   
The regular season started off  team.”  of went in waves of being hot and  for their rapid development.  rgriffi6@nd.edu  


THE OBSERvER | friday, May 15, 2015 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

nd WoMen’s tennis | 14-10, 8-6 ACC 
Young team deals with injuries, tough schedule 
Men’s tennis | 14-11, 6-6 ACC 
Irish slowed by ACC opponents 


By HUNTER McDANIEL 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame ‘s season end­ed with a 4-2 loss to TCU in the first round of the NCAA tournament, but on the way toward earning its 20th con­secutive tournament berth, the team overachieved in a number of ways. 
The Irish (14-10, 8-6 ACC) kicked off their spring sea­son in early January without injured top recruit Brooke Broda, who had won three National Open singles ti­tles before coming to Notre Dame. 
Head coach Jay Louderback said the resilience his team showed throughout the year after Broda’s season-ending injury was crucial. 
“I felt like everyone stepped up,” he said. “We thought Brooke was going to be in the lineup, but she end­ed up missing the year with an injury. So everyone had to step up and play to a higher level than we thought, and they did a good job.” 
It wasn’t just the inju­ry to an expected starter that forced the Irish to play differently this season, Louderback said. They also had to overcome a number of personnel changes from a season ago. 
“We lost three of our top four doubles from last year and only had one new play­er come in,” Louderback said. “We had so many tight matches, so many 5-2 and 4-3 matches, more by far than any in this team’s history. And especially our doubles had to step up. We hardly lost the doubles point all year, and that turned out to be huge for us.” 
As the season continued, Notre Dame faced some of the top teams in the coun­try and played them to close matches almost every time. On the year, the Irish had seven matches end with a 4-3 score. 
Louderback highlighted one such match that specifi­cally stood out to him. 
“The match with virginia Tech [on April 5] ended up being a huge match for us,” he said. “We were on the road, and it came down to [junior] Quinn [Gleason] at No. 1 singles, where she was down to two match points. She came back and won to give us a 4-3 win. Without that win, we would’ve been on the bubble for the NCAA tournament. Our kids hung in there and gave a huge win when we needed it.” 
After the victory at virginia Tech, the Irish found them­selves victors of four in a row and six of their previous sev­en. Unfortunately, they then suffered a four-game skid with losses to then-No. 17 Miami, No. 21 Clemson and No. 23 Duke, as well as a sec­ond round ACC tournament loss to Florida State. 
The Irish did, however, earn a spot in the NCAA tournament, traveling to College Station, Texas, for the matchup against TCU, which they dropped. 
Notre Dame’s top doubles team of Gleason and soph­omore Monica Robinson earned a spot in the NCAA women’s doubles champion­ship in Waco, Texas, which takes place May 20-25. The 26th ranked duo played to a 14-5 record this spring and a 22-7 overall record going back to the fall. 
“They simply had a great season,” Louderback said. “Last year Monica was in and out of our doubles lineup, and she had to work on a few things in order to get better, and she did that. As a sopho­more and junior, they played great together against some great competition. Without the way they played together this year, we simply would not have won as many of the doubles points. They were huge for us.” 
Louderback said he is al­ready looking forward to next season, especially with more experienced players and five-star recruit Rachel Chong coming in from Danville, California. 
“We didn’t have any seniors in our top six [this year],” Louderback said. “We’ve got a great freshman coming in this year, and we’re hoping Brooke will be healthy. We’ve got so much experience. All our returners got some great experience, [sophomore] Jane Fennelly especially. 
“ … With all the returners and new players coming in, we think we could be a really special team next year.” 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdanie1@nd.edu 
By RYAN KLAUS 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame got off to a fast start this season, winning six of its first seven matches. However, as the Irish began their ACC slate, wins became harder to come by. 
“I think clearly there’s been a lot of growth from a lot of individuals throughout this year,” Irish head coach Ryan Sachire said. “We’ve had a tough time putting our best lineup on the court ev­ery time because of injuries and other things like that, but that gave other guys op­portunities to step up and play in the lineup when they normally wouldn’t or play higher in the lineup than they normally would.” 
The Irish (14-11, 6-6 ACC) began the season with nonconference wins over Kentucky, Oklahoma State and Northwestern. After a 6-1 start, the Irish dropped matches to highly-ranked opponents Ohio State (cur­rently No. 11) and Illinois (No. 4) before starting ACC play. 
Notre Dame’s daunt­ing conference schedule included matches against five current top-15 teams: virginia (No. 3), Duke (No. 10), Wake Forest (No. 12), North Carolina (No. 13) and virginia Tech (No. 15). 
“I think with the ACC, first and foremost, it’s clear that it’s the best overall confer­ence in the country,” Sachire said. “We’ve played a dif­ficult schedule and chal­lenged ourselves as much as anyone in the country.” 
Following an up-and­down second half of the sea­son, the Irish finished with 
a .500 conference record, which earned them the sev­enth seed in the ACC tourna­ment. But Notre Dame’s stay at the ACC championships in Cary, North Carolina, was cut short after a first round 4-0 loss to Georgia Tech. 
Despite the early confer­ence tournament exit, Notre Dame earned an at-large bid to the NCAA tourna­ment, where it fell to No. 24 vanderbilt in the first round, 4-1. 
Outside of team accom­plishments, three individual Irish players will participate in the NCAA tournament on May 20-25 in Waco, Texas. Junior Quentin Monaghan compiled a 29-6 record as the No. 1 singles player for the Irish and is ranked ninth nationally. Notre Dame’s top doubles pairing of junior Alex Lawson and senior Billy Pecor, ranked 15th nation­ally, also had a standout sea­son, finishing 24-8. The pair earned an at-large bid to play in the doubles portion of the NCAA tournament. 
“They’ve had great years for us,” Sachire said of the three qualifiers. “They’ve been spots that we’ve been really successful at all year. Our team’s played a great a schedule and great competi­tion, but certainly the indi­viduals have done the same thing.” 
Contact Ryan Klaus at  rklaus1@nd.edu 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 




traCk & field 

Runners perform well under new coach 
By ANDREW ROBINSON 
Sports Writer 
In their first season with head coach Alan Turner at the helm, the Irish had a year filled with its share of daz­zling veteran performances and emerging young stars, despite some setbacks along the way. 
Notre Dame got off to a fast start at its own Blue & Gold Invitational on Dec. 5, win­ning 22 of 30 events. 
The star of the first few meets of the indoor season was freshman Jessica Harris, who broke the school re­cord at 1,000 meters in her first race at the Blue & Gold Invitational. She proceeded to nab school records in the 600-meter and 800-meter runs at her next two meets. 
“I doubt we’ll see anything like that happen for a long, long time,” Turner said of Harris’s performance. 
Another indoor standout was junior Molly Seidel, who won five of her six races in­side, took the ACC crown in the 3,000 meters and 5,000 meters and captured an All-American sixth-place finish at the NCAA indoor championship. 
“The highlights are the folks who are doing the things really well for where I want to take the program ... in the ACC and nationally,” Turner said. 
Though Turner said she had a shaky start indoors, senior hurdler Jade Barber has put forth an impres­sive final season, finishing second in the ACC 60-me­ter hurdles before taking second-team All-American honors. Outdoors, she holds three first-place finishes in the 100-meter hurdles and the fourth-best time in the country. 
Junior Margaret Bamgbose won a total of seven indoor races from individual and relay performances and went on to set a Notre Dame record while winning the 400-me­ter dash at the ACC cham­pionships. She also finished sixth at nationals, earning All-American honors. 
Turner said he expects that with Seidel, Barber, Bamgbose, senior Emily Morris in the shot put and junior Danielle Aragon in the distance events, the Irish women have a strong chance of winning the upcoming ACC outdoor championships on May 14-16. 
The men’s side has been riddled with injuries throughout the season, con­tributing to what Turner said was a “middle-of-the­road” season, but still had many strong individual performers. 
Senior standout Chris Giesting was as strong as ever, finishing second in the ACC in the 400-meter dash and becoming a second-team All-American indoors. He has the NCAA’s 13th-best outdoor time. 
Turner also said it was a good year to build for ath­letes like junior Michael Clevenger and sophomore Jacob Dumford, both dis­tance runners, and fresh­man Greg Bombara in the javelin. 
After the outdoor ACC championships, the qualify­ing Irish athletes will travel to the NCAA east regional, followed by the national championships starting June 10. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 


nd volleyball | 6-23, 3-15 ACC 
ND’s struggles result in leadership change 

Director of athletics Jack more than 500 wins, 15 regu-“We all experienced what making sure everyone is do-
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 

Sports Writer Swarbrick announced long-lar-season conference titles it was like to play at the col-ing their job on the court. I time Irish head coach Debbie and 18 NCAA championship legiate level and work hard,” think another thing to is just Notre Dame’s season did Brown would not return in appearances. However, she Fry said. “I just think this staying positive. … We’re not turn out as it had hoped December, with the team struggled in the transition experience we had, one sea-going to be frustrated, but and, as a result, the team struggling to a 6-23 record, to the ACC, going 7-13 in the son under our belt, will help if we’re not frustrated we’re will no longer have a famil-including a 3-15 mark in ACC conference last year in addi-us become better leaders for not getting better. … There 
iar face roaming the sideline play, this past season. Brown tion to a second-to-last place the other girls coming in. is a process.” 
during the 2015 season. departed after amassing finish this past fall. “It definitely was really The Irish will turn their “This last season was defi-helpful getting those reps. attention to next year with-PAID ADvERTISEMENT 
nitely a disappointment,” You have to be more men-out their six seniors, but freshman middle blocker tally focused, just because they will undoubtedly miss Sam Fry said. “Every time we volleyball is such a mental middle blocker Jeni Houser look back on our record, it’s game. … This past fall we and outside hitter Nicole a little bit degrading. But it’s definitely learned how to Smith. Houser, who led the definitely something we’re deal with our emotions, re-team with 289 kills this sea­going to learn from.” ally play mentally tough.” son, finished her career with 
Fry was one of the few Even before injuries be-1,299 kills, good for a tie bright spots for the Irish, came the story, the Irish for eight place in program garnering 2014 all-ACC struggled despite a veteran history. Smith was second freshman honors while lead-squad with six seniors on the on the team with 249 kills. ing the team in total blocks team. Returning such a young with 107. In addition, Fry Notre Dame dropped its team that already has plenty was second in points (324.0) first six games before earn-of experience, Fry said the and third in kills (242). ing its first win Sept. 13 Irish will use the 2014 sea­
“It was definitely a big against Northeastern. The son as motivation moving 
honor,” Fry said. “I wouldn’t squad had four losing streaks forward. 
have been able to get that of at least three matches in “This next year we’re go-
award if it weren’t for my addition to its season-open-ing to come in with kind of 
teammates helping me out, ing struggles. After a 3-2 win a chip on our shoulder,” Fry 
and also Coach Deb giving against Louisville on Nov. 9, said. “We never want to have 
me an opportunity to play the Irish limped down the feelings like that again.” 
and lead the team like I did.” stretch, dropping their final In January, Swarbrick an-
Fry was not the only under-five games. nounced Jim McLaughlin, 
classman who got a chance Fry said there were mul-former head coach and 
to contribute. As the Irish tiple areas the team needs to national champion at 
were beset by injuries all progress in. Washington, would be the 
year, eight underclassmen “Definitely improving our new Irish head coach. 
(including six freshmen) fundamentals [is one area],” 
were called upon to play im-Fry said. “And working on Contact Brian Plamondon at 
portant roles this year. your individual game and bplamond@nd.edu 


roWinG 

ACCs mark final race for seniors 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
Sports Writer 
Though finals have passed and Commencement looms, the Irish still have unfin­ished business to take care of at the ACC championships on May 29. 
After completing a series of regular season races, the Irish will spend the next two weeks preparing for their first ACC championship meet in Clemson, South Carolina. A conference championship would guarantee the Irish a bid in the NCAA tourna­ment, though a successful performance could also land the squad an at-large bid in the tournament even with­out a first-place finish. 
This postseason will cap what has been an incredibly successful four years for the Irish senior class, who have seen the program become a regular contender for a spot in the NCAA tournament. 
Other accomplishments by the senior class include the naming of senior rower Anna Kottkamp as class of 2017 valedictorian and ACC Scholar-Athlete of the year. 
“The senior class as a whole has done an awful lot,” Irish head coach Martin Stone said. “When they came in as freshmen, [the program] hadn’t been to the NCAAs in four years. They came in, and quite a few contributed to getting us there and get­ting us there in subsequent years.” 
For a team as large as the Irish rowing squad, lead­ership from within plays an important role in a suc­cessful season, according to Stone. The rowing se­niors have done a great job in keeping their teammates sharp and prepared for the challenges of a rigorous sea­son, he said. 
“Everybody’s taken various roles when some­thing needs to be done,” he said. “Whoever is best in their skill set and has had the time to do it, they’ve tak­en over. That’s kind of how we operate — we have a large team. The seniors the last few years have addressed all of the areas together.” 
Though the season and the school year have both rap­idly come to their respective conclusions, the team’s prac­tice routine has remained largely the same. 
“There are a few things that we do differently,” Stone said. “We’re winding down so maybe the volume [of our practices] comes down a little bit. We do a little bit more speed work. Other than that we just continue with the same mindset. We try to make the boats go as fast as we can. There’s noth­ing that much different than what we normally do. Now that school is done, I think gives a little bit less stress on everybody.” 
The ACC tournament takes place after Commencement, creating a series of emo­tional events for the seniors of the squad. Stone praised their involvement over the four years they’ve been on the team, citing their work ethic as a primary impetus for the team’s recent success. 
“I think the team has done a very fine job this year,” Stone said. “The seniors, not only this year, but all through their career have done a phenomenal job to raise the level and speed of our program.” 
The Irish rowers will prac­tice through Commencement week, celebrating their se­niors as they prepare to trav­el to Clemson for the ACC championships on May 29. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at  boconne1@nd.edu 

fenCinG | NCAA RUNNER-UP 
Irish claim first conference title in transition season 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
Sports Writer 

A year ago, Notre Dame was at a crossroads. The Irish con­cluded their 2014 season with a sixth-place overall finish at the NCAA championships. Twelve-year head coach Janusz Bednarski had retired ear­lier that season, handing the reigns to long-time assistant coach Gia Kvaratskhelia. The 2015 season represented a fresh but daunting opportunity for a fencing squad featuring a num­ber of incoming freshmen and a number of questions regard­ing the team’s ability to per­form on a national level. 
Now, with the season con­cluded, it is clear the team developed just fine under the direction of Kvaratskhelia. The Irish to claimed the first-ever ACC championship in fencing. The team also dominated con­ference play, going undefeated and finishing first in every cat­egory in conference’s inaugu­ral season. Though the season ended with the Irish placing second in the NCAA tourna­ment, falling behind a domi­nant Columbia squad that earned its 14th national cham­pionship in program history, they managed to overcome a great deal of adversity, set­ting the stage for a continued tradition of success in coming seasons. 
Kvaratskhelia said he attrib­uted Notre Dame’s season-long success to the willingness of the its senior leaders to set great examples and accommodate the team’s complicated needs. 
“Last year this time, our former head coach gets side­lined with a serious illness,” Kvaratskhelia said. “On top of that, we lose the sabre coach from the staff. We have 21 freshmen flooding the gates as the year starts. Without the senior leadership and those in­credible athletes, and the stu­dents here, we could not have completed the season with that much success. It speaks of their resilience, their maturity. … They helped us on a daily basis to move our program forward.” 
Kvaratskhelia praised in particular the ability of his se­nior leaders to guide his sabre squad through the first part of the season. In January, the Irish hired assistant coach Samir Ibrahimov to coach the sabres, filling a hole in the coaching staff and creating one of the most formidable and ac­complished collegiate staffs in the nation. Prior to January, though, the task of training the team’s many sabres fell to the seniors. 
“The first part of the season we did not have a sabre coach. The seniors took the load in terms of doing the warm-ups and the drills with the kids alongside the coaches,” Kvaratskhelia said. “When we started competing, they were vocal in directing the freshmen and everyone else to their places, giving them encouragement.” 

The Irish upperclassmen, headlined by the likes of Ariel DeSmet, Madison Zeiss and Ashley Severson, among oth­ers, also dominated the stripe for most of the season, a fact Kvaratskhelia was quick emphasize. 
“I don’t want to single any­one out,” he said. “It truly was a team effort. We had incred­ible [performers] like Maddie, Ashley, Nicole Ameli. … Those were probably the first folks that came to mind because they were such significant con­tributors. But it was the entire cohesive landscape of the se­niors that directed the team to the right place.” 
The Irish finished second in the national tournament in March. Now they spend the summer recruiting, training and competing internationally before beginning their second ACC season this coming fall. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at  boconne1@nd.edu 





nd Cross CoUntry 

Seidel leads women to NCAA championships 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
Sports Writer 
In 2014, the Irish overcame the uncertainty of a new coach early in the year to qualify the women’s team for the NCAA championships and earn an All-American honors for junior Molly Seidel. 
Head coach Matthew Sparks was hired by head track and field coach Alan Turner to lead the distance runners just a few weeks before the fall season started. He said it took him a while to get to know the team and what each runner required from the coaching staff. 
“I’d say [arriving late] was the biggest challenge, not just for me, but for the entire squad,” Sparks said. “It took probably the first month for us to get to know each other, and part of that getting to know each other process was learning what each individual athlete needed to be successful. Once we got into the championship part of the sea­son, we had a level of comfort with each other that I think real­ly pushed us in the late season.” 
Though the team chemistry may have been lacking early in the year, the results were not. The men’s team finished first and second at the Crusader Open and the National Catholic Championships respective­ly, and the women finished first in the National Catholic Championships. 
At the Notre Dame Invitational on Oct. 3, the men finished 14th and the women finished third. Seidel said it was a confidence boost for the team to do well on its home course. 
“Being able to race well at the ND invite, at our home course, that was a really special race,” Seidel said. “For me, my fam­ily comes down and you’re sur­rounded by all your friends. It’s something really cool to be able to race at home and to do well there. That was definitely a high point in the season.” 
After stumbling at the Wisconsin adidas Invitational — both teams finished 30th — the Irish rebounded and were able to send the women’s team to the NCAA championships in Terre Haute, Indiana for the fourth straight year. 
The team finished in 29th place and Seidel finished 19th overall with a time of 20 minutes, 23.4 seconds to earn her first All-American scroll. Despite only earning an at-large bid, Sparks said he thought the team let an opportunity slip by at the championship. 
“You always look at things critically,” Sparks said. “You always look at things and won­der, ‘If this had happened, how much better could we have been?’ I think we can always be a little bit better.” 
Sparks said he was proud of how hard Seidel worked throughout the season to be­come an All-American. 
“It was fun to watch the confi­dence grow in Molly throughout the three-month cross country season,” Sparks said. “Literally week after week, you could see it every day at practice and ev­ery competition, the confidence grow.” 
Though the men’s team did not qualify for the NCAA cham­pionships, junior Michael Clevenger competed indi­vidually and finished 92nd with a time of 31 minutes, 29.9 seconds. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 




THE OBSERvER | friday, May 15, 2015 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

WoMen’s sWiMMinG 

Irish overcome coaching change as Reaney shines 
Men’s sWiMMinG 
Tallman leads ND to NCAA success 


BY BEN PADANILAM 
Sports Writer 
In its second season in the ACC, Notre Dame finished sixth in the conference and sent three team members to the NCAA championships. 
The Irish (7-9) faced ad­versity early in the sea­son, as head coach Brian Barnes resigned to spend more time with his family after holding the position for six seasons. Just a week earlier, five-year assistant coach Kate Kovenock had accepted the head coaching position at Brown, leaving the Irish program without a clear leader. 
Notre Dame turned to Tim Welsh to take over as interim head coach for the program. Welsh had re­cently retired as head coach for the men’s team after 29 seasons, but despite his experience Welsh said the transition was not always easy. 
“All of us had just great support and empathy for Brian Barnes, and he had made a good decision for his family and himself,” Welsh said. “All transitions are challenging, and it took a while for us to adjust and the team to adjust, but we eventually did.” 
In addition to experience, senior swimmer Emma Reaney said Welsh brought the perfect attitude to prac­tice day in and day out. 

“I’ve never met anyone that better embodies what Notre Dame is about than [Welsh],” Reaney said. “He loves this place and this team. I think having some­one that was always there for us, always dedicated to us and made that very ob­vious was something our team really needed at that time.” 
By the end of the year, the team was swimming at its best, Welsh said. At the con­ference championships, the Irish finished sixth. Reaney and Welsh said this accom­plishment was something to be proud of. 
“Being able to improve in the conference, despite all the difficulties we had this year, was our best moment,” Reaney said. 
“They held serve, but in order to do that it took a very strong team effort,” Welsh said. 
While most of the team’s season ended at the confer­ence championships, three seniors had the opportu­nity to compete in one last meet: the NCAA champion­ships. Reaney qualified to compete in both the 100­yard and 200-yard breast­stroke events, as well as the 200-yard individual medley. Senior Courtney Whyte qualified for the 100- and 200-yard butterfly, in addition to the 100-yard backstroke from the alter­nate list, and senior Allison Casareto qualified for the 1­and 3-meter dives. 
At the NCAA champi­onships, Reaney received three All-American cita­tions, finishing third in the 100 breaststroke and fourth in both the 200 breaststroke and 200 individual medley. Casareto earned an honor­able mention, as she placed ninth in the 1-meter dive. 
“What a grand finale, to be a senior and finish your career at the NCAA champi­onships,” Welsh said. 
As the Irish head into next season, they will be under new leadership. Mike Litzinger, who previously served as associate head coach at North Carolina, was hired to fill the head coaching vacancy April 17. 
“I cannot be more ex­cited about coach Mike Litzinger,” Reaney said. “What our team really needs is someone who can bring us together and get everyone to buy in to what the team is doing, and I have full confidence that he can do that.” 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 
By RYAN KLAUS 
Sports Writer 
For the first time in 30 years, Notre Dame was led by someone other than head coach Tim Welsh in 2015. Matt Tallman, a longtime as­sistant, took over the helm after Welsh decided to retire following Notre Dame’s 2013­2014 campaign. 
Notre Dame’s first season under Tallman certainly was eventful. The Irish went 6-6 in their dual meets, includ­ing a 5-3 record at home. The wins for the Irish in the dual meet season included victories over Cleveland State, Incarnate Word, Missouri State, Michigan State, Pittsburgh and Olivet Nazarene. 
“This first year was cer­tainly different for everyone,” Tallman said. “I think we all learned a lot about our abili­ties, expectations and long­term goals. The program is heading in a great direction.” 
In the conference champi­onships, the Irish took fifth place, one spot ahead of their placement in their inaugural ACC season. On top of their improved finish, the Irish broke three school records over the course of the four-day event that was held in Atlanta. 
“Improving on our team 
finish  at  the  ACC  meet  
was  an  important  mo­ 
ment this  season,” Tallman  

said. “[Sophomore] Tommy Anderson’s 400[-yard indi­vidual medley] at the Last Chance Meet was a great in­dividual swim for the pro­gram. Establishing seven new university records after a season of setting 18 was also a sign that our student-athletes continue to improve each year they are here.” 
Three weeks after the ACC championships, Notre Dame concluded its season in Iowa 
City,  Iowa,  at  the  NCAA  
championships.  
Throughout  the  three- 

day event, the Irish earned a collective eight points and ended the championships in 32nd place in the team stand­ings. The Irish broke school records in the 200-yard indi­vidual medley, 100-yard and 200-yard breaststroke and 200-yard backstroke at the meet. 
“I thought our efforts at the NCAA meet were tremen­dous,” said Tallman. “I was very proud of the swims we had in Iowa.” 
Highlighting the class of Irish graduates was senior Zachary Stevens, who fin­ished his college career by breaking three school re­cords; the 100 and 200 breast and the 200 IM. 
Additionally, Stephens be­came the first Irish swim­mer to score in more than one event at the NCAA championships. 
“The senior class was the fastest recruiting class we had before their arrival and will graduate having accom­plished the most as a class while on campus,” Tallman said. “We wish them all the best of luck in their futures, and I am sure they will make Notre Dame proud.” 
Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu 




Men’s Golf 

Young Notre Dame team struggles  over course of inconsistent season 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
It was a difficult year for the young Notre Dame team, which showed flashes of quality but often lacked the consistency to get results. 
The Irish started strong, hosting and earning a com­fortable victory over IUPUI and Ball State at the Notre Dame Kickoff Challenge. But from there the team struggled, and despite oc­casional strong individual performances, often found themselves at the lower end of the field. 
Many underclassmen saw a large amount of play, including sophomores Matthew Rushton and Blake Barens, as well as freshman Thomas Steve. Irish head coach Jim Kubinski said the team was able to develop over the year. 
“We played a lot of young guys,” Kubinski said. “We played Thomas quite a bit, we played a couple of soph­omores a lot too, and they grew quite a bit and learned a lot of lessons. I antici­pate we’ll have those guys returning next year as bet­ter and more experienced players.” 
The Irish struggled in many tournaments, fin­ishing 10th out of 17 at the Gopher Invitational in September and 11th in a field of 14 filled with very strong opponents at the Mason Rudolph Championship in 
April.  
However,  there  were  
some  impressive  indi­ 
v idual  show ings.  Junior  

Cory Sciupider led the Fighting Irish Classic after two rounds in September before finishing second, and Rushton tied for sec­ond place at the Rod Myers Invitational in October. Kubinski said these results show the Irish could be bet­ter next year. 
“I think for us as as a team we didn’t perform as well over the season as we would have hoped or ex­pected,” Kubinski said. “I think certain players had good events, certain guys did well at certain tourna­ments which was nice, but it was really a growing year and a transition year.” 
In the ACC tournament on April 24-26, Notre Dame finished 11th out of 12, 25 shots from 10th place. Kubinski said the team’s poor showing resulted from its struggles in many of the same areas in which they performed poorly in the regular season. 
“This year, we just didn’t get any momentum going in the tournament early on,” said Kubinski. “That was something that seemed to hurt us throughout the year; we didn’t get off to good starts very often. I think a lot of our guys would press from there instead of rely­ing on the games they’ve shown in practice or over the summer. 


nd WoMen’s Golf 
Irish miss NCAAs 
By SEAN KILMER 
Sports Writer 
For the past few years, Notre Dame has been ascending the lad­der of the women’s golf world, and this year the Irish continued their upward trend. 
Notre Dame finished in eighth place at the NCAA regional held at Warren Golf Course across the street from campus last weekend, a mere six strokes shy of qualifying for the NCAA championships to be held in Florida later in May. Junior Talia Campbell and sophomore Jordan Ferreira led the Irish by ty­ing for 19th place, both finishing at a five-over-par 221. 
The Irish finished sixth in the ACC tournament on April 18. In that event, Campbell, who earned all-ACC honors, finished tied for 11th at one-under-par to lead the team. The Irish fought through rain and bad weather the entire weekend and finished only ten strokes behind third place. The championship marked a break­through for the squad, but the play­ers had been showing flashes of potential all season long, Irish head coach Susan Holt said. 
“We’re excited to be in the ACC,” Holt said. “It’s a great golf confer­ence. There are six teams in the top 
32. If you are winning ACC cham­pionships, you’re also competing for national championships.” 
At their first tournament of the season featuring elite competi­tion, the Schooner Fall Classic, the Irish struggled on day one, post­ing a 10-over-par score of 290. Holt said at the time the Irish were not satisfied with their performance, and they went on to shoot 277 and 279 over the next two days, respec­tively. Notre Dame finished tied for eighth, but was just four strokes removed from fourth place, and Campbell individually finished tied for 13th at one-under par. 
The Irish were also strong from top to bottom this year. Senior cap­tain Ashley Armstrong finished her career by leading the team with seven rounds under par on the season. And while she just missed out on receiving all-ACC honors, she did receive an ACC postgradu­ate scholarship for after she walks across the stage this weekend to receive her degree in mechanical engineering. 
The Irish will certainly look to play against top competition in the future, as Holt said she is a big be­liever in its benefits. 
“I think it’s great whenever you can put yourself against top-25 competition,” Holt said. “Because that’s who we want to be, and if we can put ourselves in those posi­tions and be competitive as a team we’re going to be able to get there.” 
Contact Sean Kilmer at skilmer1@nd.edu 

“We’ve got to get off to better starts, we definitely have some work to do, but the neat thing is that we have some highly motivat­ed guys who want to do the work.” 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 

PAID ADvERTISEMENT 




sMC: year in review 
Softball notches best season in decade; golf, tennis squads earn spots in MIAA tournaments 
softball the field,” Zache said. “It’s re­ally important to get along 
By DOMINIC BUSH 

Sports Writer with the girls next to you.” The freshmen trio of short-
This was supposed to be stop Jamie Young and out-a transition year for Saint fielders Cassie Young and Mary’s. Instead, the Belles ral-Makenzie Duncan powered lied behind second-year coach most of the team’s offense Kelli Zache to finish the regu-this season. The Young sisters lar season 22-12, one of the combined for 32 percent (73 of program’s best seasons in a 225) of the team’s total runs decade. scored and 30 percent (100 of 
Zache said her team’s re-332) of total hits.  Cassie Young cord, up from an even 16-16 led the team in batting aver-mark last year, was not much age at a .413 clip, and Jamie of a surprise to her. Young finished second with 
“I wouldn’t say we exceed a .393 average. Duncan was my expections, because hon-third on the team at .360 and estly this is where I expected added five homers, 13 doubles to be,” Zache said. “I’m con-and 28 RBIs. stantly praising this team.” When asked to describe this 
The team’s 9-7 conference year’s team in one word, Zache record was good for fourth said “perseverance.” in the MIAA standings and “We rose to the occasion at qualified it for the conference the end of the year,” the man-tournament, the program’s ager said. “We were up against us an opportunity to play for the next five games, with a new team and a lot to prove. first appearance since 2012. the best teams, and we kept our NCAA bid in the spring. win over Calvin providing “I think all of us are ready 
In the tournament, the pushing.” Unfortunately we had a few set-their only points. Junior mid-to rise to the occasion. We’re Belles lost a heartbreaker in backs with players being gone fielder and captain Maggie looking forward to the op-the first round to regular-sea-Contact Dominic Bush at a semester so that hurt our McLaughlin said the Belles portunity, and learning from son champion Trine, 8-7, in dbush@nd.edu performance in the spring, but had difficulty bouncing back Coach Nuber, who has been a nine innings. Facing elimina-with those players being gone it from the defeat to Kalamazoo. great fit for our program.” tion, Saint Mary’s overpow-Golf gave some of our younger play-“I think the first conference ered Hope, 7-3, and set up a ers a chance for experience.” game always sets the tone Contact Daniel O’Boyle at 
By MICHAEL IVEY second-round rematch with Sports Writer The Belles finished in fourth, for the season,” McLaughlin dobyole1@nd.edu Trine again. It was the first third and fourth in the three said. “We lost a close game second-round appearance Saint Mary’s earned one of rounds of automatic qualify-to start conference play and tennis for the Belles since 2006. In four spots in the MIAA’s quali-ing play, respectively. Hope struggled to come back from 
By DAISY COSTELLO 

the end, though, the Thunder fying tournament this spring, claimed the conference’s bid that.” Sports Writer struck again, 10-2, to end Saint but the Belles were unable to to the NCAA tournament after Results did improve, how­Mary’s season. earn the conference’s spot in firing a score of 973 over the ever, as the Belles earned Saint Mary’s ended its 2014-15 
Zache said the value of post-the NCAA tournament. three-round event, while Saint three wins and a tie in the season with an MIAA conference season play for her young After six rounds of MIAA play Mary’s finished with a team next five games, thanks in tournament loss to top-seeded team was important, despite in the fall, Saint Mary’s found score of 1,058. Regardless of the part to two late goals. With Hope on April 30. the outcome. itself in third place in the con-finish, Moore said the future two minutes to go against Following the recent end to its 
“It showed promise for us for ference standings. The top-four looks bright for the Belles. Trine on Oct. 4, sophomore season, Belles head coach Dale years to come,” she said. “Half finish meant heading into the “I really enjoyed how this forward Liza Felix finished Campbell reflected on how his of the team is freshmen, and spring season, the Belles had team bonded together,” Moore from twelve yards out to give team grew throughout the course experience like this is huge for the chance to compete in the said. “These girls became the Saint Mary’s the 1-0 win at of the year and how younger play-them.” conference’s automatic quali-best of friends and that bond home. At Alma on Oct. 14, af-ers began to take ownership of 
Of the 16 players return-fying rounds this spring, along will be extremely helpful for ter the Scots came back from the team. ing for next season, nine were with Hope, Olivet and Trine. next season. A team that enjoys a 2-0 deficit to tie it up at two, “I think we played as a team and freshmen this season, a con-“I was happy that our team being together plays for each sophomore midfielder Jenn worked for each other,” Campbell tinuity vital for a team whose made the top four within our other. Jarmy scored the winner in said. “We gained experience with coach cited chemistry as her conference tournament in the “ ... I have no doubt that my the final two seconds. the younger players, and the ju­club’s biggest strength. fall,” Belles head coach Kim players enjoyed getting to know “It was one of the most ex-niors and sophomores got more 
“The team has really good Moore said. “Obviously we are one another and developing citing goals I have ever ex-time in the lineup in new posi­chemistry, even though they always looking to be in that the strong relationships that perienced,” McLaughlin said tions to gain experience.” may not be best friends off the top spot, but ultimately fin-will keep them bonded for life. of Jarmy’s goal. “We let them The Belles (11-10, 5-3 MIAA) field, you couldn’t tell that on ishing in that top four gives I think they enjoyed the team back in that game during the started off their season with a 2-3 
trips and bonding they were second half so to get that win record going into their week-long able to do on those trips. I hope was a really good feeling.” spring break trip in early March. they enjoyed the golf as well.” The Belles’ midseason run Over the break, Campbell said 
Janice Heffernan, the team’s was not enough to make the the Belles achieved their best win lone senior, led the charge for conference tournament, of the season against a noncon-Saint Mary’s, averaging 84.2 though, as two ties and no ference opponent in beating Coe, shots per round over her 19 wins in their final five games 5-4. rounds this season. put them in seventh place. Conference play went favor­
“We had hoped to qualify ably for the Belles this season, as Contact Michael Ivey at for the conference tourna-they finished 5-3 in the MIAA, mivey@hcc-nd.edu ment,” said McLaughlin. earning them fourth place in “Not meeting that goal was the conference and a trip to the soccer pretty disappointing, but we MIAA tournament.  The Belles achieved a lot this year.” were dominant at times during 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 

Sports Writer On March 17, Saint Mary’s the regular season, racking up announced Ken Nuber, for-wins against Alma, Olivet, Trine, 
Saint Mary’s experienced mer director of coaching for Adrian and Albion. Campbell was a season of ups and downs the Junior Irish Soccer Club, very pleased with the team’s con-this year, ultimately finishing had been appointed head ference performance this year, seventh in the MIAA. coach, replacing Michael especially against Albion, whom 
After two wins and two Joyce. McLaughlin said she the Belles beat 8-1. losses against nonconference hopes the change can allow “Our win over Albion in fairly opponents, the Belles strug-the program to grow. dominant fashion was nice,” gled early in conference play, “Next season will bring a Campbell said. losing their MIAA opener to lot of changes,” McLaughlin Kalamazoo, 2-1, and four of said. “New field, new coach, see SMC YEAR PaGe 50 



THE OBSERvER | friday, May 15, 2015 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

sMC year 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 49 
Even though the Belles lost 5-0 to the Flying Dutch in the MIAA tournament, Campbell said he liked what he saw out of his team against a tough opponent. 
“I liked the way we played against Hope in the tournament, as we played better despite the score,” Campbell said, “They are ranked No. 26 nationally and may be playing stronger than that.” 
Overall, Campbell said he was impressed with his team’s perfor­mance on the year. 
“This [year] was a success, and most of our goals were accom­plished. I think we wished we would have beaten Calvin and gotten the No. 3 seed in the tour­nament, but our major goal was just making the tournament,” Campbell said. 
Belles junior Andrea Fetters earned second team all-MIAA honors following her perfor­mance at the top of the singles lineup and the second doubles pair for the Belles. 
On the heels of a successful season, Campbell said his team will continue working on the de­tails of its game so next year the Belles will be more competitive for a conference title. 
Contact Daisy Costello at  mcostel4@nd.edu 
basketball 
By DAISY COSTELLO 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s began the season with a young roster and expecta­tions of snagging a conference tournament bid, but ultimately finished far short of that goal. 
The Belles (3-22, 1-15 MIAA) went into the season with a ros­ter featuring seven freshmen on a squad of 14 players. 
“I think the first season for any freshmen is a huge learning curve,” Belles head coach Jennifer Henley said. 
The Belles began the season with three tough nonconference losses to Wheaton, North Park and North Central before earning their first two wins of the season against Trinity International and Anderson at the North Central Classic in Naperville, Illinois. The Belles extending the winning streak to three games with a 64-61 win over Alma in their MIAA con­ference opener Dec. 3. 
That was the last victory of the season for Saint Mary’s, however; the Belles finished the season on a 19-game losing streak. They were in a number of close games, most notably overtime losses to Adrian and Kalamazoo and a three-point loss to Albion, but the Belles could not pull out another victory. Henley said her team was bet­ter than the final record showed, though. 
“As the season progressed, we saw signs of improvement along the way that will be valuable for next year,” Henley said. 
Saint Mary’s is losing one senior, guard Ariana Paul, to graduation this spring. Paul finished her Saint Mary’s career 11th on the all-time scoring list, notching 1,011 points in her four-year career. She also finished fifth on the all-time re­bounding list with 643 career re­bounds and collected 214 steals, fourth in Belles’ history. 
Paul’s offensive production and overall level of play earned her sec­ond team all-MIAA honors at the end of the season. 
“[Paul] will definitely be missed as she carried us on offense this season,” Henley said. 
Henley also noted the seven freshmen on the roster will have to step up and take ownership of the team with Paul’s departure. 
While 2014-15 did not unfold in the way the Belles were aiming for, Henley said she is confident with the fundamentals the team de­veloped this season and hopes the Belles will rebound next year. 
Contact Daisy Costello at mcostel4@nd.edu 
Cross Country 

By SEAN KILMER  By BEN PADANILAM  
Sports Writer  Sports Writer  
Saint Mary’s started the season  Following a 2014 season in  
with a hole at their number one  which it finished tied for fourth  
spot. All-conference performer  in the MIAA, Saint Mary’s bid  
Jessica Biek graduated in the spring  farewell to a deep and talented  
of 2014, and the Belles seemed  senior class that changed the  
primed for a drop off. However,  culture of the program.  
sophomore Brittany Beeler came  Although the Belles (15-13, 8-8  
charging through the gates to fill  MIAA) did not qualify for any  
the gap and take the lead.  postseason tournaments, head  
“I feel like we are on an upward  coach Toni Elyea said her team  
trend,” Belles head coach Jackie  constantly improved this season.  
Bauters said. “We have a really  “It was the highest level of  
young team, and last year we grad- volleyball that Saint Mary’s has  
uated Jessica Biek, who was really  ever played,” Elyea said. “I am so  
strong. Hopefully next year we can  proud of our whole team and all  
be even better.”  of their hard work and dedica- 
Beeler had an up-and-down  tion to each other.”  
freshman year, but when she had  It was the first 15-win season  
the chance to grab the spotlight this  for the Belles since 2008, but they  
season, she seized it. Bauters said  ultimately fell short in their quest  
the sophomore from Spring Lake,  to play in the postseason for  
Michigan, had a confidence prob- the second consecutive season.  
lem this and last year, but pointed  They struggled against the con- 
to one moment when she thought  ference’s top teams, finishing a  
she overcame it. The NCAA region- combined 0-8 against the four  
al meet was Beeler’s stage, and she  teams that placed ahead of them  
shone, finishing 25th overall and  in MIAA play. Elyea said missing  
earning all-region honors.  out on the postseason will moti­ 
“Watching Brittany race that  vate her team for next year.  
race at the regional meet was cool  “It was so difficult not to make  
because we have been working on  this year’s tournament,” Elyea  
the confidence issue,” Bauters said.  said. “ ... We are going to take that  
“She’s got it there, she just has to  to fuel our passion to get better  
trust it, so it was really exciting to  this offseason.”  
watch her make some moves dur- Despite falling short of their  
ing that race.”  end-of-the-season goals, Elyea  
While Beeler did have a breakout  said she was proud of her team’s  
season, she was not the only run- accomplishments.  
ner to have success on the Belles.  “[We had] four starters out at  
In fact, the team was strong from  different times during this sea- 
the top through its sixth runner  son, [but were] still able to put  
this year, and will be returning all  a strong team out on the court,”  
but two runners: seniors Samee  Elyea said. “Having so much  
Chittenden and Erin Knauf, who  depth this year and having un­ 
also captained the team this year.  derclassmen step up was so great  
Bauters said she saw some- to see.”  
thing special in the team at the  However, Elyea said she was  
Benedictine Eagle Invitational on  most impressed with the leader- 
Oct. 10.  ship the team’s six seniors dis­ 
“At the Benedictine race ... peo­ played this season.  
ple across the whole team saw huge  “These special seniors have  
personal records and race results,  been my family for the past four  
and I think it was just a huge confi­ years,” Elyea said. “I am going  
dence boost, just a feel-good race,”  to miss them dearly. What they  
Bauters said. “I think that was just  have done for our program is  
really fun to watch from my first  far above any expectations that  
kid to my last kid.”  I had. As first-years, we joked  
The Belles finished fifth at the  about how we were going to ‘raise  
MIAA championships before fin- the standards’ of what it meant  
ishing 18th at the NCAA regional in  to be a part of our program, and  

Mason, Ohio. 
Contact Sean Kilmer at skilmer@nd.edu 
volleyball 


they have done more than that. They have a combined GPA of 3.75, have earned MIAA honor roll 19 times, and four of them will be graduating as the top stu­dent in their major.” 
Elyea said this class’s leader­ship has paved the way for fu­ture success for the program. 
“Because of the time and dedication they have put in, our underclassmen have a clear vi­sion of what it takes to compete at their highest level and be the best on and off the court that they can be,” Elyea said. “We have a very strong group return­ing, and we know there are big things in store for their future as well.” 
Contact Ben Padanilam at panadil@nd.edu 
lacrosse 
By TYLER WOJCIAK 
Sports Writer 
Despite an often an up-and­down season, Saint Mary’s improved during its second campaign as a varsity sport. 
The Belles (7-10, 2-6 MIAA) earned five more wins than their first season, in which they finished 2-13 overall and 1-7 in MIAA play. 
The Belles kicked off their season by travelling to Oregon to participate in a spring break tournament where they picked up their first win of the season against Linfield, 16-6. 
Following that victory, the Belles returned home and de­feated Defiance in their first regular season game, 14-5. After winning back-to-back games for the first time in program histo­ry, Saint Mary’s alternated wins and losses for nearly a month. 
This pattern lasted until Saint Mary’s ran into a rough patch during mid-April, los­ing four games in a row against the MIAA’s top teams to close out conference play. The Belles did, however, finish the season on a high note with an 8-6 win against Dallas at home April 28. 
Despite the tough conclusion to the season, Belles head coach Amy Long said she saw a great amount of growth this year. 
“We have improved signifi­cantly in two short years,” Long said. “This season was a vast im­provement from our inaugural season, and I expect to continue that trend next year. We expect to have a winning season next year and plan to make the con­ference tournament.” 
As the program looks ahead to next season, Long said she believes the added depth will be key for the program’s continued progress. 
“Looking forward to next sea­son, we will be able to add some depth to our team,” Long said, “We have eight freshman com­ing in, and having a larger roster size will be a huge help. We had quite a few unlucky injuries this year and having more players, especially some talented fresh­man, will help minimize the effect that injuries have on our performance. We had a great, hardworking group this year, and we were able to accomplish a lot of our goals.” 
Contact Tyler Wojciak at twojciak@hcc-nd.edu 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 




CrossWord | WILL SHORTZ 



sUdokU | THE MEPHAM GROUP 
doMe nUts | ALExANDRIA WELLMAN 

horosCoPe | EUGENIA LAST 
Happy Birthday: Learn from past mistakes and do your best to keep whatever happens this year in perspective. Clearing your mind and witnessing what’s going on around you will lead to a humbling but successful future. Don’t judge unless you want to be judged. Instead, posture yourself for advancement and reaching your goals. Enjoy each moment. Your numbers are 2, 9, 13, 21, 32, 34, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don’t keep your feelings all locked up. As long as you extend warmth, compassion and affection while expressing your feelings, you will come out on top. Work to encourage important partnerships and you will strengthen your position. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Find out all you can about everyone and everything. The more information you gather, the easier it will be to make a good decision. Someone will discourage you from following your own path. Do what feels right, not what others want. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Keep your life honest and realistic. Sharing personal information will backfire. Focus on self-improvement and keeping a low profile for the time being. A little time spent on yourself instead of everyone around you will pay off. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Get fit. Do whatever it takes to improve your health and encourage a new routine that is geared toward looking and feeling your best. You can’t put a price on good health. Love is on the rise, but so is temptation. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Be careful as you move forward. Not everyone you work with will be on your side. Arguments will spin out of control if you are too gullible or sensitive. Focus on positive change and stabilizing your position. Don’t spend unnecessarily. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Keep in mind that what you say might be used against you. Strategy coupled with physical work will help you reach the winners’ circle. Haste makes waste, so take your time and do things right the first time. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Don’t meddle in other people’s affairs or let anyone interfere in your life. Stick to your agenda and don’t count on others to help. Use your own skills, knowledge and insight to guide you to the finish line. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don’t worry about what everyone else is doing. Follow a creative idea to completion and try to get what you want without getting into an argument. Incentives plus diplomacy will help you dismiss outside interference. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Enjoy what you have worked so hard to accumulate, but don’t trust an outsider with your cash, possessions or personal information. Talk over any improvements you want to make with a partner and work as a team to bring about positive changes at home. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Accept the inevitable, but don’t give in to anyone with a bad idea. Focus on physical activities that will help you blow off steam and put things in perspective. You can make positive changes to your surroundings, but don’t go over budget. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Say little to friends, relatives and neighbors. Do your own thing and refuse to get involved in any joint ventures. Take time to research a project you want to pursue. Knowledge is the key to becoming successful. Prepare to make positive changes. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Get rid of any negativity in your life. You are best to focus on who you are and the personal changes you want to make. It’s up to you to move forward and leave the past behind you. 

Birthday Baby: You are engaging and imaginative. You are a leader and a crusader. Don’t let others hold you back from achieving all that you can, don’t be afraid and you will succeed. 
JUMble | DAvID HOYT AND JEFF KNUREK 




Make checks payable to and mail to: The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556


 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Name

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
Address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
City State Zip 


KEVIN SONG | The Observer 

Sophomore Chris Brown breaks a tackle in a 31-28 win against LSU at the Franklin American Mortage Music City Bowl on Dec. 30 in Nashville, Tennessee. 

WEI LIN | The Observer 

Former Irish guard Jewell Loyd has her shot blocked by UConn junior forward Breanna Stewart in the Irish’s 63-53 loss to Connecticut in the national championship April 7 in Tampa, Florida. 






