The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 59 | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Alumni fundraise for LGBTQ scholarship 
Gay and Lesbian Alumni of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s host charity event in New York City 
By CLARE KOSSLER 
associate news editor 
approximately six months af­ter announcing the first two re­cipients of the lgbTQ student scholarship at its biannual dooley award dinner, the gay and lesbian alumni of notre dame and saint mary’s (gala­nd/smc) hosted a fundraising event on nov. 12 to enable the continued offering of its newly-instituted scholarship. 
Jack bergen, the chair of gala and a notre dame class of 1977 alumnus, said the cur­rent estimate is that the fun­draiser generated more than $15,000 — a figure significantly exceeding the initial goal of $10,000. 
“i was blown away be the event,” bergen said. “[This is] the first fundraiser that i’ve done, and i was just amazed at the engagement of the people there, they were so happy that we had held this event. 
“ … unfortunately we had a waiting list of people, we had to actually turn people away — the response was that enthusi­astic for the event.” 
The fundraiser took place in the new york city pent­house of former talk show host and notre dame class of 
see gala PAGE 5 



alum named rhodes scholar 


SMC student 
proud of emily mediate for in countless hours assisting 
Observer Staff Report 
this well-deserved honor,” emily and other candidates 


responds to 
notre dame class of 2015 university president Fr. John for the rhodes and other alumna emily mediate Jenkins said in the press re-scholars’ programs.” 
has been named a rhodes lease. “congratulations also according to the press re-scholar of the american 
lease, mediate, a native of 

hateful message 


rhodes scholar class of 2016 
— the seventeenth 

notre 
dame graduate to receive 
the award, according to a 
university press release. 

mediate will be one of 32 
scholars set to begin their colorado springs, colorado, 
majored in africana stud­
ies and pre-health during 
her time at notre dame. 
she was a dean’s Fellow 
in the college of arts and 
letters as well as a Kellogg 

studies at oxford in october 
institute international of next year, selected from a to the faculty who taught scholar. currently, mediate pool of 869 applicants, the emily and to the center for is a Kellogg institute release stated. undergraduate scholarly 
“we are tremendously engagement (cuse) who put see rhodes PAGE 3 
NDI: Spring programs to continue despite Paris attacks 
Observer Staff Report 

notre dame international (ndi) released a statement Thursday regarding student safety, following the paris attacks and terrorist threats. Three groups of terrorists staged attacks across the city nov. 13, killing 130 peo­ple and injuring hundreds more. The terrorist group isis later claimed responsi­bility for the attacks. 
“The university of notre dame believes that serious academic engagement in countries outside the u.s. is the best way to form global citizens who are equipped to participate in and re­spond to an increasingly complex and interconnected world,” the statement said. “ndi seeks always to bal­ance this university value with vigilance and diligence by preparing students before they depart for international programs and providing re­sources and response plans for the duration of their time abroad.” 
The statement listed exist­ing and ongoing measures to ensure student safety, as well as new and enhanced measures, which include “regular updates to students abroad regarding world and 
see ndi PAGE 4 

By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 
when saint mary’s senior maranda pennington came home to a message written in permanent marker on her white board that told her to “leave” and contained a ho­mophobic slur, she posted the message on Facebook with a caption saying she would stand her ground. 
“you not only attacked my identity but my right to exist openly on this campus,” she said in the Facebook post. “ … i hope one day you will be able to love and respect oth­ers even when they’re differ­ent from you. until then, i just thought you should know that i’m not afraid of you and i’m not going anywhere.” 
pennington said she was shocked when she found the message, especially because she has gained confidence in 
see lgbTQ PAGE 5 






Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 

Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 



If you could rename your favorite Katie on campus, what name would you give her? 


Courtney Davis 
junior 
walsh hall 
“Katie sisk, mrs. Koller.” 


Erin Foldesi 
junior 
mcglinn hall 

“Katherine hayes, myknittah.” 

Isabella Warwick 
freshman 
walsh hall 
“Katie mosely, Judy.” 


Michael Moss 
junior 
duncan hall 
“Katie arndorfer, hilda.” 

Liz Tafesse 
junior 
mcglinn hall 
“Katie acosta, lily.” 

Mike DiGaetano 
junior 
dillon hall 
“Katie arndorfer, emma.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 





Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

margaret hynds Zach Klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: selena ponio rachel o’grady alex winegar maureen schweninger 

Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
lucy du matthew munhall 
Photo Viewpoint 

Shakespeare Festival Research Event Thanksgiving Holiday Thanksgiving Holiday Thanksgiving Holiday 
emmet Farnan austin Taliaferro 
DeBartolo Performing Geddes Hall Campus-wide Campus-wide Campus-wide Arts Center 8:30 a.m.-9:30 a.m. All day All day All day 5 p.m.-7 p.m. Discuss intercultural Administrative offices No classes in session. No classes in session. 
Corrections 

Information session. friendships. open. 
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and 

Common Good Our Universe Keeping Our Thanksgiving Dinner Hockey vs. Harvard 
strives for the highest standards 

Initiative Revealed Neighbors Warm North Dining Hall Compton Family Ice 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Geddes Hall Jordan Hall Morris Inn 12 p.m.-3:30 p.m. Arena 
however, recognize that we will make 
4 p.m.-5 p.m. 7 p.m.-8 p.m. Drop off new or used Celebrate Thanksgiving 7:35 p.m.-9:35 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Information session on Electromagnetism scarves for local Dinner with the ND The Irish take on the 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
immersion programs. demos. residents. Community. Crimson. 
we can correct our error. 



SMC lecture series considers women’s health 
By ALLISON SANCHEZ news writer  low-income families, in­cluding those enrolled in the  
government’s supplemental  
This week’s installment of  nutrition  assistance  
the  Justice  Friday  series  at  program (snap), often do  
saint mary’s focused on bar- not  have  access to  health  
riers to health care services,  care, which can lead to fur- 
mental health services and  ther  health  and  financial  
some of the health-related  struggles.  
resources on the  college’s  “low-income  children  

“Children need nutrients to develop their bodies and minds. They don’t get these nutrients, and then they don’t have health care to back them up when they develop problems like asthma or dental issues, which furthers their poverty because they have to apy for everything 
out of pocket.” 
Caylin McCallick junior 
campus. The talk was hosted by a panel of students and the director of health and counseling center at saint mary’s. 
Junior caylin mccallick spoke about low income health care and the racial and ethnic disparities for re­ceiving health care. 
“in indiana, per 1,000 live births, 13 black babies die … only seven of every 1,000 white babies die,” she said. “low-income families have a higher risk of cancer and other health related issues.” 
she said children in are often on the snap pro­gram, and it’s hard to get good quality, nutritious food on that program,” she said. “children need nutrients to develop their bodies and minds. They don’t get these nutrients, and then they don’t have health care to back them up when they de­velop problems like asthma or dental issues, which fur­thers their poverty because they have to pay for every­thing out of pocket.” 
mccallick said an expan­sion on the affordable care act could benefit low-income women. 
“over a woman’s lifetime, her total health costs are $361,200, and that is not af­fordable for everybody,” she said. “under the affordable care act, a lot of women would be eligible to receive medicaid. medicaid for low-income patients is an expan­sion … and only 31 states are allowing this expansion as of July 16.” 
mccallick said other is­sues factor into healthcare disparities as well. 
“one article i read claimed that general healthcare dis­parities are a social justice problem,” mccallick said. “ … even if we had universal healthcare and applied uni­versal healthcare, we would still have these disparities because racism is a social problem that often affects [a patient’s] quality of care; it affects diagnosis.” 
senior bri o’brien offered statistics about mental ill­ness and said the american healthcare system has a gap that can prevent those with mental illness from being covered. 
“under the affordable care act, states have the option to expand their coverage, but many are choosing not to,” she said. “[because of] that, there is this medicaid gap where people can’t af­ford coverage but they make enough to where they aren’t eligible or they’re too young for coverage. so that leaves about 3.9 percentage of adults in america that have a mental illness uninsured be­cause of this medicaid gap.” 

elizabeth Fourman is a board-certified ob/gyn nurse practitioner and cur­rently serves as director of the college’s health and counseling services. she 
“We offer any 
women’s health 
tests outside 
of surgery and 
ultrasounds. 
For example, we 
can provide STI 
testing, pregnancy 
tests, urinalysis 
and pap smears.” 
Elizabeth Fourman 
director 
Saint Mary’s Health and 
Counseling Serivces 

listed some of the services that the college offers in the area of women’s health. 
“we offer any women’s health tests outside of sur­gery and ultrasounds,” she said. “For example, we can provide sTi testing, preg­nancy tests, urinalysis and pap smears.” 
paid adverTisemenT 

Rhodes 
conTinued From page 1 

postgraduate international development Fellow. 
The release stated mediate intends to pursue a master’s degree in evidence-based so­cial intervention and policy evaluation (ebsipe) while at oxford. 
“i am thrilled to be named as a 2016 rhodes scholar,” mediate said in the release. “i am especially grateful to my peers and faculty advis­ers who supported my per­sonal and academic growth along the way. 
“while studying in the 
Fourman said the coun­selors at saint mary’s are another resource the health and counseling center provides. 
“we have three trained and trustworthy counselors,” she said. “ … They are all very open and welcoming and want to help students with whatever they need with no agenda.” 
in addition to nurses and counselors, Fourman said the center has psychiatrists and physicians on a limited basis. 
“we have a psychiatrist that comes in once a week that is a free resource. … you can see a nurse and be directed to a physician who comes in once a week as well,” she said. 
Fourman said some re­sources available at the cen­ter are free, but others are not. 
“The exams and appoint­ments are free, however, the lab tests must be paid for,” she said. “you can choose to file labs with insurance or not, and they are offered at a large discount for saint mary’s women.” 
The Justice Friday series takes place every Friday from 12-12:50 p.m. in the student center. 
Contact Allison Sanchez at asanch01@saintmarys.edu 
u.K., i can only hope to ad­equately live up to notre dame’s mission of applying scholarly activity to the pur­suit of the common good and with concern for the poverty and injustice that plagues our world today. This under­lying motivation is the great­est lesson that i will take with me from notre dame and apply during my time at oxford.” 
besides mediate, class of 2015 alumna nicole sganga and current senior Kelly mcgee were also finalists for the 2016 rhodes scholarship. class of 2014 alumnus alex coccia was named a rhodes scholar last november. 



The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Galactic archeologists explore origin of stars 
By SARAH CATE BAKER 
news writer 
if you’ve ever looked up at the stars and wondered how they got there, a group of ga­lactic archeologists on campus might have some answers for you. 
research assistant profes­sor of astrophysics daniela carollo said her group looks at 
“ancient stars.” 
“First of all, what we do in 
the galactic archeology group 
is we observe, study and ana­
lyze ancient stars in the milky 
way,” carollo said. “by ancient 
stars, i mean stars that formed while the galaxy was being as­sembled and even before.” 
carollo said these ancient stars are the “fossils” of our galaxy — hence the name ga­lactic archeology. 
research assistant professor vinicius placco, another mem­ber of the galactic archeology group, said the group has two goals: to identify the chemical composition of ancient stars and to understand how they move in the galaxy. 
“we couple the chemistry with the movement of the star, and then we try to come up with explanations of how the stars move the way they do and why,” placco said. 
in the group’s most recent paper, the researches created an age map that dated 4,700 stars in the milky way’s stellar halo, carollo said. 
“The milky way is a com­plex system — there is this disc where most of the stars are 

concentrated, and there is this very extended stellar halo that surrounds all the other struc­tures. … This halo is where the fossils reside,” she said. 
she said the fossils can be 12 or 13 billion years old. 
“so the universe started 13.8 billion years ago, with the big bang,” she said. “There was a point of high density and high temperature which started to expand very fast, and time and space began in that particular moment.” 
carollo said the first stars were formed two to three hun­dred million years after the big 
them” and a “formaliza­tion of incident response plans — both on campus and at notre dame’s global gateways.” 
The statement referenced an email sent nov. 14 by Tom guinan, ndi’s associate vice president of administra­tive operations, to students studying abroad. 
The email offered details on available counseling and support services, encour­aged students to register all personal travel away from their program locations and tail or modify” any spring 2016 study abroad programs, according to a statement is­sued Tuesday. 
“The safety and wellbe­ing of our students abroad is of the utmost importance to the university. we will dili­gently follow guidance from the state department in the coming weeks and months and will keep in contact with peer universities to ensure we respond quickly to any health and safety issues abroad that may impact our students,” the statement said. 


bang, but they were massive and quickly exploded in super­nova. The elements and gasses released by these supernova formed the next generation of stars, and those with low mass became our stellar fos­sils. smaller stars burn their hydrogen fuel slower, which is why we still see them in our galaxy 13 billion years after they were born. 
however, she said, not all 

digital sky survey. we were just measuring fluxes with different filters, so we can just get those magnitudes and colors.” 
once they had those colors, the researchers correlated 
“In these simulations, the old stars are [predicted to be] 
searchers to make guesses on when and how the ancient stars assembled into the gal­axy, and ultimately why the milky way looks the way it does. 
placco described the meth­od researchers use to esti­mate the age of stars. 
“we have to use a very spe­cific type of star that’s called blue horizontal branch star — it just means that the star is burning helium in the core,” he said. “and with those par­ticular stars we can turn col­ors into age estimates. so for this particular map, we se­lected stars from the sloan 
demonstrates this important property for the first time.” 
Vinicius Placco 
assistant professor of 
astrophysics 

them with an age and created the first map of the milky way halo system. 
according to placco, the researchers found a sphere of very ancient halo stars in the center of the galaxy and increasingly younger stars to­wards the outer edges. 
“people have been doing 
paid adverTisemenT 
simulations of how the galaxy formed and how it evolved, and why does it look like the way it does today, for many many years,” placco said. “in these simulations the old stars are [predicted to be] concentrated towards the center of the galaxy. our work demonstrates this important property for the first time.” 
carollo said the younger groups of stars on the edges 
fossil stars are the same age — 
concentrated 
are also significant — they 
they can differ by two to three 
tell us when certain groups of 
towards the 
billion years. examining the 
stars merged into the galaxy 
center of the 
at later times. age of fossil stars and where 
they are located allows re-
galaxy. Our work 
“For example, if the galaxy 
started to assemble one bil­lion years after the big bang, then this younger [group of stars] merged into the galaxy something like five years to ten billion years after the big bang,” she said. 
but for carollo, the most significant part of the paper is the discovery that stars near the galactic center are very ancient. 
“it’s the first time we have demonstrated that the cen­ter of the galaxy is very old,” she said. 
Contact Sarah Cate Baker at sbaker6@nd.edu 


asked them to respond to 
NDI 
communications from ndi 
conTinued From page 1 
staff and family members in a timely manner. 

local events that may affect ndi has no plans to “cur­



LGBTQ 
conTinued From page 1 
her ability to speak out about lgbTQ issues on campus. 
“my goal this year was to help make saint mary’s a more in­clusive and welcoming place for all people,” pennington said. “i was angry and hurt, but my emotions didn’t cloud the fact that this was an opportu­nity for our community to rally together against homophobia and hate speech in general.” 
The college’s administration addressed the situation the fol­lowing day in a school-wide email in which Karen Johnson, vice president of student affairs, said the college will not toler­ate aggression. she said the act was harassment and a direct violation of the college’s code of student conduct and the discriminatory harassment policy. 
“as a catholic institution, saint mary’s college holds its students to a high stan­dard of ethical and moral conduct,” Johnson said in the email. “consequently, there is a strong emphasis on self-awareness and a distinct con­sideration for the lives and feelings of others. The college commits itself to maintain­ing a safe and welcoming environment where each indi­vidual’s dignity is upheld and differences are celebrated. as a community, we reject and con­demn all forms of harassment, wrongful discrimination and disrespect.” 
pennington said she is thankful for the way adminis­tration responded. 
“The administra­tion has been nothing but compassionate and support­ive this week,” she said. “i hope that this continues into making more resources avail­able for lgbTQ students on campus.” 
pennington said this in­cident was a reminder that though the climate has been improving, there is a lot of work left to do to gain full lgbTQ acceptance. 
“my goal for saint mary’s is to have an lgbTQ resource center on campus that has properly trained staff and is well-advertised,” she said. “i have been so pleased with the administration and student response this week, but merely denouncing the hateful van­dalism will not change any­thing at the end of the day. 
“all i have been think­ing about since wednesday is, what if this happened to a closeted student who didn’t feel safe speaking out on social media?” she said. “would they know who they could go to? would they feel comfortable reporting it? would anyone ever hear about it? probably not. hate has not been eradi­cated from campus; most of the time we just don’t hear about it. The bottom line is, we need to do more to protect the safety and mental health of lgbTQ students. a lot of this can be done through educa­tion and empathy.” 

pennington’s Facebook post received 96 shares and several hundred “likes” and comments. Junior alaina anderson submitted the story to huffington post’s “unicorn of the week” series, which is an award recognizing people who do something positive for the lgbTQ community. 
pennington was chosen as this week’s unicorn. 
“watching a video of a com­plete stranger talking about my response to the vandalism was surreal,” pennington said. “i am extremely grateful for the recognition, and it gives me the motivation to do more to challenge homophobia in the future.” 
other student responses in­cluded a number of students posting uplifting and support­ive messages that said “stay you” on pennington’s door. 
“The amount of support i have received on social media and in person has been over­whelming,” pennington said. “i am incredibly lucky to have such high quality people in my life.” 
Contact Nicole Caratas at ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 

notre dame and saint mary’s GALA lgbTQ students — is a unique conTinued From page 1 offering because few lgbTQ 
scholarships are institution­1957 alumnus phil donahue. specific, and the majority are according to bergen, more open rather to a national pool than 80 people — including of applicants. both alumni and their friends “i looked it up and realized 
— attended the event. that it’s a scholarship that i 
bergen said gala’s current could actually apply for and plan is to use the proceeds gen-have a chance of winning, be­erated from the event “exclu-cause usually lgbTQ schol­sively for the scholarship fund.” arship are national and it’s 
“last year we gave out two [around] 1000 people apply­$2,500 scholarships, and we’re ing,” she said. “and it’s kind of looking at potentially raising intimidating. that to four $2,500 scholarships “…it was kind of like, ‘wow, and/or we may use some of the there’s actually an alum group money to start to fund the en-where it’s people like me, who dowment for the scholarship,” have all gotten together to sup-he said. “because we see this as port [lgbTQ students] in our a long-term commitment, we education.’” see this as not just a one-time bergen said gala decided thing that we want to do, but to announce the lgbTQ schol­we want to continue to do it for arship earlier this year in re­quite a while.” sponse to a recognition that 
one of the two recipients the campus climate in regards of the 2015-2016 scholarship, to lgbTQ issues has improved saint mary’s junior adrienne over the past few years. whisman said the scholarship “as an organization, we felt 
— designated exclusively for that sufficient progress had 
paid adverTisemenT 

been made that we wanted to step up our commitment to help out lgbT students more than we have,” he said. “ … we’re very pleased with the progress that’s been made on campus and as a result we felt that we wanted to do more, as well.” 
among the recent chang­es that have impacted the university’s and the college’s lgbTQ communities are the extension by both institutions of benefits to same-sex spouses of employees, and a concurrent cultural shift on both campus­es, bergen said. 
in particular, he said, notre dame’s official recognition of prismnd, a student orga­nization founded to serve the university’s lgbTQ communi­ty, represents an improvement in the university’s acceptance of its lgbTQ community. 
“certainly for students, notre dame’s attitude has changed dramatically with the creation of prism,” bergen said. “students have been trying for many, many years to create a student group that provides support for lgbT students.” 
like bergen, notre dame senior and vice president of prismnd connor hayes said lgbTQ students today experi­ence less discrimination than they did several years ago. 
“when i talk to my friends who are gay, lesbian, trans alumni of the university, who graduated maybe four or five years ago, when they came in as freshmen it was a much less friendly environment in the dorm towards them,” hayes said. 
“whereas now, i mean i have occasional incidents that hap­pen, but it’s nothing like what they had to deal with,” he said. “so i think the university has changed in realizing, okay, this is a community that re­ally has needs that need to be addressed on an institutional level, and that’s been a growth and shift in tandem with a greater cultural shift.” 
however, hayes said the sit­uation for lgbTQ community members of notre dame is a work in progress, and that mov­ing forward, he would like to see the university recognize gala as an official alumni association. 


“it would be nice if there was a more strong alumni network of gay and lesbian alumni that was officially endorsed by the university,” hayes said. “ … Just on a personal level, it would be really heartwarming, give me a lot of hope, to see them extend that type of recognition to some sort of alumni group.” 
bergen added that official recognition of gala would be “an important step for­ward toward supporting [the university’s] lgbT alumni just as it supports many other alums such as seniors, young alumni, female alumni, etc.” 
“i see this as a partnership that would serve to strengthen the ties between a very loyal alumni constituency, and to help the alumni association in its mission to more effective­ly engage all members of the alumni community,” he said. 
according to dolly duffy, the executive director of the notre dame alumni association and associate vice president of university relations, gala’s current unofficial status as an alumni group is due in part to its relative newness as an organization. 
“we appreciate gala’s work supporting our lgbTQ alum­ni through their organization 
— and our students with their scholarship efforts,” duffy said in an email. “we continue to engage with gala to learn about their goals. as gala is a relatively new organization, we have not made any decisions about how we can support them long-term.” 
so for now, bergen said gala will continue in its efforts to support the lgbTQ commu­nity on both campuses. he is hopeful, he said, that this year’s fundraiser is an indica­tion of gala’s future success 
– both in terms of the student scholarship, and in terms of overall alumni engagement. 
“The response from the at­tendees was overwhelming with the support for this cause and for the desire to have things improve at the university,” bergen said. “as progress is made with strengthening the relationship between the university and its lgbT alums, i see even greater financial re­sources being made available to aid those activities of sup­porting students and lgbT alumni engagement.” 
Contact Clare Kossler at  ckossler@nd.edu 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Christmas music heathens 

Zach Klonsinski 
sports editor 

There are two kinds of people in this world: 
Those heathens who play christmas music before Thanksgiving, and those who don’t. 
one of the unexpected boons of college life is the fact i don’t really have time to watch television anymore. it really insulates me from all those stupid, annoying and maddeningly-catchy commercials businesses across the country blast across the airwaves as we approach this time of year. 
i even upgraded to spotify premium recently, so i now miss all the christmas music playlist ads i had been forced to sit through previously. my roommate and i have already had this important discussion and made a mu­tual agreement: no christmas music in our room until after we return from Thanksgiving break. 
Therefore, this year i was perhaps the most isolated from this musical treason that i had ever been. 
so imagine my absolute inner heartbreak last week when i returned to The observer’s the office to hear christmas music — mariah carey’s “all i want for christmas is you,” to be exact — floating peacefully into the hallway. 
The perpetrator, ladies and gentlemen, was none other than The observer’s managing editor: John “Jack” clarke rooney, the man whom i once foolishly credited as hav­ing the best musical taste of the entire office. 
and now, as i sit and write this, two more of my so-called office “friends” have now joined this traitorous cult: margaret hynds, news editor, and austin Taliaferro, a viewpoint copyeditor. 
don’t get me wrong: i love margaret and austin’s dag­ger-storm of choice — michael bublé’s christmas album 
— as much as the next person. but there is a line we cannot destroy: the sanctity of christmas music. 
christmas is special precisely because it only comes once a year — we have to wait for it. when we say some­thing like, “it was like christmas in July!” that statement only has meaning because it can never be christmas in July. 
it’s the same thing with christmas music: if we heard mariah carey’s sweet melodies in July, where would the novelty be come december? 
now i understand the basic principle of the simple­minded argument that July and mid-november are far from the same thing, but if we accept it now — already es­sentially destroying the excitement of the greatest holiday of them all: Thanksgiving — where do we draw the line? 
we need to draw the line at dec. 1. That’s my eventual goal, but i’m willing to go a little softer for the next few years to ease the world into the transition, so i’ll accept Thanksgiving as the line for now. 
There will be no line if we continue to tolerate this blasphemy, though. every year someone will push it an­other week, another day, another hour, another minute forward and suddenly our grandchildren will be listening to bublé’s smooth vocals sipping on ice-cold lemonade on the beach during summer vacation. 
already, we’ve lost the meaning of the “25 days of christmas.” now we’re quickly moving past the abomi­nation that is black Friday: sales begin on Thanksgiving itself. 
so people everywhere, please, for the love of the very holiday spirit you are so eager to immerse yourself in: stop listening to christmas music. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
A Catholic reads the Quran 
Charlie Ducey 
english, channeled 
in light of (or really, in the ensuing darkness of) recent international headlines, an impressive drove of laypeople have become self-professed experts on islam. how very odd. 
“islam is a religion of peace,” we hear. “nay, islam is a religion of the sword,” we hear. “islam deprives women of basic rights,” we hear. “nay, islam pro­motes the equality of women,” we hear. 
well, as a catholic in the u.s. of a., i can’t claim to have much first-hand experience with islam, nor do i feel myself at all qualified to discuss the religion’s tenets, origins or practices. i’ll leave that matter to bona fide campus experts like professor gabriel reynolds (take his class on islam and christian­muslim relations in the spring if interested). but, amidst the alternatively islamaphobic and wishy-washy noise of pundits right and left, i figured i might actually take a look at the foundational text of islam itself – al-Quran. 
a few basic facts about the Quran might be worth noting before i digress into some of my amateur comments and observations. The Quran is com­posed of 114 suwar, or chapters, which are com­prised of individual ayat, or verses. These chapters don’t exactly link together into a grand narrative, and even each individual surah takes on a style that is more contemplative than it is narrative-based. This might reflect the composition of the Quran itself, which muslims believe occurred through recitation (which is what the word Quran means in arabic) to the prophet mohammed at intervals from the year 609 ad to 632 ad. according to scholars of islam, the written form of the Quran was finalized during the time of the third caliph around 20 years after mohammed’s death, based on the manu­scripts passed down to the first caliph abu bakr. 
we would need to travel some 1350 years and many hundreds of miles to reach the version of the Quran that i sat down to read. i picked up my square-shaped english translation with flo­ral decals on its cover from a vendor on oxford’s cornmarket street one day last spring. The bearded man who handed me the book reassured me that, despite the unavoidable inadequacies of transla­tion, the core of the Quranic message could be found there. 
i’ve hardly touched the book since then, but with all the accusations being thrown around, i thought it might just be worthwhile to look through a text that more than a billion people hold to be sacred. 
context means everything in written word, so i figured i would start from the beginning and read through a whole surah. 
The Quran doesn’t seem to waste much space. after an opening exhortation to the “lord of the universe,” the first full-length surah, titled “The heifer” (al-baqarah), opens with the declaration: “This is the book; there is no doubt in it.” 
From there, the surah continues with a strong es­chatological bent; that is, its ayat continually men­tion the punishment that awaits those who deny the truth. it’s not that god is made to seem merci­less — the most common epitaph for god in this surah is “the merciful” after all; rather, the teach­ings of the surah seem to be reinforced through reminders of the blindness of unbelief and the fire that is its just reward. adherence to god’s path, so it seems, is paramount. 
after having read only one surah, i’m in no posi­tion to make any judgements about the holistic content on the Quran. i did, however, come across one passage that seems particularly relevant to the tumult of isis and crisis in syria. 
in surah 2, ayat 84 to 85, god speaks to his peo­ple, saying: “when we made a covenant with you, we said, ‘you shall not shed each other’s blood, nor turn your people out of their homes.’ you consented to this and bore witness. yet, here you are, slaying one another and driving some of your own people from their homelands, aiding one another against them, committing sin and aggression. […] do you believe in one part of the book and deny another part of it?” 
driving people from their homes? shedding each other’s blood? The extremists in syria might do well to give that passage another read (not that they wouldn’t find some way of contorting it to fit their ideology). and for those claiming that islam is some war-mongering religion against which we must raise barriers and close borders, it might do you well to give at least part of the Quran — a single surah, a single ayah? — a little more than a glance. There are already upwards of four million muslims in this country. we’re going to have to learn to get along, and learning about what each other believes might just be a start. 
Charlie Ducey is a senior studying the languages of 
G. K. Chesterton (English) and Edith Stein (German). Please contact him with questions, comments, complaints, appraisals, invitations, prognostications and prestidigitations at cducey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
act of kindness 
The spirit of giving is part of the fabric of notre dame students. on their recent trip to pittsburgh, our family was fortunate to have hosted two nd band members, who along with about 50 nd stu­dents, graciously lent their support to the upper saint clair high school marching band during their Friday night football game. Truly a memorable ex­perience for all of the high school band members. 
but the most inspirational moment for me came from an unselfish act of pure kindness. one of the nd trumpet players lent his trumpet to my son ben from the upper saint clair marching band during the half-time show on Friday night. ben had some­how arrived at the high school game Friday night without his trumpet. it was almost a tragedy, as this was to be ben’s last half-time performance before high school graduation. The nd band member, Jerry maloney, lent ben his trumpet so that ben could perform. This unselfish deed meant so much to my son. needless to say, i am truly indebted, and i am so thankful that he rescued my son from torment. 
nd went on to beat pitt and i can’t help but think that acts of kindness are rewarded. The nd band halftime show was tremendous. 
Jim Rieker 
class of 1978 nov. 22 



The peaceful majority 
Jordan Ryan 
words of wisdome 

Friday, nov. 13, paris, France fell victim to the vicious and unrestrained attacks of the terrorist organization isis. The u.s. executive office 
immediately released a predictable statement announcing, “This is an attack not just on paris, it’s an attack not just on the people of France, but this is an attack on all of humanity and the uni­versal values that we share.” isis members were quick to seize responsibility for this slaughter of innocents perversely claiming that their god di­rected them to carry out these despicable attacks. This cowardly invocation of religion to justify monstrous acts is a typical response of isis and has created undeserved and unnecessary suspi­cion towards the entire muslim world. despite the obvious, the white house (and all democratic aspirants for that address) has refused to ac­knowledge even the existence of radical islamists. To president obama and his wannabe democratic successors, it is finally time to confront our en­emy and admit what this terror group truly is, a radical perversion of the islamic faith. 
during a Feb. 1 interview with cnn, president obama declared that terror groups such as isis are not an “existential threat to the united states or the world order.” with all due respect, the president has been proven wrong. it is time for mr. obama to show leadership by admitting his mistake, proclaim isis to be a radical islamic terrorist organization and begin to effectively 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

several years ago, i began a viewpoint letter i never finished, and i am grateful for never hav­ing finished it. in the fall of 2012, i took a medi­cal withdrawal from notre dame to address my struggles with ocd and anxiety. The withdrawal and readmission process was stressful and disor­ganized, and, on the whole, left me with a negative impression of the administrators facilitating the process. when i returned to notre dame, my ini­tial objective was to muckrake the university with respect to my experience and, pardon my lan­guage, to raise a little bit of hell. however, before i could finish my viewpoint “exposé,” i received an opportunity to provide feedback directly to the administration. This led to additional con­versations with various people who work in the iconic golden dome. after some time, i arrived at a shocking realization: These people cared. The university administrators cared about my story, about my experience, about me. i met with associ­ate vice presidents in student affairs and directors of various departments; these were important people, and yet, these men and women were in­terested in my experiences as a student and as a human being, and they went above and beyond my narrow-minded perception of the role of an administrator to assist me in thriving as a student and as a person. 
Through these conversations and other advoca­cy work, the withdrawal and readmission process has been greatly reformed and continues to be improved today. no one marginalized my experi­ences or took my words for granted. The admin­istrators sought to improve notre dame based on constructive criticism provided through conversa­tion. my understanding of the notre dame admin­istration deepened and my perspective widened. 
as some of you may know, notre dame has been in the news for more than its success on the foot­ball field in the past few days. as reported in The observer on Friday, oct. 30, a student has filed eradicate these cowardly murderers. To overstate the obvious, there is no evidence that the war on terror is in any way abating. in fact, isis had credibly warned the west of future attacks, claim­ing that paris is just “the first of the storm.” it is time for a change in direction. 
isis is an acronym for “islamic state of iraq and syria,” or also known as “isil,” the islamic state of iraq and the levant. Far from a disorganized group of individuals, isis is quickly developing attributes of a nation state. The organization cur­rently controls territory in syria and iraq roughly the size of britain with a population of over six million people and a growing economy driven by oil revenues and donations from wealthy extrem­ists. isis brands itself an “islamic caliphate,” which means that the members consider them­selves to be the political and religious successors of muhammad. it is this intentional misinterpre­tation of their duty that causes them to perform such heinous acts of violence. unfortunately, they have proven to be effective at carrying out their evil intentions. 
hillary clinton’s claim during last saturday night’s debate that she did not wish to use the phrase “radical islam” out of fear of painting “with too broad a brush” exemplifies the dangers of refusing to confront the realities of this threat. referring to isis as a perversion or radicalization of islam does not demonstrate a lack of respect for muslims or the islamic faith. To the contrary, by isolating and vilifying the misdirected invocation of the islamic god as justifying the contempt­ible conduct of isis, america would join in the 
possibilities 
a lawsuit against the university, “seeking dam­ages for alleged sexual harassment and racial dis­crimination by an employee of notre dame.” usa Today, new york daily news, sports illustrated and the like have latched onto the story, as the media tend to do. i am most concerned about a viewpoint column published monday, nov. 2, by hunter mcdaniel. This column, entitled “a trou­bling lawsuit,” arguably ventures down the road i almost traveled several years ago. 
For those who have not yet read about this situ­ation, a notre dame student alleges a university employee “initiated, directed and coordinated a sexually and racially motivated inappropriate and demeaning relationship” with the student. The entire lawsuit can be found on wsbT’s website — i encourage reading the document to better under­stand the intricacies of the lawsuit. 
in his viewpoint piece, mr. mcdaniel states: “The university’s reaction to this case has been severely lacking up to this point. i have heard nothing about this from the school itself, and no­body really seems to care. The administration in general seems to act only out of obligation rather than out of any sense of justice for the victims in sexual assault cases on campus, and currently that obligation does not appear to extend equally to male students.” 
it seems that the knee-jerk reaction of many people in the notre dame community is to im­mediately assume the university has acted ne­glectfully when an issue arises. i understand this feeling — i was the poster child for feelings of angst and frustration toward the administra­tion, until i started to build relationships with the people themselves. The present situation is messy to be sure, and i make no assumptions as to what is true or not with respect to the conduct of the accused former employee. i encourage students to be open to the possibility that the administration cares deeply for the well-being of each member of chorus of muslims around the world who have condemned the extremism of isis in allah’s name. To not recognize this group for what it is will feed the islama-phobia, which could consume our nation. 
“islama-phobia” is a term coined as a result of the failed education of the american pub­lic about the differences between Jihadists and other muslims. most muslims are not Jihadists. muslims are not all terrorists. it is crucial that our leaders embrace this obvious distinction. 
muslims across the us view this atrocity in horror. i see my muslim friends on my Facebook vigorously pointing out how terrorism is seen nowhere in the Quran and 99 percent of muslims are not in any way associated with or supportive of isis’ heinous acts. The wrongful association of islamic terrorism with all muslims impairs their ability to practice their religion freely and instills unnecessary fear in the eyes of misinformed americans. it is time to separate the wheat from the chaff and allow the vast majority of 
peace-loving muslims to coexist with the americans who practice other faiths. These are bad people, mr. president. don’t allow them the credibility of being associated with a peace-seek­ing god prayed to by the vast majority of muslims. 
Jordan Ryan, sophomore resident of Lyons Hall, studies political science and peace studies along with minors in constitutional studies and business economics. She can be reached at jryan15@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
the notre dame family. rather than immediately accusing the university of “victim blaming” and acting “only out of obligation,” i would encourage students to begin from a place of openness to the possibility that the notre dame administrators addressed this situation appropriately, though perhaps not publicly for reasons of privacy. Finally, i encourage attention to the response from paul browne, the vice president for public affairs and communications, who stated, “[The] plaintiff’s counsel made repeated, unsupported allegations that notre dame failed to act, when in fact the university acted immediately when it learned of a problem.” browne goes on to state that an independent investigation was conducted and that the employee in question was fired early in october. This is not a call to blindly follow and accept all that the administration says or does; it is a call to openness, to the possibility of mutual care and concern for the notre dame family by students and administrators alike. 
The golden dome, the most famous icon of notre dame, is certainly beloved among the mem­bers of the notre dame family. however, it is often seen as the distant ivory tower that houses the elite and untouchable university administration. The disconnect between the student body and the administration is felt heavily by both parties; it is my hope that this gap continues to be bridged through openness to conversation and to the no­tion that administrators are indeed legitimate and caring members of the notre dame family. 
disclaimer: as a current student intern within the division of student affairs, it is important to note this article was not written under the aus­pices of this position. The content of this article represents the views of the author alone. 
Margaret Skoch 
senior nov. 8 


The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
“25” 
Adele 

Label: XL, Columbia Tracks: “Send My Love (To Your New Lover),” “When We Were Young,” “All I Ask” If you like: Dusty Springfield, Barbara Streisand 

LUCY DU | The Observer 


NOTRE DAME 19, bOsTON cOllEgE 16 | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2015 | NDsMcObsERvER.cOM 
When you think you’ve seen it all … 
Irish pull out win over Eagles despite five turnovers in bizarre game at Fenway Park 

WEI LIN | The Observer 

Irish senior running back C.J. Prosise, 20, loses control of the football during Notre Dame’s 19-16 win over Boston College on Saturday at Fenway Park in Boston. The Eagles recovered the fumble, one of Notre Dame’s five turnovers in the game. Prosise left the game in the second quarter due to a high ankle sprain after running for 54 yards on nine carries. 
Shamrock Series presents wasted opportunity for ND 

Greg Hadley 
Editor-in-chief 
bOsTON — Well that was … something. 
No. 4 Notre Dame played a sloppy, messy and downright ugly game against boston college on saturday night. by almost any offensive measure, the Irish should have lost. 
And yet they won, thanks to a strong defensive performance against the worst offensive unit in the country. 
Where that leaves brian Kelly and his squad heading into the final week of the regular sea­son is unclear. 
That’s the beauty (or prob­lem, depending on your root­ing preferences) of the college Football Playoff committee. Notre Dame is not guaranteed a spot in the playoff if it wins out. Heck, it might not be in the top four in Tuesday’s rankings. 
but there’s no point in trying to read the committee’s mind, as it has shown a willingness to 
see HADlEY PAGE 3 
By MARY GREEN 
Assistant Managing Editor 

bOsTON — No. 4 Notre Dame faced boston college in a game held at Fenway Park on saturday night, the first time football has been played in the shadow of the green Monster since 1968. 
And yet, that wasn’t even close to the strangest part of the 19-16 Irish win. 
The Irish (10-1) turned the ball over five times, with two lost fumbles and three inter­ceptions thrown by sopho­more quarterback Deshone Kizer. Three of those turn­overs came in the red zone, an area Notre Dame visited seven times saturday but had just 19 points to show for it. 
“It’s like leaving runners in scoring position,” Irish head coach brian Kelly said. “ … You can’t go down there and not come away with points, especially — that’s a really good defense, and for us to come up empty every single time, you know, we saw that almost sort of against Temple, too. You’ve got to score points when you’re down there. We’re moving the ball fairly effectively most of the night, and just to keep stubbing our toe down there becomes concerning, obviously, and it made it a lot closer in my perspective.” 
However, the Eagles of­fense, statistically the worst in the country headed into the matchup, wasn’t any bet­ter. boston college (3-8, 0-7 Acc) didn’t cross the 50-yard line until the third quarter, a feat they accomplished in just three of their 14 drives during the game. 
Notre Dame entered Eagles territory during five of its first-half possessions, but only two of those ended with points on the board. 
The Irish capped their first drive with an interception by boston college junior safety John Johnson in the end zone, 
see TURNOvERs PAGE 2 

PLAYER OF THE GAME QUOTE OF THE GAME 
Brown, Carlisle 
record career 
performances 
By GREG HADLEY 
Editor-in-chief 
bOsTON — For the first time this season, Will Fuller wasn’t just held in check. He was posi­tively neutralized. 
The junior receiver has had worse statistical outings. His three catches and 72 yards were not season lows, and it was the third game this year in which he did not score a touchdown. 
but for once, Fuller did not have to deal with just oppos­ing cornerbacks, but his own struggles on the field. He did not have a reception until late in the third quarter, and he dropped a likely touchdown pass in the fourth quarter. All told, he let three passes slip through his fingers on the night. 
In his place, Notre Dame re­lied on its only receivers with more experience: graduate stu­dent Amir carlisle and senior chris brown. 
brown and carlisle both re­corded career games against 
see REcEIvERs PAGE 3 
MATTHIAS FARLEY 

IRISH GRADUATE STUDENT CORNERBACK 
Farley just about did it all for the Irish on saturday, recovering an onside kick, making a big stop on a fake punt and downing an Eagles punt inside the 5-yard line. He was there at all the right moments when Notre Dame needed a play. 
“It’s like leaving runners in scoring position.” 
Irish head coach brian Kelly on Notre Dame’s three red-zone turnovers saturday at Fenway Park. Notre Dame totaled just 19 points off seven trips inside the 20-yard line. 

THE ObsERvER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2015 | NDsMcObsERvER.cOM 

REPORT CARD 









QUARTERBACKS 

Deshone Kizer had without doubt the worst start of his young career saturday, exhibiting poor decision-making and shaky throws throughout the game. He often tried to force the ball into some difficult spots, and while he was not helped out by some costly drops, he also consistently was either behind or off-step with his receivers. 
RUNNING BACKS 

c.J. Prosise’s high ankle sprain, right as he was coming back from a concussion, hurts. but what may be more concerning for the Irish is that even though Prosise left in the second quarter, he remained Notre Dame’s leading rusher, as Josh Adams collected just 39 yards on 13 carries. 
RECEIVERS 

Will Fuller was bottled up completely and made the Eagles’ job all the easier with a few out-of-character drops, includ­ing a surefire touchdown that would have blown the game open. but the rest of the receiving corps produced some of its best work. chris brown and Amir carlisle both caught touchdowns and set career highs in receiving yards. 
OFFENSIVE LINE 

The Irish offensive line held the Eagles to no sacks on the night, no small feat against a unit that ranks in the top 25 in the nation in that category. but the complete lack of run game reflects poorly on this group, and it never seemed to gain much of an edge in the trenches. 
DEFENSIVE LINE 

sheldon Day continued his solid senior season with a sack, his fourth on the year. Other than that, it was a lackluster day for the line, who only added one other tackle for loss and permitted the Eagles to rush for 214 yards, more than 50 yards above their average. 
LINEBACKERS 

Jaylon smith kept on producing at the highest level, leading all players on both sides in tackles and picking up a tackle for loss and pass breakup. but the rest of the unit was sub-par, with greer Martini coming in as the next closest tack­ler with just three stops. 
DEFENSIVE BACKS 

boston college only attempted 22 passes and collected 88 yards through the air, so the Irish secondary didn’t have too much to do. That meant no interceptions, but also no pass plays of 25 yards or more. Keivarae Russell forced a fumble, but his season-ending injury could be huge going forward. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

Matthias Farley earned the game ball for recovering an onside kick, downing a punt inside the 5-yard line and stopping a fake punt. Justin Yoon was 2-for-2 on field goals. Tyler Newsome averaged nearly 50 yards per punt. The one weak point is c.J. sanders, who collected -4 yards on three punt returns. 
COACHING 

While brian Kelly should not bear all the blame for the turnover-bonanza in boston, it’s hard to put the full weight of five turnovers and four fumbles solely on the players. His game plan was fairly effective in controlling the game. 
OVERALL GPA: 2.89 (B-/B) 
Even ignoring the alarming amount of turnovers, there are plenty of areas of concern for brian Kelly to address this week before the season finale against stanford. The ground game was weak, Will Fuller was completely off, and the defense did a good, not great, job against the worst offense in the country. bottom line, this game should never have been close, and Notre Dame gifted the Eagles chance after chance. 
PLAY OF THE GAME 
CHRIS BROWN’S 12-YARD TOUCHDOWN PASS FROM DESHONE KIZER 
The score put Notre Dame ahead by 13 points at the time, 16-3, but the Irish needed every point they scored saturday. brown paced the Irish with 107 receiving yards, but his biggest play of the night came on the touchdown, when Kizer found him in the back corner of the end zone. 
Turnovers 
cONTINUED FROM PAgE 1 

but followed the next drive with a 30-yard field goal by freshman kicker Justin Yoon to put them ahead, 3-0. 
The next Notre Dame pos­session ended with a fumble at the bc 32-yard line by se­nior running back c.J. Prosise, which was recovered by se­nior safety Justin simmons. Prosise later exited the game in the second quarter with an injury, which Kelly said post-game was a high ankle sprain, and he had totaled 54 yards on nine rushes to that point. 
boston college was not able to capitalize on either turn­over, punting the first away and turning the ball over on downs via an unsuccessful fake punt after the fumble. graduate student cornerback Matthias Farley made the tackle on the fake and later downed a punt inside the bc five-yard line and recovered an onside kick with the Irish ahead by three with 54 sec­onds left to earn the game ball from Kelly. 
“We were always on high alert for a play like that,” Farley said of the fake punt. “They also had two smaller guys as the shields, which is abnor­mal. so it signaled something was up, and we just reacted to our key when it happens.” 
Notre Dame started its next drive after Farley’s stop at the Eagles’ 40-yard line and fin­ished with a 10-yard pass from Kizer to graduate student receiver Amir carlisle for a touchdown, going ahead 10-0 at the end of the first quarter. 
saturday marked a career day for both carlisle and se­nior receiver chris brown. carlisle set a new best with seven catches for 97 yards, while brown totaled six grabs for a game-high 104 yards, the first time he’s ever surpassed the 100-yard receiving mark. 
Neither team scored in the second quarter, but Notre Dame turned the ball over twice more on a fumble by freshman running back Josh Adams at the bc three-yard line and an interception by simmons in Eagles territory. 

The Adams fumble was an especially painful miscue for Notre Dame, as senior long snapper scott Daly had just recovered an Eagles fumble at the four-yard line to put his team in good position to score. 
“Turnovers happen; it’s the best defense in the country go­ing against you,” Farley said. “They fly around, and their secondary played incredibly well, ripping at the ball every chance they get, so it’s just about going back to the basics of protecting the ball and hav­ing our defense finish strong.” 
Following a 43-yard boston college field goal, Kizer opened the second half with his third interception of the night, another back-footed heave that found simmons wide-open in the middle of the field. 
“It was very humbling,” Kizer said. “There’s a lot to learn from, being in a position that I haven’t been in this year. I can’t wait to get back and evaluate where my mistakes were, where my good things were, and hopefully prepare myself to try and accomplish the mission. 
“At the end of the day, today’s mission was accomplished.” 
The Eagles punted on the ensuing possession, and Kizer responded on the next drive, finding brown in the back-right corner of the end zone for another touchdown to go ahead by 13, 16-3. Kizer botched the hold on the re­sulting point-after attempt, turning it into a two-point conversion that fell short of the goal line. 
“I think that quarterbacks can at times be — they can go one of two ways, right: They can become a bit shell-shocked and withdrawn in a sense,” Kelly said of Kizer, who passed for 320 yards. “He was not fazed at all. He stayed aggressive and stayed in the moment. I thought he played much better in the second half.” 
The drive at the end of the third quarter also featured the first catch of the game by ju­nior receiver Will Fuller. Fuller was targeted six total times saturday but only grabbed three balls for 72 yards. One of those incompletions was a dropped would-be touch­down in the fourth quarter, one of Fuller’s three drops on the day. 
After an Eagles punt, Yoon knocked in another field goal to extend the Irish lead to 19-3, but bc freshman quarterback Justin smith sprinted 80 yards downfield on the next play for a touchdown that brought the score to 19-9 after another un­successful two-point try. 
“god blessed me with great speed, and also with great teammates like [junior run­ning back] Myles Willis,” smith said. “He was speaking to me before the play, telling me to make sure I read the play out. After that, I just used speed to score.” 
The next three consecu­tive drives ended with punts, and the Eagles had the ball with four minutes to play. Freshman quarterback John Fadule led their offense down the field and eventually hit sophomore receiver charlie callinan for a three-yard touchdown with 54 seconds left to put cut the Irish advan­tage to 19-16. 
Farley recovered the ensu­ing onside kick to dash boston college’s upset hopes and seal the win for the Irish. 
“We’re excited about the win, obviously,” Kelly said. “To get to 10 wins for our club was a very important number for us. but more importantly, gets us closer to, you know, the goals we’ve had all year. 
“You know what I love about this team is they persevere. It’s been injuries all year. Tonight it was turnovers. Just found a way to win against a very spir­ited boston college team de­spite the amount of turnovers that we had tonight.” 
Notre Dame closes out its regular season next saturday with a game at No. 11 stanford in stanford, california. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 



Receivers 
cONTINUED FROM PAgE 1 
the Eagles and were relative bright spots in an otherwise lackluster day for the Irish of­fense. carlisle had a game-high seven receptions for 97 yards and a touchdown, while brown had six catches to go with a game-high 104 yards and Notre Dame’s final touch­down of the night. 
“[boston college] played a lot of cover-two tonight. That’s not something they do,” Kelly said. “They played double zone outside on Will. It frees up your inside players, and then chris got a couple one­on-one opportunities on the outside, and Deshone was able to find him.” 
brown and carlisle rank second and third on the team in receptions and yards, but combined, their yardage still falls short of Fuller’s. saturday night, however, they were the only ones who seemed capable of getting open on a consistent basis. No other receiver caught more than three passes, and carlisle caught the first three passes of the game. 
“My mentality is always just be prepared and ready for my opportunity,” carlisle said. 
Hadley 
cONTINUED FROM PAgE 1 
shake things up on a weekly basis before. What is undeni­ably clear is that Notre Dame did itself no favors saturday. 
The venue was perfect, the atmosphere electric. The fans in Fenway, most of whom seemed to support the Irish, were ready to see a team in contention for a national title blow out an opponent with one win against an Fbs team and the nation’s weakest of­fense. bc’s campus may be closer to Fenway than Notre Dame’s, but the Eagles were very much in hostile territory. 
And then the Irish turned the ball over five times. 
Any statement that can be derived from that perfor­mance is not one Notre Dame wants the selection commit­tee to receive. Now, the Irish have only one more chance to show they are among the top four teams in the nation, while other contenders will have conference champion­ships to add to their résumés. 
The issue of conference championships and whether Notre Dame needs one to be considered for the cFP heated up over the summer, with a number of coaches across the Power 5 conferences saying the Irish needed a 13th game to compare to the rest of the squads. 
since the season began that discussion has died down, but with circumstances playing out as they are, it’s becoming increasingly clear Notre Dame would benefit from another game against a highly-ranked “The coaches entrust me to make catches, and you just got to really focus and try to watch the ball all the way in. That was my focus throughout the game.” 

With four seconds remain­ing in the first quarter, carlisle snagged a screen pass from sophomore quarterback Deshone Kizer and scam­pered 10 yards for the score to put Notre Dame up 10-0. It was his fourth reception of the quarter. 
“Deshone made a great call. We had run the same play the play before, and we just came back and ran the exact same play again,” carlisle said of his touchdown. “The defend­ers were kinda out of position because we came to the line quickly, and there were some great blocks on the perimeter.” 
brown then came alive in the third quarter, when he had three catches for 63 yards, in­cluding a touchdown on a fade pass to the corner of the end zone. From behind junior safe­ty John Johnson, brown leapt and snagged the ball right as it was about to land in Johnson’s hands for another red zone interception. 
“The offense needed it, and I’m just thankful for the op­portunity to come through for 
opponent. 
Jack swarbrick knows that, and he’s moved aggressively to add some premier pro­grams to Notre Dame’s sched­ule down the road, including georgia, Ohio state and Texas A&M. 
but the program is also ob­ligated to play five Acc games each year, and with all due re­spect to clemson and Florida state, that conference seems unlikely to provide too much of a challenge. Add that to the rest of Notre Dame’s rivalries that it has to honor, and some of those marquee matchups won’t come for another seven or eight years. 
Notre Dame doesn’t need to join a conference or add a 13th game to its schedule to solve this problem. The answer is obvious after this weekend: the shamrock series. 
This seventh, “home away from home” game would be ideal for a matchup with a top-ranked foe. As with this weekend, the Irish could travel to a city nearby the op­ponent, thus making the site relatively neutral. 
And while Fenway was limited to 36,868 fans, a high-profile game between two top programs could fill almost any stadium. Or the Irish could continue to explore alternative venues and draw even more hype that way. 
Reflecting swarbrick’s stated desire to delve into the southeast, Notre Dame could visit charlotte, North carolina, Miami, New Orleans or Atlanta. And if the sEc was unwilling to play, the Irish could instead reignite its rivalry with Michigan or my team,” brown said. “When you have a [biletnikoff Award-type] receiver like [Fuller], teams are going to try and do some things. That creates op­portunities for other guys, and we’re a close unit; Will wants us to have success, and we want him to have that, too.” 
And on a night when the Irish coughed the ball up four times, neither carlisle or brown fumbled. In fact, they were calming influences on younger players who were rattled by the turnovers, Kelly said. 
In particular, Kelly said he advised Kizer to rely on the older receivers after he tossed two interceptions in the first half. 
“Early in the game, we ran a corner route to [freshman tight end] Alizé Jones, and Alizé kind of flattened the route off a little bit, and we missed him,” Kelly said. “And I said [to Kizer], ‘look, look for your matchups, but when it really gets to that time, you’ve got to go to your veterans if they’ve got the same kind of matchup, so he started to look towards his veterans when he needed those one-on-one matchups.” 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
go west and challenge a new power such as Oregon. 
Through six games, the shamrock series has been, for the most part, dreadfully bor­ing. A perfect 6-0, Notre Dame has only seriously been chal­lenged twice — including last night — and played a ranked squad only once: Arizona state in 2013. The venues have been exciting and historic, but what should actually mat­ter — the games — has been lackluster. so when the Irish struggle to put away a 3-7 squad such as boston college, it looks especially bad. 
At the very least, if Notre Dame struggles or loses to a program like Michigan, Oregon or any of their ilk, it would be somewhat understandable. 
In boston this weekend, Notre Dame was already pro­moting next year’s game in san Antonio against Army, who has not had a winning season in half a decade. beyond that, the series is undecided, giving swarbrick the chance to get a good team on the schedule relatively quickly. 
look, I get it. Teams like boston college and Army are historic rivals for Notre Dame and draw broad interest from alumni and fans. but playing squads far out of their tal­ent pool will not get the Irish to the cFP, especially if they cannot even blow them out. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SCORING SUMMARY 





1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  TOTAL  
10  0  6  3  19  
0  0  3  13  16  

NOTRE DAME 3, BOSTON COLLEGE 0 
Justin Yoon 30-yard field goal 
5:59 remaining 

Drive: 8 plays, 64 yards 3:33 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 10, BOSTON COLLEGE 0 
Amir carlisle 10-yard pass from Deshone Kizer (Yoon kick) 
0:04 remaining 

Drive: 6 plays, 40 yards 1:56 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 10, BOSTON COLLEGE 3 
colton lichtenberg 43-yard field goal 
13:10 remaining 

Drive: 4 plays, 2 yards, 0:09 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 16, BOSTON COLLEGE 3 
chris brown 12-yard pass from Kizer (2-point attempt failed) 
1:10 remaining 

Drive: 8 plays, 73 yards, 3:12 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 19, BOSTON COLLEGE 3 
Yoon 35-yard field goal 
10:35 remaining 

Drive: 8 plays, 60 yards, 3:31 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 19, BOSTON COLLEGE 9 
Justin smith 80-yard run (2-point attempt failed) 
10:17 remaining 

Drive: 1 play, 80 yards, 0:18 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 19, BOSTON COLLEGE 16 
charlie callinan 3-yard pass from smith (lichtenberg kick) 
00:54 remaining 

Drive: 9 plays, 86 yards, 3:05 elapsed 
STATISTICS 
RUSHING YARDS  
127  
214  
PASSING YARDS  
320  
88  
PASSING  
Kizer  20-38-320  Fadule  7-16-64  
Smith  5-6-24  
RUSHING  
Prosise  9-54  Smith  5-100  
Adams  13-39  Fadule  8-64  
Kizer  7-33  Wilson  7-24  
Willis  7-14  
RECEIVING  
Carlisle  7-97  Rouse  3-27  
Brown  6-104  Callinan  3-17  
Fuller  3-72  Smith  3-8  
Sweeney  1-22  
TACKLES  
Smith  11  Strachan  8  
Redfield  9  Simmons  8  
Rochell  4  McClary  6  
Shumate  4  Johnson  6  
INTERCEPTIONS  
Simmons  2  
Johnson  1  


THE ObsERvER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2015 | NDsMcObsERvER.cOM 


WEI LIN | The Observer 

Irish junior receiver Torii Hunter Jr. fights for yardage during Notre Dame’s 19-16 victory over Boston College on Saturday at Fenway Park in Boston. Hunter landed on top of a defender’s body earlier in the play and spun off to gain more yardage, but after a review it was determined his elbow had hit the ground before he regained his balance. 
Notre Dame survived five turnovers, including three inside the 
Boston College 5-yard line, against the nation’s top-ranked  defense Saturday at Fenway Park. Career days from receivers 
NEAR-FIASCO 
Amir Carlisle and Chris Brown did just enough to push the Irish past a hard-hitting Eagles squad bent on derailing their  
AT FENWAY 
archrivals’ hopes at a berth in the College Football Playoff. 




The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By NICK LAUREANO 
scene writer 

last Thursday, i went solo to the amc showplace to see an early screening of “The night before.” i passed a poster of the film’s stars — Joseph gordon­levitt, seth rogen and anthony mackie 
— posing like children above the film’s tagline: “bringing Joy to the world.” a bit brash for my taste. strike one. 
perhaps someone who will gladly see a movie by himself, who is hyper­critical of a film’s poster and who will dismiss audience members who laugh hysterically at previews for movies like “dirty grandpa” as subhumans is too cold-hearted and pretentious to enjoy christmas movies. Then again, i did thoroughly enjoy “die hard.” anyway, the last preview shown was for “star wars: The Force awakens,” which put me in an incredibly good mood. with John williams’ compositions floating about my working memory, i was ready to enjoy anything thrown at me. or so i thought. 
if you’ve not seen the trailer, here’s the skinny. ethan (gordon-levitt) was 
By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

saturday, notre dame beat the boston college eagles at Fenway park, tak­ing the classic holy war rivalry to the heart of boston for the seventh annual shamrock series game. having officially started in 2011 (and later including the neutral site games in 2009 and 2010), the shamrock series is a great opportunity for notre dame Football. it’s about more than just what should be an easy win in a neutral site — it’s about bringing the ex­perience of a south bend football game to major cities across the country. it’s about historic traditions, giving back to the community and serious marketing. 
That’s right: the shamrock series is one of the best recruiting tools in our ar­senal, putting notre dame Football on a national stage for all of its top recruits to see. while the game itself was important for a number of reasons, one of the big­gest aspects of this recruiting campaign is the alternate uniforms. The shamrock series has already produced a number of crazy looks in its short history, rang­ing from 2011’s throwback theme to last year’s “god, country, notre dame” concept. This year’s uniform took it to a new level, matching the famous green monster of Fenway park, and show­ing us that under armour can truly go anywhere with the shamrock series concept. so while we all wait for the in­evitable mendoza-themed uniform, let’s break down saturday’s efforts. 
orphaned by a drunk driver the night before christmas in 2001. ethan’s bes-ties, isaac (rogen) and chris (mackie), have taken him out for christmas eve on the town — new york, duh — ever since. unfortunately for ethan: isaac and chris are too busy starting fami­lies and cheating at football to hang out anymore, so this night before is to be the last night before, he just lost his job as a valet and he is coming off of a bad breakup with diana (lizzy caplan). hint: the whole orphan thing is the uber-reason for all of ethan’s woes, though the film frequently delves into Thc-induced fits of pop psychology in order to explain the characters’ over­simplified neuroses. 
i know what you’re thinking: that sounds like the makings of a perfectly adequate coming-of-age story, suit­able for viewing on an airplane or sur­rounded by drunken friends (or both). and you’d be right, if not for the film’s execution. unfortunately for us, the committee of writers behind the most unfortunate movie this side of lemony snicket delivers not a tragedy-cum­comedy, but a sophomoric farce that 
Helmet 

saturday’s helmet builds on under armour’s excellent efforts from last year, creating a sleek, modern update to the storied history of gold helmets at notre dame. Thankfully, these helmets are the right kind of gold, unlike 2011’s ridiculously shiny gold helmet for the maryland game, which blinded every­one at Fedex Field. The paint used this year gives off a brighter look than that used for regular season games without being too flashy. 
speaking of flashy, the leprechaun head on this year’s helmet is one of the best logos we’ve seen yet. it’s a bold piece of tradition on an otherwise cur­rent helmet. combined with the blue and green stripes across the top, the logo creates a great sense of balance, especially when compared to past shamrock series works like 2012’s pain­ful 60/40 blue-and-gold split pattern. adidas definitely had a rough start with these alternate looks. 
The only concern about this year’s helmet is the blatant lack of a mas­sive under armour logo. how are fans supposed to know we have the big­gest contract in college athletics if their corporate emblem isn’t plastered everywhere? 

Jersey 

going for the bright green jersey was a pretty crazy idea, especially considering appeals to eighth graders who would have giggled at my use of latin. worse yet is the film’s twisted ideology. 
“The night before” is an unwelcome manifestation of the decay of society. (hear me out.) The same decay woody allen griped about in “manhattan,” but i’m sure even he never imagined the problem in its full magnitude. allow me to explain. 
a couple months ago, i accompanied my roommate on an impromptu road trip to ohio state university, where we attended a surprise party for one of his high school friend’s 21st birthdays. The weekend was a blast, but i was troubled by my roommate’s motivations behind the trip. “doug is going to remember this forever,” he waxed. “it’s going to be so legendary when we roll in and sur­prise him; we’ll talk about this forev­er.” his sentiment was sincere, but his primary concern being curating some epic memory, rather than simply ex­periencing a great weekend with his friend, seemed to miss the mark. “The night before” echoes this sentiment, as its leads frantically dart around new york in an effort to “hit” as many of 
that the last time notre dame rocked green against boston college was in 2002, when another fourth-ranked irish team was upset 14-7. nd traditionalists already have a tough time swallowing the looks of a modern uniform. Throw in some bad luck and a loss would have had them crying for a return to Knute rockne’s notre dame. 
you know what else is crazy? putting the leprechaun on the sleeves of the jer­sey and the shamrock directly below it on the players’ performance shirts. i guess we had to make sure bostonians know we’re more irish catholic than they are. 
Questionable over-branding aside, saturday’s jersey is sharp, with more than enough style points to make up for this weekend’s struggle of a victory. The 11 stripes, representing all those national championships, is a subtle re­minder for the playoff committee of that tradition of dominance. and the cursive “irish” across the top of the jersey with the understated shamrock? That’s every notre dame dad’s dream. 

Pants 

This is where under armour threw all our precious tradition under the bus. when did we change our slogan to “all green everything?” seriously, the pants took this way too far and morphed the players into gaelic power rangers. 
initial shock aside, the pants looked their christmas eve traditions in as little time as possible. This pursuit of pre-packaged experiences feels like a spiritual sibling to the canned nos­talgia of incessant instagram posts, the misuse of words like “legendary” and “epic” and the appropriation of the word “throwback.” 
an even greater marker of decay is the film’s glorification of party cul­ture. our three amigos steal tickets to the nutcracker ball, new york’s most exclusive christmas eve party, and the film is mostly concerned with documenting their antics — smoking, drinking and bad decisions — on the way to the mysterious banger. This fixation on a journey is storytelling in its oldest form, and one can never quite tell if our voyagers are takes on aeneas or luke skywalker. a case could be made for odysseus as their princi­ple archetype, as the trio’s arrival at the nutcracker ball is played like an overdue homecoming. isn’t that rather startling? 
Contact Nick Laureano at nlaurean@nd.edu 
great in action in Fenway park and re­ally contributed to the overarching (and somewhat overwhelming) green monster theme. if shock and awe was the goal, the pants nailed it in a way our offense could not this week. it’s also a nice evolution over last year’s great pants, with better stripes across the knee pads and a really cool vertical go­ing down the side. 

Overall 
when you’re on a stage as big as the cable-only nbc sports network, looks really do matter. and overall, this year’s shamrock series uniform does a great job of that. it embraces its theme of the green monster really well across all of its major pieces, while the small de­tails, such as the mostly green socks, shoes and gloves, build upon that im­age without going too far overboard. 
it’s not the best shamrock series uni­form we’ve seen (that title still belongs to 2013’s all-white uniform), but it’s a very close second, and the best look we’ve seen from under armour so far. with the upward trend on uniforms, next year’s shamrock game against army gives us something to look for­ward to. 

Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 

LUCY DU | The Observer 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 


Happy Birthday: your determination and drive will help you reach your goals this year. expand your friendships by trying new activities or joining a club that you feel a connection to. market what you have to offer and you will find a way to raise your profile and your income. don’t let your emotions cause doubt or inconsistency. your numbers are 2, 15, 23, 33, 35, 43, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): a financial gain or opportunity is apparent. The preparation you do for an upcoming position will pay off and lead to faster advancement. get any offers you receive in writing to ensure that the negotiation process goes smoothly. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don’t trust anyone who is looking to borrow from you. use your assets to benefit yourself, not others. a family gathering will be met with unexpectedly emotional confrontations if you aren’t willing to compromise. don’t let stubbornness ruin your day. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you will be torn between what you want to do and what you feel that you should do. satisfy your needs and honor the promises you’ve made. you’ll gain respect if you are honest and ask for help when you need it. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): relationship problems will escalate if you get angry and handle situations in an emotional, impatient manner. if you need time to process what’s going on around you, find something relaxing to do and give yourself time to think. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): visit a destination that’s new and exciting. participating in activities or challenges that motivate you will give you a new lease on life. romance is highlighted, and sharing your interests with someone special will bring you closer together. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): put some thought into fixing up your surroundings or making alterations that are cost-efficient and stylistically sound. discuss your plans with anyone who will be affected by the decisions you make. it’s best to learn of any opposition before you begin. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): you’ll have an interesting perspective on life and the people who live in your community. Form new friendships with the people who can help you explore new possibilities. embrace change and enjoy the ones you love.     

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): don’t let the past ruin your plans for the future. let go of all the negativity you’ve experienced, and you will see a path that offers a unique and inviting alternative to anything you’ve tried in the past. be resolute about the decisions you make. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): make changes at home that will free up your cash flow and make your lifestyle more cost-efficient. good fortune is heading your way if you make decisions based on what you can afford and what you need in your life.  

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t let an oversight upset your goals. Fix whatever isn’t working and proceed as planned. an opportunity to make a move or invest in something looks promising. expect to face delays or problems if you travel. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): use your charm and unique outlook to get ahead. a change in direction will add a little excitement and intrigue to your life. romance and establishing a stronger bond with someone special will pay off. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): refrain from taking on too much. you’ll be tempted to go down a path that is likely to end in regret. re-evaluate your position personally and professionally before you make a change that is based on unreliable information. 


Birthday Baby: you are emotional, unpredictable and friendly. you are adventuresome and playful. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

To
 receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable to and mail to: The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 
address 
city     state Zip 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Miss. State QB shines unnoticed 

Alex Carson 
associate sports editor 
a year ago, he was the name on everyone’s lips. he led a school that’s far from being a traditional power to no. 4 in the college Football playoff rankings headed into the final saturday of the regular season, putting his name into the heisman conversation as one of 2014’s best stories. 
of course, mississippi state lost to ole miss on the final weekend last year, falling out of playoff contention and, quite frankly, out of everyone’s minds. what looked like a potential controversy — could a non-champion keep ohio state, Tcu or baylor out of the playoff? — evaporated and with it, our nation’s focus on college football’s best quarterback. 
This week, mississippi state senior dak prescott leads his team into the egg bowl once more, but at 8-3, well out of most people’s minds, distanced from his status a year ago at the center of “starkvegas.” 
but what if i told you prescott was even better this year than he was a season ago? 
you probably wouldn’t believe me because, quite frankly, you aren’t paying much attention. 
The bulldogs are far from a major player on the national stage this year — a 31-6 loss to alabama is the closest they’ve particularly come to relevancy 
— but after a slow start, prescott is working his magic once more, keeping the door open for an­other 10-win season in starkville, mississippi. 
he’s on pace to match last sea­son’s figures through the air, if not surpass them, and could well match his rushing touchdown total from a year ago as well, especially with the way he’s been playing recently. 
of course, that all came to a head saturday night, when the bulldogs pulled out the win in one of the season’s best games, a 51-50 win at arkansas that saw prescott and brandon allen go toe-for-toe for 60 minutes. 
outside of mississippi and arkansas, few probably watched the offensive show — and given each team’s standing right now, that’s quite fine — but neverthe­less, it was a treat. 
To understand prescott’s stat line saturday is to understand what makes him so incredibly good, even in a year where his team’s lost three times. he threw for 508 yards and accumulated seven total touchdowns, and that wasn’t even the impressive part of his performance against the razorbacks. 
mississippi state ran 86 plays excluding punts saturday. prescott ran 50 times and rushed another 15. 
That’s 65 of 86 plays that rested on either the arm or the leg of head coach dan mullen’s star quarterback. 
and this isn’t some one-off occurrence for the bulldogs. it’s a trend. 
The previous week against alabama, mississippi state ran 87 non-punt plays. prescott was responsible for 69 of them — 43 passing and 26 rushing. 
against missouri on nov. 5, prescott accounted for 54 of the bulldogs’ 77 offensive plays, while against Kentucky on oct. 24, he was “only” the focal point of two-thirds of them. 
he still racked up all six of the bulldogs’ touchdowns, though. 
at this point, i’d hope you get the picture. 
here’s the thing with prescott this season: unlike a year ago, when running back Josh robinson — you might remem­ber his nickname: “bowling ball” — helped take the load off prescott, the senior quarterback doesn’t have that kind of help this season. 
That fact may have been un­derscored best against alabama, when he was sacked nine times against the crimson Tide. The bulldogs’ hapless offensive line often left prescott out to dry. yet he still racked up more than 300 yards through the air. 
Through seven sec games, prescott has either thrown or rushed on 74.9 of mississippi state’s non-punting plays. 
That’s insane. 
with a win over ole miss this saturday, prescott would com­plete a seemingly-impossible mission — finish tied for second in the vaunted sec west with a one-dimensional offense. 
and if the bulldogs can defend home field in the egg bowl this year, they’d head into a bowl game with the opportunity for a second successive 10-win season. 
That’d be as many in prescott’s time as before it: mississippi state won 10 games just twice, in 1940 and 1999, before his arrival. 
even if he doesn’t get the job done, which admittedly seems likely, the magnitude of what he’s accomplished over the last two years shouldn’t go unnoticed. 
he surely won’t get a call to new york for the heisman Trophy ceremony next month and, quite frankly, he’s prob­ably not going to win the davey o’brien award, given to the na­tion’s top quarterback. 
but that’s not to say he doesn’t deserve it. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL | ravens 16, rams 13 

Flacco out for season after costly Ravens win 
Associated Press 

balTimore — it’s been this kind of season for the baltimore ravens: even when they win, they lose. 
a dramatic 16-13 victo­ry over the st. louis rams on sunday was marred by season-ending injuries to quarterback Joe Flacco and running back Justin Forsett. 
Flacco tore ligaments in his left knee in the closing seconds, but stayed with the offense until the finish de­spite the pain. 
“i wanted to win a game,” said Flacco, who’s never missed a game over his eight-year career. 
it was a rare but costly vic­tory for the ravens (3-7). after losing seven games by a total of 32 points, this would have been a victory to savor if it didn’t cost them their quarterback. 
“i  think  it’s  the  acl  
and  mcl,”  Flacco  said.  
“we  haven’t  had  anything  

pictured.” 

Forsett, meanwhile, broke both bones in his right fore­arm in the first quarter. he is baltimore’s leading rusher. 
Justin Tucker kicked a 47­yard field goal as time ex­pired to end a mistake-filled game in which the ravens rallied from a 10-point deficit in the fourth quarter. 
one final miscue decided the issue: rams quarterback case Keenum fumbled when hit by courtney upshaw, and teammate lawrence guy re­covered at the st. louis 41 with 54 seconds to go. 
Flacco moved the ravens to the 29 — injuring his knee along the way — before Tucker delivered the game-winning kick. 
“it was a courageous per­formance by him at the end,” coach John harbaugh said. 
st. louis (4-6) lost four fumbles and missed an extra point. in his first start of the season, Keenum went 12 for 26 for 136 yards and fumbled three times, losing two. 
Keenum was selected as the rams’ starter on monday, re­placing nick Foles in a move that coach Jeff Fisher said was designed to bolster the offense. The switch did not pay immediate dividends. 
“we’re asking a lot of our defense right now when we’re not getting a lot out of our of­fense,” Fisher said. “we’ve got too much talent without getting things done.” 
baltimore won despite committing two turnovers and being penalized 10 times for 137 yards. The ravens trailed 13-3 before coming back behind Flacco, who went 27 for 44 for 299 yards and a score. 
both teams had a chance to win in the closing min­utes of regulation. after greg Zuerlein missed a 52-yard field goal with 1:41 remain­ing for the rams, Tucker was wide right on a 51-yarder with 1:13 to go. 
Keenum’s pivotal fumble followed. 
“i’m going to give case a good week of practice,” Fisher said. “i expect him to do better than he did today.” 
Keenum was being evalu­ated for a concussion after the game and was not made available to reporters. 
The ravens appeared to be doomed by their own mis­takes until rams running back Todd gurley lost a fum­ble at the st. louis 42. Flacco directed a seven-play drive that ended with a 3-yard touchdown pass to Kamar aiken with 11:11 remaining. 
a 20-yard field goal by Tucker tied it with 5:12 to go. The kick capped a 76-yard drive, highlighted by a 46­yard completion to crockett gillmore. 
The ravens played the ma­jority of the game without Forsett, who left in the first quarter after being driven to the turf by aaron donald for a 5-yard loss. 

NCAAM | villanova 75, aKron 56 
villanova survives early scare from akron 
Associated Press 

villanova, pa. — Josh hart scored a career-high 27 points to help no. 11 villanova fend off an early scare and hand akron its first loss with a 75-56 win sunday night in the niT season Tipoff. 
hart shot 11 for 21 from the field and grabbed nine re­bounds. The wildcats (4-0) trailed by as many as eight in the first half before turning the game around with a 27-5 run across both halves. 
villanova senior guard ryan arcidiacono finished with 15 points, eight assists and five rebounds, and Kris Jenkins scored 11 points. 
antino Jackson scored 13 points and Kwan cheatham Jr., had 11 for akron. The Zips (3-1) rolled into the pavilion fresh off the program’s best start of its division i era. 
Four days after shooting over 50 percent in a big niT road win over arkansas, the Zips came out hot again. They took a 16-8 lead with 13:46 left in the first half on four 3-pointers. 
akron made 41 percent of its 3-point attempts before the break, but the wildcats clamped down defensively in other areas to take the Zips out of their rhythm. 
villanova tied the game at 26-26 5 minutes before half­time when center daniel ochefu tapped in his own miss. it took its first lead at 34-31 with 1:49 left on an ac­robatic three-point play from hart. 
hart had 15 points in the first half, including 12 of the team’s first 18 points. 
akron didn’t score any points in the final 4 minutes of the half and villanova ex­tended its lead to 38-31 at the break. The wildcats contin­ued to pour it on after halftime with hart scoring 12 points in the first 7 minutes, capped by a tough three-point play and a 3-pointer that put villanova ahead 56-36. 
villanova scored 17 points off akron’s 16 turnovers and has now outscored the oppo­sition 94-35 off turnovers this season. 
Tip-ins 
akron: This game marked the first time the Zips had ever faced villanova. They are now 2-9 all-time against cur­rent big east members. ... Five of akron’s first seven made baskets were 3-pointers. ... The Zips finished with 11 3-pointers and 10 two-point five goals. 
villanova: villanova ended a four-game homestand to start the season. The wildcats don’t return to the pavilion until dec. 13. ... ochefu was shooting 63 percent from the field coming in but shot just 2 for 8 from the field. ... villanova committed only one turnover in the first half. 
Up next 
akron: at green bay on Tuesday night. 


The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | connecTicuT 2, nd 0 
Notre Dame falls to UConn in NCAA tourney 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
notre dame’s season came to an end on Friday as the irish fell 2-0 to connecticut in the round of 32 of the ncaa tournament in piscataway, new Jersey. 
The no. 10 irish (14-5-1, 6-4 acc) had more shots on goal than the no. 18 huskies (19-3, 8-1 aac) by a 6-4 margin and earned nine corner-kicks to uconn’s one. however, husky junior forward rachel hill knocked two shots past irish junior goalkeeper Kaela little in the second half to lead the huskies to a victory. 
“overall we’re disappoint­ed,” irish head coach Theresa romagnolo said. “we had much bigger aspirations than this. it was a very disappointing game. ... it was a bit of a shock that it ended that way. we felt we were the bet­ter team, but at the end of the day, they were very opportunistic.” 
notre dame dominated the first half, pounding uconn with five shots on goal, but junior uconn goalkeeper emily armstrong stopped them all to hold the irish scoreless. romagnolo said she was happy with her team’s perfor­mance in the first half. 

“we played the game we’ve been playing,” romagnolo said. “we were moving the ball well, we were getting people involved in the attack. our forwards were going 1-vs.-1, we were switching the field well. and i think we were just playing well, something we’ve done all year.” 
hill broke the scoreless tie off a rebound in the 59th minute when husky senior forward linda hines drilled a shot at little. little made the save, but hill was in the right place to drive home the rebound. 
The irish created their best scoring opportunity of the night in the 80th minute when a shot from junior midfielder sandra yu deflected off of a uconn player and almost trickled into the net, but armstrong made a diving save to preserve her team’s lead. 
hill then capitalized on a fast break in the 82nd minute to seal the victory for the huskies. 
“To be honest, all she did on the first goal was run into the ball and get a deflection,” romagnolo said. “she happened to be in the right spot at the right time. on the sec­ond goal she had a small window to get a shot off and she hit a great shot. i don’t think our keeper saw it in time to react.” 
six seniors played their last games for the irish on Friday, including forwards anna maria gilbertson and mary schwappach, midfielder glory williams and defenders Katie naughton, cari roccaro and brittany von rueden. romagnolo said though the season is over, she is proud of her team. 
“it’s a talented, awesome group to work with,” romagnolo said. “i think this year we had great team culture. we played some of the best soccer that i’ve seen. anna maria [gilbertson] had a great season, scoring 13 goals. her se­nior leadership was phenomenal. having five seniors on the field doing such a great job on the field but also being such great people that you want to lead your team. There were so many great posi­tives and it was such a great team to work with.” 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 
ND SWIMMING & DIVING | boilermaKer inviTaTional 
ND wraps up fall season 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame finished its fall season this past weekend competing at the boilermaker invitational in west lafayette, indiana. 
The invitational featured the irish and seven teams from around the country, including acc foe louisville and the host team, big Ten rival purdue. other teams at the invitational included cincinnati, wyoming, Florida international, san diego, southern illinois, missouri state and the united states air Force academy. 
on the women’s side, notre dame finished in second place overall on the weekend. 
The irish finished Friday’s competition in second place following a strong perfor­mance from junior catherine mulquin, who swam for her first b-cut of the season on Friday morning. mulquin swam the 50-yard freestyle in 
22.90 to make the cut. 
other top individual finish­ers for the irish were junior Katie miller, who finished third in the 200-yard individual medley (2:02.13) and senior catherine galletti, who also placed third in the 50-yard freestyle (23.03). 
other top irish finishers on Friday included the a-lineup for the 200-yard freestyle relay of mulquin, galletti and fresh­men sofia revilak and ella moynihan. The 200 free relay a-team finished in first place with a time of 1:32.00. on the diving boards, senior lindsey streepey came in third overall in the 3-meter dive and fresh­man dierdre worth finished in sixth in the 3-meter. 

saturday played out much the same way as the first for notre dame, as the irish main­tained their place in second paced by the a-lineup 200­yard freestyle relay team of mulquin, galletti, revilak and moynihan. They clinched first place in the event with their time of 1:39.50. 
Top individual finishers for the irish on saturday included mulquin winning the 100-yard backstroke, revilak finishing second in the 100-yard butter­fly, and freshman nicole smith placing third in the 400-yard im and fourth place in the 100­yard butterfly. 
on sunday, notre dame kept up its momentum from the first two days of competition, wrapping up its second-place position it held through all 41 events of the weekend. The irish were led by mulquin, who finished third in the 100-yard freestyle and freshman alice Trueth, who took first in the 200-yard backstroke. 
purdue won the invitational with 1002 points, with notre dame following in second with 707 points and wyoming rounding out the top-three, finishing with 500 points. 

on the men’s side, the irish were paced by sophomore Justin plaschka’s b-cut in the 50-yard freestyle in Friday’s action. plaschka, junior Kevin bradley and freshmen Tabahn afrik and daniel speers fin­ished second in the 200-yard freestyle relay as well. 
plaschka continued his strong performance saturday by tying for the win in the 100-yard butterfly to lead the irish on the second day of competition. 
sunday was arguably the most successful day for the irish at the invitational, as afrik won the 100-yard freestyle and fellow freshman matthew grauslys touched the wall first in the 200-yard butterfly. both swimmers finished in ncaa b-cut times. 
afrik collected a second vic­tory sunday as he, plaschka, bradley and speers again teamed up to win the 400-yard freestyle relay to help the irish to a third-place finish overall at the invitational. 
The irish will return to ac­tion in January, kicking off their spring season with a trip to charlottesville, virginia, for a dual meet against virginia. 
ND VOLLEYBALL | nd 3, clemson 0 
irish close home slate with victory 

By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 

notre dame closed out the home portion of its schedule with a much needed win, breaking out of a 12-match losing streak with a 3-0 victory over clemson. 
The irish (7-23, 2-16 acc) kicked off this weekend’s matches with a four-set loss (19-25, 26-24, 25­21, 25-22) to georgia Tech in one of their closest matches of the season. 
after getting swept in three sets by the yellow Jackets (18-12, 9-9) in atlanta on oct. 11, the irish showed some signs of progress Friday night by dominating the first set and coming close in the other three. 
The irish took the first set from georgia Tech while hitting .351 and committing only three hit­ting errors to go along with 16 kills. They even had set point in the second frame before the yellow Jackets came storming back to snatch the momentum before the break. 
by winning close sets three and four as well, the yellows Jackets were able to steal one from the irish. 
sunday afternoon, then, offered one last opportunity for the irish to get their first home conference win of the season, and they took advantage of that opportunity. 
having already beaten clemson in south carolina on oct. 9, notre dame already had a scouting re­port for what it could expect from the Tigers (6-24, 1-17) on sunday. 
The previous match between these two teams was a five-set marathon in which the irish took the first two sets but dropped the next two before closing out the vic­tory in the final frame. 
This time around, notre dame only needed three sets to dispose of the Tigers on their way to a sweep, 25-17, 25-16, 25-16. 
led by sophomore outside hitter sydney Kuhn, who had 11 kills and eight digs, the match was never really in question as the irish led nearly every moment. 
For first year head coach Jim mclaughlin, the win was first his home conference victory, but his focus is already on trying to con­tinue a strong end to the season this week. 
“well, i want to get to more [wins],” mclaughlin said. “every win counts; it’s a step in the right direction. it’s a building block. and these kids deserve it. Just to get that gratification and that winning feeling, and hopefully we start to get that feeling all the time.” 
For a team that has struggled to put together a complete match for much of the season, mclaughlin said the strong weekend showings were due to better training and consistency. 
“i thought we trained better,” mclaughlin said. “we settled down, the training was more meaningful. The girls were more mindful. we had better energy and better focus, and we just played better. we didn’t make as many er­rors. we were more consistent, and that was the difference.” 
with the home season in the books for notre dame, this team now has only two matches left before the offseason begins and it can look toward next fall. 
The irish close out their sea­son this week with a pair of road matches. They head to syracuse for a wednesday night matchup before wrapping the season at boston college on Friday. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 



W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
mcgraw said the irish de­fensive communication was a highlight, particular­ly in front of a south dakota state record regular-season crowd of 5,532. 
“i thought defensively we did a lot of really good things,” mcgraw said. “i think we’re improving de­fensively,  i thought our communication was great, we did a really good job switching and i think we did a pretty good job on the boards. i’m really happy with how we handled the environment, it was a very loud crowd, it was hard to hear each other so i thought we handled the whole at­mosphere really well” 
The irish looked much more effectively in the third quarter, however, scoring 24 points as they widened the lead to 60-49, thanks in part to an 8-0 run towards the end of the quarter that briefly put the irish up by 14 before south dakota state junior guard Kerri young sank a three-pointer at the end of the period. 
The game was not out of reach until late in the fourth quarter however. The Jackrabbits closed the score to 68-60 with just over three minutes left thanks to another 3-pointer from young, but six late points from Turner, who finished as the leading irish scorer with 20 to add to her 8 re­bounds, helped ensure the irish left with the victo­ry. mcgraw said the close game gave her a chance to see how her team handled difficult situations. 

“our poise down the stretch was really great,” mcgraw said. “it was great we had a chance to play a close game to really have to work at the end to control the ball and run our stuff, and we executed really well.” 
The irish will next travel to valparaiso tonight before going to the bahamas for the 13th annual Junkaroo Jam, where they will play in the Freeport division with denver, louisiana Tech and ucla. The irish have a 25-0 record against the crusaders, includ­ing a 96-46 victory in their last meeting in 2013, but mcgraw said valparaiso can be a difficult place to play. 
“we’ve had some really tough games at valparaiso, some very close games,” mcgraw said.” it’s another road trip, so it’s another chance for the freshmen to get a feel for playing away from home, i think it’s a game where we’re just worrying about our inten­sity and how we come out. That’s going to be a big key for us.” 
The irish and the crusaders will tip off at 8 p.m. tonight at the athletic s-re creation center at valparaiso. The irish and the pioneers will tip-off at st. george’s high school Freeport, bahamas at 3:15 p.m. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 

HOCKEY | nd 2, umass lowell 2; umass lowell 3, nd 1 
Irish earn one point on road against River Hawks 

By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports editor 
no. 16 notre dame had its chances to nab a hockey east victory on the road against no. 5 umass lowell but came away with only one point over the weekend, tying 2-2 Friday night and losing 3-1 saturday at Tsongas center in lowell, massachusetts. 
The irish (5-3-4, 3-1-2 hockey east) fell behind Friday night as the river hawks (9-1-3, 5-0-3) jumped out to a 2-0 lead midway through the second period. but behind power play goals from freshman defenseman dennis gilbert and sophomore left wing anders bjork, notre dame sal­vaged a point and played well enough for more, according to irish head coach Jeff Jackson. 
“i think we had a pretty le­gitimate chance to win it a cou­ple times in the third period and overtime,” Jackson said. “i thought we came on as the game progressed. it was just a matter of building confidence against a team that we haven’t had a lot of confidence again.” 
Jackson said the turning point for the irish came late in the first period after the irish killed off a 5-on-3 river hawk power play advantage and having just gone down, 1-0. although the river hawks built their lead to 2-0 in the second, Jackson said that penalty kill began to right the ship for the irish. 
“after that our team start­ed getting some confidence,” Jackson said. “we eventually scored a goal at the end of the second period, and tied it in the third.” 
The river hawks blitzed the notre dame net in the first pe­riod, but sophomore netminder cal petersen kept the irish in the game early, stopping 17 of the 18 shots he faced to get his team back into the locker room trailing by only one goal. petersen fin­ished the game with 32 saves on 34 lowell shots. 

“he certainly kept us in the game, and he gave us a chance to get back in the game, which we did,” Jackson said of petersen. “and that’s what you need from your goaltender in those games where you start slow.” 
Jackson said petersen’s strength is being able to get into a rhythm the more shots he faces, but he also said the opposite is still a weakness that was exposed some saturday night. 
“[petersen] always tends to be better when he faces more shots, and that’s exactly what happened in that first period,” Jackson said. “… and then saturday night, we outshot [lowell] i think it was 36-16, those are the games where he needs to maybe tighten up a little bit more, so it’s just a mat­ter of consistency in those games where he faces a lot of shots and those where he doesn’t face quite as many.” 
despite outshooting the river hawks, 36-16, on saturday night, the irish fell, 3-1, as their spe­cial teams units struggled and the team ran into a hot goalie. notre dame finished 0-for-5 on the power play and only 1-for-3 on the penalty kill, while lowell senior goaltender Kevin boyle turned away 35 of notre dame’s 36 shots. 
“i don’t think we got enough pucks to the net and got enough traffic at the net,” Jackson said. “our power play has been pretty good overall this year, but the nights when it’s been shut down that’s probably been the biggest thing it that we’re over-passing and not shooting enough and not getting enough traffic to the net.” 
lowell junior forward evan campbell got the scoring started just over five minutes into the second period, burying the first of lowell’s two power play goals past petersen after irish senior center steven Fogarty was sent to the penalty box for slashing. 
irish senior center Thomas dipauli answered exactly one minute later, however, to tie the game at 1-1. irish sophomore center connor hurley sent a shot on net, and dipauli spun around and slammed home the rebound. it turned out to be the only puck to beat boyle on the evening, however, despite notre dame’s four third-period power-play chances. 
“both teams made adjust­ments, and theirs worked and our didn’t. That’s what it boils down to,” Jackson said. “They scored two power-play goals, and we had plenty of chances to score a power-play goal to tie the game late and couldn’t get it done. 
“i think some of it was the ad­justments they made, and their goaltender played extremely well.” 
notre dame returns home to host its sixth shillelagh Tournament this weekend, wel­coming no. 8 harvard, rpi and former-ccha rival western michigan at compton Family ice arena. 
“we can’t afford to not be ready to go because harvard’s one of the best teams in the country as well,” Jackson said. “… we’re go­ing to have to make sure we take care of the puck and defend well.” 
notre dame will take on harvard in its first game at 7:35 
p.m. Friday night and then ei­ther rpi or western michigan on saturday at 7:35 p.m. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


M Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
run,” auguste said. 
auguste’s fast start opened things up for notre dame’s guards — junior demetrius Jackson hit a trio of 3-pointers en route to a 13-point first half as the irish extended their lead to 33-15 with five minutes to play in the half. 
The strong opening allowed irish head coach mike brey to work all 11 active scholarship players into the game, but when the river hawks went on a 9-0 run to close notre dame’s lead to 33-24 late in the first half, brey reverted to his starting five. 
“i was trying to get everyone in during the first half, but i don’t know if it was conducive to our offensive flow,” brey said. “out of the guys we had playing, there were probably too many forwards chasing guards, and it really wasn’t conducive to our defensive flow.” 
auguste added five more points before the half to push notre dame’s lead to 14 at the break, setting the stage for an explosive 22-6 run in the first 10 minutes of the second half to give the irish a 62-32 lead with 
10:52 left in the game. 
Junior guard steve vasturia, who led the irish with nine second-half points, said notre dame wanted to put the game away early in the final stanza. 
“i think we wanted to come out with a sense of urgency in the second half,” vasturia said. “we had some spurts in the first half where we were playing well on both ends of the floor but second half, we wanted to get off to a good start and carry that through for another 20 minutes.” 
sophomore guard matt Farrell and freshman forward matt ryan were once again the first two players off the bench for notre dame on saturday, and brey said the duo’s sixth- and seventh-man slots are fairly safe. Junior forward austin Torres, however, has worked his way into consideration for playing time, brey said. 

“Torres is on my mind as our first big guy sub as we head to orlando,” the irish head coach said. “i think we really have to get him reps for the simple reason that he is extremely active. That’s no mystery … we saw it last year.” 
notre dame returns to action Thursday when it kicks off play at the advocare invitational at walt disney world’s hp Field house. The irish will open the tournament against monmouth, who took down ucla to open its season nov. 13, before facing either iowa or dayton on Friday. 
“i think it’s gonna be a great challenge for us,” vasturia said. “There’s a lot of good teams, and it’ll be an opportunity to play away from our home gym for the first time. it should be a lot of fun.” 
if the higher seeds win out, a rematch of last season’s sweet 16 contest with no. 9 wichita state looms for the irish, and brey said he is looking forward to seeing his team in a tournament situa­tion once more. 
“i like that we get a lot of games at a high level of compe­tition playing for a champion­ship,” brey said. “you have the chance to cut nets down. we did it last time in orlando, and this group did it not that long ago in greensboro. They’re ex­cited that they get to play for a championship.” 
and with snow on the ground in indiana, a trip to Florida isn’t the worst thing in the world, auguste said. 
“it’s gonna be fun to get away from the snow,” auguste said. “ … i’ve got a lot of family coming down for the tournament so it should be a great atmosphere.” 
notre dame opens play Thursday against monmouth at 6:30 p.m. in the advocare invitational, with action con­tinuing Friday and sunday at the espn wide world of sports complex. 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu 
M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
chris did a fantastic job. all of the saves he made were really quite well hit penalties, were right down the corner, and he got to them. so he did a fantas­tic job.” 
The first penalty was con­verted by senior midfielder patrick hodan to give notre dame a 1-0 lead in the shoot­out. Tulsa freshman forward miguel velasquez attempted the following penalty kick, but hubbard dove to the right to punch the ball away from the net. 
Junior defender brandon aubrey missed the next penalty high over the goal, but hubbard kept the irish in the lead after blocking another kick, this time attempted by sophomore mid­fielder Kay duit. sophomore forward Jon gallagher con­verted the next attempt for the irish, placing the shot in the upper-left corner to give notre dame a 2-0 lead. 
Tulsa sophomore midfielder geoffrey dee stepped up to the penalty circle to give the golden hurricane some life, but hubbard denied yet an­other shot, extending his body across to the left for the save. 
hubbard said he was confi­dent his team would convert on their attempts, so it wasn’t diffi­cult to stay calm against Tulsa’s penalty kicks. 
“i just knew i had to at least make one because i know how well we can take penalties,” hubbard said. “i just know, and the team knows as well, that i just have to get one and we’re going to win the penalty shoot­out. i happened to get three, but it helped that their penal­ties were great. it really takes pressure off my shoulders when i know they’re going to make them.” 
up 2-0 in penalty kicks in the fourth frame, graduate stu­dent defender max lachowecki stepped up with the opportu­nity to advance the irish to the third round of the ncaa tour­nament. The team’s tri-captain drilled the ball over Tulsa ju­nior goalkeeper Jake mcguire’s outstretched right hand and hit the back of the net. 
hubbard said despite the sol­id win, the golden hurricane were always knocking on the door ready to retaliate on any irish threat. 
“They only broke us down a few times, so i really didn’t re­ally face too many shots, but they were always dangerous,” hubbard said. “They always had so many men forward, and they’d always tried to press the ball. it was tough because they were always on the edge of be­coming very dangerous. it was always concerning, but we han­dled it pretty well.” 
notre dame dominated Tulsa early in the first half of regula­tion, moving the offense across the field with short, efficient passing while keeping the op­position away from their half of the field. The careful, methodi­cal play of the irish led to soph­omore forward Jeffrey Farina’s goal in the 24th minute. 

after receiving a pass from gallagher on the left side of the field, lachowecki crossed it in front of Tulsa’s goal where Farina knocked in the pass for a goal. despite the early domi­nance, the team came out flat in the second half, which allowed Tulsa to advance offensively into the notre dame box. 
in the 61st minute, dee crossed the ball towards the box where it was deflected off of the left post of the goal. Freshman forward Juan sanchez then hit the ball into the back of the net for the equalizer. 
“i felt that we never settled into the second half, and we knew that they would come out and press us very hard and put a big push at the beginning of the half,” irish head coach bobby clark said. “it knocked us a little bit out of our rhythm, and then they got the goal, and i think we then started to chase it from passion riling from our heads. we had to get discipline back. we were really working hard. i think it was a tremendous ef­fort in the second half, but they weren’t thinking at that time. 
“i thought we still, towards the end of the second half, dominated the game … but they were a very dangerous team. i thought in the two overtimes we took over the game fairly comfortably because i think we got our discipline back at that point and we began to play.” 
after frantically trying to get back into a comfortable tempo, the irish regrouped offensively and continued to dominate possession creating several scoring opportunities. in the second half and two overtime periods, the irish outshot the golden hurricane 10 shots to eight. 
in the 96th minute, after Tulsa sophomore midfielder rollie rocha received a yellow card, an irish free-kick opportunity deflected towards Farina, who hit the left goal post for the potential game-winning goal. after hitting the post, the ball rolled across a wide open goal and was cleared by a Tulsa defender. 
despite the dominating ef­fort, the game headed to a pen­alty shootout, where hubbard shined. 
lachowecki said recognizes the ncaa tournament is a dif­ferent beast from the regular season. of the 48 teams in the tournament field, every club is capable of winning, according to lachowecki. 
“it’s funny when you play a team like Tulsa from a differ­ent conference just because we’re so used to playing some of the best teams from the acc,” lachowecki said. “sometimes you get into a false sense of se­curity that we’re just going to go out and beat a team like this, but these teams are dangerous. … any team can beat you.” 
as the irish prepare for their matchup next week against no. 7 maryland, lachowecki said the focus will be on bringing over their offensive success in practice to the field. 
“we hope to put in more in the back of the net than we did today,” the evansville, indiana, native said. “That’s just kind of how soccer is. we’ve been working hard in practice and guys have been finishing great. sometimes that translates to the field and sometimes it doesn’t … a win is a win in the tourna­ment, and i think if you’re on the other side of it, then you’re wishing you could’ve won any way you could, so we’re glad we did.” 
notre dame and maryland will meet in the third round of the ncaa tournament next sunday at alumni stadium at 2 p.m. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 




Football 
conTinued From page 16 
put it all on one guy,” Kelly said. “That’s why i think we want all three of those guys to be what we do with the cornerback position.” 
prosise, on the other hand, received a more encouraging prognosis, suffering a high ankle sprain on his left ankle. 
“no fracture, no major damage to the ligaments, so very, very encouraging on that note relative to the an­kle,” Kelly said of his senior running back’s injury. “we’ve got an mri to follow up the X-ray and given the circum­stances it looked to be good. but i would say that right now he’d be doubtful for this weekend.” 
while prosise likely will not play saturday against stanford, Kelly expects he’ll be back for notre dame’s bowl game in december or January. 
“i think that’s very doable, and i think more than any­thing else we can make that statement based upon what we saw on the mri,” Kelly said. “and unfortunately be­ing, you know, seeing too many of these this year, we’ve got something to go off of and that we think that this is something we can manage.” 
Freshman Josh adams is expected to get his second start in three weeks at run­ning back saturday — he ran for 143 yards and a touch­down in his other career start nov. 14 against wake Forest. 
“i think Josh has been solid for us,” Kelly said. “he cer­tainly is a young player, but he is going to be counted on to play very well for us, and i’m sure he will.” 


in addition to adams, Kelly said freshman dexter williams will also see carries at running back, with sopho­more quarterback deshone Kizer also likely to play a part. 
“dexter is going to have to play little bit for us, as well,” Kelly said. “and deshone ask going to have to pick up the load, too, in the running game.” 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu 
XC 
conTinued From page 16 
came into preseason camp back in august, this was defi­nitely our whole focus for the year so being able to finish it up and finish up four years with the individual champi­onship is really something special.” 
irish associate head coach matthew sparks praised seidel’s achievement and said her success cemented the notre dame program as one of the best in the country. 
“i think it validates the things we’ve been work­ing towards for the last two years,” sparks said. “we get a lot of high school superstars here and the key component we’re trying to breed in them is maintain that same level of confidence that you brought in when you walked in the door here. what molly’s done obviously gives her a lot of confidence going forward, but just the entire program that we can compete on a na­tional level with anybody on any day.” 
From the start of the race, seidel, along with freshman anna rohrer, set the pace for the irish with the two often trading back and forth be­tween first and second place. seidel said having rohrer in the leading pack helped her mentally. 
“definitely a psychologi­cal boost having my training partner right up there with me,” seidel said. “anna’s such a strong competitor. it really was cool to have her right up there, and i think she’s got such a bright future.” 
while the future may be rohrer’s, Friday was seidel’s. near the 14-minute mark of the race, seidel made her move and left the rest of the field behind. The only other runner close to seidel was boise state freshman allie ostrander who beat seidel in october at the wisconsin ad­idas invitational. seidel said she was looking to push hard to the end of the race and that her loss to ostrander earlier in the year helped give her extra motivation. 
“coming down that final stretch, you never want to let let up until you’re all the way through the line so i was just gunning the entire way,” seidel said. “i really want­ed to keep pushing and not leave anything to chance.” 
“going into it, everybody has been saying [ostrander was] the favorite in this race,” seidel said. “[sparks] kept telling me, ‘you’re a dif­ferent runner at this race.’ we had put in all the work at this point, and i was ready and fresh and excited to go out. i definitely had that on my mind a little bit, knowing how that first meeting had gone … and not letting the second meeting go the way of the first.” 
behind seidel, rohrer fin­ished sixth, freshman rachel dadamio finished 96th and graduate student Karen lesiewicz finished 135th to give the women’s team the eighth place spot in the championship meet. sparks said he is proud of the whole team for the effort they put in. 
“[The eighth place finish] exceeds all expectations,” sparks said. “we talked about top ten, and we hit that one. The unsung heroes are those girls who finish three, four, five for us. everybody rec­ognized anna and molly but rachel dadamio stepping up and finished where she was there in the mid-nineties. on paper it doesn’t look like a big thing, but if those three don’t do what they did, we’re not in the top eight as a team. 

once again, it just validates the direction the program’s heading, and we just need to keep building on that for the future.” 
Though the men’s team did not make it to the champi­onship meet in louisville, senior michael clevenger competed individually and finished in 38th place with a time of  30:27.9 to earn all­american honors. 
clevenger did not have a smooth race, however, as he tripped at the start and had to pass the whole field in order to get all-american status. 
“i slipped at the start line and i was kind of thinking, ‘oh man i just ruined my race plan,’” clevenger said. “i wanted to get out front and put myself in the race right from the start. … because of what happened i wasn’t able to do that, and it forced me to change my plans of the fly. i was just so happy i was able to move up the pack and kind of get to the spot where i wanted to be. Then with a [kilometer] to go, i felt pretty good and was able to keep moving and pick some guys off and get into that top-40 spot.” 
sparks also praised clevenger’s performance. 
“he made a huge move, he was about 50th place with 400 meters to go, but he also knew that top 40 was all­american, and that’s some­thing we talked about for a year now,” sparks said. “it’s just a real testament to how tough the kid is to really gear down that last 400 meters and go after people. … he knew he had to pass 10 to 15 guys to make all-american and achieve his goal which he had worked for for the last 12 months.” 
Though seidel will gradu­ate before next season, sparks said he is excited about both teams moving forward. 
“i’m most excited to see the development of fresh­man girls,” sparks said. “obviously, anna’s where she is, but we have a lot of other freshman girls run­ning at the national meet and throughout the year for us. … The men’s team, we’re going to return our entire top sev­en. i think the tone michael set [on Friday] is going to resonate with the rest of the guys as they prepare … for next fall.” 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND CROSS COUNTRY | ncaa championships 
seidel claims ncaa title, leads women to eighth place 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
For the first time in 73 years, notre dame can claim a nation­al champion in cross country as senior molly seidel crossed the finish line five seconds ahead of her nearest competitor to claim the title at the ncaa cham­pionship Friday in louisville, Kentucky. 
seidel finished with a time of 19:28.6 and led the irish women’s team to an eighth-place finish overall. with her latest victory, seidel is now the only female in the program’s history to hold two individual ncaa titles, having won the 10,000-meter outdoor track and field championship in the spring. and though she is now the most decorated female ath­lete in notre dame cross coun­try history, seidel said she is more proud of the team than of herself. 
“it’s really incredible,” seidel said. “our entire team has been working so hard. when we 
see Xc PAGE 15 


FOOTBALL 

Russell out six to eight weeks 
By ALEX CARSON 
associate sports editor 

senior cornerback Keivarae russell will miss saturday’s trip to no. 11 stanford, while senior running back c.J. prosise is doubtful, irish head coach brian Kelly an­nounced sunday during his weekly teleconference. 
russell, who left no. 4 notre dame’s 19-16 win over boston college in the fourth quarter with an injury, frac­tured his right tibia, with surgery planned for sunday night. 
“Keivarae has a tibia frac­ture, so he was casted af­ter the game,” Kelly said. “[sunday] they will have surgery and put a rod in there. so that is a six- to eight-week process for him. certainly, you know, very disappointing.” 
The timetable for his re­turn means russell is unlike­ly to return for a bowl game or national semifinal — however, if the irish qualify for the playoff and advance to the title game, the senior cornerback could return. 
“That’s a pretty hard num­ber, the six to eight because of the bone growth situation there,” Kelly said. “we’re go­ing to obviously do whatever we can [to get him back]. but i would think that it’s prob­ably more towards the cham­pionship game than it is for a playoff game.” 
The national champi­onship is Jan. 11, 2016 in glendale, arizona — exactly seven weeks from monday. 
in russell’s absence, Kelly expects three players to step into the open cornerback slot: junior devin butler, freshman nick coleman and sophomore nick watkins will be turned against stanford, with the irish staff reluctant to put the whole burden on one player. 
“i don’t know that we want to put the pressure on one guy to say hey, you’re the guy that’s got to out there in the biggest game of the year and 
see FooTball PAGE 15 

MEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 83, umass lowell 57 
Irish pull away from River Hawks 
By ALEX CARSON 
associate sports editor 
senior forward Zach auguste and no. 18 notre dame used their considerable size ad­vantage to blow past umass lowell, 83-57, on saturday af­ternoon at purcell pavilion. 
auguste, who notched a dou­ble-double with 19 points and 10 rebounds, said he focused on putting together a good performance against a much smaller opponent. 

“some of the guys mentioned to me i’ve gotta dominate in­side, especially on the glass, and i’ve gotta impose my will,” auguste said. “obviously, they didn’t have size so i had to take advantage of that and i think i did.” 
The starting lineups for the irish (3-0) and the river hawks (1-2) were near polar opposites: notre dame started four upperclassmen and four players 6-foot-5 or taller, while the river hawks opened with five underclassmen, four of whom were 6-foot-3 or shorter. 
From the game’s first posses­sion, when auguste was fouled going up for a shot in the post, the irish prioritized getting the ball inside. auguste col­lected 15 points in the first half and went 6-of-8 from the field, and he said notre dame, who led 25-8 just past the midway point of the first half, tried to avoid the slow starts it has got­ten off to in its first few games. 
“we wanted to get off to a good start, and we know that for that to happen, we had to focus on defensive first, ex­ecute on the defensive end, get some stops, rebounds and 
see m bball PAGE 14 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 75, souTh daKoTa sTaTe 64 
defense leads notre dame to victory 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
no. 3 notre dame delivered another impressive defensive performance on its first road game of the season to defeat south dakota state 75-64. 
The irish (3-0) held the Jackrabbits (2-1) to 22-of-66 shooting and pulled away in the third quarter after a tight first half. 
notre dame started slowly, and found itself behind at the end of a quarter for the first time this season, as south dakota state took a 17-15 lead into the break after the first period. The Jackrabbits con­tinued to hang with the irish through the second period, and took a 26-24 lead with 

3:20 remaining in the half. however, graduate student guard madison cable put the irish ahead with a three-point­er before making a steal on the next south dakota state pos­session and sinking the layup to put the notre dame up by 
3. The irish took a 34-31 lead into halftime and never trailed again in the game. irish head coach muffet mcgraw said her team’s lack of offensive rhythm prevented them from pulling away early on. 
“offensively we just don’t have our flow yet,” mcgraw said. “we need to get our rhythm back offensively. we’re still learning each other, so i think we can get a lot better. 
“i think we missed some shots, especially free throws. we must have missed eight or nine free throws, which is really unusual for us. and they’re a really good defen­sive team, they made it really hard for us to score. i think we missed some people that were open inside, we could have gone inside a little more.” 
The irish did enough on defensively to hold the first half lead, though. sophomore guard brianna Turner had six first-half rebounds and the Jackrabbits were held to 10­for-34 shooting in the half. 
see w bball PAGE 13 
MEN’S SOCCER | nd 1, uT 1 
ND wins in shootout 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
on a cold, windy sunday af­ternoon at alumni stadium, ju­nior goalkeeper chris hubbard denied every Tulsa penalty at­tempt and pushed no. 7 notre dame into the third round of the ncaa tournament as the irish advanced on penalty kicks with a 1-1 draw. 
after regulation and two over­time periods, tied at one goal apiece, the irish (11-4-6, acc 4-2­
2) emerged victorious over the golden hurricane (8-6-7, 2-3-2 aac) after winning the penalty shootout 3-0. 
“we’ve practiced and done penalty kicks pretty regularly for the last maybe three or four weeks before the acc tourna­ment,” clark said “it’s never easy, but when you’ve got a goalkeeper that pulls off fantastic saves, it makes the job a little bit easier. 
see m soccer PAGE 14 






