


COMMENTARY 

Time to find out the truth 


Mary Green 
Assistant managing editor 
You’ve got to feel bad for notre dame, right? 
The Irish closed out last season crippled by injury after injury on defense. This year, they’ve begun that exact same way, with the count now up to five starters done for 2015, and they still have 10 games left to play. 
but these are the types of de­velopments that must be making the executives and producers at showtime, the home of the new series “A series with notre dame Football,” licking their chops. 
I mean, this is the kind of stuff that’s made for Tv: The starting running back goes down with a torn AcL, and the replacement has to step up and hold down the run game in a road game not too far away from his hometown. The starting quarterback breaks his ankle, and his replacement leads an end-of-the-game effort capped by a touchdown bomb to the reliable, should-be All-American to retake the lead and keep the team’s undefeated season alive. 
And then showtime went a step even further, with shots of malik Zaire distraught in the locker room after finding out his sea­son’s over, then struggling with his new set of crutches to hobble onto the bus and plane. 
It was an emotional and dif­ficult scene for even the casual fan — let’s not pretend that wasn’t the desired effect from the show’s producers. between the behind­the-scenes footage, sound editing and voiceover, it was a challenge to not feel bad for Zaire and the team he can no longer help on the field. 
but that’s exactly what brian Kelly doesn’t want his team to do. They’re in this to win a national championship, not wallow in self-pity. 
“everybody’s got to deal with some adversity, and this is our end of it, and we’ll be stronger for it,” Kelly said Tuesday. “I just don’t want to hear any excuses about it.” 
If this truly is one of the deep­est, if not the deepest, teams Kelly has coached in south bend — and if it outranks a squad that fell a win short of a national title, then you’d think it has to be tops — the Irish should still have a fighting chance at nabbing a slot in the college Football Playoff. 
but notre dame is also down five players they thought would still be on the field at this point, let alone in January. saturday will be a start to providing answers as to whether the depth Kelly praised will be the factor that gets the Irish through this rough patch of luck or if it nonetheless falls short in the face in the face of adversity. 
sept. 3: “he can go in there, and I would have absolutely no question about it, he can win for us. I want him to win a championship for us” — Kelly on deshone Kizer. 

Kizer indeed won for the Irish last week, but he attempted all of 12 passes in just over a quarter of work. We’ll find out this weekend if Kizer can win for notre dame or if he was graced with begin­ner’s luck — and as reliable a receiver a first-time quarterback can ask for in Will Fuller — against virginia. 
before notre dame can worry about if Kizer can win it a cham­pionship, it must first make sure he can win the rest of the season, starting with a true test this weekend. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

PAId AdverTIsemenT 


from this team either. but they trendy menu. The Café’s inventive and flavorful 











OPEN TO THE PUBLIC 
JUST EAST OF THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Within the Overlook at Notre Dame Apartment Community 
no matter what types of emo-


HOURS 

VISIT US THIS WEEKEND! Open to the public. 

tions seeing Zaire’s response 
MON – SAT: 8 am – 10 pm 

The new Café at the Overlook at Notre Dame is 
to his injury evokes, Irish fans 
DUNN RD 
SUN: 9 am – 8 pm 

a casually-eclectic and cozy café with a fresh, 
don’t want to hear any excuses 
Join us for Thursday night 
Rolf’s 

also want the truth, and this is dishes include daily specials featuring seasonal 
WILLIS ST
Trivia Nights. Become a 

the week they’ll find out if the ingredients. We’ve just started serving our late 
Café Loyalty Program 
platitudes Kelly has been tossing 
summer menu. 
Member for discounts 
around since the offseason are 
and special offers. 
true, or if he’s just saying them 

Tomorrow the Café will serve a special Game Day 
Between 
54721 Burdette St. 
VANESS ST 
because, well, that’s what head 

Menu. Stop by on your way to the game or come 
coaches are supposed to say. 
the Buns

have a great meal during it. 
South Bend, IN 46637 
Aug. 18: “This is, from an ath­
574.271.3727 
letic standpoint and from a physi-

Ideally located across from the Notre Dame 
cal prowess standpoint, a deeper 
Near the Hawk’s crosswalk 

practice fields, we think you’ll find the Café’s 
football team” — Kelly comparing 

atmosphere, cuisine and people refreshing. 


his current team to the 2012 team. 
Visit us online at cafeoverlook.com and follow us on 

When Kelly made this compari-Facebook and Instagram for daily specials and news. 
son during fall camp between this 
year’s team and the one that ad­
vanced to the bcs championship 
Game, it was as though he was 
tempting the football gods to 
prove him wrong or to at least test 
that statement. 


By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports editor 
When Irish junior lineback­er Jaylon smith first walked through the doors of AWP sports Training in his home­town of Fort Wayne, Indiana, michael Ledo saw the same post-growth spurt clumsi­ness that’s a part of life for all adolescents. 
“Jaylon sophomore year in high school was extremely long and athletic but lacked some body control, especially when it came to footwork and change of direction,” the own­er and ceo of the training cen­ter said. 
still, Ledo said it didn’t take him long to realize just what he had on his hands. 
“I saw that Jaylon is a rare breed of an athlete immedi­ately because of his commit­ment to growth over goals,” Ledo said. “The enemy to be­ing great is being good, and Jaylon is never satisfied with being good. he wants to be the best in the world.” 
It’s a side of the story not of­ten told about Jaylon smith. 
It’s a bit cliché, but some­times the most tragic stories in sports are about young ath­letes who possessed all of the physical abilities for greatness but lacked the drive, hunger and desire that was also need­ed for them to become one of the greats. The ones that leave the world with ‘what if’ on the tip of its collective tongue. 
smith is far from one of those. 
much is made of his freak­ish athletic ability and the physical tools he possesses. Those alone are enough to get national Football League executives drooling over the prospect of him declaring for the league’s draft this spring, where some way-too-early mocks have him listed as a potential top-10 pick come April. 
And for good reason. At 6-foot-3 and 240 pounds, smith can test even the best offensive linemen with a dangerous pass rush on first down, slip out and lock down a slot receiver on second and then complete the three-and­out by sticking an open-field tackle short of the sticks on third down. 
Just ask Tyrone swoopes, who ended up on the wrong side of such a third-down play just two weeks ago. The 6-foot-4, 244-pound Texas quarterback was stopped dead in his tracks by smith despite gathering a full head of steam out of the backfield. 
“some of the plays, he may 

PAId AdverTIsemenT 

be in the wrong spot, but all of a sudden he takes off for the sideline and covers so much ground, it’s like, you think he has the speed of a safety, but he’s 240 pounds,” fel­low junior linebacker James onwualu said of smith. “so I think some of those natural gifted plays he has, is some­thing for me to be like, ‘Wow, that’s unbelievable.’ he’s an unbelievable athlete. Athlete to athlete, I can really respect that.” 
“short answer, I haven’t coached a player like him be­fore, period,” Irish head coach brian Kelly said sept. 8. “he can line up with his hand on the ground. he can cover the inside receiver. he can play in the box. he can tackle in open space. There’s not much he can’t do. he’s a rare, rare defensive player. It’s just fun watching him play.” 
onwualu said he still re­members the first time he met smith at a football camp in michigan. 
“We were out on the grass, and he was wearing his notre dame hat, and I was already committed so I just went right up to him and said ‘hi’ to him, and I didn’t even know him,” onwualu said. “I was a receiv­er, so I wasn’t looking at, like, who was the best linebacker in the country, so before you know it we were talking.” 
Then, onwualu said, he kept noticing smith — everywhere. 
“he was playing every posi­tion,” onwualu said. “I wish I remember the name of the camp because there’s prob­ably some sick footage of him playing running back, then going to play cornerback, then linebacker.” 
Yet for all his athletic abil­ity, smith possesses an even greater set of assets: his drive, desire and mental acuity, Ledo said. 
“Jaylon smith’s greatest at­tribute is his mind and heart. As great as an athlete he is, we have seen others with the same ability before him and after. but we will be hard pressed to see others the com­bination of his athletic ability, influence, intelligence and heart,” Ledo said. 
It is a distinctive qual­ity about smith, one that al­lowed him to dominate the high school gridiron as a part of bishop Luers high school’s four consecutive state cham­pionships at Indiana’s class 2A level. Ledo said everyone who works with smith on a day-to-day basis discovers just how well he is able to take new information and integrate it into his play. 
“Jaylon was blessed with amazing coaching at bishop Luers, and coach [matt] millhouse was an amazing defensive coordinator that prepared Jaylon mentally for college schemes,” Ledo said. “I totally agree with them all; Jaylon has what I would call an extremely high learning agility. he has a gift to learn and apply what he learned ex­tremely fast.” 
onwualu and smith have spent much of their notre dame careers together, be­ing part of the same class and position group. They watch film, lift and even jam out together in the locker room pre- and post-practice, so onwualu has had a front row seat to smith’s evolution over his time on campus. he even credited smith as a large fac­tor in his own development for the Irish. 
“I lift with him, and it’s part of the reason for my gains,” onwualu said. “We lift hard together, just like he is on the field. We get in there, and we do our work. 
“he just gets after it.” 
For his part, smith said his development over his time in south bend in the mental aspects of the game has in­creased “tremendously.” 
“Just my knowledge of the game and understanding dif­ferent concepts and under­standing why I’m supposed to do something,” smith said when asked where his game has improved the most. “If I do this, where’s my teammate go­ing to be? And just the overall understanding of defense in the objective is something that I’ve improved upon tremen­dously here.” 
onwualu said this knowl­edge and understanding comes from smith’s commit­ment to and passion for the game of football. 
“mentally, he just straight up loves the game,” onwualu said. “he wants to continue to study it. he pushes himself to continue to learn the game, and he works hard. That’s why he’s so smart.” 
The devotion and work ethic described by onwualu was a large factor in smith be­ing named a captain for the 2015 season. Kelly said after the announcement it was not only because smith is the best player on the defense but also because of the impact he has in all facets of the game, both on and off the field. 
smith said he credits his drive and approach to the game to his family and ear­ly mentors, like Ledo and millhouse. 
“I think it comes from within. It comes from how I was raised and just the over­all mindset of wanting to be something,” smith said. “It’s kind of inexplicable. I’ve al­ways been taught just be a humble guy, and if you work at something, you’ll get it. 
“And I just want to go get it.” 
“he’s one of the best com­petitors I’ve ever met,” onwualu said. “From day on,e he’s stayed consistent, and he’s still one of those guys that you can count on to compete every play.” 
Through it all, smith said he knows he’s lucky to be where he is today. he said his humil­ity guides the mentality with which he approaches every­thing, especially hard work­outs and tedious film sessions. 
“Just lock in. This game, that’s sports, using it as a plat­form that’s bigger than me,” smith said. “It’s not about my success or anything, like, that I do this for. There’s definitely a bigger reason why I’m blessed to be on this platform.” 
That said, a little success on the way probably doesn’t hurt anything, especially with the top-15 matchup against Georgia Tech on saturday looming and questions about notre dame’s legitimacy as a playoff contender thickening the air around the program. 
“every game is exciting for me,” smith said. “You get an opportunity to step out there, but it’s going to be a great en­vironment being at home for the second time this season. We’re looking forward to it. 
“It definitely elevates the hype of the game, but at the end of the day it’s another game. I’m pumped for every game.” 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at  zklonsin@nd.edu 




RECRUITING 


Irish look to build East Coast efforts 

By ALEX CARSON 
Associate sports editor 
While notre dame has not added a new commit for either the class of 2016 or 2017 in a while, that may soon change, as several high-profile re­cruits could be set to make decisions in the next couple weeks, Irish recruiting ana­lyst Andrew Ivins said. 
“It’s wait and see right now,” Ivins, who covers Irish re­cruiting for blue and Gold Illustrated, said. “some of the guys who visited for the Texas game will make their decision in the next couple weeks.” 
Among the crop of visitors for the Texas opener was re­ceiver demetris robertson, a five-star former Alabama commit who took an official visit to notre dame two weeks ago. 
And while there won’t be a slew of visitors on campus this weekend for the Irish, it’s still a chance to impress their lone official visitor. 
“They’re going to host one official visitor this week for the Georgia Tech game, line­backer Aaron hansford,” Ivins said. “he’s a 6-foot-2, 210-pound undersized kid.” 
The Washington, d.c. na­tive sits amongst the top 15 outside linebackers and top 150 overall players in rivals. com’s rivals250, and Ivins said the four-star recruit and notre dame could be a good match, calling him a “good fit.” 
While the linebacker posi­tion wasn’t initially one of need for the Irish in this class, recent developments have meant notre dame could be looking for an additional re­cruit this year at the position; sophomore Kolin hill trans­ferred to Texas Tech, while freshman nile sykes left for Indiana before playing a snap for notre dame. 
If junior Jaylon smith leaves for the nFL draft at season’s end, Ivins said the Irish would only have six linebackers on scholarship. 
It all comes together to mean hansford’s visit be­comes more important than it otherwise would have been for the Irish staff. 
“originally, we thought they were only going to take one or two linebackers, now I think it’s definitely two or three for sure,” Ivins said. “Aaron is the first linebacker to take an of­ficial visit, and that’s what I think makes this weekend’s visit extremely important, in terms of having one guy on campus. 
“This is a guy who seems like a fit for notre dame; I always use that, it sounds so cliché, but based on every­thing that he’s looking for in a school … this is a guy that they definitely need to make an impression on this week­end while he’s on campus.” 
see recrUITInG PAGE 5 PAId AdverTIsemenT ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2015 | The observer 





Recruiting 
conTInUed From PAGe 4 
Last Thursday, brian Kelly discussed notre dame’s deal with the Acc that sees the Irish play five games each year against teams from the conference, noting it has in­creased the school’s expo­sure on the east coast. 
“There’s clearly a group of student-athletes now that pay more attention to notre dame because of that footprint,” the Irish head coach said. 
Kelly was quick to note notre dame had always been recruiting nationally and still is, but said the school now has “more notoriety” in the area. 
“It’s opened up the recruit­ing opportunities for us,” Kelly said. “but I still think it’s national recruiting for us.” 
It came at the start of a stretch in which the Irish played three games of four against Acc opposition, and Ivins said while it’s not para­mount, the added attention paid to the program on the east coast helps. 
“It’s difficult to point to one thing and be like, ‘Yeah, we played a game there, so we’re recruiting well,’ but that said, notre dame went to virginia for the first time ever, and they already have a kid committed from virginia in [safety] Jalon elliot,” Ivins said. “obviously, when you’re in the mid-Atlantic, that ex­posure helps.” 
With this weekend’s game against Georgia Tech and an upcoming series with Georgia, including a trip to Athens, Georgia, in 2019, it’s an opportunity to change notre dame’s struggles re­cruiting in the state. 
“They continue to try to recruit Georgia, and that’s really been not an Achilles heel, but it’s been really hard to crack that area,” Ivins said. “They got demetris robertson, the number one player from Georgia, to take an official visit.” 
And while the Irish can’t “host” recruits when they play at virginia or clemson, having that east coast pres­ence helps on the recruiting trail, Ivins said. 
“It helps just being on the television, being in the newspaper, just building the brand,” he said. 
Contact Alex Carson at       acarson1@nd.edu 


PAId AdverTIsemenT 





CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 

YELLOW JACKETS PASSING 

With Georgia Tech relying on their spread option offense, redshirt junior quarterback Justin Thomas doesn’t drop back to pass very often. When he does, though, he is impressive. Last season Thomas led a Yellow Jacket aerial attack that ranked first in the ncAA in pass efficiency. This season, Thomas is 10-of-13 for 151 yards and three touchdowns, which would rank first again if he had enough attempts. 
Thomas’s receivers, however, are unproven, as his top four targets from last season are gone. This year, michael summers leads Georgia Tech with just 64 yards on four receptions. 
on the other side of the ball, notre dame’s secondary struggled mightily against virginia. Keivarae russell, max redfield and cole Luke all got beat on deep balls, which could happen again with the constant threat of play action. 
EDGE: GEORGIA TECH 


YELLOW JACKETS RUSHING 

Last season, Georgia Tech rushed for 342.1 yards per game, good for second in the coun­try. so far this season, Tech is averaging 457.5 rushing yards per game. Granted, that was against Alcorn state and Tulane, but the num­bers still speak for themselves. 
minus quarterback Justin Thomas, who ran for 1,086 yards a season ago, the Yellow Jackets lost their top four backs from 2014. In their spread option system, however, it is just plug-and-play with running backs. b-back Patrick skov leads the way in terms of touches, carrying the ball 23 times for 122 yards  and four touchdowns so far. Fellow b-back marcus marshall has totalled 221 yards on the ground, averaging 15.8 yards per attempt. outside of that duo, Tech relies on Thomas (101 yards, two touchdowns) and top-returner broderick snoddy (86 yards), among others. 
The notre dame front seven, for their part, has been stout against the run so far this sea­son, holding opponents to 93.5 yards per game on the ground. The option is obviously a differ­ent animal, but Irish assistant bob elliott has been prepping for it all season. Look for a back­and-forth battle in the trenches. 
EDGE: EVEN 


YELLOW JACKETS OFFENSIVE COACHING 
Although running the option play after play may seem mundane, Georgia Tech coach Paul Johnson finds a way to get creative. 
The Georgia Tech football Twitter handle seems to agree, as it recently mentioned that Tech had two of the Acc’s top five trick plays in 2014, according to the Acc digital network. Johnson has always added a little ingenuity to his offense, so he will certainly have a few tricks up his sleeve against the Irish defense. 
brian vanGorder will be tasked with stop­ping the option, something he couldn’t do last year when navy put up 39 points and gained 336 yards on the ground. his 4-3 base defense has always been blitz heavy, but he’ll have to alter his philosophy against a potent Tech rushing attack. If navy can pound the football and average 5.2 yards per carry, look for a more talented Tech team to be even better. 
EDGE: GEORGIA TECH 
YELLOW JACKETS SPECIAL TEAMS 
With Georgia Tech blowing out its first two opponents, it did not attempt a field goal in ei­ther game. Kicker harrison butker was, how­ever, perfect on extra points during the first two games at 18-for-18. The last two seasons butker has been the main kicker and gone a combined 21-for-32. 
Punter ryan rodwell has been less than stellar, averaging 40.7 yards on three attempts. 
In the return game, Jamal Golden is the starter at both positions. Golden hasn’t done much returning kickoffs but has been impres­sive returning punts, where he has three re­turns for 89 yards with a long of 44 yards. 
between a kicker that hasn’t seen the field in important situations and a returner that has the ability to break one, this one is a toss-up. 
EDGE: EVEN 

YELLOW JACKETS SCHEDULE (2-0) 
sept. 3   Alcorn State (W 69-6) sept. 12 Tulane (W 65-10) sept. 19 @ Notre Dame sept. 26   @ Duke 
oct. 3  North Carolina  
oct. 10  @ Clemson  
oct. 17  Pittsburgh  
oct. 24  Florida State  
oct. 31      @ Virginia  
nov. 12  Virginia Tech  
nov. 21  @ Miami  
nov. 28  Georgia  






HEAD TO 
NOTRE DAME STADIUM 

(r-So.) Ricky Jeune
 (Fr.) brad stewart 
22 AB 

(r-Sr.) Broderick Snoddy
(r-Fr.) Qua searcy 1 
(r-Sr.) Bryan Chamberlain 
(Fr.) Will bryan  
(Sr.) Patrick Skov (Fr.) marcus marshall  7 34  BB  (r-Sr.) Trey Braun(r-Fr.) Jack Whitley  
(r-Jr.) Justin Thomas (r-Fr.) matthew Jordan  5 11  QB  (r-Jr.)  Freddie Burden (so.) Andrew marshall  
(r-So.) Shamire Devine (r-Fr.) Trey Klock  
(r-Jr.) Isiah Willis (Fr.) TaQuon marshall  3 16  AB  (r-Sr.) Errin Joe (r-so.) eason Fromayan  

(r-Jr.) Micheal Summers 
(r-so.) Antonio messick 


(Jr.) Harrison Butker 
(Fr.) shaun davis 

(r-Jr.) Ryan Rodwell
 (Fr.) shaun davis 

(r-Sr.) Jamal Golden 
(r-Sr.) Chris Milton 


LCB 

(so.) Lance Austin 17 
(Jr.) Chase Alford 

39 
SLB 
(r-Sr.) Jamal Golden 
(so.) shaun Kagawa 

SS
44 
(r-Sr.) Tyler Marcordes
(r-Jr.) beau hankins 

(r-Sr.) Demond Smith 

FS
(Fr.) A.J. Gray 15 

(Fr.) david curry 
(So.) KeShun Freeman 
(so.) Antonio simmons 

(Sr.) Adam Gotsis 
(r-Jr.) Francis Kallon 
33 
MLB 
(r-Sr.) Jabari Hunt 
(Fr.) brentavious Glanton 
(r-Jr.) Patrick Gamble 
(r-Jr.) rod rook-chungong 
(Jr.) P.J. Davis 

WLB 
(r-sr.) domonique noble 23 

WR 
83 

70 
LT 

64 
LG 

50 
C 

65 
RG 

79 
RT 

86 
WR 

93 
DE 

92 
DT 

97 
NT 

41 
DE 

(Sr.) D.J. White 


RCB 

(so.) step durham 8 

(r-Jr.) Ryan Rodwell 
PK 



H
80 

(r-Sr.) Jamal Golden 
P 
KR 

80 (r-Fr.) Qua searcy 1 

(r-Sr.) Sean Tobin 
PR 

LS 


Greg Hadley 
editor-in-chief 
This is it for the Irish. A win here against a top-15 opponent means their playoff hopes extend beyond malik Zaire. A loss at home once more to a triple-option offense ends the run before it begins and could foreshadow another 8-5 season for brian Kelly. 
Georgia Tech will score plenty saturday. The Yellow Jackets won’t put up 60 points as they did in their first two games, but the Irish defense will tire at some point against one of the nation’s most challenging, explosive offenses. 
What the game will come down to is deshone Kizer and the notre dame offense. From the very first series, the Irish will need to put points of the board on practically every drive. expect c.J. Prosise to take on an expanded role and keep notre dame alive through sheer force of will. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 30, Georgia Tech 28 



Mary Green 
Assistant managing editor 

brian Kelly indicated notre dame’s experience defending the triple option against navy will help it against Georgia Tech, or at least he said some experience is better than none at all. 
That might be true, but when the Irish play navy, they aren’t lining up against a 366-lb. offensive lineman or receiv­ers taken in the first rounds of the nFL draft. notre dame also doesn’t normally bring a quarterback starting his first career game into the matchup. deshone Kizer might have a week of practicing with the first team under his belt, but he will have to outscore a Georgia Tech offense that’s averaged 
55.7 points over its last 10 games. 

That will be too tough a task for both the Irish defense and their quarterback — you can’t throw bombs to Will Fuller on every play. 
FINAL SCORE: Georgia Tech 31, notre dame 24 



Zach Klonsinski 
sports editor 

It’s hard to believe how much of a U-turn this season’s ex­pectations have already taken in the minds of many. deshone Kizer isn’t quite malik Zaire, but he does have tools of his own. 
of course, if the defense has another day like it did against the cavaliers, it might not matter how well Kizer plays. The triple-option offense never ceases to impress when it’s well-executed. 
however, the Irish defense will play insulted against the Yellow Jackets after its performance last week and the added pressure it will be under this week. Look for the rest of the team to come out extra determined, too. 
In his first game as a starter, Kizer and the Irish reaffirm themselves as having at least an outside chance at a playoff spot. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 27, Georgia Tech 17 

ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2015 | The observer 




O HEAD 

3:30 P.M. ON NBC 
NO. 8 NOTRE DAME 

CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 
IRISH PASSING IRISH OFFENSIVE COACHING 
This might be the most intriuging part of the It will be very interesting to see how Kelly 

KeiVarae Russell (Sr.) 
game, considering sophomore quarterback adapts, creating a gameplan that utilizes 
RCB 
12 devin butler (Jr.) 

deshone Kizer is making his first start. Kizer’s strengths. Kelly said after the virginia Kizer struggled with accuracy early when he win that Kizer is very deep into the Irish offen-Jaylon Smith (Jr.) came on in relief against virginia, but stepped sive playbook. Furthermore, each quarterback 
WLB 


4 Te’von coney (Fr.) 

up on the final drive, making a gutsy 39-yard has their top 10 running and passing plays that 
S 

Elijah Shumate (Sr.) pass to receiver Will Fuller that gave notre they are comfortable with. 
23 drue Tranquill (so.) 

DE 
Romeo Okwara (Sr.) dame the win.   With roughly two quarters of expeirence, 
98 Andrew Trumbetti (so.) 

DT 
brian Kelly will have had an entire week to including a game-winning drive, Kizer is not make a plan for Kizer, and Kizer will have re-necessarily being thrown into the fire. still, the 

Sheldon Day (Sr.) 
93 Jay hayes (so.) 


Joe Schmidt (Gr.) cieved invaluable first team reps. on the other Irish will keep it simple for his first start and 
MLB 

5 nyles morgan (so.) 

hand, the Georgia Tech defense will have had not make him win the game all by himself. 
Daniel Cage (So.) 


an entire week to prepare for Kizer and figure because of the change in quarterback and 
DT 
99 Jerry Tillery (Fr.) 

Max Redfield (Jr.) out how to fluster the young quarterback. the repercussions of that, look for Georgia 
S 


41 matthias Farley (Gr.) 
DE 
Isaac Rochell (Jr.) Kizer has a plethora of weapons at his dis-Tech to have the edge here. 
55 Jonathan bonner (so.) 

posal, although he will miss starting tight end durham smythe, out for the season with EDGE: GEORGIA TECH 
James Onwualu (Jr.) 
48 Greer martini (so.) 
SLB 
knee and shoulder injuries. The line in front of Kizer has been stellar in its own right, not al-IRISH SPECIAL TEAMS 
Cole Luke (Jr.) 

LCB 
24 nick coleman (Fr.) lowing a sack while keeping pressure off the Although it didn’t even involve the kicker, quarterback. Kizer should be able to simply the notre dame special teams unit made get the ball in his receivers’ hands and let them headlines last weekend with its fake field goal 
Will Fuller (Jr.) 

WR 
86 
make plays, but playing his first game against touchdown in the first quarter. 
equanimeous st. brown (Fr.) 

TE 
a ranked foe with a veteran secondary will be That won’t be common week-to-week; in-very challenging. stead, freshman kicker Justin Yoon will look to Tyler Luatua (So.) add to his 3-for-5 start. Yoon has a strong leg, 

10 Alizé Jones (Fr.) 

EDGE: GEORGIA TECH but missed a 34-yarder last week. 
RT 

Mike McGlinchey (Jr.) Punter Tyler newsome was a bright spot for 
75 mark harrell (sr.) 


IRISH RUSHING the Irish last week, avergaging 55.8 yards per 
C.J.Prosise (Sr.) 
33 Josh Adams (Fr.) 

Steve Elmer (Jr.) RB 
The Irish are without their top five leading punt. Kelly was pleased with his performance 
RG 
62 colin mcGovern (Jr.) 

rushers from last season, yet they’ve looked but wants newsome to focus on his coffin cor-
DeShone Kizer (So.) 
Nick Martin (Gr.) 

C 
53 sam mustipher (so.) QB 
12 brandon Wimbush (Fr.) just fine on the ground so far in 2015. ner kicks and preventing touchbacks. senior c.J. Prosise in particular has been on the return end, Amir carlisle hasn’t seen 
Quenton Nelson (So.) 
71 Alex bars (so.) 

LG 
fantastic, carrying the load while running for success yet, averaging just 15 yards per return. 
LT 

Ronnie Stanley (Sr.) 253 yards and a touchdown. Freshman Josh Punt returner c.J. sanders has made some 
70 hunter bivin (Jr.) 

Adams will back up Prosise, although he didn’t questionable decisions, but also has showed play much against virginia. Adams had an flashes of brilliance, including a 30-yard re-
WR 

Amir Carlisle (Gr.) impressive debut against Texas, scoring two turn against virginia. 
16 Torii hunter Jr. (Jr.) 

touchdown on five carries. 
Chris Brown (Sr.) 

WR 
88 corey robinson (Jr.) The most interesting aspect of the notre EDGE: EVEN dame rushing attack will be quarterback deshone Kizer. malik Zaire was more of a IRISH SCHEDULE (2-0) natural runner and someone Kelly said could sept. 5 Texas (W 38-3)               be utilized 10 times per game. Kizer is a bigger sept. 12 @ Virginia (W 34-27) body but can still move the chains with his feet sept. 19 Georgia Tech when asked. sept. 26 Massachusetts 

DeShone Kizer (So.) 
Justin Yoon (Fr.) 


4 montgomery vanGorder (so.) 
43 John chereson (Jr.) Tech doesn’t have anyone with more than oct. 3 @ Clemson 
H 
PK 
P 
KR 

eight tackles on defense, but that can be atrri-oct. 10 Navy 
Amir Carlisle (Gr.) 

Tyler Newsome (So.) 

c.J. sanders (Fr.) Jeff riney (Fr.) 
9 42 buted to their blowout wins. defensive tackle oct. 17 USC 
PR 
LS 

C.J.Sanders (Fr.) Adam Gotsis leads a solid front, but they’ll oct. 31 @ Temple 
Scott Daly (Sr.) 


99 hunter smith (sr.) 7 Will Fuller (Jr.) 
have their hands full with Prosise. nov. 7 @ Pittsburgh nov. 14 Wake Forest EDGE: NOTRE DAME nov. 21 vs. Boston College nov. 28 @ Stanford 



Alex Carson 
Associate sports editor 

We’ve seen the troubles notre dame has had stopping navy’s triple-option offense over the last two years, and Georgia Tech runs the system better and more efficiently than the midshipmen do. They suffocate time of posses­sion and pose problem after problem for defenses with their unique scheme. 
If the defense struggles, it means the game will be put on the shoulders of the offense, and most specifically the offensive line, a unit that struggled mightily on third down a week ago. deshone Kizer will carry confidence into this affair after the game-winning drive at virginia, but at the end of the day, this game comes down to notre dame’s ability to stop the triple option. And until I see it with my eyes, I can’t be convinced they’ll do it. 
FINAL SCORE: Georgia Tech 45, notre dame 27 



Brian Plamondon 
sports Writer 
Last week, I wasn’t wrong about notre dame’s talent or virginia’s mediocrity — I simply forgot to factor in how lousy the Irish are on the road lately, no matter who they are playing. 
This week at home should be a different story. even with a young quarterback, the Irish should still find a way to put points on the board. With weapons like Will Fuller and c.J. Prosise, it’s hard not to. 
The defense will be a different story. Although I expect notre dame to play smarter than last week, their troubles against the run all stemmed from plays outside the tackles 
— a common feature of the spread option. 
The Irish will hang tough at notre dame stadium down four starters, but I don’t see Kizer with late heroics this time. 
FINAL SCORE: Georgia Tech 27, notre dame 24 



The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Kelly tweaks game plan for Kizer’s first start 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports Writer 
notre dame will trot out its third starting quarterback in five games saturday. Unlike in the past, though, when head coach brian Kelly switched signal call­ers due to subpar performances, this time it is out of necessity. 
everett Golson is in Tallahassee, Florida, malik Zaire is on the sidelines with a broken ankle, and the fate of notre dame’s season rests in the hands of sophomore deshone Kizer, he of 13 pass attempts to his name. At 6-feet-4 inches and 230 pounds, Kizer is a far differ­ent player than the two quarter­backs that came before him. 
As a result, the Irish game plan saturday will be a little differ­ent from how it operated against Texas and virginia, although Kelly is wary of deviating too much. 
“I think he’s a little bit different in that he sees the field very well, he’s got escape-ability,” Kelly said during his sunday telecon­ference. “I just don’t see him as elusive of a runner … so we’ll do some things a little bit differently with him than we did with malik. but I also think he has some oth­er skill sets that we can definitely go to that will help our offense.” 
despite his different skill set, Kizer said he is glad there hasn’t been a philosophical change regarding how the offense will operate. 
“We’re running the same of­fense we’ve always run,” Kizer said. “We’re game planning the same way I’ve always seen us game plan, and we’re running the same offense that we’ve obvi­ously run for the last couple years now.” 
Although Kelly said the offense might be paired down somewhat in order to make Kizer comfort­able, he noted the quarterback already has mastery over most of the playbook. Furthermore, Kizer will be helped along by a veteran crop of receivers, led by junior Will Fuller. 
“[We’ve played] to the strengths of what we have around the quar­terback,” Kelly said in reference to his success with young quar­terbacks in the past. “ ... deshone is surrounded with some good players. We saw that on saturday. he managed the game very well for us.” 
While Kizer was disappointed to be relegated to the third team by the presence of everett Golson this spring, he was able to gain invaluable experience with his receivers over the past couple of months after Golson bolted for Florida state. 
“over the summer I was able to get out and throw to all the guys as much as I possibly [could], and I got quite a few reps in,” Kizer said. “When it came to seven-on­sevens, I was working with the ones and twos rather than work­ing with the incoming freshmen I was working with last year. With that preparation and all the reps, it allowed me to gain a little more confidence in my game. obviously that kind of carried into the fall, and that confidence is now at its best going into week three.” 
Kizer’s confidence was on dis­play last saturday, as he fearlessly led the Irish down the field in the final 1:54 against virginia. Although his demeanor is cer­tainly different from Zaire, who wears his emotions on his sleeve, Kizer should be just fine guiding the Irish offense, Kelly said. 



“he’s got excellent leadership skills,” Kelly said. “he’s respected by his teammates, and he can go in there, he’s very confident. he just has a confident air about him and he believes he can go in there and win.” 
According to Kizer, the first drive of the game against Georgia Tech will be key in keeping up his confidence. 
“It’s going to be pretty big for me and gaining the trust and becom­ing comfortable with my team and rolling down there,” Kizer said. 
Getting comfortable for Kizer might mean upping the tempo early against Georgia Tech. That was when he was most successful against virginia, and it is some­thing Kizer wouldn’t mind doing to get into a rhythm. 
“I’d like to consider the two-minute situations are times where I can kind of settle in,” Kizer said. “When you were in two minutes, only focus is getting the next yard.” 
Whether Kizer is quarterback­ing an up-tempo offense or one that settles down and works the running game, he knows it will be one tailored to his game and that he’ll be prepared. 
“I believe that within the first couple of days of preparation for [Georgia Tech] I have a good grasp of what their defense likes to do, and hopefully we can con­tinue to improve in that prepa­ration and prepare ourselves as much as we possibly can,” Kizer said. “And by saturday I think I’ll be ready for whatever they can throw at me.” 
Contact Brian Plamondon at  bplamond@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2015 | The observer 

 WE WANT TO SEE 










THROUGH YOUR EYES! 


























The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Johnson’s triple option presents challenge to nd 

By GREG HADLEY 
editor-in-chief 
The most prolific offense in the country. 
That’s how Irish head coach brian Kelly described Georgia Tech in Wednesday’s Acc tele­conference, and the numbers certainly back him up on that point. Through two games, the no. 14 Yellow Jackets have amassed 134 points and 915 rushing yards on 8.5 yards per attempt. All of those statistics rank among the top two in the ncAA. 
Granted, those games came against Alcorn state and Tulane, but Kelly’s respect for Georgia Tech runs deeper than just this season. 
Yellow Jackets head coach Paul Johnson’s patented triple-option offense has been giving notre dame trouble for more than a decade now, going back to his time at navy from 2002 to 2007. 
Under his guidance, the midshipmen defeated the Irish for the first time in 44 years in 2007, and navy continues to use that style of offense even after he departed for Georgia Tech. In the past two seasons, navy has played Kelly and notre dame close and racked up more than 330 yards rushing each time. 
meanwhile, the Yellow Jackets have flourished under Johnson’s system, advancing to the orange bowl twice in six years and end­ing last season ranked eighth in the final AP poll. 
They picked up in 2015 right where they left off, exploding out of the gate with two quick blowouts. redshirt junior quar­terback Justin Thomas has col­lected two touchdowns with his feet, while the Yellow Jackets’ top eight rushers average more than 30 yards per game. All but one of them has reached the end zone. 
“coach Johnson has done an incredible job everywhere he’s been,” Kelly said. “This year with Justin Thomas at quarter­back and great depth at the run­ning back position … it’s going to be a great challenge.” 
senior Patrick skov and fresh­man marcus marshall have run wild thus far, with skov scoring four touchdowns and marshall averaging more than 15 yards per attempt. but under Johnson, the focus is less on individual runners and more on the system as a whole. 
besides Thomas, none of Georgia Tech’s top seven rush­ers from 2014 returned this season. skov transferred from stanford. marshall is a true freshman. Thomas led the Yellow Jackets in rushing yards last year but currently ranks fifth on the team. 
Georgia Tech’s brutal effi­ciency has impressed Kelly, but Johnson shied away from agree­ing with the notre dame coach’s assessment Wednesday. 
“We’ll see as the season plays out. I think we’ve played against two opponents that have been overmatched,” Johnson said when told about Kelly’s com­ments during his teleconfer­ence. “I don’t know about the most prolific offense, but if we execute, I feel confident that we can move the ball.” 
In order to defend such a pro­lific scheme, notre dame needs to counter with a highly orga­nized system of its own, Kelly said. 
“First and foremost, when you settle on what your plan is and how you’re going to defend the triple option, I think it goes to guys that have a good sense and a feel for what the plan is and how to defend triple option,” Kelly said Tuesday. “so I think they’ve got to have a discipline about themselves. They’ve got to be guys that clearly understand the job in front of them and recog­nize what’s being asked of them. 
“so I think there’s got to be some discipline. There’s got to be clearly some athleticism there as well, but by and large, they’ve got to be able to pick up the schemes that we’re try­ing to put together. so those are really important elements in this. If you’re lost out there, you could be the greatest athlete in the world, and if it doesn’t make sense to you, you could be a li­ability trying to defend the triple option.” 
Last week against virginia, the Irish gave up 416 yards, only 127 of which came on the ground. notre dame also held Texas to 60 yards rushing in its opening-week win. but both of those teams currently rank outside the top 100 in rushing offense and finished last season outside the top 50. With Georgia Tech, the Irish are well aware they are fac­ing their toughest ground unit on the season. 
“We know exactly what to ex­pect from them, and now we’ve got to go out and execute defen­sively,” Kelly said. 
even if the Irish defend well saturday, they will still surren­der plenty of yardage, Irish junior linebacker Jaylon smith said. What the game will come down to is not giving up key plays. 
“There’s no true way to really stop it. There’s a reason every year they’re no. 1 or no. 2 in rush­ing,” smith said. “It’s just a mat­ter of eye discipline and making sure you’re on your duty, you’re on your job.” 
And if that wasn’t difficult enough, the Irish second­ary, which was torched by the cavaliers last week, will still have to be on the lookout for the occa­sional pass. Thomas has thrown for three touchdowns this sea­son, and the Yellow Jackets rank first in passing efficiency in the Fbs, a category they topped last year as well. 
“You really have to be dis­ciplined in this game, as a corner,” senior cornerback Keivarae russell said. “It can be an easy game if you stay dis­ciplined and follow your guy around. … You got to under­stand your role.” 
Contact Greg Hadley at     ghadley@nd.edu 




PAId AdverTIsemenT 

Because for ND fans, Saturday 

doesn’t come soon enough. 
Stop by the Eck Visitors Center (next to the bookstore) from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. 



SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 


BURGERS, DOGS & MORE 
Tailgate Cafe 

10 AM - 5 PM | Eck Visitors Center Patio 
TAKE A PIC WITH THE REAL ND HELMET 
Photo Booth presented by Liberty Mutual 

10 AM - 5 PM | Football Fridays Plaza 
GO FOR A WALK 

Football Fridays Tours 
10 AM, 1 PM, 3 PM | Eck Visitors Center LIVE MUSIC 
Steve Foresman 
NOON - 2 PM | ND Live Stage 
LIVE PERFORMANCE 
ND Irish Dancers 
2:30 PM | Eck Visitors Center Patio 
CHEER, CHEER FOR OLD NOTRE DAME! 
ND Cheerleaders & Leprechaun 
3:45 - 4:15 PM | ND Live Stage 
FEATURED GUESTS 
ON THE SIDELINES LECTURE 
Hackers, Crackers, and Corporate Attackers: Making Sense of Data Breaches in Our Digital World 
with Professor Corey Angst, Associate Professor, Mendoza College of Business 
2 - 3 PM | Eck Visitors Center Auditorium 
CATCHING UP WITH ... 
Derrick Mayes ’96 
3 - 3:30 PM | ND Live Stage 
CATCHING UP WITH ... 
Regis Philbin ’53 
4:15 - 4:45 PM | ND Live Stage 


PAId AdverTIsemenT 


Climate Investing: 
Transition to a Low-Carbon World 
September 29-30, 2015 • McKenna Hall 
Rev. John Jenkins, CSC, President of the University of Notre Dame, and Roger Huang, 
Martin J. Gillen Dean of the Mendoza College of Business, will provide opening remarks. 

Smart Investments can cool the planet.  Learn more by joining an extraordinary gathering  of scientists, investors, industry executives,  entrepreneurs, and policy experts 


Keynote Speakers: 




David Orr, Professor of Environmental  Paul Hawken, Project Director,   Carolyn Woo, President and CEO,   
Studies, Oberlin College  Project Drawdown  Catholic Relief Services  
9:45 AM • September 29  7:30 PM • September 29  2:45 PM • September 30  

For more information and registration: climateinvesting.nd.edu Free for ND/SMC/HCC faculty, staff & students 







