The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 56 | THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
‘So much more power than we think’ 
ND, SMC community counteract rape culture on campus through advocacy and action 
constitutional law, anthony 
J. bellia. simoncini also spoke on the panel. 
alito, who wrote his senior thesis on the italian constitu­tional courts, said the italian 

By JACK ROONEY and KATHRYN  MARSHALL 
managing editor and  associate saint mary’s editor 
Editor’s Note: This is the fourth installment of a five-part series on sexual assault at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s. Today’s story focuses on rape culture at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s. 
after several screenings on campus earlier this year, cnn will air “The hunting ground” for a national audi­ence Thursday at 9 p.m. when the documentary debuted at the sundance Film Festival in January, it was billed as “a piercing, monumental exposé of rape culture on campuses, poised to light a fire under a na­tional debate.” 
The film, which examines notre dame and other universi­ties’ handling of sexual assault cases, generated a renewed sexual violence discussion at notre dame and saint mary’s, but saint mary’s junior lauren Zyber said most students still don’t know what “rape culture” is or why it’s a problem. 
“i think rape culture exists because people don’t know it’s a problem,” Zyber said. “a lot of the time women are taught ‘watch out for yourself,’ ‘take care of yourself,’ ‘don’t dress 
see culTure PAGE 4 



memorial mass honors deceased faculty and staff 
deceased faculty and their campus in recent years. 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
loved ones will be celebrat-“will it become an annu­
ed tonight in the dillon hall al tradition? maybe — this 
as part of campus chapel. is all brand new,” connors ministry’s new initiative Fr. mike connors, senior said. “it’s practically the to strengthen the relation-faculty chaplain within first event geared towards ship between notre dame campus ministry, said he faculty ever in terms of faculty and the university’s thinks this is the first time a campus ministry or some faith-based roots, a faculty memorial mass like remembrance mass for this has been celebrated on see mass PAGE 3 
news writer 



Justice explores judicial review, international law 
the world. 

By MATTHEW McKENNA 
news writer  as part of the launch, Kellogg  
and the potenziani program  
The Kellogg  institute for  arranged a panel of speak- 
international  studies  and  ers who were involved with  
the  potenziani  program in  the writing and editing of the  
constitutional  studies host- book, including u.s. supreme  
ed the book launch for the  court Justice  samuel  alito  
book, “italian constitutional  and the o’Toole professor of  

Students perform musical 


By ANDREA VALE 
news writer 
in conjunction with 
notre 
dame’s pasquerilla 
east 
musical company (pemco), the department of film, televi­sion and theatre is staging a production of “little shop of horrors” this week. The show will be performed nov. 18 through nov. 22 in the patricia george decio Theatre of the debartolo performing arts center (dpac). 

a dark comedy based on the 1960 film of the same name, the musical “The little shop Courtesy of the department of Film, Television and Theater 
Juniors Maggie Moran and Quint Mediate prepare for their  see play PAGE 5 performance of “The Little Shop of Horrors,” which runs at DPAC. 


Justice in global context,” on wednesday afternoon. The book was co-authored by a group of four legal scholars that includes paolo carozza, a notre dame law profes­sor, and andrea simoncini, a visiting fellow and professor of constitutional law at the university of Florence, and focuses on the italian consti­tutional court system and the lessons it contains for consti­tutional legal studies around 
court is particularly deserv­
ing of study by the english­
speaking world. 
“one of the great opportu­nities i’ve had is to compare how i do things with other judges and justices,” he said. 
simoncini said he and his co-authors realized there was a lack of italian constitutional study in the english language, which is mainly due to the lack of translations available. 
“it was surprising to hear decisions from albania and Zimbabwe talked about and 
see aliTo PAGE 5 






Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green 

Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 


What is your favorite TV show from the ‘90s? 

Catherine Kitz 

Anthony Smyth 
junior 
freshman 
pasquerilla east hall 
Zahm house 
“dragon Tales.” 
“spongebob.” 

Nancy McNamara 

Ryan Wilson 
junior 
sophomore 
lewis hall 
alumni hall 
“Full house.” 
“arthur.” 

Hannah Chowdhury 

Chris Flood 
junior 
sophomore 
welsh Family hall 
alumni hall 
“saved by the bell.” 
“rugrats.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 
margaret hynds Zach Klonsinski 


Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 



THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
rachel o’grady hunter mcdaniel Kathryn marshall manny de Jesus marek mazurek 
Graphics 

ben padanilam 

lucy du Thursday Friday Saturday     Sunday Monday 
Scene Photo 

Kelly mcgarry chris collins 
2015 Laura Shannon Mammograms Men’s Basketball vs. ND Volleyball vs. Shakespeare Festival 
Viewpoint 

Prize Lecture Library Circle UMass-Lowell Clemson DeBartolo Performing 
scott olehnik 
Jordan Hall 9 a.m.-4 p.m. Joyce Center Purcell Pavilion Arts Center 5 p.m.-6:15 p.m. This preventative 2 p.m.-4 p.m. 1 p.m.-3 p.m. 5 p.m.-7 p.m. Corrections Sir Christopher Clark offering is free to The Irish take on the The Irish take on the Information session on will present. women over 40. River Hawks. Tigers.  2016 ND participation. 
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism “For Freedom Set ND Volleyball vs. “Little Shop of Cello Fest Common Good 
at all times. we do, however, recognize Free” Georgia Tech Horrors” DeBartolo Performing Initiative that we will make mistakes. if we have 
McKenna Hall Purcell Pavilion DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Geddes Hall 
made a mistake, please contact us at 
all day 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Arts Center 2 p.m.-3 p.m. 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 
(574) 631-4541 so we can correct our 
Part of the 16th annual The Irish take on the 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Concert featuring cello Information session on 
error. 

fall conference. Yellow Jackets. Musical production. chamber ensembles. immersion programs. 


STUDENT SENATE 

Group discusses campaign regulations 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
student senate passed three amendments related to the campaign process during wednesday’s meeting. The resolutions, presented by rep­resentatives from the depart­ment of internal affairs, dealt with social media regulations, candidate responsibility for supporters and endorsements in campaigns. 
previously, the constitution of the undergraduate student body asserted that candidates may create a social media ac­count or page that must be approved by the election com­mittee and that all posts and comments must be individu­ally approved by the commit­tee. as of wednesday night, all posts must “adhere to the ethi­cal guidelines” detailed in the constitution, but will not need to be individually approved. 
Mass 
conTinued From page 1 
kind of pastoral outreach to facult y.” 
connors said Fr. pete mccormick, director of campus ministry, produced the idea for the initiative over the past summer. 
“i think it’s an effort to draw faculty together around some important things relat­ed to the catholic character of this place,” connors said. “it’s the very first part of what i hope will be a bigger effort to get us thinking to­gether about what it means to be faculty at a catholic university.” 
november is the month of 
“The thing is, judicial council is not a police force,” Fisher hall senator sophomore abe Jenson said. “Judicial council does not go on pages and look for posts that do not adhere to the guide­lines. That’s the responsibility of the other candidates and the students — to bring allegations to judicial council.” 
louis bertolotti, executive director of the student union board (sub), gave his support to the resolution. (Editor’s note: Louis Bertolotti is a Viewpoint columnist). 
“as someone who has run for office, i think this would be an amazing policy because of all the effort it takes to go approve every single idea,” he said. “if we want to elect smart leaders, we’re all in college, we should be able to follow the rules given to us by judicial council, and if we break those rules, face the consequences. i don’t think we should be babied into it and approving all the posts ahead of time.” 
director of internal affairs rebecca blais presented the second resolution and ex­plained how the constitution previously dealt with the un­ethical actions of supporters of candidates, and how those ac­tions affected the candidates themselves. 
“if one of their supporters decides to engage in unethical behavior — making an illegal post, any of the things not al­lowed in an election — the can­didate will be held responsible for it,” she said of the previous policy. “we think that’s ridicu­lous for the candidate to be held accountable for every ‘rogue supporter,’ to talk in extremes.” 
The amendment includes an additional subclause that says candidates cannot be involved in or instruct others to engage in unethical behavior, includ­ing through inaction. 

“The process of an elec­tion allegation would be that a person would bring forth the offending post or offend­ing behavior, and in some way that action would have to be connected back to the candi­date, whether it’s testimony or a text message or something like that,” judicial council president Zach waterson said. 
after the passing of the night’s third amendment, candidates and tickets can solicit and cam­paign on endorsements from individual students and student groups, but “endorsements may not be construed to represent that of residence halls, student union organizations, univer­sity departments, offices or of­ficials.” additionally, no person holding a position enumerated in the constitution can endorse any candidate for any student office. 
blais said the previous is­sue with this section was the 
the leading experts of Fr. moreau, the founder of the congregation of holy cross,” connors said. “ … he’s going to give a talk about the holy cross educational tradition and help us make some con­nections between what goes on at notre dame and the in­spiration of this place in Fr. moreau and his writings.” 
giallanza gave similar lec­tures at saint mary’s earlier this fall that were received positively by the campus community, connors said. 
“i hope that it will appeal to a wide variety of people,” he said. “it might seem to have some special relevance for those of us in theol­ogy, but on the other hand, there are faculty from other discrepancy about endorse­ments from student leaders and student athletes, in par­ticular, as it should not appear that an individual is represent­ing the entire group with their endorsement. 
individuals can still voice their support in conversation, but cannot appear in any en­dorsements for the candidate. 
waterson said the language in differentiating between con­versation and endorsement was left intentionally broad so that it could be looked at on a situ­ational basis. 
“This strikes a balance be­tween pure legislation and the ability for the committee to bring in information to deter­mine on a case-by-case basis whether the specific communi­cation constitutes an endorse­ment,” he said. 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 

disciplines who love being here, love the fact that it’s a catholic place.” 
connors said the initiative is a chance for the university to explore topics that have not been discussed much in the past. 
“Faculty is a very impor­tant part of this commu­nity,” he said. “i think it’s very exciting to think this could develop in ways of getting people to talk about how faith and reason go together.” 
he said he hopes campus ministry will succeed in creating more ways for faculty members to dis­cuss and connect with the notre dame’s core catholic values. 
“we haven’t had many ve­hicles for faculty to talk to one another about it,” he said. “i’m projecting down the road that this could re­sult in a series of conversa­tions that might bring the topic of faith’s relationship to a university more to the surface of discussion.” 
Contact Katie Galioto at kgalioto@nd.edu 
all souls, a time to remember deceased family members and friends, he said. There will be a memorial book at the mass for people to write the names of loved ones. 
“it seemed to me like a log­ical place to start,” connors said. “it’s an occasion where we remember and give thanks for faculty, or any loved ones, who have gone before us.” 
after mass, all faculty members are invited to din­ner in the oak room of south dining hall. connors said he expects to have 40 to 50 peo­ple in attendance. 
“it’s for the greater pur­pose of bringing us all to­gether in prayer,” he said. “Then we’ll get the chance to discuss how the faculty chaplaincy can grow and ex­pand in the future.” 
connors said the faculty chaplaincy team was formed just before the beginning of the school year and consists of 20 holy cross priests who expressed interest in the initiative. 
The faculty chaplaincy currently has plans for one other event connecting the faculty with notre dame’s holy cross foundations, connors said. brother Joel giallanza, associate director of the holy cross institute in Texas, will deliver lectures to students and faculty dur­ing his visit to campus on Feb. 8. 
“brother Joel is one of 


paid adverTisemenT The observer | THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 



Culture 
conTinued From page 1 
this way,’ but we also need to educate men, especially at a young age, to not do the rap­ing. … i think there is a lack of awareness on both sides.” 
abigail palko, the associate director of the notre dame gen­der studies program, said rape culture is “the idea that we have cultural norms and/or ideas about what kinds of behavior is okay that make it more likely for rapes to happen.” 
rape culture can manifest in a number of ways on campus, including the communities in which students live, student alcohol use and abuse and the language used to talk about consent and sexual violence. 
Dorm culture 
palko said scholars who study rape culture often look at spac­es like fraternity houses, and though notre dame and saint mary’s do not have greek life, those types of communities still exist on campus. 
“i know we don’t have frats or sororities, but we have a very strong dorm culture here, and … those environments — when there’s excessive alcohol, when there’s unhealthy understand­ings of sexuality and sex ed and very tight homosocial bonding 
— those kind of environments are more likely to lead to in­creased rates of sexual assault,” she said. 
notre dame senior shannon sheehan, the director of loyal daughters and sons, a student-run performance that shares anonymous stories of gender issues and sexual violence, said the single-sex dorm sys­tem at notre dame creates a power imbalance in intimate interactions. 
“systems like parietals and single-sex dorms really just heighten the sexual tensions we have on campus and en­courage victims to feel shame about being assaulted because they could have been doing something that was against the rules,” sheehan said. “so at notre dame, if you’re [a girl] go­ing to a guy’s dorm to hook-up, or if you’re going to a guy’s dorm for a party, you’re entering their space, and there’s a power dy­namic in place. 
“personally, i’ve heard experi­ences of this and there are a lot of girls who don’t feel like they can speak up, like they can’t say no, especially if it’s in a situ­ation where they’re breaking parietals. you might be drunk, you might think it’s a great idea to go back to a guy’s dorm, and then realize ‘i don’t actually want to be in this situation,’ but there’s really no way out with­out straight up accusing the guy of assault or risking getting in trouble.” 
in recent years, the university administration has begun to use the dorm communities as spaces for students to lead sexual violence prevention initiatives, most recently the greendot program. 
“sometimes our dorm cul­tures can be places where stu­dents can find themselves in situations that they’re not com­fortable with,” gender relations center director christine caron gebhardt said. “… [but] i think our dorms can be used in a positive, cultural way. we have strong connections to our sense of community and iden­tity to our dorms. and it can be a place where if the community sets forth the expectations, that we all set as a campus and rein­forces that.” 
by viewing residence halls principally as christian com­munities, university vice president for student affairs erin hoffmann harding said the dorms can powerfully counteract rape culture and sexual violence. 
“i emphasize … the influence that halls do have within our culture,” hoffmann harding said. “They’re formed funda­mentally to build christian community, and for each one of you to know one another indi­vidually. and that dovetails so well, and so nicely into this con­cept that we speak about so of­ten, which is to be our brothers’ and our sisters’ keepers. and to the extent that we cultivate and live that within our com­munities, i think that makes notre dame’s possibility for the prevention of all violence, as powerful as any place in the country.” 
Alcohol culture 
advocates have termed the time between the begin­ning of the school year and Thanksgiving break, the sex­ual assault “red zone,” when a higher proportion of assaults occur. saint mary’s senior resi­dent assistant natalie hartman said first-year students are par­ticularly vulnerable to campus drinking culture during this time. 
“i think the drinking culture is prevalent in different set­tings and context, but first years are the most susceptible to it,” hartman said. “They are in all new surroundings, new places, with new people. ... everything is new.” 
conversations surrounding campus sexual assault often include an indictment of binge drinking on college campuses, and hoffmann harding said, like most schools, the majority of notre dame’s sexual assault cases do involve alcohol. 
“notre dame’s cases that are reported to us are typical of what you would read nationally, in terms of the challenges,” she said. “ ... and the majority of our cases do involve alcohol, in one form or another. and as a result, it is a significant concern for us.” 
caron gebhardt called alco­hol “the number one date rape drug,” and said it can make con­sent a murky issue. 
“[alcohol] can often be uti­lized in different ways,” she said. “it really is impactful on the ability to provide consent. and so a lot of the ways in which violence prevention has fo­cused on the role of alcohol in either avoiding consent or how it impacts the ability to both re­ceive and seek consent.” 

in many national conversa­tions about campus sexual vio­lence, palko said, people tend to blame alcohol for causing sexual assault. 
“in the national context, i think [alcohol] tends to be more a causal [relationship to sexual assault],” she said. 

sheehan said alcohol does contribute to a rape culture at notre dame and saint mary’s, and can facilitate instances of sexual violence, but does not necessarily cause perpetrators to assault someone. 
“a lot of times, sexual assault in college is linked to alcohol abuse,” she said. “but, in fact, there are a lot of college campus­es where there’s a huge binge-drinking problem, but there actually is a very small sexual assault issue. so princeton is a great example: a lot of alco­hol abuse at princeton, a lot of binge drinking, but very, very, very low rates of sexual assault.” 
Language and consent 

beyond the dorm and al­cohol cultures, sheehan said sexual violence can often stem from a lack of understanding of what she called “enthusiastic consent.” 
“it’s not reaching for a condom, or going back to some­one’s room,” she said. “at any point during a sexual encoun­ter, you can stop, or you can say, ‘i’m not comfortable with this anymore,’ and if one of parties continues — a girl or a guy — that is considered assault and that is considered rape.” 
Furthermore, sheehan said the language people use to talk about sexual assault contribute to a rape culture that is more hostile to survivors of assault. 
“rape is the only crime where the victim becomes the ac­cused,” sheehan said. “you would never tell someone, ‘oh, it sucks that your Tv was stolen. you shouldn’t live in that neigh­borhood [or] you should have a security system.’ 
“no one says, ‘are you sure your Tv was really stolen? are you sure you didn’t give it away? did you invite that burglar into your house?’ but that’s the lan­guage that’s used around rape.” 
with campaigns and pro­grams like greendot and “it’s on us,” caron gebhardt said the culture surrounding sex­ual assault at notre dame is improving and can continue to progress by making small changes unaffiliated with es­tablished programs. 
“cultures set norms, and if in the culture as small as dorms or as large as campus or a na­tion, the norms are either un­spoken or not set forth, then 
paid adverTisemenT 

people fill up the norms with the behaviors that they do,” she said. “ … and so how you com­bat rape culture, is you create spaces where those things that allow for rape culture — isola­tion, manipulation, apathy, ob­jection of women — you slowly create situations where those things can’t happen. 
“you don’t give a perpetra­tor an opportunity to be able to engage in behaviors that could harm another person. because it’s not just set forth by a policy, it’s set forth by certain people’s messages and behaviors that they send every day. by what they say, by what they do, and how they engage with each other.” 
ultimately, Zyber said, even the smallest actions, and sim­plest conversations contribute to a cultural shift to hopefully end sexual violence. 
“i think we can all make a contribution to make it better, and that’s what gives me hope,” she said. “ … Just being aware of it and talking about it has so much more power than we think it does. i appreciate both campuses opening up in dia­logue about this because i think that’s the best way to start mov­ing towards a solution.” 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu and Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@nd.edu 




said. collaborative venture that production period that re-
Play 

Alito 
alito said the idea of using was the product of friendly quired a lot of effort and dedi­
conTinued From page 1 conTinued From page 1 

legal precedent to substan-discussion. 
cation from all involved. tiate legal decisions in the “we didn’t take differ­
“The rehearsal process studied, but the italian coun-supreme court has become a ent chapters, each chapter 
of horrors” has had several has been pretty grueling,” terparts were not,” he said, topic of much debate by legal was written by four pairs of 
broadway and off-broadway mediate said. “The cast is “i found this to be because scholars, and he believes this hands,” carozza said. “one 
runs. pretty small — only about ten italy did not translate their practice does not account for person would write a chapter 
“i think the show is wildly people — so the show relies decisions, and so they had no differences in value systems and then it was circulated for 
campy, but it also has a lot of heavily on a small number of bearing on matters of global between countries. comments and editing.” 
heart,” junior Quint mediate people. it is actually one of the constitutionalism.” “The point that emerges simoncini said the collab­
said. “i think it’s a ‘be careful most tiring shows i have been alito said constitutional from looking at different orative nature of the book is 
what you wish for’ story, and a part of. but it is incredibly law procedure differs dras-cases, while europe and perfectly suited to the sub-
it explores the lengths that rewarding.” tically in courts around the america agree on certain ject matter, as the global 
people will go through for the both mediate and moran world, and these differences values, it is simplistic to rely community can draw impor­
people that they love.” said “little shop of horrors” are a mechanism through on counting up foreign deci-tant lessons from compar­
mediate plays the lead role will be a particularly memo-which the american court sions,” alito said. ing their varying modes of 
of seymour Krelborn, whom rable production and encour­system and it’s many unique alito said in the u.s. jus-operation. 
he describes as a “geeky flow-aged students to attend. facets can be evaluated. tice system, there is at least a “The dialogue between 
er shop attendant” who devel-“The show is unique be­“Judicial review used to connection to the democrat-different constitutional 
ops a “crossbreed, man-eating cause of the technical ele­be unthinkable,” alito said. ic process, as elected officials scholars was not only the 
plant called the audrey ii,” ments,” mediate said, “a guest “here, in our idea of judicial are still held accountable to content of our work, but also 
after his secret crush audrey, director by the name of r.J. review, the constitution is their constituents for deci-the methodology,” simoncini 
who is portrayed by junior haddy was brought in to de­law, but a higher form of the sions to accept candidates said. 
maggie moran. sign all of the plants at the law. if the law clashes with for the supreme court or not. carozza said the way the 
“audrey is such a wonder-various stages of their growth. the constitution, constitu-“Judges are appointed by book was written was ex­
ful character to play, because r.J. is an incredible special tionality is debated and liti-an elected president and emplar of notre dame “as 
she is sweet and lovable and effects designer; he was actu­gation arises.” confirmed by elected mem-a community of friendship 
purely herself,” moran said. ally a finalist on season two alito said this perception bers of congress, with only a and learning.” 
“her story is a heartbreaking of [television channel] syfy’s of judicial review may be majority,” alito said. he also said the contri­
because she has lived a tough reality show ‘Face off.’ These derived from variances in alito said this contrasts butions the book will make 
life and feels that she doesn’t technical elements make the how scholars and philoso-sharply with other interna-to the study of compara­
deserve love and happiness. show worthwhile to come see phers around the world think tional courts, whose proce-tive global constitutional-
but throughout the show, she on stage. i promise you won’t about rights, but that judicial dure helps to preserve courts ism “pales in comparison to 
is pushed on a journey of dis-be disappointed.” review holds a very impor-as “judicial bodies and not the ways in which we, as a 
covery of self-worth. moran said the comedic el­tant place in american con-political bodies.” university, will impact the 
“what i enjoy most about ements of the show comple­stitutional law. paolo carozza, direc-world.” 
audrey is her selflessness and ment its deeper message. “Judicial review serves to tor of the Kellogg institute 
belief in goodness in the world “This show is unique be-protect against rights vio-for international studies, Contact Matthew McKenna at 
despite her hardship,” she cause it is full of absurdity and lations in the future,” alito said the book was a deeply mmcken12@nd.edu 
said. “we have a lot to learn yet very real,” she said. “The from her and the way she fear-characters and plot are laugh­lessly opens her heart to the ably extreme and very enter-world.” taining, but at the same time, 

mediate said production be-the themes underneath are so gan with a particularly enjoy-true and relevant to real life. able audition process. i think that this is the great­
“[it] was really fun,” mediate est achievement of this show. said. “maggie and i were called i hope that our audiences see 
paid adverTisemenT 

back for audrey and seymour, this and love it as much as we and during the callback num-do.” ber we unexpectedly decided Tickets for the show are $9 to kiss at the end of the song. for students and can be pur-The director really liked it, chased from performin­and here we are.” garts.nd.edu 
That audition process, ac­cording to mediate, was fol-Contact Andrea Vale at  lowed up by a rehearsal and avale@nd.edu 



The observer | THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

what defines me? 

Daniel O’Boyle 
sports writer 

i’m pretty awful at coming up with ideas before the very last minute. i was supposed to send this column in long before i had even the slightest idea of what to write here. i still don’t really know what i should say to be honest, being able to write about whatev­er i want is a lot of freedom. i’ve managed to spend a long time at The observer without every actually having to write one of these. 
i guess i should write about being an in­ternational student. That would be the most sensible option, right? it’s one of the most important things about my identity. To most of my friends and in most of my classes, that’s how i’m defined. much of my dorm still just refers to me as “irish guy,” or some­times i just go by “irish” for short. it affects what jobs i’m allowed to take, i have a whole lot of extra paperwork i often need to have on me or get signed (and always seem to for­get about), and i get a lot of questions about life back home.and yes, we do have pizza in ireland. it’s pizza. They have it everywhere. 
but what do i actually have to say? There’s still a few things that i don’t get: i have no idea who i am and who i’m not supposed to tip, and the concept of free refills still amazes me. speaking of which, is there a statute of limitations on free refills? can i refill my soda the next day? how about a month later? 
but does my experience as an internation­al student actually define me? as much as i enjoy being asked where i’m from, people talking about my accent or even people asking if i’m familiar with the village their family came from, i just don’t see it defin­ing me. There’s just something kind of weird about the idea of someone liking you more because of the country you’re from, for one thing. 
maybe it’s because the adjustment isn’t as big for me as it is for many other inter­national students from vastly different cultures — i felt like i knew most of what to expect — i don’t feel like i haven’t had a full “international student experience.” i still miss home, and i don’t get to return often, but i was sort of expecting a little bit more of a shock. even if only so it would give me something to actually write about here. it’s been more obvious to me lately, as i notice little things like my accent starting to slip away, but i guess i’ve just started to feel a little bit too american. as much as it may be against every stereotype on the entire con­tinent of europe, i have nothing to complain about. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
ND4Mizzou: Justice for all 
Reynaldo Lopez 
guest columnist 
on wednesday, nov. 11, a demonstration called nd4mizzou, consisting of notre dame students, fac­ulty and staff, demonstrated solidarity with students of color at the university of missouri. coincidentally, wednesday was also veteran’s day. Just like every memorial day, on veteran’s day, we remember and thank those with the valor to defend our freedoms and liberties. we acknowledge those who have risked their lives for our own, some actually paying the ultimate price. This year, like every other, we ap­proached veterans and said things like, “Thanks to your service, my parents can rest assured that i’m not in danger when away from home.” 
it’s a shame that for some people this isn’t true. The mere fact that such a demonstration like the one organized to support students at mizzou was neces­sary shows that not every american can say these comforting and uplifting words. our veterans and deceased servicemen fought and died for “liberty and justice for all,” but to this very day, we see that in some cases that right is denied to specific groups in america. 
at our demonstration on wednesday, we shared individual stories with our notre dame family and promoted a healthy dialogue on the issue. we had the opportunity to send a message that, although we’re hundreds of miles from columbia, missouri, we are not blind to events like those happening there. we can empathize, and we should. although reports of violent acts or threats have not been made at notre dame, our students do experience subtle acts of ra­cial prejudice or stereotyping more often than many of us would like to think. 
individual instances of prejudice and stereotyping may seem to be insignificant and even innocent, but the accumulation and compounding of frequently-made assumptions and questions based solely on race can be alienating to racial minorities on cam­pus. it is unsettling and tiring to be latino and have people assume you speak spanish, you’re undocu­mented or you’re automatically from mexico. it is frustrating and defeating to be a black notre dame student and consistently be asked if you’re on the basketball team. 
equally unsettling is the presence of hateful mes­sages of a very similar nature to those at mizzou, right here at notre dame, on our own yikyak feed. recently, messages such as, “‘oppressed people’ lmao, ” and “i’m disgusted by these protests at nd. we’re better than this,” were posted. These show a blatant disregard for the unequal and alienating ex­periences of minorities at notre dame. 
it is our duty as members of the notre dame fam­ily to fight injustices of any kind in any place and be aware of the impact that our actions and words have on those all around us. i’m in no way trying to tell anyone what to say, think or feel. i am, however, call­ing everyone to join a conversation about the impact of our words and actions in making racial minorities feel welcome or alienated. ask a member of a racial minority if you can join them for lunch. get to know them and their background. approach people with different experiences than your own. Take some time to talk to an international student about how their notre dame experience compares to their life back home. ask your section mate. ask me. This is the first step towards ending racial stereotypes and prejudice. it’s long past time that we ask more of ourselves, that we demand liberty and justice for all. 
Reynaldo Lopez is a sophomore living in Morrissey Hall. He can be contacted at rlopez2@nd.edu  
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
China’s deplorable policies 
it was with great sadness that i learned last week notre dame will allow select mainland chinese factories to manufacture notre dame licensed goods, on a pilot basis, so long as these factories meet certain rigorous labor standards. i real­ize this decision may be but a prelude to a more ominous one on whether to link up with china’s Zhejiang university (more about that if the day comes). but these labor standards, met or not, are only one issue when it comes to china. The fact is, there’s much more at play here as to who we are as a university and as a community. 
china’s unelected government, for example, blocks its citizens’ access to Facebook, Twitter, as well as to the bloomberg and new york Times web­sites (among others). activist liu Xiaobo, who won the 2010 nobel peace prize, is serving an 11-year jail term for subversion. and of course, whether it’s building artificial islands in the south china sea, selling arms to iran or enabling north Korea, many chinese policies run directly counter to u.s. objectives. 
but perhaps most troubling for notre dame should be that china does not allow true free­dom of religion. specifically, catholics can only legally worship through the state-sponsored chinese patriotic catholic association’s network of approved churches and risk arrest, or worse, if they’re caught at any of china’s many under­ground real catholic churches. as the wall street Journal, also censored by china, reported in 2014, “authorities launch periodic crackdowns involving church demolitions, beatings and imprisonment of worshipers or priests at underground churches.” what’s more, the so-called “patriotic” church doesn’t recognize the primacy of the pope and the chinese government (not rome) appoints chinese bishops. 
we can’t change china, as that change has to come from within. but how can the world’s leading catholic university, one that also prizes human rights and open debate, let products bearing its name be made in a country that forbids the true practice of that faith, limits free speech and jails peaceful dissidents? 
i thought notre dame was about more than cut­ting costs or finding a more efficient supply chain. maybe not. 
Sean King 
mba class of 1999 nov. 4 



The observer | THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
love in the landfill 
Christopher Damian 
ideas of a university 

my education at notre dame focused significantly on the ancient and medieval world. more than fifty of my 132 credits were on languages, cultures and ideas prior to the modern era, and these classes shaped the way i viewed my own life. i suspect the ways in which i lived and spoke were countercultural, not necessarily delib­erately, but because many of my intellectual categories and contexts for thinking about life predated those of the contemporary world by millennia. 
There’s a way in which such a life can be helpful, because a long view of history can explain, and at times, dissolve modern tensions. For a time, the influ­ence of my education eased such paradoxes as gay and catholic, pro-life and pro-woman, single and not lonely. and notre dame, as an odd catholic organization-uni­versity-country club provided a space for relationships and activities that further lightened the paradoxes of modern life. 
but at some point you have to face reality. we don’t live in the ancient or medieval world. we have seen, as pope Frances has recently pointed out, the undoing of “the social structures which, for a long time, shaped cultural identity and their sense of the meaning of life and community.” 
if the world has seen a macintyrean dissolution of the social structures which provide the context for pre-modern life and meaning, at a certain point moral artifacts of the pre-modern world seem to make less sense. romeo and Juliet turn out to just be a couple of teenagers who were not very well adjusted and probably suffered from some sort of manic disorder. catherine of sienna was just bipolar. aelred of rievaulx was just a proto-homosexual repressed by a heteronormative patriarchy. 
pope Francis suggests a displacement of a holistic view of the world with a “consumerist vision,” and this new vision extends to both the material world and the human person. in a way, one could wonder whether such a vision towards persons could be avoided. modern travel, atomized apartment living and the easy dissolubility of non-familial relationships can make people just as disposable as a plastic cup. 
Further, the primary — perhaps only — modern social institution for resisting the disposability of hu­man persons, marriage, is increasingly available only to wealthy educated couples, even if those couples can now be same-sex elites. Jonathan rauch of the marriage opportunity council recently noted a “growing danger that marriage … will look like a gated community for the baccalaureate class, with ever-shrinking working-class participation.” at one time, american churches could also provide resistance to the consumerist at­omization of the human person. but as decreasingly social institutions, in the sense of providing a center for social life, churches largely lack the ability to provide cultural contexts which give meaning to their historic teachings. 
Those who cannot or will not get married should be concerned by the fact that americans are largely out of touch with their trash. a styrofoam cup goes to one of the nearly two-thousand landfills in the united states where it meets the rest of our forgotten and abandoned waste. This is simply what we do with our material belongings after they cease to be useful or take up too much space. The worrisome possibility is pope benedict Xvi’s suggestion that “the book of nature is one and indivisible” and that “the deterioration of na­ture is closely connected to the culture which shapes human existence.” 
a consumer culture means that when we shop, we’re shopping for our own garbage. This shopping applies both to material goods and to human persons. perhaps this is why one of my philosophy professors once pro­claimed in class that Taylor swift is the voice of erotic love for my generation. 
Taylor swift speaks for the perpetually in love and the perpetually heartbroken. indeed, her music suggests that to be in love is to already be heartbroken. There’s something about love that is fatalistic, in that you seek it even though you know deep down that it always ulti­mately fails and that it always ultimately crushes you. “i can see the end as it begins.” all that we can ask our former consumers, our former loves, after we find our­selves in the landfill is: “say you’ll remember me.” 
it might be an honor to have Taylor swift write about you, but to know she will isn’t just to know that she loves you. it’s to know that one day, if it hasn’t happened already, one of you will be apologizing to the other who’s trying to not hear you. That’s just what love does in the landfill of modern life. and unfortunately, that’s the life we’re stuck in. could we even imagine it any other way? what would it mean for us to live in a world where Taylor swift didn’t make sense? 
Christopher Damian graduated from Notre Dame in 2013. He is currently pursuing a J.D. and an M.A. in Catholic Studies at the University of St. Thomas. He can be contacted through his blog at                                        universityideas.wordpress.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Whose shots are heard around the world? 
Taylor Still 
bridging the gap 

last Friday night, in one of the world’s most peaceful cities, a morbid ticker of increasingly unimaginable car­nage came through our news feeds. at least 129 people were killed in paris, France. perhaps less apparent to us was the death of over forty in beirut, lebanon, the day before. The 18 who lost their lives last week to an isis suicide bomber in baghdad were hardly mentioned. as we examine the american response to the syrian refugee crisis in light of the recent terror attacks, the nuances of our immigration debate collide with the notorious “empathy gap.” how does isis galvanize fear and vulner­ability? how do we decide to whom we extend our aid as a country? do we have the ethical right to make that decision? 
despite their decentralization, it would be a gross un­derstatement to claim that isis is simply a descendant of what guerrilla warfare was to the american civil war. The suicide bombers in paris demonstrated an advanced degree of deliberation in their attacks. First, stade de France. The detonation invoked mass panic. second, petite cambodge, a cambodian restaurant, and la belle equipe bar. militants indiscriminately opened fire on diners. Finally, bataclan concert hall. methodical mass murder ensued as concert-goers were shot one-by-one. isis intentionally chose to exact their diverse violence in a city that it considers to be the “capital of prostitution and vice.” in their claim of responsibility, isis reminds the world that they are not a group bound by borders, but by ideology. They effectively communicated the idea that no place, not even the city of light, is safe from their ability to strike in the midst of normalcy. This is only the “first of the storm.” 
The role of the united states in addressing the syrian refugee crisis has grown increasingly salient because of the paris attacks, as our politicians grapple with the timeless dilemma of balancing the needs of the group and those of the individual. The 1,854 syrian refugees that the u.s. has admitted since 2012 is a far cry from the number who have been welcomed into european coun­tries. however, at least half of our state governors have expressed their opposition to obama’s call to admit ad­ditional refugees into their states, citing concerns about the one terrorist who held a syrian refugee passport. are we willing to gamble american lives to preserve our iden­tity as a nation of hospitality and refuge? Jeb bush and Ted cruz advocate respectively for the selective admis­sion of christians and a ban against muslim refugees. still, if our borders were to be closed to syrian muslim refugees, would we be handing isis disgruntled recruits? regardless of heightened inspection or discriminatory profiling, where there is a will, there is a way. There are more opportunities today for individuals to exact dispro­portionate harm. going forward, we will be forced to rec­oncile our historical identity as a nation of immigrants with the collective desire for domestic security. 
Turning to the response of the citizenry, the paris at­tacks were treated as a personal affront to americans in a way that the baghdad and beirut attacks were not, and the explanation is largely psychological. we feel more empathy towards people that we feel are more similar to us. The outpouring of sympathy to paris was an ap­propriate expression of solidarity in their mourning. however, the disparity between responses indicates our numbness to violence in the middle east and may com­municate the idea that “arab lives matter less.” if we are being frank with ourselves and the pervasive stereotypes that have guided our policy-making, we do not quantify devastation merely by the number of human casualties. despite our country’s diverse identity, we have a narrow prescription for who gets to be an “american,” and the truth is that many groups are left outside this irrespon­sible definition. among many other converging factors, underdeveloped education systems have fostered insta­bility in muslim countries. The extremist actions that have arisen from this instability and the demonization of islamic groups have resulted in muslims being the least-favored religious group in the united states. but perhaps it is our own underdeveloped thinking maintaining that extremist actions epitomize an entire religion. how much of our fear is bred from ignorance? 
Terrorism begets terrorism. Terrorism may manifest as a retaliatory attack or the internal compromise of individual rights. The expedited entry of our military into iraq after 9/11 and the subsequent patriot act ex­emplify both responses. The united states does not need to be schooled on the dangers of irrational fear of the unknown. we do not need to repeat the internment of Japanese americans or mccarthyism to be aware of the gross human rights violations that can occur in the name of increased security. as new yorker commentator adam gopnik remarks, “you can live your lives or your fears, and it is always wiser to live your lives.” 
moreover, walking on eggshells to maintain equally sympathetic foreign policy is not productive. rather, we should be vigilant that we do not justify violence in any place. at the risk of stating the obvious, we cannot know what do not know. distinctively, the events that do not make the media’s agenda still happen, whether they oc­cur in paris or beirut. we should be wary of what we may be missing in the wake of insular media coverage. 
we can continue to express sorrow for the paris attacks but should be sensitive to our individual and collective responses to international terrorism. we can be aware of our own ethnic or religious stereotypes and how they might influence our views of culpability. Finally, as a place that prioritizes respect for the life and dignity of the individual human person in our responses to mass tragedy, we are reminded of mother Teresa’s words: “if i look at the mass, i will never act. if i look at the one, i will.” 
Taylor Still is a sophomore living in Pangborn Hall. She majors in political science. BridgeND is a  bipartisan student political organization that brings together Democrats, Republicans and all those in  between to discuss public policy issues of national importance. The club meets Tuesday nights from 8–9 
p.m. in the McNeil room of LaFortune Student Center. Contact BridgeND at bridgend@nd.edu or by following them on Twitter at @bridge_ND. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MIKO MALABUTE 
scene editor 

as many may have not had time to see amongst the seemingly endless stream of exams, papers and presenta­tions, michael b. Jordan came onto the set of “The dan patrick show,” where he evoked the spirit of one of the most beloved characters in “Friday night lights” history, star quarterback vince howard. seeing as how this point in the year is the height of the college foot­ball season, vince took to the airwaves to “commit” to michigan state, of all schools, following his stellar senior year at dillon high. seeing as how the latest college Football playoff rankings were just released this past Tuesday — and seeing as how i truly don’t believe the “real” vince howard would ever com­mit to michigan state — here’s where i think the dillon panther legend would 
By KATHY MINKO 
scene writer 

new year, new you. This classic man­tra has categorized many a new year’s eve party, impending school year, sports season, etc. how about, “new millenni­um, new you?” That surely quantified a shift in all things pop culture upon the 2000s — a time marked by technological mobility and dvd players. 
more significantly, the 2000s tran­sitioned toward the mainstream mu­sic with which society identifies itself today. From britney spears to Kanye, from hootie and the blowfish to Jay-Z, a wave of rap and hip-hop made a splash in the bubblegum pop era of the 1990s. pop music also stepped into the light of the 2000s, endorsed by prominent tele­vision shows such as “american idol,” where daughtry and clay aiken asserted (and should) actually commit should he make that decision today. 
Texas 

so let’s get the low-hanging fruit out of the way. everyone in the fictional town of dillon, Texas, absolutely loved the Texas longhorns. vince’s tough spirit and moxie perfectly embody the longhorn spirit, and under coach charlie strong, i truly believe that those two could lead the once-college football powerhouses back to their proper place amongst the greats. 
Houston 

why would anyone want to commit to the houston cougars over a long, sto­ried program like the Texas longhorns? easy: because anyone who has watched the “Friday night lights” series knows that the east dillon lions’ uniforms are oddly similar to those of the houston 
themselves into mainstream music. 
while we cannot disremember rap’s influence in the 2000s, we certainly cannot forget other genres — specifi­cally green day’s most popular album “american idiot” which debuted in 2004. under the classification of punk-rock and alternative, “american idiot” provides 2015’s societal infatuation of Zedd and Katy perry with a throwback into the rebellious beats and lyrics char­acteristic to the 2000s. yes, rap and hip-hop made their presence known, but even this transition in genre is rebellious in itself. it is significant to reminisce on rock/metal/punk’s influence at the turn of the 21st century — an influence un­fortunately suppressed 15 years later. 
“american idiot” marked the end of the band’s low-profile break from fame after poor reception of their 2000 album “warning.” green day introduces its cougars. as the old adage goes: look good, play good. vince sure looked good in that red and white for the east dillon lions; imagine how great he would play for the houston cougars wearing that same color scheme. 
USC 

i admit, this choice might seem a little out there at first. pac-12 school for a Texas boy whose heart is set in dillon? well, for one vince has had to learn how to bal­ance his life in the face of adversity so many times. his father was in jail and his mother struggled with substance abuse, and meanwhile the ever-demanding coach Taylor constantly expected vince to be the best quarterback (and the best man) he could be. yet vince emerged from all of those struggles and hardships as a state champion and a winner off the field, demonstrating the mental fortitude of a perennial pro bowl nFl quarterback. 
audience with a plot at the beginning of the rock opera: the story of Jesus of suburbia, a man caught between love and rebellion. The chorus sings, “and there’s nothing wrong with me / This is how i’m supposed to be / in a land of make-believe / That don’t believe in me.” The plot persists throughout the al­bum. in “boulevard of broken dreams,” Jesus conveys his loneliness against humanity in the chorus, “my shadow’s only one that walks beside me / my shal­low heart’s the only thing that’s beating / sometimes i wish someone out there will find me / Till then i walk alone.” his journey through each song in the album signifies an emotional attribute to the struggle against the century’s revolu­tion, war and political turmoil. 
“american idiot” provides insight into national context at the turn of the century, both politically and musically. 
Thus in the wild pac-12, i believe that vince could really reignite usc’s fire and restore them to their former glory. 
Michigan 
so why michigan and not michigan state? easy — the home stadium. it’s “The big house,” and if there’s one thing that vince howard is, it’s big time. There’s no denying that vince would thrive in that kind of environment, and he could honestly come into the program next year and start for coach Jim harbaugh’s wolverines from day one. vince has had to deal with pressure all of his life, between his own personal troubles at home and all of dillon expecting him to lead their town to a state championship. vince is used to pressure and handling adversity — he’s got what it takes to be a michigan man. 
Contact Miko Malabute at                mmalabut@nd.edu 
its punk rock beats have caused head-banging across the nation, yet billie Joe armstrong finds time to simmer down in melodic tracks such as “boulevard of broken dreams.” 
i remember listening to “american idiot” — the very first album i owned 
— with my dad and sister, as we drove three hours to softball tournaments located in the middle of cornfields. he cranked the volume as we rocked the air guitar during “holiday” and swayed to “homecoming.” 
“american idiot” persists as a memo­rable tribute to the music of the 2000s. its plot’s continuation through each song is humanizing, and the internal struggle between love, rebellion and loneliness carries with it a universal empathy. 
Contact Kathy Minko at                 kminko@nd.edu 

LUCY DU | The Observer 


By ERIN McAULIFFE 
senior scene writer 

in this day of aesthetic appraisal, the way you choose to consume music is a decision as consuming as what music to consume. 
last week pitchfork delved into the different mediums. The article, “what your music Format says about you,” had a seemingly buzzfeed-esque quiz ti­tle, but unfortunately i was not met with a conclusive “you are a cassette casanova” result at the end. perhaps this is because as we adopt new ways to listen, the old ways stick around and rear their heads in palpable, nostalgic temptation. (i have my pink clickwheel ipod mini stashed away in a drawer in my room for when it inevitably becomes understatedly cool.) 
The article came at an important time in my music consumption: after thwart­ing seemingly superfluous impulses to get into the vinyl game for years, i pur­chased my first record. granted i have had a few lapses where i’ve purchased oh-my-god-i-think-this-is-important­and-here-it-is-for-two-dollars-in-this­thrift-store-bucket albums, but each time i purchased the record with the intention to gift it one of my more committed to the craft, turntable-wielding friends. 
however, when i saw a “sgt. pepper’s lonely hearts club band” album in the basement of a london vintage store, i grabbed it and headed to the cash regis­ter. i fully intended to keep the record for myself, even though i still had no con­crete plans to invest in the technology needed to play it. it was a purchase more about the object itself: i wanted to hold and display what i already had access to through intangible means. 
carrie brownstein, of sleater-Kinney and “portlandia,” hit on this desire in her recent memoir, “hunger makes me a modern girl.” she also addressed the idea during her book tour which, fitting­ly, stopped at london record store rough Trade. “The seeking was tactile, the pro­cess of discovery more arduous but also highly interactive.” 
it was the tactile seeking ideal and the search in general that led to my impul­sive, arguably impractical, purchase. The idea of a musical search done outside of the google bar is enticing. my fingertips sometimes crave to furiously flip through records instead of facilely flitting over laptop keys. a serendipitous result of such an endeavor is more rewarding than any new music entering my headphones on monday mornings via the algorithmic spotify discover weekly feature. 
with artists like beach house releas­ing velvet sleeves for their vinyls while Jack white’s “lazaretto” featured a ho­lographic angel, records are being pur­sued for material reasons as much as for quality. The 2007 launch of record store day attends to consumers’ nostalgic interests. 
The recent pitchfork article raised cas­settes as the nostalgic medium we might turn to next. Their low cost and associa­tion with mixtape culture provide for a viable argument, however, cassettes are bereft of the quality and aesthetic ap­peal that are so inherent to vinyl revival. however, artists like courtney barnett and Foals released their latest albums on the medium, with Foals releasing cas­settes ahead of their album release as a means to garner hype while, hopefully, keeping the contents off the internet. 
and how could we forget cds, the musical medium that served as our generation›s first gateway into sound? while reminiscing on my somewhat meager cd collection, i realized that any cds i have purchased in recent years were bought for immediate insertion into my very unfortunately auX-less car›s ste­reo or to stand in solidarity in support of my favorite artists. however, when not in my car i solely listen to the digital uploads of said cds. in the same way, most vinyls come with digital downloads, providing a mobile alternative to the aesthetically appealing but cumbersome investment. 
with the overwhelming amount of mu­sic currently accessible, it is necessary to both take advantage of the options af­forded, while tailoring the listening expe­rience to your own tastes. you might feel like scouring soundcloud for obscure edm one day, hunting through your lo­cal thrift store›s record bins the next and then pre-ordering the new beyonce al­bum on iTunes. so do. we are not limited in what we listen to, so why should we be limited in how we choose to listen to it? 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at                                      emcaulif@nd.edu 

LUCY DU | The Observer 


CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: happy birthday: expect to be tempted by someone with a lot of connections. before you trust anyone, consider the motives behind the offer. check out job opportunities that are outside your current location. Travel and greater communication are apparent. getting along with siblings will help your state of mind and eliminate inconsistency in your life. someone from your past will play with your emotions. your numbers are 5, 18, 20, 26, 31, 38, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): be open to trying something new, and it will lead to new beginnings. you don’t need to work with others in order to accomplish things. plan to spend downtime with someone you love and celebrate what you achieved. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): avoid giving handouts or donations. you can offer assistance in a unique way that is far more cost-effective and much more informative. you will meet interesting people and learn a lot from volunteering your time. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you can make things happen as long as you don’t take on too much or set an unrealistic budget. you’ll dazzle people with your ability to turn a negative into a positive. socializing or networking will allow you to show off your skills. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t let what others are doing bring you down. make positive changes at home that will brighten your day or get you involved in a new activity. Try to avoid getting run down or doing something that can lead to injury. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Keep things in perspective when dealing with children, friends and groups looking for handouts. Joint ventures are best avoided. invest in your talents, skills, knowledge and personal appearance. make vacation plans. love is on the rise. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): don’t pass judgment on others unless you are ready to be criticized yourself. overreacting will make you look bad. Focus on yourself, your future and networking with people who may have something to contribute to your plans. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): let the people around you know how you feel and you will gain the freedom you require to live your life your own way. be kind and patient with yourself and the people who support you. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): emotions will be difficult to control. problems are best dealt with quickly if you want to come out on top. someone from your past will help you put your plans into motion. strength will come from doing what’s right for you. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): if you choose to go into battle with someone, be prepared for your personal information to be revealed as well. preparation will be necessary to minimize any fallout from dealing with a disgruntled individual. 4 stars 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): offer suggestions instead of trying to control a situation. your time is better spent working on projects that can increase your profits, simplify your life and ensure that you are healthy and content. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): your perception of a situation will be limited, so don’t try to fix something without the proper information. Try to stay positive. offering unique and playful suggestions will do wonders for your personal relationships. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): you will be able to clear up any misunderstandings and revisit old ideas if you reconnect with someone you feel can contribute to your goals. don’t let your ego get in the way. 


Birthday Baby: you are trendy, adaptable and have many interests. you make the most of your opportunities. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 





The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

To receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. 
make checks payable to and mail to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
enclosed is $75 for one semester 
name 
address 
city     state Zip 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Time to embrace branding 

Brett O’Connell 
sports writer 
There’s a baffling irony to the outrage that always manages to show up when­ever a discussion of ad­vertisement on american sports jerseys is initiated by leagues and teams across the country. The nhl is the most recent potential perpe­trator of what seems to be — according to the reactions of hockey fans both rabid and casual — the cardinal sin of american sports franchise ownership. 
The nhl’s branding scheme will be taking a major step in a new direc­tion within the year, as their longtime partnership with reebok will dissolve in fa­vor of a new jersey supply contract with adidas start­ing in the 2016-17 season. The previous deal between reebok and the nhl earned the league a reported $35 million per season — and re­ports around the league sug­gest that the newfound deal with adidas is worth roughly twice that much. 
This revelation, partnered with prophetic words and inquiries conducted by both the central league offices and individual teams, seems to suggest jersey ads are as close as they have ever been to becoming a part of a major american sports league (sorry, major league soccer). both locally and via the internet, reactions to the prospect seem to be luke­warm at best and, usually, outright hostile at worst. in a consumer kerfuffle matched in ferocity only by the ardent defenders of christmas in their war against starbucks, many online personalities both named and anonymous have gone on record as say­ing they will never purchase a jersey again should the league choose to pin a small Tim horton’s logo on the right breast of their favorite team’s sweater. 
i understand where these ardent supporters of tra­dition are coming from. 
imagine the giant interlock­ing u-a of the under armour logo occupying space on the notre dame football team’s shoulders, or the top of their helmets. uniforms, it seems, are considered a far more sacred space than, say, the side boards at a hockey arena. still, this would hardly be an unprec­edented change for the nhl in particular. Jerseys from professional hockey leagues around the world look more like nascar jumpsuits than hockey sweaters. indeed, even the nhl’s minor league affiliates in the american hockey league are already utilizing small, unobtru­sive logos on their sweaters. would taking the next step and implementing such a minor change to the nhl’s image really prompt such a drastic consumer response, or is this another example of the internet grossly overre­acting to an issue that most people couldn’t care less about? 
personally, i think it’s only a matter of time before it happens — both in the nhl and elsewhere in the american sports world. and while the small pepsi logo on the breast of the rockford icehogs’ current sweaters doesn’t bother me in the slightest, i must admit that i care far less about their ap­pearance than i do that of my own team, the chicago blackhawks (though to be fair, jersey ads could be the least of that particular or­ganization’s problems, with renewed cries to remove na­tive imagery beginning to gain some traction). still, i don’t think something so in­significant would affect my consuming habits — i’d still buy ‘hawks merchandise and support my team both in person and from home. 
perhaps that’s what the nhl is counting on. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at bocconne1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


SMC BASKETBALL | norTh parK 64, smc 49 
belles begin season with loss to vikings 
By BRENNA MOXLEY 
sports writer 

saint mary’s was defeated in a road game against north park, 64-49, on Tuesday night at north park gymnasium to start the season. 
The belles kept it close, ending the first quarter down by only four points. however, in the second and third quar­ters north park was able to widen the gap. belles senior guard sarah macius made 6-of-12 field goals, includ­ing two 3-pointers, and had a team-high 14 points. senior captain and forward Krista Knapke had an impressive eight rebounds. senior co-captain and guard maddie Kohler had four steals on the game. 
Kohler said although the team lost, she was already beginning . 
“we did some really great things and have im­proved since day one back in october,” she said. 
she clarified they will get better as the team continues to develop. 
“we have good chemis­try on and off the court, but there is still a lot of room for growth. it was only the first game of the season and we need to work out the kinks and jitters of a new season, with some new players.” 
The team will be attending the wheaton tournament in wheaton, illinois this week­end. when asked about the team’s hopes for this upcom­ing weekend, sophomore for­ward gabby diamond says they hope to show that they are serious contenders in this tournament. 
“looking forward to this weekend we hope to make our presence known even though we might not have as deep of a bench as some of the teams we face. we are small, but mighty and we hope to show that in our strength under the boards and our quick­ness on defense,” she said. 
she emphasized that their goal is to work hard in or­der to win against strong opponents. 
“we understand that we are facing some tough com­petition this weekend and we need to walk in ready to out hustle the teams that we will be up against,” she explained. 
after going 1-15 last season in conference play, diamond shows belief in her team for this upcoming season. “a majority of our team is made up of returners and the lead­ership demonstrated by our four seniors up to this point has instilled a confidence in all of us that i think will take us far. i am fully confident that we have the skills and work ethic to go far in our conference,” she said. 
when asked what it will take in order for the belles to be a winning team this sea­son, diamond stated “in or­der for us to have a successful season we need to continue to have faith in our team­mates, work hard in practice, and trust in our coaches to provide us with the strategies we need to achieve success once the game clock starts at tip off. “ 
Kohler added onto this idea, saying, “our outlook for the upcoming season is to improve from last season and exceed everyone’s expecta­tions. we will fulfill this goal through hard work, dedica­tion, and being a great team­mate, which i have already seen from our players this early in the season.” 
The belles next home game is Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. against anderson. 
Contact Brenna Moxley at bmoxley01@saintmarys.edu 

NBA | pacers 112, 76ers 85 
Pacers, George cruise past winless 76ers 
Associated Press 

paul george scored 34 points and c.J. miles added 20 to lead the indiana pacers to a 112-85 rout of the win­less philadelphia 76ers on wednesday night. 
T.J. mcconnell scored 16 points for philadelphia, which dropped to 0-12 while setting a season high with 31 turnovers. 
The 76ers are within five losses of matching last sea­son’s franchise-worst start and are six defeats away from tying the nba record, set by the 2009 nets, for longest los­ing streak to begin a season. philadelphia opens a six-game road trip on Friday in charlotte and needs at least one win to avoid tying the nets. 
it was the 76ers’ 22nd loss in a row dating to last sea­son, pulling them four from equaling the nba record for longest losing streaks. The 76ers already share that dubi­ous mark with cleveland, with philadelphia’s skid from Jan. 31-march 27, 2014, matching the cavaliers’ between nov. 20, 2010-Feb. 9, 2011. 
The pacers quickly extend­ed their 14-point halftime lead with five quick points to start the second half, on a 3-pointer by george and driving layup by monta ellis that made it 57-38. boos rained down on the 76ers in a lackluster third quarter that featured one bad turnover after another. 
Fans generally have been patient with the 76ers’ re­building effort under gen­eral manager sam hinkie, but grew frustrated in the second half wednesday with the on-court performance. besides the frequent booing in the third quarter, one 76ers fan near courtside yelled, “where’s the process? who can we trust?” 
Fans also sent boos down at the final buzzer. 
george, who has scored at least 26 points in eight straight games, finished 13 for 24 from the field and 5 for 10 from 3-point range. 
The 76ers turned it over 18 times in the first half alone on their way to a 52-38 halftime deficit. philadelphia entered averaging a league-worst 18 turnovers and was coming off a season-high 27 turnovers in monday’s 92-86 home loss to dallas. 
among philadelphia’s other miscues in the opening half was committing a technical foul for having too many play­ers on the floor. 
Tip-ins 

pacers: neither g george hill (illness) nor g rodney stuckey (sprained right an­kle) was in the lineup. hill missed his second straight game while stuckey sat out his fourth in a row. . indiana has won seven of eight versus the 76ers. . george’s season high is 36 points against miami on nov. 6. . indiana had 37 points off turnovers while philadelphia scored 10. 


MEN’S SWIMMING & DIVING 
Irish look for build momentum 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 
notre dame is set to com­pete in the boilermaker invitational this weekend at the boilermaker aquatic 
center  in  west  lafayette,  
indiana.  The  three-day  
tournament  will  begin  on  

Friday and continue through sunday. 
The five-team tournament will be hosted by purdue and also feature missouri state, wyoming and southern illinois. 
irish head coach matt Tallman said his team is looking forward to compet­ing against some teams they will see near the end of the season. 
“This will be a great group of teams for us,” Tallman said. “i am sure that the teams will have an emphasis in some capacity on this meet. it is not often that you get to do a dress rehearsal for the cham­pionship meets that end the season.” 
The boilermakers come into the tournament with a record of 3-2, last scoring a 188-112 upset over no. 21 iowa on nov. 6, while both missouri state and wyoming enter the week­end sporting records of 3-1. southern illinois comes into the weekend with a record of 1-1, having split a triple-dual meet against no. 14 missouri and Kentucky on nov. 7. 
The irish are coming into the boilermaker invitational with a record of 2-1. Their last event was a triple-dual meet with against pittsburgh and no. 17 virginia Tech in which the irish defeated the panthers and fell to the hokies. among the notable finishes for the irish in that event were sophomore robby whitacre winning the 200­yard backstroke, junior Kevin bradley winning the 200­yard butterfly, and the relay team of bradley, freshman daniel speers, sophomore Justin plaschka and fresh­man Tabahn afrik winning the 400-yard freestyle relay. 
The boilermaker invitational will be the last event for the irish in the 2015 calendar year. Their next meet will be on Jan. 8, but Tallman said his team wants to end 2015 the right way at the boilermaker invitational and gain momentum rolling into the spring semester. he also said the meet will give the coaching staff a chance at an early evaluation of where the team stands heading into the break. 
“we are looking to end the semester of competition on a high note,” Tallman said. “Three-day meets are filled with a lot of races and this meet will help us see how our teammates will respond under this type of pressure. There is always a lot on the line in these meet during the season. it will help us make roster selections for the acc meet as we look to achieve the goals that were established earlier in the year.” 
The irish will begin the three-day tournament at boilermaker aquatic center in west lafayette, indiana, on Friday at 10 a.m. 
Contact Michael Ivey at  mivey@hcc-nd.edu 


WEI LIN | The Observer 

Irish senior Andrew Jensen swims the breaststroke during Notre Dame’s loss to Purdue on Nov. 1, 2014, at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
WOMEN’S SWIMMING & DIVING 
notre dame prepares for boilermaker invitational 
By RYAN KLAUS 
sports writer 

after a week off, notre dame returns to action this weekend at the boilermaker invitational, a three-day event that will take place Friday through sunday. The meet will be hosted on the campus of purdue at the boilermaker aquatic center in west lafayette, indiana. 
in their last event, the irish participated in a two-day tri-dual meet against 
pittsburgh  and  virginia  
Tech  in  christianburg,  
virginia.  

in the tri-dual meet, the irish fell to the hokies by a score of 208 to 162 and were defeated by the panthers 188-182. 
“The team is constantly learning,” said irish head coach michael litzinger. “This meet was a great ex­perience as we had per­formances that were some of the best of the season, and we let some things slip away. The group fought to bring the meet back to within 1 point heading into the final relay. we just couldn’t quite finish it off.” 
against virginia Tech and pittsburgh, the irish were led by freshman Kyra sarazen, who took third in the 200 im with a time of 
2:06:58 and fourth in the 100 back with a time of 56.77, and ella moynihan, who placed in fourth in the 500 free and second in the 200 free. in diving, the irish were led throughout the weekend by senior div­ers lindsey streepey and emma garboury. 
“i was particularly im­pressed with Kyra sarazen,” said litzinger. “she took some coaching points to heart, was very aggres­sive in her races from the start, and the result end­ed in three season best performances. i also would like to point to coach Xie’s divers, as they faced some of the toughest competition in the acc as both pitt and vT are traditionally strong diving schools.” 
heading into this week­end’s meet, litzinger took note of what the irish have worked on since their tri­dual meet. 
“i think it is important for us to stress details,” said litzinger. “we train well, are fit, but now we need to sharpen skills like relay take offs, turns, and continue to work on race strategy.” 
The boilermaker invitational will begin Friday morning and con­tinue saturday and sunday in west lafayette, indiana. This meet will be notre dame’s last in 2015. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 





Volleyball 
conTinued From page 16 

important in a game,” mclaughlin said. “early points are as critical as late points. as the game goes, teams are going to get hot, and we just can’t let that af­fect us. … we haven’t done that as well when the match is on the line, and it’s a be­havioral thing. we address it, and we’re very honest about it. 
“we’re not as good at the end of games, and we have to strengthen that ability, but they’re getting there. … everything right now is a little building block, and we want to build off of every bit of success we have.” 
even with the last two home games being played this weekend, mclaughlin said he doesn’t believe these games are going to be any more significant than any other game. every one of their games are opportu­nities for the team to im­prove on the things they’ve consistently struggled with throughout the season, he said. 
“i think every opportunity you have to play is a measur­ing stick, an opportunity, it’s a test, and you want to pass that test,” mclaughlin said. “you want to show the improvement you’ve made. every match has a great sig­nificance, and the most im­portant match is this next one. 
“we had a good practice [Tuesday]. good energy. our errors and blocks were down to 11 percent, so we met some standards there. we had a good aggressive day, so it was good. we got to build through this week, but the expectations will be higher this weekend.” 
The irish will host the yellow Jackets (17-11, acc 8-8) on Friday, who earlier in the season swept notre dame in atlanta. That loss against georgia Tech started notre dame’s 11-game losing streak, and mclaughlin said he wasn’t fond of the way the team played during that matchup. 
“i want to forget about [our last match against them]. it was one of our worst games, and there was nothing to take away from that match other than that we didn’t play well,” mclaughlin said. “ … it doesn’t matter who we play, where we play, when we play: it’s how we play. For some reason we didn’t play well, and everyone is respon­sible for that, including me. 

“ … everything we do in this practice will happen in the game. so, if you practice well, it should translate to the game, and we’re getting a little better at it every game. we’re competitive for sure. i feel good about the team.” 
in their first game against georgia Tech, the irish hit just .019 for the entirety of the match, converting just 24 kills and suffering from 22 attack errors. The yellow Jackets, on the other hand, were successful on 28.9 per­cent of their attacks with 39 kills. during the first set of the match, georgia Tech went on a 21-7 run to win 25­12, which set up the tone for the rest of the game. 
after georgia Tech, the irish will play the Tigers on sunday, a team that has a similar background to notre dame. in addition to mirroring the same record, clemson also carries a young team. of its 16 players, 10 of them are sophomores and freshmen. 
in notre dame’s win over the Tigers last month, the irish hit .233 attack percent­age and limited clemson to just a .168 attacking per­centage. sophomore outside hitter maddie plumlee led the team with 19 kills in the match, followed by sopho­more outside hitter sam Fry who hit 13 kills. Fellow soph­omore outside hitter sydney Kuhn also contributed 10 kills while freshman libero ryann deJarld led the game with 22 digs. 
mclaughlin said he would like for the irish to repeat that performance this week­end, but he said it’s one thing to say a team will per­form well, but it’s another to go out and do it. 
“it’s not what you say it’s what you do. your actions speak volumes,” mclaughlin said. “can we do the things we’re supposed to do? can we be who we are? if we do that, we have a chance to be very successful. but, i don’t think that these last matches are different than any match that we’ve had, so it’s criti­cal that we keep getting bet­ter and we put everything we have into each match going into it. if we can learn how to do that, we have a better chance of pulling this thing out. For sure, we’d like to finish on an upside.” 
The irish will host the yellow Jackets on Friday at 7 p.m and the Tigers on sunday at 1 p.m at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 




conTinued From page 14 
like we can finish in the top 12 or so overall. right now, we’re ranked 15th, so we’d like to improve on that national ranking.” 
The irish women finished in second as a team at last weekend’s ncaa regional and earned an automatic bid to this weekend’s race. 
at the great lakes regional, which took place in madison, wisconsin, the notre dame women took the top two in­dividual spots, as seidel placed in first and rohrer was runner-up. Freshman rachel dadamio finished the day 21st, while graduate stu­dents Karen lesiewicz and freshman annie heffernan finished 27th and 28th, re­spectively. sophomore ashlyn rambo pulled in in 36th. 
sparks said he has similar expectations for notre dame’s top runners at this weekend’s national event. 
“i think they can both be in the top 10. i think molly has a little bit of an upper-hand ob­viously because she has been in so many national meets over her career that running in a national meet is not going to be overwhelming for her. she’s been in the limelight her entire career, and i don’t ex­pect any freshman jitters out of her. she’s a very confident runner. 
“both of them are at differ­ent ends of their career with molly being a senior and anna being a freshman, but we ex­pect big things out of both of them, and they’re both run­ning for top-10 spots.” 
as a team, the notre dame men did not quali­fy for saturday’s race after their fourth-place finish at the great lakes regional. however, the irish will be represented by senior michael clevenger, who will be partic­ipating individually after his third-place finish last week­end. This will be the second consecutive year clevenger will be participating at the ncaa championship. 


“michael was in this thing a year ago as an individual but was there more as a tourist,” said sparks. “he thought he was serious about it, but once the gun goes off, if you’re not ready to race, then things get tough on you. This time around, he’s a lot more fo­cused and a lot more com­mitted to running where he’s capable of running. he’s gun­ning for a top-40 spot.” 
The ncaa championship is set to begin at noon saturday. 

Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu LUCY DU | The Observer 
paid adverTisemenT 


Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmc observer 






KATHRYNE ROBINSON | The Observer 

Sophomore forward Kathryn Westbeld looks for a shot during Notre Dame’s 74-39 victory over Toledo on Wednesday night. 
paid adverTisemenT 

W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
got to the foul line, but there were a couple of quarters where nobody got to the foul line. i thought it was a really well-officiated game, where we could play our game. i thought we could’ve tried a little harder to get some con­tact by driving the ball.” 
inside the first minute of the third quarter, soph­omore forward brianna Turner picked up her third foul and the rockets con­verted the resulting free throws to close the game to 29-19. 

however, notre dame quickly took complete control of the game with a 17-0 run, scoring the first 11 points of the run paid adverTisemenT 

without Turner. Toledo final­ly responded with a baseline jumper from ana capotosto with just over two minutes left in the third period, the first field goal for the rockets since the fifth minute of the second quarter. shooting for the irish improved markedly in the quarter, with the team making 8-of-12 field goals. graduate student guard madison cable, who scored 11 points on the day, said the defensive performance played a large part in the of­fensive improvement. 
“we tried to play good de­fense which leads to offense. some of our shots weren’t going in, so we tried to pick it up on defense to create points and i think that hap­pened,” cable said. 
mcgraw said she was en­couraged by the offensive improvement and expects the team to continue to im­prove as the season goes on. 
“offensively, we did some really good things in the second half,” mcgraw said. “i think we are going to continue to get better of­fensively as we work on our combinations and people in the game. i thought [ju­nior guard] lindsay [allen] looked superb — it was great to have her on the floor for all that time. having [junior forward] Taya [reimer] back was a huge boost for all of us. it was really important to get her back in the lineup. so, really happy with everybody today.” 
The irish continued to pull away behind an improved offensive performance in the fourth quarter, with a 14-2 run to start the period, and cruised to the victory in the end as the defense con­tinued to stifle the rockets. mcgraw said her team’s de­fensive performance was largely due to a switch to a 1-2-2 zone scheme. 
“we hadn’t shown it be­fore and didn’t play much of it last year,” mcgraw said. “They were probably expect­ing a little bit more man-to­man. i thought the way we played the zone was smart. we communicated well and helped each other well. They missed some shots. They had some open shots that they missed and they were press­ing a little bit after missing a few shots. we could have turned the game around even quicker if we had made some shots offensively.” 
The irish will face their first road game of the season saturday when they travel to south dakota state. The game tips off at 3 p.m. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at dboyle1@nd.edu 


The observer | THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 74, Toledo 39 
Notre Dame uses defense to smother Rockets 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
no. 3 notre dame deliv­ered a dominant defensive performance and overcame early shooting trouble to comfortably defeat Toledo, 74-39, on wednesday night at purcell pavilion. 
The irish (2-0) held the rockets (0-2) to just 23.7 per­cent shooting, including a run of over 12 minutes with­out a field goal, to mark the lowest point total the irish have conceded since Jan. 24 at clemson last season. irish head coach muffet mcgraw said she was impressed by the ferocity of the defense. 
“i was really happy with the defense today,” mcgraw said. “There was so much improvement in just a cou­ple days. There was a re­newed energy and intensity. i thought our zone looked really good. we seemed to communicate a little bit better. overall, i was very pleased. i thought the re­bounding was better. 
“generally, everything looked better.” 
it was a slow start for notre dame offensively, as the irish shot 5-of-18 in the first quarter. The rockets faced similar offensive woes ear­ly on, though, allowing the irish to end the first period with a 14-11 lead. 
both sides continued to struggle offensively for most of the second quarter, with the irish ahead by a score of 19-15 with only four minutes left in the first half. however, from there notre dame quickly pulled away, closing the half on a 10-2 run to lead 29-17 at halftime. mcgraw said she wasn’t concerned by the team’s early offensive struggles going into the half. 
“i was really happy at half­time,” mcgraw said “They only had 17 points, and that was just great defense. That’s all we can control — we can’t control the ball going into the basket. i thought that the shots we were getting were good. maybe we took a cou­ple too many [3-pointers]. 
“i thought we could’ve gone inside more. we never 
see w bball PAGE 15 


ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish set for NCAAs 
By RYAN KLAUS 
sports writer 
notre dame will look to finish the season strong and boost its national ranking this weekend at the ncaa championships in louisville, Kentucky. 
“we’ve got team goals and some individual goals,” irish head coach matthew sparks said of the team’s upcoming race. “The individual goals start with [senior] molly seidel, who has been one of the top girls in the coun­try and i’d like to see her challenge for the individual championship. and then our number two girl, [freshman anna rohrer], has been run­ning with molly all year. we’d like to come home with two all-american spots.” 
“on top of those two, we need our three, four and five runners to be in the top 100. if they can do that, then we feel 
see Xc PAGE 14 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

nd readies for final homestand 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 

The irish will compete in their final homestand of the season as they host georgia 
Tech  and  clemson  this  
weekend.  
notre  dame  (6-22,  acc  

1-15) has lost 11 straight matches dating back to oct. 8 when the irish defeated clemson (6-22, acc 1-15) on the road, 3-2. on paper, notre dame’s record isn’t impressive, and currently standing in last place in the acc, there isn’t much to look forward to past these last four games other than next season. 
however, irish head coach Jim mclaughlin said he is optimistic the team’s expe­rience this season will carry over as a building block for a more successful season next year. Their struggles — whether it’s limiting their er­rors, improving their serve, or most evidently, finishing sets — every mistake made can be turned into some­thing the team can build off of for next season, he said. 
“all points are critically 
see volleyball PAGE 13 





