THE INDEPENDENT To uNcoVER NEWSPAPER SERVING THE TRuTH NoTRE DAME AND AND REPoRT SAINT MARY’S IT AccuRATElY 

VoluME 49, ISSuE 67 | THURSDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2015 | NDSMcoBSERVER.coM 
Campus Ministry to sponsor pilgrimage 
Students prepare to travel to World Youth Day in Poland this summer for celebration of faith 
By ANDREA VALE 
News Writer 
Notre Dame’s campus Ministry will take a group of students on a pilgrimage to the 2016 World Youth Day, which will take place next July in Krakow, Poland. 
According to John Paul lichon, assistant direc­tor of retreats, pilgrimages and spirituality for campus Ministry, World Youth Day is “an international gathering which invites young people to gather for prayer, trans­formation and celebration of faith.” 
World Youth Day was first organized by Pope John Paul II in 1985 and now occurs “about every three years in rotating host countries around the world,” lichon said. Each World Youth Day typically garners around two to three million youth par­ticipants from various coun­tries. While in attendance, participants “join together for about a week to listen to catechetical talks” in each of their native languages, “pray with one another and encounter God through this amazing gathering of the faithful.” 
“Pope John Paul’s vi­sion was to celebrate and 
see YouTH PAGE 5 

Photo courtesy of Dulce Macias 
Campus Ministry organized a pilgrimage to Philadelphia last October to see Pope Francis. Students will celebrate Mass with the pope again this summer in Krakow, Poland, for World Youth Day. 



SMC departments promote justice and sustainability 

cafe highlights theBy NICOLE CARATAS News Writer oriented work of   justice-learn about sustainabil­students ity while supporting the  By JP GSCHWIND News Writer  development. curran is the former vice  
and faculty on cam pus and Saint Mary’s and Northern  president of mergers and ac- 
The Saint Mary’s depart-benefits Northern  Indiana Indiana communities.”  Notre Dame has created  quisitions at Textron Inc., a  
ments of education and by raising funds to  combat Director of Justice  a new position to bolster its  Fortune 500 company that  
art will host a Sustainable hunger.  Education Adrienne lyles­ commitment to support- owns and operates several  
Arts cafe and Market in “Students can sh ow their chockley said the event  ing local economic growth  subsidiaries including Bell  
Dalloway’s clubhouse on support for the awesome will help bring together the  through partnerships and  Helicopter and the cessna  
Friday. work of other stud ents and campus community, local  named the first office-hold- Aircraft company.  
Bri o’Brien, co-chair faculty members  through organizations and indi­ er, according to a university  His previous experi­ 
of the Justice Education participating in the event,”  viduals who are committed  press release. Jack curran  ences with the Notre Dame  
Student Advisory o’Brien said. “Stud ents can  will serve as associate vice  
committee (JSAc), said the eat, shop, hang  out and see JuSTIcE PAGE 4  president of new business  see BuSINESS PAGE 4  

university creates new position 


Basilica to open Holy Door for Year of Mercy 
By COURTNEY BECKER 
News Writer 
With the opening of the Holy Door of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 10 a.m. Mass this Sunday, Notre Dame will kick off a year dedicated to spreading God’s mercy throughout the world. 
The opening of the Holy Door, also called the Door of Mercy, marks the local be­ginning of an Extraordinary Jubilee Year of Mercy, which Pope Francis announced in his Bull of Indiction of the Extraordinary Jubilee last April. The official begin­ning of the Year of Mercy in the Vatican was observed on Tuesday with the opening of the St. Peter’s Basilica’s Holy Door. 
Fr. Peter Rocca, rec­tor for the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, said this is an Extraordinary Jubilee Year because it falls out of the usual pattern of Jubilee Years, which now occur ev­ery 25 years. 
“[Pope Francis] chose Dec. 8 because it is the 
see BASIlIcA PAGE 3 



NEWS PAGE 3 VIEWPoINT PAGE 6 ScENE PAGE 8 WoMEN’S BASEKTBAll PAGE 16 HocKEY PAGE 16 




ndsmcobserver.com 

P.o. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Greg Hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack Rooney cristina Gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: Mary Green 

Asst. Managing Editor: Wei lin 
News Editor: Margaret Hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha Ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 

Scene Editor: Miko Malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: Haleigh Ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: Erin Rice Multimedia Editor: Wei cao Online Editor: Michael Yu Advertising Manager: Mariah Villasenor Ad Design Manager: Marisa Aguayo Controller: Emily Reckmeyer 

Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 
Dame du lac and Saint Mary’s college.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-chief, Managing Editor, Assistant 
Managing Editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
Post office Information 
The observer (uSPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
A subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices 
PoSTMASTER 
Send address corrections to: 
The observer 
P.o. Box 779 
024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the Associated Press. 
All reproduction rights are reserved. 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 

What do you not want for Christmas? 

Alyssa Ruiz 
senior 
cavanaugh Hall 
“Finals.” 

Emma Shannon 
senior 
cavanaugh Hall 
“To write anymore papers.” 

Lucinda Krahl 
senior 
McGlinn Hall 
“Donald Trump as president.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Martin Buckley 
freshman 
carroll Hall 
“Pajama pants from my mom.” 

Nathan Spulak 
senior 
Fisher Hall 
“More warm weather.” 


Vince Sellner 
sophomore 
o’Neill Hall 
“Another portable phone battery.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 

Katie Galioto Alex carson Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: Rachel o’Grady Hunter McDaniel Nicole caratas Maureen Schweninger 

Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
lucy Du Kelly McGarry 

Photo Viewpoint 

Mindful Meditation Elite Athletes in the Mass Men’s Basketball vs. Mammograms on 
caitlyn Jordan Scott olehnik 

Coleman-Morse Cold War Basilica of the Sacred Loyola Chicago campus Center McKenna Hall Heart Purcell Pavilion Hesburgh Library 
5:15p.m.-6:15 p.m. 2 p.m.-3:30 p.m. 5 p.m.-6 p.m. 2 p.m.-4 p.m. 8 a.m.-4 p.m. 




Corrections 

All students, faculty Three former athletes Music by the Women’s The Irish take on the Preventative 
The observer regards itself as and staff are welcome. discuss life and politics. Liturgical Choir. Ramblers. screening for no cost. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Business Major Reading Day What and When Was La Misa en Espaol Campus Ministry 
of journalism at all times. We do, 

Showcase Campus-wide the Christmas Star? Dillon Hall Pancake Break 
however, recognize that we will make 
Jordan Auditorium All day Jordan Hall of Science 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. Coleman-Morse 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
5 p.m.-7:30 p.m. No classes in session 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. Celebrate the Mass Center 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Keynote by Mark to allow preparation Astrophysics lecture in Spanish. All are 10 p.m.-12 a.m. 
we can correct our error. 

Gottfredson. time for exams. by Professor Mathews. welcome. Free pancakes. 

NDSMcoBSERVER.coM | THURSDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2015 | THE oBSERVER 


Cushwa Center to award Hesburgh research grants 
Observer Staff Report 
The  cushwa  center  for  
the  Study  of  American  
catholicism  announced  

its new Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh Research Travel Grants program, a three-year initiative to help sup­port research projects that consider archival informa­tion pertaining to university President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, ac­cording to a university press release. 
According to the center’s website, the grants will help cover travel and lodg­ing costs for researchers traveling to the Notre Dame Archives to access infor­mation about the life and legacy of Hesburgh. This opportunity is open to re­searchers of any academic discipline. Applicants must clearly demonstrate how their projects will relate to Hesburgh. 
The cushwa center of­fers a number of annual research grants, designed assist scholars who wish to use Notre Dame’s archi­val collection in catholic Americana. 
Hesburgh served as presi­dent of the university for 35 years from 1952 through 1987 and died last February at the age of 97. over the course of his life, Hesburgh was an influential fig­ure in higher education, catholicism, the civil rights movement and internation­al affairs. During his time as president of the university, he doubled enrollment and allowed women to attend Notre Dame. 

“Hesburgh’s unique per­spective and prodigious con­tributions stand to inform and enrich a broad range of narratives in American so­cial, religious and political history, as well as ongoing discussions in public policy, philosophy of education, peace studies and theology,” according to the center’s application page. 
The Notre Dame Archives, housed in Hesburgh library, contains primary source documents about the work and life of Hesburgh. According to the website, Hesburgh often sent his pa­pers to the Archives once they were no longer needed for his ongoing work. After his time as university presi­dent, he sent the files repre­senting his years in office in addition to many documents from his outside activities. 
“The cushwa center has a longstanding tradition of providing financial sup­port to scholars who are conducting research into the catholic history of the united States,” Kathleen Sprows cummings, direc­tor of the center, said in the press release. “Through the creation of the Hesburgh Research Travel Grants, we are looking forward to mak­ing new connections with scholars of education, peace studies, political science, policy studies, theology and other fields. 
“Thanks to this new fund­ing opportunity, Father Ted continues to act as a catalyst and a connector, drawing people from different dis­ciplines and perspectives together to advance our un­derstanding of the world.” 
The deadline to apply for the first rounds of grants is April 1. Applicants must submit a description of their project and how it pertains to Hesburgh, as well as a proposed budget of estimat­ed travel, lodging and re­search costs. Grants will be awarded twice yearly, each April 1 and oct. 1 through 2018. 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


Basilica 
coNTINuED FRoM PAGE 1 
50th anniversary of the clos­ing days of the Second Vatican council,” Rocca said. “I think Pope Francis sees this as a very crucial time in the history not only of the church, but of our world, in which there is so much hatred and revenge and acts of terrorism and murder. [It highlights] how important forgiveness and mercy are in our world today, where I think many people would be inclined 
“If we take this to heart, then it should ... help us be a better community of believers, of people who try to live the life of Jesus Christ, to follow his Gospel, to treat especially those who may be different from the way we look or are with a kind of respect and mercy ... ” 
Fr. Pete Rocca 
rector  
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
to revenge and [take] an eye for an eye, that sort.” 
Rocca said the Pope’s decla­ration of a Year of Mercy is a call to be mindful of recognizing God’s mercy in our own lives and showing mercy to others. 
“Pope Francis envisions a year when people become more merciful in their own lives and bringing God’s mercy to oth­ers,” Rocca said. “The Pope asks that each of us celebrate this year by showing to others the mercy that God constantly extends to all of us in various ways. … [A] wonderful way of experiencing and practicing works of mercy is by looking at the Spiritual and corporal Works of Mercy … which are kind of concrete ways of put­ting mercy into our daily lives during this year.” 
Another way of carrying out the mission of a Year of Mercy is to take a pilgrimage to a Holy Door, Rocca said. 
“We’re very blessed in this diocese to have three Holy Doors. one is the cathedral in Fort Wayne, the second is the cathedral here in South Bend, and the third is the Basilica of the Sacred Heart,” he said. “The fact that we have three Doors is probably exception­al rather than the rule. Every diocese would have at least one Holy Door. Part of this whole thing is so people would go on pilgrimage. 
“It takes a little extra effort to signal that they want to make the extra effort to really enter into this Year of Mercy with ful­ly good intentions and to kind of go out of their way to do it.” 
Rocca also said one may ex­perience God’s mercy by listen­ing carefully to His word, and this year’s liturgy holds a par­ticular significance for a Year of Mercy. 
“In this liturgical year, we will be hearing from the Gospel of St. luke, who is often times called the Evangelist of Mercy,” he said. “So we will hear won­derful stories that he tells like the Prodigal Son and the Good Samaritan, all kinds of stories where people have mercy on others in need, in whatever way that might be.” 
The church will be offer­ing specific opportunities for members of the church to re­ceive God’s mercy during the Jubilee Year, Rocca said. 
“There will also be an initia­tive that the Pope is encourag­ing all churches to participate in, and it’s called the 24 Hours for the lord, which Pope Francis has encouraged every diocese to celebrate on the Thursday and Friday of the third week of lent,” he said. “He’s asking, the Pope, the we have the Basilica open for 24 hours, and one or two confessors would be avail­able for the entire time, day and night … [to give] the sacrament of Reconciliation.” 
Rocca said in addition to what the Pope hopes the world will take away from this Year of Mercy, he hopes Notre Dame can grow as a community in the coming year. 
“If we take this to heart, then it should … help us be a bet­ter community of believers, of people who try to live the life of Jesus christ, to follow his Gospel, to treat especially those who may be different from the way we look or are with a kind of respect and mercy that Jesus showed to everyone that he met,” Rocca said. “I think there are many, many ways in which we can do that as members of the ND community, and I think we can do it better than we do at times. 
“How can we become more attentive to the needs of our brothers and sisters [who] are less fortunate than ourselves? That’s fulfilling the corporal Works of Mercy, and I think that’s something that Pope Francis would be very interest­ed in seeing take place at places like this.” 
Contact Courtney Becker at cbecker3@nd.edu 




Justice 
coNTINuED FRoM PAGE 1 
to food justice. She said students from across disci­plines will come together to address poverty in the wider community by raising funds for the local food bank. 
“Poverty and food inse­curity are issues that affect everyone,” lyles-chockley said. “Here, people can ad­dress it while doing some­thing they likely would do anyway: shop for holiday gifts.” 
lyles-chockley said the event will feature spoken word by Poetic Melody and 
“Justice isn’t just encountered in lectures. [The event] fulfills the Justice Education mission by getting students to think about the ways in which they can make small changes to create a more sustainable lifestyle.” 
Adrienne Lyles-Chockley 
director  
Justice Education 
a poetry reading by English professor Aaron Moe. 
o’Brien said students in the Sustainable Textiles course will display and sell the sustainable artwork they have created over this past semester. She said this would include eco-dyed scarves, journals and note­books made from recycled cotton and denim, upcy­cled fabric handbags and essential oils. 
o’Brien said there will also be coffee made from Fair Trade coffee beans, as well as a variety of lo­cal, organic foods avail­able from vendors from the South Bend Farmers’ Market, which students can try free of charge. Students will have the opportunity to speak with Krista Bailey from the South Bend office for Sustainability during this event, she said. 
lyles-chockley said this event shows students that justice can be encountered in works of art and in con­sumption choices. 
“Justice isn’t just encoun­tered in lectures,” lyles­chockley said. “[The event] fulfills the Justice Education mission by getting students to think about the ways in which they can make small changes to create a more sustainable lifestyle, by in­troducing students to prod­ucts that are justly made and to individuals who have committed themselves to making peaceful and just decisions in their consumer and production choices, and by introducing students to thinking about justice in an interdisciplinary way.” 
JSAc member Morgan Matthews said she encour­ages students to attend the cafe because the products being sold are ones that people use daily. 
“It’s not just using organ­ic, sustainable products,” Matthews said. “You’re also helping the South Bend area because these people are trying to sell their products on the daily, and this would help business for them as well. 
Contact Nicole Caratas at ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 

Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmcobserver 



Business 
coNTINuED FRoM PAGE 1 

community, curran said, helped convince him to join as the associate vice president of new business development. 
“My interest in deciding to accept the position was driven by the quality of the people I met, their desire to continually improve the university and the exciting goals that have been estab­lished to enhance both the university and the com­munity,” curran said in an email. 
Explaining the nature of his new role, curran said his main responsibility is to help the local community around Notre Dame contin­ue to grow through strategic partnerships. 
“Through partnerships, al­liances and similar arrange­ments, the resources and capabilities of Notre Dame can be combined with the strengths of other parties to benefit the regional commu­nity, the university and the other parties,” curran said. 
The university has a strong interest in the economic health of the local commu­nity given that it relies on it for a large number of em­ployees, curran said. 
“The more successful and  his work at Notre Dame will  
appealing the region, the  involve creating teams for  
more successful Notre Dame  specific functions and proj­ 
will be in continuing to at­ ects, a process he has done  
tract and retain world class  many times at Textron.  
talent,” he said.  “Although multi-function­ 
curran said his extensive  al teams currently are be­ 

“I worked for a company that has a number of businesses. Although those businesses operate in different fields than the ones Notre Dame addresses, there is the similarity needing to understand different businesses and trying to find areas where different businesses can work together.” 
Jack Curran vice president New Business Development 
experience in the private sector gives him a strong perspective and useful skills that will allow him to succeed as associate vice president of new business development. 
“I worked for a company that has a number of busi­nesses. Although those busi­nesses operate in different fields than the ones Notre Dame addresses, there is the similarity of needing to un­derstand different business­es and trying to find areas where different businesses can work together and share capabilities,” curran said. 
Additionally, curran said ing used at Notre Dame, my role is to bring more focus to the process and increase the number of projects that can be considered and complet­ed,” curran said. 
As he enters into his new role, curran said his top pri­orities include meeting with a variety of Notre Dame em­ployees, potential partners and community leaders, improving his own under­standing of Notre Dame’s capabilities and focus­ing on creating successful partnerships. 
Contact JP Gschswind at  jgschiwn@nd.edu 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT NDSMcoBSERVER.coM | THURSDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2015 | THE oBSERVER 





Notre Dame. pilgrimage is expected to grow and be transformed by the events begin and de-Youth lichon said the decision to include approximately 40 this pilgrimage is worth it.” parting a few days after they 
coNTINuED FRoM PAGE 1 

offer a pilgrimage to World students. Events during World conclude, as well as some 
Youth Day was largely a re-“Students will be invited Youth Day include an open-additional small excursions invigorate the youth in our sult of campus Ministry’s to prepare for the pilgrimage ing ceremony followed by to John Paul II’s hometown, catholic church but ulti-pilgrimage program’s during the spring semester, several days of catecheti-the Auschwitz-Birkenau mately to continue to evan-growth and expansion over both personally and commu-cal sessions, each run by concentration camp and the 
recent years. nally,” lichon said. “We will 

Shrine of the Divine Mercy. “Three years ago, we only have several meetings dur-
Applications and informa­
“Three years ago, “[It] will be 
offered about two to three ing the semester to prepare tion on the pilgrimage can 
we only offered an incredible 
pilgrimages a year,” lichon our hearts and minds for the 

be found on Notre Dame’s two or three said. “This year, we are of-experience. As well, we will 
experience. While campus Ministry website. 

pilgrimages a fering 11 different pilgrim-have follow up reflections it will be a lot of Applications for the pilgrim­
ages all over the world. So it during the fall semester.” 
age are due on Jan. 4. lichon 
year. This year, fun and certainly 
was a no-brainer to include lichon said the actual pil­noted “there are a limited 
we are offering an experience 
World Youth Day next sum-grimage itself “will be both 

number of spots available.” 11 different mer. With such interest and exciting and exhausting.’ 
to remember for “World Youth Day will be 

pilgrimages all excitement around the prac-“As you can imagine, a lifetime, more an incredible experience,” 
tice of pilgrimage on cam-spending over a week to­lichon said. “While it will be 
over the world. 
than that it will be 
pus, we wanted to include gether with millions of peo­a lot of fun and certainly an 
So it was a no-transformational. 
one of the most dynamic ple from around the world in 

experience to remember for brainer to include and memorable pilgrimage one city can be both exhila-
We are going on a a lifetime, more than that it 

World Youth Day experiences one could go rating and overwhelming,” pilgrimage, not a will be transformational. We 
on. Just think about gather-he said. “So I anticipate a are going on a pilgrimage, 
next summer.” 
vacation.” 
ing with three million oth-lot of energy, a lot of fun, an not a vacation. We are open-
John Paul Lichon 
John Paul Lichon 
er youth from around the incredible amount of mem­ing ourselves up to experi­
associate director of associate director of 
world to pray together and ories made but also some ence God through the people 
pilgrimages pilgrimages 
to encounter one another great nights of sleep. This is we encounter, through the 
Campus Ministry Campus Ministry 
and God through this World a pilgrimage, so it does re-culture, history and tradi-

Youth Day experience. What quire some flexibility and tion of Poland, through the gelize and enliven all of the an amazing opportunity.” sacrifice.” English-speaking bishops; times of prayer and learning, faithful around the world,” According to lichon, According to lichon, this gatherings of pray and talk and through our own per­lichon said. Notre Dame is planning the sacrifice will include be-each morning; and an over-sonal discovery and reflec-
According to lichon, al-World Youth Day pilgrim-ing “a little uncomfortable,” night vigil immediately pre-tion. By opening ourselves though groups of Notre age in collaboration with sleeping on the floor of a ceding closing Mass with up to an encounter with Dame students have made Notre Dame’s sister school, gymnasium and coping with Pope Francis on the final day God, we open ourselves up independent trips to attend the university of Portland, hectic travel, but ultimately of the official World Youth to deep and profound trans-World Youth Day in the past, which also identifies with “the chance to meet people Day gathering. According formation and growth.” this year is the first time a the congregation of Holy from all over the world, to to lichon, Notre Dame stu­pilgrimage to the event is cross. considering attend-pray with Pope Francis sev-dents “will get the perk” of Contact Andrea Vale at  being officially organized by ees from both schools, the eral times [and] to learn and arriving a few days before avale@nd.edu 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



A call for true diversity 
BridgeND 
Bridging the Gap 

It is an event of extreme rarity that our organiza­tion offers a viewpoint as a collective. BridgeND is a transpartisan student group dedicated towards open forum debate and inclusiveness, and as such, it is almost always inappropriate and impossible for us to offer opinions in chorus. However, in order for our club to function as it does, and in order to promote diversity at Notre Dame, we require adherence to a singular standard: the absolute and unfettered right of our members to choose and voice the content of their own opinions. It was disheartening to learn that this standard of diversity, inclusiveness and respect has come under attack on campus. 
Recently, a fellow member of the Notre Dame com­munity, lauren Hill, was removed from a student organization in which she served as secretary. The grounds for her dismissal? A viewpoint article she published in The observer in which she gave her views on an event that was distinct from the activi­ties of her student group. Members of the student organization condemned the opinions expressed in Hill’s article as running contrary to the values of the group, and so she was removed by a two-thirds ma­jority vote of membership. 
While we in no way question the student group’s unqualified authority to determine the rules for its membership, we question the wisdom of its practice and decry the example it sets for a university cam­pus dedicated to intellectual inquiry. 
First, note we write neither to discuss the merits of Hill’s arguments nor the counter-arguments levied in turn. The dialogues presented on both sides of the issue constitute a debate of immense importance, one which students of all backgrounds have an ob­ligation as citizens to engage with. We encourage readers to search for the relevant viewpoint articles and form their own opinions regarding their respec­tive validity. Such an undertaking is not, however, the subject of this article. 
Nor ought the contents of this viewpoint be dilut­ed to a judgment as to the appropriateness, neatness or eloquence of Hill’s editorial. These issues are in­consequential for us; the worthiness of individual opinions for discussion in the public forum cannot be constrained by some threshold of intellectual or moral soundness. To impose such a standard is nothing more than a thinly veiled attempt at regula­tion of unfavorable content. 
Rather, we write to condemn in the strongest terms the notion that the proper means by which to combat speech with which one disagrees is to silence it. Such actions leave no room for growth by either party but instead result in the cultivation of suspicion, anger and even hatred. No standard of diversity can ever be promoted in this fashion. No lives, whether they belong to the majority or minority, can ever be protected in such a toxic environment. 
one of the fundamental goals at the university of Notre Dame ought to be equipping our students to argue intelligently against opinions with which they disagree. With the culture currently being propagat­ed, we instead have begun to ask ourselves, “Which views are unspeakable to begin with?” This is a dan­gerous and unacceptable precedent for a university dedicated to higher education. 
Proponents of this culture dress their arguments in terms of “privilege,” “microaggressions,” and “trigger warnings.” Again, we do not write for the purpose of exploring the controversies surrounding these terms. Rather, we deny their unassailable ve­racity. In the words of Prof. John H. McWhorter, “this paradigm has no place in a university environment: It assumes a truth at the outset and allows no room for genuine exploration.” Issues of diversity are enor­mously complex and are worthy of discussion and debate. To say that those who fail to conform to this particular type of “Pc” phraseology are simply big­oted is insincere and disenfranchises entire points of view from legitimate discourse. To coerce people with unpopular or minority opinions into silence is orwellian and smothers diversity on campus. 
BridgeND provides an unlimited forum to our members to discuss whatever views they hold and opens them to being challenged on those views. We pledge to never dismiss a member due to the content of his or her speech or opinions. We reject vehement­ly the notion that this puts minority students in any sort of danger whatsoever. 
our club is indeed safe. We are dedicated to civil discourse, and our officers retain the ability to regu­late the time, manner and order of member speech. We will never tolerate abuse of any member towards another. Such things ought to go without saying on an American university campus. We are not, how­ever, a “safe space.” 
Students will find no refuge in our meetings from speech they might find offensive. Perhaps they may even perceive microaggressions of one form or an­other in the opinions of other members. We do not subject them to such realities to be cruel, callous or conformist, nor do we attempt to promote some per­vasive majority oppression. Rather than erect such walls, our goal is to tear them down by revealing the innumerable similarities that students of all politi­cal persuasions have with one another. We exist under the sincerest belief that hatred and prejudice are realities perpetuated by ignorance of and in iso­lation from one’s neighbor. The only remedy we are aware of to such division is complete exposure to the opinions of others. Providing this medium is, in large part, the mission of our organization. 
We hope that one day all students on our campus will be able to express the full nature of their views unafraid and without hesitation, but until then, we extend a warm and sincere invitation to Miss Hill, and others who have similarly felt discouraged to share their convictions, to bridgeND. We can prom­ise you will be challenged but also that you will be welcomed. After all, it is a discourse that challenges the status quo which has always made our campus, and for that matter our country, a better and more free place to live. 
BridgeND is a bipartisan student political organiza­tion that brings together Democrats, Republicans and all those in between to discuss public policy issues of national importance. They meet Tuesday nights from 8-9 p.m. in the McNeil room of LaFortune. They can be reached at bridgend@nd.edu or by following them on Twitter @bridge_ND 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Where do we start? 
My sister is a redhead named Katy going to the high school I graduated from in Ethiopia. There are a lot of “Mean Girls” references in her future. I’ve had my fair share of them myself, as my back­ground as the son of missionaries working in Ethiopia has a tendency to stick out. 
Sticking out is something I’ve been used to for a while. As a red-headed, blue-eyed white kid in the middle of Ethiopia, I was certainly not the domi­nant demographic. I’ve had people shout out to me across streets for money, and I’ve been on the receiving end of a lot of “Whoa, what are you do­ing here?” looks all because of the color of my skin. As far as being a white male goes, I have had some atypical experiences that have made me partially aware of how my outward appearance, and the judgments it leads to, can make me feel different and misunderstood. And still, I have no idea what it’s like. 
I do not know what it is like to be a minority at Notre Dame. over half the school is male, nearly 75 percent is white, and I tick both boxes. I’ve never felt marginalized or oppressed in any way for my appearance. I’ve looked at a muscular African-American student on campus and assumed they are an athlete. I’ve been part of conversations where inappropriate words are thrown around and stereotypes become questionable jokes. I feel I am an open-minded person with a global perspective who makes an intentional effort to not judge any­one. Yet, I know I don’t understand what it is like to not be white. I know I make mistakes and take things for granted and sometimes fall back on ste­reotypes and prejudices. 
All this has been on my mind increasingly as controversies have swirled around the country that seem to emphasize a racial gap in our society and particularly our college campuses. “White privilege,” “institutionalized oppression” and “micro-aggressions” are all buzzwords I hear and read more and more. The events at the university of Missouri and the resulting demonstration here on campus have been the most striking example of late and have brought these topics to the forefront of campus conversation. 
That opportunity for conversation is why I’m writing. I want to know more. I want to go beyond buzzwords. I don’t think topics around marginal­ization can be ignored, but I also feel ill-equipped to address them immediately. I’m not looking for demands or even a list of complaints. I just want to learn more about what minorities experience at Notre Dame and how each student can play a role in progressing to a more united campus. 
Speaking for myself, I can often feel muted by “privilege.” As if I have to be careful in anything I say on diversity because even the slightest misstep makes me look ignorant or sheltered. Yet, many students on campus are just like me (minus the whole Ethiopia thing), and we cannot be mute. We also would be foolish to speak out about things we don’t fully understand. So I want to take responsi­bility for understanding more. I want to ask ques­tions and engage in conversations around unity on campus. I want to seize these moments and oppor­tunities to make progress. But I need help to under­stand and know where to begin. What steps can we take? What do we need to understand? What can we do? let’s get beyond buzzwords and help each other be a bit more informed than your average “Mean Girls” character. 
Joshua Dulany 
junior Nov.  19 



Catholic theology and LGBTQ suicide 
Christopher Damian 
Ideas of a university 

conversations about suicide can be awkward. A number of my friends have said that they don’t understand what would cause someone to make that decision. But there’s an answer within catholic theology. 
Pope Benedict XVI wrote that “man can only accept him­self if he is accepted by another. He needs the other’s pres­ence, saying to him, with more than words: It is good that you exist. … only if it is accepted, can it accept itself.” From this acceptance, man can come to understand and know his acceptance by God. Perhaps this is why Fr. John Navone suggests that the pure of heart have a radical vision of ac­ceptance: “To enjoy the beatitude of the pure heart means that wherever you look, whatever you are looking at, what you see is God.” 
But there’s also a dark side to Benedict’s words. Just as man can only learn to accept himself through acceptance by another, he can only learn a rejection of the self through rejection by another. Benedict continues: “If ever man’s sense of being accepted and loved by God is lost, then there is no longer any answer to the question whether to be a human being is good at all. Doubt concerning human existence becomes more and more insurmountable.” In catholic theology, God’s acceptance and rejection are inti­mately tied to the activity of members of the church. “Body of christ” is not merely analogical or metaphorical, but is of such depth that the activity of each christian is the literal activity of God. The catechism teaches about a mysterious union, such that “whomever you exclude from your com­munion will be excluded from communion with God.” 
Acceptance and recognition by others is central to rec­onciliation with reality. Perhaps as a corollary to Benedict, Romano Guardini writes: “What I do not perceive does not belong to my world.” Just as God sustains the existence of all things by being mindful of them, in a way we can person­ally annihilate those things that we work to forget, overlook or reject. And, “They wish I was gone,” can translate to, “I wish I was gone.” Benedict writes, “The moral drama, the decision for good or evil, begins with our eyes, when we choose whether or not to look at the face of the other.” And it ends when we look away. 
This might help explain the high suicide rates among lGBTQ people. Nearly one in three Americans who commit suicide are lGBTQ, a number as disproportionately high as lGBTQ rejection. A 2012 study found that 40 percent of homeless youth identify as lGBT, and more than 40 percent of these kids either ran away because of family rejection of sexual orientation or gender identity or were forced out of their homes by their parents because of their sexual orien­tation or gender identity. Many perceive religious influences as the source of this social and psychological rejection. More than 60 percent of Americans believe that “negative messages” from places of worship “contribute either a lot or a little to higher rates of suicide among gay and lesbian youth.” This perception is perhaps validated by a recent study finding that, while treatment from mental health or medical providers had no effect on suicide attempt rates for lGB people, faith-based counseling was associated with increased attempt rates. 
G.K. chesterton writes: “[A] suicide is the opposite of a martyr. A martyr is a man who cares so much for some­thing outside him, that he forgets his own personal life. A suicide is a man who cares so little for anything outside him, that he wants to see the last of everything.” But for many lGBTQ people, suicide can be a response to christian family or friends who want to see the last of them. or it can be a response to the fear that a disclosure of certain parts of their lives would incite such a desire. Whether right or wrong, it’s a response following a certain kind of logic driv­en by christian platitudes about protecting the “traditional family” or condemning “aberrations” to “God’s design.” The catechism states that suicide “offends love of neighbor be­cause it unjustly breaks the ties of solidarity,” but suicide is sometimes a response to ties that have been broken by oth­ers. Just as Evangelium Vitae, “The Gospel of life,” insists that “every man is his ‘brother’s keeper,’” there’s a gospel of death that corresponds to those who are not kept. 
I suspect as American culture finds stable places for lGBTQ people to seek fulfillment in society, we will more often tend towards those spaces than the tenuous posi­tions established in conservative christian communities. But if christian communities want to do more than simply walk the line between life and death for lGBTQ people, they’ll need to create a new paradigm for sexual ethics. As Guardini writes, the moral life becomes impoverished when it is “a mere matter of routine.” It needs, rather, “the creative realization of something which does not as yet ex­ist.” But people might get tired waiting around for it. 
Christopher Damian graduated from Notre Dame in 2013. He is currently pursuing a J.D. and an M.A. in Catholic Studies at the University of St. Thomas. He can be contacted through his blog at                                        universityideas.wordpress.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

compassion in the face of fear 
Since violence broke out in Syria in 2011, more than 200,000 people have been killed by violence, nearly 8 mil­lion within Syria have been driven from their homes, and at least another 4 million have fled to other countries to escape what is rapidly becoming a complex proxy war. For years, those fleeing conflict have been forced to risk life and limb by seeking passage through the Balkans and across the Mediterranean Sea, resulting in many deaths and what the united Nations has called the “worst crisis for almost a quarter of a century.” 
In recent weeks, 31 united States governors have voiced a vehement opposition to the continued resettlement of Syrian refugees within their states’ borders. Moreover, the House of Representatives recently initiated two pieces of legislation that would drastically belabor the already exhaustive refugee screening process. on Nov. 19, it passed H.R. 4038, which would restrict the rate at which the Syrian refugees are accepted through u.N. referral by requiring the personal approval of not only the Secretary of Homeland Security but also the Directors of the Federal Bureau of Intelligence (FBI) and the Department of National Intelligence. In addition, the House recently sent the proposed H.R. 4078 “Give States a chance” bill to the House judiciary committee, which would grant governors the ability to refuse resettlement of federally approved Syrian refugees if the number of refugees already in their states is “too high” or they are not “reasonably satisfied” with the federal screening process. 
We, the undersigned, believe the reasoning behind these measures and their detrimental effect on the u.S. refugee resettlement policy is not only mistaken but also unjust, and we voice our support for the continued re­settlement of Syrian and Iraqi refugees in the u.S. We — in accordance with the catholic Social Tradition on human dignity and in recognition of our shared humanity with those afflicted by this humanitarian crisis — believe we have a moral responsibility to care for those seeking refuge within our borders. We must remember, as Pope Francis said, “behind these statistics are people, each of them with a name, a face, a story, an inalienable dignity which is theirs as a child of God.” If we do nothing while our nation closes its borders to those who are in desperate need of safety, we become passive bystanders to and accomplices in injustice. 
As a collective, we believe we must not respond to acts of terror with fear — which only increases destructive divi­sion and violence — but with unwavering compassion. The refugee vetting process is already thorough and in­tensely competitive, taking an average of between 18 and 24 months from referral to arrival in the u.S. During this time, refugees are subjected to the highest level of secu­rity checks required of any incoming traveler. Refugee applicants are subject to screening from several agencies including the FBI, the State Department, the Department of Homeland Security and the National counterterrorism center/Intelligence community. less than one percent of the global refugee population makes it past the initial screening with u.N. organizations. Demanding an even more rigorous security screening before the refugees’ re­settlement in the u.S. will likely cause undue delay or out­right rejection of innocent refugees, resulting in a denial of their basic human rights to freedom from oppression, free practice of religion and physical safety. Furthermore, such an action could potentially cost refugees their lives, especially as winter begins in Turkey, Jordan, lebanon and Eastern Europe. 
As citizens of the world, we cannot justify additions to an already rigorous screening process in the name of our safety if it will come at the expense of human life and dig­nity. We cannot justify the refusal of basic human rights to innocents — particularly when the heightened security screening cannot even guarantee the safety that it at­tempts to promise. We hope that in sharing these words, we can encourage the university of Notre Dame to contin­ue to be the lighthouse that Fr. Theodore Hesburgh envi­sioned, lighting the path to affirm our responsibility and willingness to welcome refugees in accordance with this identity. We must be willing to give food to the hungry, to give drink to the thirsty and to welcome the stranger. We call to mind the christian image of Mary and Joseph dur­ing this season of Advent, as they migrate to Bethlehem as strangers seeking shelter. We thank Fr. Jenkins for his Thanksgiving announcement encouraging the Notre Dame student body to “not be cowed by terrorists into turning our backs on our Syrian brothers and sisters, but instead — and in the name of our lady of Refuge — share with them our bounty and protection.” 
Student Coalition for Matthew Caponigro Immigration Advocacy Notre Dame in Solidarity with Syria 
Martha Villegas President Steven Fisher ND Peace Fellowship 
Jessica Pedroza co Vice-President Michelle McCarthy college Democrats 
Ana I. Rodelas co Vice-President Bryan Ricketts Student Government 
Hannah Legatzke Secretary Kelly McGee Arabic club 
Adriana Cantos 
Treasurer Liyana Yusof Muslim Students Libertad Heredia Association 
Video Director 
Zoe Rae Rote Juan Rangel World Hunger Founder of ScIA coalition 
Chizo Ekechukwu Kimberly Smith 
Diversity council of Hispanic Engineers Notre Dame and Scientists 
Teresa Kennedy Rachel Wallace Brittany Ebeling Ray’Von Jones 
Human Rights ND Shades of Ebony Dec. 9 
To view the complete list of the 233 authors who have signed their names to this letter, visit ndsmcobserver.com 


LUCY DU | The Observer 


By MIKO MALABUTE 
Scene Editor 

Finals week is almost upon us, which guarantees three things: a lot of exams and papers, coffee and pro­crastination. I’ve decided to watch all of the old “Rocky” films in chrono­logical order, as I just recently saw “creed” in theaters over Thanksgiving break. As I walked with Rocky Balboa on his journey to becoming boxing’s heavyweight champion of the world, I couldn’t help but trying to deter­mine who is the best pound-for-pound fighter of them all. 
The amateurs 

Tommy Gunn would clearly come in last, as he beat a heavyweight field devoid of any real talent and lost to a past-his-prime Balboa. The only thing Gunn had going for him is an awe­some mullet. Joining him in the group of bottom-dwellers is Mason Dixon, as 
Finals week is here and all too real. The worst part about finals (aside from actu­ally taking the things) has got to be finding the optimal study spot to maximize pro­ductivity. let the Scene staff help you out, and good luck on finals. 
By MIKO MALABUTE 
Scene Editor 

Go off campus. Honestly, free Wi-Fi is es­sentially a necessity at most civilized cof­fee shops, so it’s not like you can’t access all your study materials away from cam­pus. Plus, you get the added benefits of not seeing people around, which means two things. First, there are no added distrac­tions — you can just zone in and get stuff done. Secondly (and most importantly), he was also guilty of winning in a very watered-down talent pool of fighters. one thing puts Dixon over Gunn, how­ever: Dixon actually won. 
The undercard 
The “middling” fighters of the pack include Ivan Drago and clubber lang, who really reminded me of each oth­er (although they obviously had two very different personalities). Drago was almost superhumanly powerful, and the mystique around him due to his Russian background added an ele­ment of fear in “Rocky IV.” But let’s call it what it is: If he didn’t use PEDs, no chance he would even last six rounds with Balboa. lang, on the other hand, was one of the fighters that I always thought could have been so much bet­ter than he was portrayed. He struck me as even more powerful than Drago (the latter literally killed a man with his fists) and had an amazing mo-hawk. But with every power comes a 
you are essentially guaranteed power outlets to charge your computer. You’re welcome. 
By KELLY McGARRY 
Scene Writer 
When you’re an upperclassman and you feel like you’ve exhausted all the study spots, chances are you’re neglect­ing 29 buildings when you go through this list. Just like workout rooms and chapels, there’s nothing stopping you from explor­ing the study facilities at other dorms. They offer all the comfort of a living space, without the distracting familiar faces and proximity to your bedroom that deter you in your own dorm. For late-night studying, a dorm is less depressing than the library, weakness — he had such awful stam­ina. If he could have found a way to last more than three rounds, he might have found himself in upper echelon of this fictional list. 

The challengers 
The next level in my mind is oc­cupied solely by the father and son: Apollo and Adonis creed, and in that order. Apollo went toe-to-toe with Balboa in the first two films, and it could be argued that, in his prime, he would be a close second to this list’s top puncher, Balboa (spoiler alert). However, I have Adonis edging Apollo out. Adonis had a chip on his shoul­der, something to prove throughout the entirety of “creed” that extended way beyond boxing. It’s that chip and drive, along with years of pent-up frustration and hurt, that leads Adonis to really pushing himself beyond his limits (unlike Apollo, too caught up with showboating). 
and you can even take advantage of the dorm kitchens that sell food. 
By ADAM RAMOS 
Scene Writer 

Geddes Hall is always a good look come finals, but get there early. If you are lucky enough to get one of the private rooms, you’re in for some prime study action. However, even if you miss the private rooms, ending up in the lounge is still a great option. Between the free coffee and comfortable booths, the lounge is a sweet deal. Yet, one of my favorite qualities about Geddes is the social awareness aspect. Something about being surrounded by reminders of the struggles and plights of people around the world makes studying 
And still … 
And then, there was Balboa. The Italian Stallion. The man was never sup­posed to be as good as he was, yet he nev­er let status or outsiders’ expectations to dictate his future. He took matters to his own hands (literally) and never let another man — or life, for that mat­ter — keep him down past the count of 10 (and for those who point out the first fight between him and clubber lang, let’s relax. He was clearly too emotion­ally hurt from Mickey’s condition). The only fighters who could come close to Rocky’s heart were the creeds: Apollo, as he died rather than throwing the fight; Adonis, for the reasons mentioned above. But there was only one Rocky: He beat people much better, much faster and much stronger than he was, but he refused to quit and always got up for one more round. 
Contact Miko Malabute at                            mmalabut@nd.edu 
for my finals seem a lot less menacing. 
By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
Scene Writer 
It’s always tortuous that fall semester finals coincide with year-end list season. Each December, approximately half of my intellectual energy is expended on formulating my rankings of the year’s best albums, films and TV shows, as well as comparing my lists with those of other critics. Inevitably, I end up wanting to catch up on all the pop culture I missed — and unfortunately the library isn’t really the ideal venue for doing so. If you’re going to spend all of study days catching up on season two of “Fargo,” you may as well do it from the comfort of your own room. 
LUCY DU | The Observer 




CROSSWORD | WIll SHoRTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | ERIc cARlSoN & JoHN RoDDY 
SUDOKU | THE MEPHAM GRouP 
HOROSCOPE | EuGENIA lAST 
Happy Birthday: consider where you stand to gain the most. Making positive changes at home or work will help you avoid any problems with authority figures or institutions. Problems will crop up if you travel or get involved in foreign investments, philosophies or groups that don’t share your same values. Protect what you have. Trust in yourself. Your numbers are 6, 17, 21, 25, 39, 46, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Put travel plans or educational pursuits into motion. Pick up information and negotiate deals that could ensure a brighter future. only you can bring about the changes you want in your life. Reassess your current situation and make a move. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Initiate changes instead of waiting for someone else to take the lead. Your strength and courage will draw interest from others and make your loved ones proud. Make special celebratory plans for two. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You’ll be sidetracked if you give in to the people who are trying to take advantage of you. Pay more attention to your own responsibilities and refuse to indulge in someone else’s melodrama. Interference and meddling will lead to misunderstandings and regret. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Pay closer attention to your creative goals and make yourself available when friends, children or your loved ones need a helping hand. What you do will reflect who you are and make a difference for others. Romance is on the rise. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Avoid making changes that may disrupt your domestic scene. Strive to get involved in projects that will encourage you to take positive action regarding your work. Put a plan in place that will help you improve your emotional, mental and physical well-being. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Stick to facts and don’t fall short when it comes to your promises or responsibilities. You won’t be given much leeway if you make a mistake. Strive for optimum performance both personally and professionally. Romance is encouraged. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Travel or socializing with friends or relatives will result in some interesting suggestions and changes to your current situation. A partnership will undergo changes that could alter the way you’ve been performing. Walk away from discord. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): There is money to be made, but you may have to sacrifice being a good Samaritan and focus instead on finding paying jobs rather than doing work for free. Don’t let others take advantage of your loyalty and dedication. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Secrets will be revealed if you have been withholding information that can affect your reputation, status or position. Do your best to cover your tracks and own up to anything that could incriminate you before you are blamed openly. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Money deals, negotiations and expanding your financial interests are all favored as long as you don’t get involved in joint ventures. Someone’s plans could place a burden on you. look out for yourself and the ones you love. Make romance a priority. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Base decisions on facts, not emotions, or you will make poor choices. You will gain respect from others if you tie up loose ends and set high standards for yourself. live up to your promises, but don’t neglect your health.  

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You’ll be getting mixed signals from others. Rely on your intuition to guide you in matters concerning health, money and information. Situations are not likely to be as they appear. Take a wait-and­see approach if you have any doubts. 

Birthday Baby: You are determined, restless and eager to please. You are inventive and enthusiastic. 
JUMBLE | DAVID HoYT AND JEFF KNuREK 








The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
To
 receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. Make checks payable to and mail to: The observer P.o. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556


 Enclosed is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name 
Address 
city State Zip 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 



Local clubs back quality causes 


Brett O’Connell 
Sports Writer 
Sometimes the greatest and most bizarre sports tradi­tions manifest themselves in places where we rarely think to look. Take, for ex­ample, the calgary Hitmen, a major junior hockey team that shares its home ice with the NHl’s calgary Flames and plays in the central divi­sion of the Western Hockey league. 
chances are you haven’t heard of the Hitmen unless you happen to be from the calgary area or you pay close attention to prospect pipe­lines in professional hockey. They’ve only been around since 1994, and while they have won two WHl cham­pionships, their slasher-themed logo and red and black jerseys hardly invoke images of hockey’s old guard. 
You’d be forgiven, then, for not having been aware of the rather impressive record set by the Hitmen a few days ago. This was no hockey re­cord, though the event was initiated by Hitmen forward Jordy Stallard, when he snuck a wrist shot from the slot past the opposing goalten­der Tuesday. Instead, it was a charity record — and one that produced some of the most impressive pictures I’ve seen to date in a hockey arena. 
Stallard’s second period goal prompted the 21st annu­al Teddy Bear Toss, a beloved charity event for Hitmen faithful. The tradition itself is not unique or even un­usual — Notre Dame’s own hockey team sponsored a similar event this past week­end — but the payout from this particular manifestation of the charity drive that gives stuffed toys to underprivi­leged children for christmas was singularly spectacular. 
The calgary Hitmen aver­age about 10,000 fans per home game, which is im­pressive for a major junior team but not close to the maximum capacity of the Scotiabank Saddledome. on Tuesday, though, a sellout crowd of 19,289 bombarded the ice surface with a re-cord-setting 28,815 stuffed animals. 
The collection and cleanup from the frenzied event de­layed the hockey game by about 40 minutes, but the re­sult seems to have been more than worth it. The images that resulted from a city’s hockey faithful flocking to an event like this and contribut­ing to such a peculiar, but productive charity is simply a beautiful sight to be hold. 
The Hitmen are not the only ones to get into the holi­day spirit. A number of teams across major junior and mi­nor professional leagues in North America have taken advantage of themed nights and holiday celebrations as of late — including some bril­liantly ugly novelty jerseys worn by the WHl’s Saskatoon Blades for their Star Wars night in November and the ugly christmas sweater-inspired jerseys worn by the AHl’s Rockford Ice Hogs just this month. 
Professional sports in America are very serious and very closely controlled. Brand image is more important than ever across all sports, hockey and otherwise, and sometimes, it feels like American professional sports leagues are a bit afraid to have fun in a world with such high stakes in terms of both finances and championships. 
This giving season, then, let us thank the minor league and major junior sports franchises in our home com­munities — no doubt you have one near your home town, advertising its bizarre theme nights and teddy bear tosses as a means of interfac­ing with a community that sometimes forgets they exist. Sports are part of our culture, and sports teams are at their best when interacting and giving back to the communi­ties that power them. For this reason, it seems high time to pay a little lip service to the many and sundry smaller teams that make things like Tuesday’s record-setting ted­dy bear toss a reality. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at  boconne1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NBA | RAPToRS 97, SPuRS 94 
DeRozan, Toronto snap San Antonio’s win streak 

Associated Press 

ToRoNTo — DeMar DeRozan scored 28 points, Kyle lowry added 19 and the Toronto Raptors snapped the San Antonio Spurs’ four-game winning streak with a 97-94 victory on Wednesday night. 
luis Scola had 16 points as Toronto never trailed and handed San Antonio just its third loss in the last 18 games. 
Manu Ginobili had 17 points off the bench for the Spurs, who also got 13 points from laMarcus Aldridge. 
Danny Green hit a 3-pointer following a time­out to make it a three-point game with 2:47 to play, but Bismack Biyombo threw down a dunk to restore the Raptors’ five-point edge. 
Kawhi leonard’s follow shot later narrowed the advantage to three, but Toronto was able to run out the clock. 
The Raptors had a strong start against what was the NBA’s best team in oppo­nent points per game (88.3). They made five of their first six shots from the field, rac­ing into an 11-point lead and turning in their best first-quarter performance of the season at home with 27 points for a six-point edge. 
DeRozan ensured there would be no letup, scor­ing eight of his 16 first-half points in the second quar­ter to push Toronto’s lead to 53-46. 
The Spurs shot just 5 of 20 from the floor in the fourth quarter as Toronto pushed the lead back to 11 entering the period. 
Tip-ins 
Spurs: The game marked a return to the Air canada centre for Matt Bonner, who played for the Raptors from 2004-06, and Spurs assistant GM Sean Marks, who played there from 1998-2000. . Ginobili and Scola are former teammates on the Argentina national team. 
Raptors: For the third straight game, Toronto played a team with an NBA MVP in its lineup. After succumbing to reigning MVP Stephen curry and the Golden State Warriors on Saturday and beating Kobe Bryant and the los Angeles lakers on Monday, the Raptors knocked off Tim Duncan’s Spurs. . Through the first four games in December, Toronto’s back-court duo of DeRozan and lowry is averaging 49.5 points per game, while shooting .451 from the field. . DeMarre carroll (right knee) and lucas Nogueira (left ankle) both missed their second consecutive games. . The Raptors are 7-6 against Western conference teams this season. 
Up next 
Spurs: Host los Angeles lakers on Friday. 
Raptors: Host Milwaukee on Friday. 

NBA | GRIZZlIES 93, PISToNS 92 
Barnes hits last-second shot to best Detroit on road 

Associated Press 

AuBuRN HIllS, Mich. 
— Matt Barnes tossed in a desperation 3-pointer from just inside midcourt with 
1.1 seconds left to give the Memphis Grizzles a 93­92 victory over the Detroit 
Pistons  on  Wednesday  
night.  
Marcus  Morris  missed  

a contested shot with 7 seconds left that could have clinched the game for Detroit, and Andre Drummond’s tip bounced off the rim. 
The Grizzlies grabbed the ball and fired an outlet pass to Barnes. He let go a run­ning, two-handed shot as he crossed halfcourt that went in, silencing the Palace crowd as players on the Memphis bench celebrated. 
Morris missed another tough shot at the buzzer, and the Pistons lost their second straight following a four-game winning streak. 
Zach Randolph led Memphis with 21 points and 16 rebounds, while Marc Gasol had 19 points and 12 rebounds. courtney lee came off the bench to score 14. 
Drummond had 18 points and 19 rebounds for the Pistons. Reggie Jackson added 18 points and seven assists. 
The Pistons led for almost the entire second half, and Randolph missed a pair of free throws that could have tied the game with 3:43 to play. Jackson’s 3-pointer made it 92-87, but Randolph made it a three-point game with a tip-in. 
The Pistons were then called for a shot-clock vio­lation with 1:12 to play, and after the teams traded misses, Gasol made it 92-90 from the line, setting up the frantic final seconds. 
Detroit only trailed for the final 1.1 seconds of the sec­ond half, but hadn’t played well early. 
The Pistons struggled to hit shots early, trailing by as many as nine points, but rallied to take the lead late in the second quarter. Detroit outscored Memphis 30-19 in the period and led 47-43 at halftime. 
Much of the half was a battle between Gasol and Drummond. Drummond finished the half with seven points and nine rebounds, while Gasol had eight points and seven rebounds. 
The Pistons expanded the lead to 58-49 early in the third, but the Grizzlies were within 74-67 by quarter’s end, and narrowed the gap to one early in the fourth. 



SMC BASKETBALL | SMc 68, AlMA 56 
Belles earn first win in more than year against Alma 

By ALEX CARSON 
Associate Sports Editor 
Returning home proved to be the cure for the Belles’ woes, as they picked up their first win of the season Wednesday night, defeat­ing Alma 68-56 at Angela Athletic Facility. 
After a back-and-forth first quarter that saw Saint Mary’s (1-8, 1-2 MIAA) grab a 16-15 lead, the Belles ex­ploded in the second quar­ter to grab a double-digit lead headed into the break. Trailing 19-18, a layup from sophomore forward Gabby Diamond gave the Belles a lead they would never relin­quish, sparking a 20-6 run to close the first half, putting Saint Mary’s ahead 38-25 at the interval. 
In the second half, the Belles were able to hold off the Scots (1-5, 0-2), who made a push to get back into the game. The Saint Mary’s advantage was trimmed to eight, 48-40, after the third quarter, and the visitors pulled within four in the fi­nal stanza, at 54-50. 
However, the comeback was not to be for Alma. Belles junior forward Kelsey Ronan hit a layup to move the lead to six before freshman guard Erin Maloney took the Belles lead to nine by converting an and-1 with just under five minutes to play. 
Alma closed a bit on the Saint Mary’s lead afterward at 61-56, but the Belles stayed strong at the free throw line the rest of the way to se­cure the win. Senior guard Maddie Kohler hit a jumper before the Belles went 5-for­6 from the stripe to close out the victory, scoring the last seven points of the contest to push their advantage back to 12 at the final buzzer. 
“We had been working hard in practice this week prepar­ing for Alma, and we were excited to have the chance to put it all together on the court,” senior forward Krista Knapke said. 
Knapke led the Belles in two statistical categories Wednesday, dropping 14 points on 7-of-17 shooting and dishing out seven as­sists, while senior forward Eleni Shea just missed out on a double-double, notching 13 points and nine rebounds. 
Despite her high-scoring night, Knapke said the whole squad played a big role in the win. 
“Everyone on the team is playing an important role and really starting to mesh together and playing off of each others strengths,” home victory over Alma on Knapke said. Dec. 3, 2014; Knapke, Kohler 

Maloney and Kohler also and Shea all scored double finished in double figures, figure in that game as well. recording 13 and 11 points “It felt great to get a con-respectively, to complete ference win tonight on our the quartet of Belles start-home court,” Knapke said. ers above the 10-point mark. “Tonight was definitely a Alma freshman forward momentum boost heading Kelsey Wolffis led all scorers into another big conference with 15 points, while senior game this Saturday.” forward Raeanna Zink made Saint Mary’s continues her presence known for the conference play Saturday Scots with nine points and when it travels to Angola, 10 rebounds. Indiana, for a 1 p.m. tipoff 
The win broke a 27-game, against Trine. year-long losing streak for Saint Mary’s, marking the Contact Alex Carson at  Belles’ first win since a 64-61 acarson1@nd.edu 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


NDSMcoBSERVER.coM | THURSDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2015 | THE oBSERVER 



PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


Hockey 
coNTINuED FRoM PAGE 16 
made Boston college so great over the years is a combina­tion of its system and head coach Jerry York, who is clos­ing in on 1,000 career wins as a head coach. 
“Jerry’s always been con­sidered one of the best coach­es in the country,” Jackson said. “His strength is his people skills I think. He gets the best out of his players, but he also gets the best players, and that takes people skills. Recruiting has certainly gone in their favor since he’s been at Boston college. They do a great job bringing in elite level talent, and they’re usu­ally very deep offensively. Frankly, when they lose a good player, they replace him rather easily. It’s made them the consistent threat in the conference and nationally, and he deserves the credit for that because he’s built that program into a juggernaut.” 
This particular Eagles team, led in net by junior Thatcher Demko, who boasts six shutouts this season, will be one of the stingiest teams the Irish have played up to this point. 
“You gotta make plays and get pucks to the net,” Jackson said. “They don’t give you much time in space. They’re a very fast team, very well coached. Their structure de­fensively is not overly dif­ficult but it is executed, and that’s probably the most im­portant thing. They play a very simple system, but they do it really well.” 
Echoing the words of his coach, DiPauli said his expe­rience playing both with and against Demko and much of the rest of this Boston college team gives Notre Dame an edge against a team as skilled as the Eagles. 
“I’ve been on a few teams with [Demko], and I’ve played against him quite a bit,” DiPauli said. “I know him. He’s a great kid, but I think the key against him is to get a lot of shots and bod­ies to the net, and that kinda frustrates him. And then once you get two three goals and keep shooting, the goals keep adding up. I mean, I know two years ago we beat him 6-1 or something like that, and every shot was go­ing in. So we kinda gotta get in his head, maybe run him a few times to get him off his game a little bit. He’s had a few shutouts, but I think if we crash the net hard, push him back in his crease a little bit, we’ll have success.” 
The Irish take on rival Boston college on Thursday at Kelley Rink at conte Forum in chestnut Hill, Massachusetts. The puck drops at 7:05 p.m. After break, the Irish return to ac­tion with a pair of games at No. 11 Denver. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 



THE oBSERVER | THURSDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2015 | NDSMcoBSERVER.coM 

M Bball 
coNTINuED FRoM PAGE 16 
defensively man-to-man wise,” Brey said. “Because we couldn’t rely on our man-to-man in champaign. Now, we did a heck of a job in zone and [Tuesday], for about six or seven possessions, zone gave us good stuff.” 
The Ramblers (5-3) enter Sunday’s contest off a home win over creighton, 68-65, on Saturday. Junior guard Milton Doyle, who started his career at Kansas be­fore transfer to loyola be­fore playing a game for the Jayhawks, is one of the lead­ers for the Ramblers in each of the three major statisti­cal categories; Doyle leads the squad with 14.4 points per game and 3.8 assists per game and is second in re­bounds with 5.3 per game. 
Senior guards Earl Peterson and Devon Turk also average double figures for the Ramblers, who also have wins over Toledo and San Diego this year. 
For Notre Dame, the spac­ing of its top five has been a concern all season long, specifically the dynamic be­tween senior forward Zach Auguste and sophomore for­ward Bonzie colson. 
“It’s probably a little bit better every week,” Brey said of the spacing. “We’re never gonna look as pretty with those guys, but they do some things on the other end of the floor like rebounding the ball where I’m oK living with not being as aestheti­cally pleasing as maybe the smaller lineup does.” 
Brey said colson, who has shifted to playing the four a year after serving as Auguste’s backup at the five, has been improving with the added responsibilities of his new position. 
“Bonz is getting great with the ball, facing the bucket,” Brey said. “Dribble exchange, you know, ball screening, helping. Both those guys can step out and space the floor.” 
Early in the season, soph­omore guard Matt Farrell and freshman forward Matt Ryan were the two main op­tions off the bench for Notre Dame. But Brey said junior forward Austin Torres was “on his mind” a couple weeks ago — the Granger native has parlayed that into play­ing time the last two out­ings, seeing the floor for four minutes at Illinois and five against Stony Brook. 
“I thought Torres gave us great minutes,” Brey said. “Those energy minutes where come in, do some stuff 
— and he’s always done that. I’ve got a lot of respect for him because he’s not playing 20 minutes, but he does what he’s supposed to do.” 
Farrell, who got 20 minutes of playing time against Stony Brook, remains the sixth man for Notre Dame head­ing into its loyola clash, and Brey said he likes what he have the next two days, and that’s oK. But hopefully Friday afternoon, I’ll have attention, and we’ll be able to focus on loyola.” 


Tipoff is slated for 2 p.m. Sunday between the Irish and the Ramblers. 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu 
can do with the ball in his hands. 
“I think Matt Farrell gives us another off-the-dribble guy,” Brey said. “So when he’s in there with Steve and Demetrius we got three guys that can kind of break you down a little bit.” 
While a winter break slate that features a matchup with Indiana on Dec. 19 awaits the Irish, Brey’s players will first have to clear the challenge of finals — and the Irish head coach knows his players are juggling studying with bas­ketball this week. 



“It’s a busy academic week, too, you know,” Brey said. “My guys — I don’t know how much attention I’m going to 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT NDSMcoBSERVER.coM | THURSDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2015 | THE oBSERVER 





PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
W Bball 
coNTINuED FRoM PAGE 16 
injury, and sophomore forward Kathryn Westbeld played only nine minutes despite starting. McGraw said Westbeld allowed some shots that should not have been open. 
McGraw said she was pleased with how Notre Dame opened, but thought the team’s offensive aggression was lacking as the Blue Demons staged a comeback. 
“They pressed us in the first half, which I thought we handled really well. I was really happy with that,” McGraw said. “But then they played us half court, which we had worked on, and we missed a lot of shots and didn’t really work for the shots that we could’ve gotten. We were content to take a jumper and maybe set­tled for some shots. 
“We tried to drive the ball and didn’t have any success, with the exception of Arike, who I thought played very well tonight.” 
Despite the underwhelming ending, McGraw said the game was be a positive experience for Notre Dame. 
“It’s a win over a ranked team and a very good team. They’ve only got three losses, and to two of the top five, so they’re a good team,” McGraw said. “I think we learned a lot. We played well in the first half, can watch some film in the second half and fig­ure out how we get better from there.” 
Next up for the Irish is a road matchup at Tcu on Saturday. Afterward, they will have a break until Dec. 21. 
“overall, four ranked teams in a row and finals coming up, we’re tired,” McGraw said. “We need to get it together for one more game. Good poise down the stretch, but not what we expected.” 
Notre Dame faces Tcu on Saturday in Fort Worth, Texas, at noon. 
Contact Renee Griffin at  rgriffi6@nd.edu 




ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | ND 95, DEPAul 90 
Irish hold off comeback from No. 18 DePaul 

By RENEE GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 
No. 3 Notre Dame hung on to defeat No. 18 DePaul, 95-90, on Wednesday night at Purcell Pavilion, holding off the late-charging Blue Demons after tak­ing a halftime lead of 65-39. 
DePaul (6-3) started the game playing press defense but aban­doned it at halftime when Notre Dame (8-1) made 76.5 percent of its shots from the field and sank 8-of-11 from outside the arc in the first 20 minutes. 
Graduate student guard Madison cable was responsible for four of those 3-pointers and added another in the second half. She finished with a team-high 21 points. led by cable, this year’s squad may be the best 3-point shooting team Irish head coach Muffet McGraw has had at Notre Dame, she said after the game. 
The second half was a differ­ent story, as the Blue Demons switched to man defense and subsequently outscored the Irish 51-30, making McGraw sweat a little as the game clock ran out with Notre Dame’s previously-wide lead barely intact. 
“Going into the second half, I was really, really, really con­cerned with how we came out of the locker room,” McGraw said. “They got on a 17-4 run. our defense was absolutely unacceptable. 
“That is not the way we want to play. I thought DePaul shot the ball really well, but we got com­placent in the second half.” 
Just behind cable in scor­ing, freshmen guards Marina Mabrey and Arike ogunbowale tallied 16 points each. 
Mabrey got her first ca­reer start, but McGraw stuck with a rotation at the position. ogunbowale and senior guard Hannah Huffman played sig­nificant time, while sophomore guard Mychal Johnson played the most minutes in a game in her career with 28. 
The post game was more of a struggle for the Irish, as they recorded only six offensive re­bounds. Star sophomore forward Brianna Turner is still sidelined with a shoulder injury, though her arm was no longer in a sling Wednesday. 
Junior forward Taya Reimer played 16 minutes as she slow­ly recovers from an Achilles 
see W BBAll PAGE 15 


KATHRYNE ROBINSON | The Observer 

Graduate student guard Madison Cable pushes the ball upcourt past a DePaul defender during Notre Dame’s 95-90 victory over the Blue Demons on Wednesday night at Purcell Pavilion. Cable led the Irish with 21 points. 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Notre Dame looks to build win streak against Loyola 

By ALEX CARSON 
Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame, riding a two-game winning streak, will get one last pre-finals con­test Sunday when it wel­comes loyola chicago to Purcell Pavilion for a 2 p.m. tipoff. 
After struggling at the Advocare Invitational, the Irish (6-2) have responded well the last two outings, topping Illinois, 84-79, on the road Dec. 2 before re­turning home for an 86-61 win over Stony Brook on Tuesday night. 
In the second half at Illinois, head coach Mike Brey shifted to a zone de­fense to find success on the defensive end. But in Tuesday’s win, the zone only made a short cameo, with Brey noting the need for his team’s man-to-man defense to improve against Stony Brook. 
“We needed to improve 
see M BBAll PAGE 14 

HOCKEY 
ND, Boston college to renew rivalry 

By HUNTER McDANIEL 
Sports Writer 
The Irish have one more test this semester before they break for finals and christmas vacation — a Thursday game at No. 3 Boston college. 
No. 18 Notre Dame (8-4­4, 5-1-2 Hockey East) car­ries a three-game win streak into Boston, where it will renew its rivalry with the Eagles (13-1-1, 6-0-1), who have been nearly unbeatable through the first half of the season. 
Irish head coach Jeff Jackson said he respects the way the Eagles play and that this will be another tough conference foe for the Irish heading into break. 
“We’re gonna have our hands full,” Jackson said. “It’s another test, like Harvard, similar offensive capabilities. Their third line may even be deeper offen­sively than Harvard’s was, so we have to make sure that we do things right with the puck and do things right as far as our discipline goes. If we play the way that we have shown at times and we can do it for 60 minutes, we’ll put ourselves into position to win.” 
Heading into the game, the Irish sit just one point behind second-place Boston college in the Hockey East race, and, according to se­nior center Thomas DiPauli, a strong showing against the Eagles would be a big step in the right direction for Notre Dame. 
“We have confidence right now,” DiPauli said. “We’ve played well the past cou­ple weekends, and B.c. is a good team. But I think we’re better. We’ve got better forwards. We’re better de­fensively, so we just gotta go in there with a good mind­set. A win would be huge going into break, going into Denver. So that’s gonna help us out too.” 
For Jackson, what has 
see HocKEY PAGE 13 




