The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 24 | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Students compete to design virtual tour 
ND mobile app will feature five best tour designs of VisitND Challenge early in November 
By JENNA WILSON 
news writer 
earlier this semester, notre dame students were invited to participate in the visitnd challenge, a compe­tition in which individuals or teams of students com­pete head-to-head to see who can create the best vir­tual tour of campus. 
don ginocchio, the 
universit y  a l liances  
director at  sap, one of t he  
challenge’s  sponsors,  said  

the challenge was created after the university realized visitors wanted a cohesive tour of campus, but could not find one online. 
“unfortunately, the re­sources [for a tour] are sort of spread around at notre dame,” ginocchio said. “you know, you can go to the web­site, there are some tour nd resources for the bigger sights, the alumni office has some resources, athletics has resources, admissions has resources, but it takes some effort to put them all together.” 
The winning tours will ap­pear on the nd mobile app, which will allow visitors to campus to utilize the tour, 
see app PAGE 5 



saint mary’s hosts transgender activist 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 
saint mary’s department of gender and women’s stud­ies and the psychology de­partment hosted meghan buell, a transgender woman, who shared her experiences at dalloway’s clubhouse on wednesday. 
buell, who is the founder of Trees, inc., a non-profit orga­nization that brings educa­tion and resources about trans issues to small towns in the midwest, said she grew up in a small town in indiana and she spent 35 years struggling with 
see buell PAGE 7 





Exhibition raises suicide awareness 
By SELENA PONIO 
news writer 
eleven hundred backpacks scattered across south Quad wednesday held a heavier message than the book weight they usually carry. 
The backpacks were a suicide awareness exhibition called “send silence packing,” and each one represented one of the 1,100 col­lege students who commit suicide each year. The exhibition was a collaborative effort between active minds, a non-profit organization, and the notre dame’s national alliance on mental illness club (nami-nd). 
each backpack acted as a small token of remembrance for one of the lives claimed by suicide. sophomore courtney Koch, a member of nami-nd said she hoped this display would act as a conversation-starter on campus and convince students to ask more questions about mental health. 
“mental illness is a legitimate health issue and should be treated with the same amount of serious­ness as we treat physical illnesses,” Koch said. “it’s not just something that should be pushed off to the side.” 
nami-nd president junior Katie paige said the planning process for the exhibition started at the end of last spring when the club received approval from active minds. paige 
see bacKpacKs PAGE 7 


Sandy Hook teacher stresses power of hope 
By ANDREA VALE 
news writer 
Kaitlin roig-debellis, a teacher present during the december 2012 shootings at sandy hook elementary school, spoke wednesday night in the hesburgh library about how hope helped her overcome her experience, found a non-profit and publish a book in the wake of the shooting. 
despite the grim events that acted as a catalyst to roig-debellis’ talk, her words were optimistic and encouraging. 
“your perspective determines how you react or not to every situa­tion in your life,” roig-debellis said, “you have the choice. you alone have the power … it will make the impossible feel possible.” 
roig-debellis described the events and choices that molded her life, from her adoption as an infant to her first teaching job at sandy hook — all of which involved “the balance found in life. There are highs and lows, there is good and bad found on any one day, in any one moment. 

“both are always present,”roig­debellis said. “it is a choice which to focus on.” 
roig-debellis said during the shootings, her choice became one between life and death for herself and her 15 first-grade students. she said she ushered her students into a tiny bathroom, and together they hid in silence as gunshots rang out. 
“For myself the only decision that needed to be made was, ‘do i want my students and i to sur­vive?’” roig-debellis said, “The only answer to that was yes. … what i was asking them to do must have sounded impossible. our 
see sandy hooK PAGE 4 

senaTe PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 8 scene PAGE 10 women’s soccer PAGE 16 smc sporTs PAGE 16 





ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green
           Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: mike malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 


Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 

expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
If you could witness any event — past, present or future — what would it be? 



Franny Wall 
sophomore 
le mans hall 

“i want to witness beyonce run for president.” 



Jasmine Salazar 
junior le mans hall 

“nd vs. michigan game last year.” 

Madeline Flynn 
first-year 
mccandless hall 
“The Kanye west-Taylor swift incident at the vmas.” 



Abbey Lukas 
sophomore 
holy cross hall 

“notre dame win the national championship.” 

Allie Kroehler 
junior le mans hall 
“The day the wild wins the stanley cup.” 



Katie Boswell 
junior le mans hall 

“when i pass the ncleX exam and become a nurse.” 

Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
clare Kossler Zach Klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
rachel o’grady hunter mcdaniel Kathryn marshall ben padanilam alaina anderson 

Graphics 

Scene Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
susan Zhu Kelly mcgarry 


Photo 

caitlyn Jordan Viewpoint Lecture and Book Football Pep Rally Vigil Mass Volleyball vs. Florida Germany’s scott olehnie 
Signing Compton Family Ice Leighton Concert Hall State Confrontation with McKenna Hall Arena DPAC Joyce Center the Holocaust 5 p.m.-6:30 p.m. 5:45 p.m.-6:30 p.m. 30 minutes after 1 p.m.-3 p.m. O’Shaughnessy Hall 

Corrections 

An evening with author A home game weekend conclusion of football The Irish take on the 4:30 p.m.-6 p.m. 
The observer regards itself as Sam Quinones. tradition. game. Seminoles. Opening reception. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Reading Series Men’s Soccer Pain Management Women’s Soccer vs. Integral Ecology 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

Breen-Phillips Hall Alumni Stadium Jordan Hall of Science Florida State Geddes Hall 
however, recognize that we will make 
basement 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 11 a.m.-12 p.m. Alumni Stadium 7 p.m.- 8 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7:30p.m.-8:30 p.m. The Irish take on the Part of Dooley 1 p.m.-3 p.m. Lecture series 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Undergraduate Cavaliers at home in Society lecture series The Irish face off discussing Pope 
we can correct our error. 

students read. an ACC matchup. featuring Paul Christo. against the Seminoles. Francis and the planet. 




SENATE 



Group discusses Dorm Week, Design for America 
paid adverTisemenT 

By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
student senate met wednesday night to talk about dorm week and to learn about human-centered de­sign projects on campus currently being carried out by notre dame’s chapter of design for america (dFa). 
The meeting opened with a dis­cussion about the first-ever dorm week, which took place last week. several senators criticized the tim­ing of the event, both in the year and the day. mcglinn hall senator christina murphy and howard hall senator amy smikle both said dorm week could be improved by hosting it at a different point in the year. 
“i think fall, especially football season, is a really busy time for a lot of people and they have to prioritize what they want to do,” murphy said. “i know we did it because of the weather and all the outdoor activi­ties the dorms wanted to include, but i think we could look at doing it another time when people have more opportunity and desire to look for things to keep them busy.” 
paid adverTisemenT 
“during the day it was a little ear­ly,” smikle said. “For people who have late classes and for people who get out of class and want some down time and don’t really want to go straight from class straight to go dunk someone or go to a cookout, i think it could be beneficial to move it later in the day when people are trying to procrastinate homework or are coming back from dinner and see something on the quad.” 
several senators also lodged complaints about communication on all fronts. badin hall senator alexandra Fincher said some hall presidents felt they were not given enough time to come up with events, while pangborn hall sena­tor Taylor still said issues commu­nicating with the student activities office led to the cancellation of pangborn’s karaoke event because the speakers were never delivered. 
carroll hall senator ryan heard said a possible miscommunica­tion prevented carroll from fully participating. 
“Technically, carroll is on south Quad, but i don’t think we were included on south Quad festival day,” heard said. “carroll just didn’t really do anything at all for the en­tire dorm week. so next year if we could get included on south Quad, that’d be great.” 
after the dorm week discussion, John wetzel, a leader of the dFa chapter, led the student senators in a workshop on human-centered design. The workshop took sena­tors through dFa’s project at notre dame to reduce food waste in the dining halls. 
wetzel said the dFa model was a good example for the senators to adopt when solving problems in student government. 
“The human system, such as a government or a university, re­quires a little bit of a different pro­cess than a mechanical, biological or financial system, when you’re addressing the problems that are faced by those communities,” he said. “They’re very contextual, so you need to know what’s going on in your dorm and in the specific population you’re looking at and targeting, or within the university as a whole.” 


Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 



The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 



Nuns examine life of archbishop 
By BECKI JEREN 
news writer 
sister amy cavender and sister patricia ann Thompson held a conversation wednesday at saint mary’s about their may 2015 trip to san salvador, el salvador, to attend the beatification of archbishop oscar romero. The two nuns shared stories and in­sights from their experience, along with pictures they took during the trip. 
cavender said prior to the trip she had “never dreamed of going to the beatification.” 
she said catholic relief services 
— a nonprofit organization whose mission according to their website is to “assist impoverished and disadvantaged people over­seas” — made the trip possible by providing them with hospitality and accommodations. 
cavender and Thompson both spoke about romero’s life and provided background on his vari­ous works and accomplishments that contributed to the decision of the church to beatify him. romero was appointment arch­bishop of san salvador in 1977 because he was seen as a “safe choice,” cavender said. 
during the 1970s, violence and murder began to escalate in san salvador, and following his ap­pointment, romero “became more confrontational … very outspoken about social justice,” cavender said. 
romero was shot to death while saying mass in 1980 for being an outspoken advocate against the injustice happening among the 

Sandy Hook 
conTinued From page 1 
classroom bathroom was a three­by-four foot space. 
“ ... we stood there huddled, squished like sardines, listening to the sheer horror of what was happening on the other side of the cinder block. pure evil reigned. my students looked up with me with pleading eyes and said, ‘miss roig, i want to have christmas this year,’ ‘miss roig, i want to have my mom,’ ‘miss roig, i don’t want to die to­day.’ i said, ‘i know, it’s going to be all right.’ 
“i did not think it was going to be all right … and so in that moment that i was sure was going to be our last, i told my students how lucky i was that they were in my class, how happy i was to be their teacher and that i loved them all very, very much. i wanted something positive to be the last thing they heard.” 
Following the shootings, roig­debellis said she struggled with a loss of independence as a result of trauma. 
“i couldn’t go anywhere in pub­
lic. ... i couldn’t be in the dark. … it was infuriating,” she said. 
however, roig-debellis said in choosing hope, she was able to poor and repressed in el salvador at the time, cavender said, and is seen as a martyr for his faith. 
concerning the beatification ceremony itself, cavender said “people came from all over the world, [the ceremony] was very well done, very well organized.” 
more than 100,000 people gathered to witness his beatifica­tion, she said. she and Thompson said volunteers turned out in great numbers to help distribute water to the attendees. 
“i am impressed by [the prom­ise] of el salvador’s future,” cavender said of the volunteer work she observed. 
cavender and Thompson said over the course of their trav­els, they also visited the chapel of the divine providence hos­pital where romero died, and his home, which was turned into a museum in honor of him. although romero was a dioc­esan priest, he resided with Jesuit priests for many years, they said. 
“he took the notion of liv­ing in simplicity very seriously,” cavender said. 
she said she and Thompson visited the monseñor romero center at central american university — which is run by the Jesuit priests — and the metropolitan cathedral of the holy savior in san salvador, where romero is buried. 
“[romero] remains a source of inspiration and empowerment for many people,” cavender said at the end of the talk. 
Contact Becki Jeren at  rjeren01@saintmarys.edu 

begin the healing process through starting a non-profit and penning a book. 
“instead of focusing on ques­tions that i was never going to an­swer, i had to focus on the ones that i could,” she said, “and in focusing on those questions ... it gave me re­newed hope because it gave me a purpose.” 
as gifts poured in for the sandy hook survivors from across the world, roig-debellis said her class responded by sending gifts to an elementary school in Tennessee, who in turn sent white boards to a class in arizona. 
From this pattern roig-debellis said she founded classes4classes, a non-profit that aims to “actively engage students in learning a social curriculum through the exchange of gifts with other K-8 classrooms, which fulfill a need or vocational objective,” according to its website. 
“i am an ordinary person. i am a teacher, i am a wife, i am a run­ner, i am a survivor,” roig-debellis said. “i am just like you. … i am somebody who made a choice that what could have been unbearable wasn’t going to be. we each have that choice.” 

Contact Andrea Vale at  avale@nd.edu 



cartographer delivers address for digital week 
By MAURA MONAHAN 
news writer 
it’s an exciting time to be a cartographer. 
Tim wallace, a graphics edi­tor and cartographer for the new york Times and ph.d. candidate in geography at the university of wisconsin-madison, deliv­ered the keynote speech, titled “newsroom geography,” at notre dame’s geographic information systems (gis) day. The speech, given wednesday afternoon in carey auditorium at hesburgh library, was part of notre dame’s second annual digital week and explored the design process and applications of cartography in journalism. 
gis day is an “annual salute to geospatial technology and its power to transform and better our lives and the lives of those around us,” according to the center for research computing’s website. 
wallace said his design pro­cess is influenced by the belief that the best graphics are those that facilitate reader comprehen­sion by making complex stories accessible. 
“a really good graphic will im­mediately give you the story,” wallace said. “you don’t want to overburden or overwhelm your reader. a good principle that i work with would be, ‘how can i strip this down, or design this thing, so that the person who i’m communicating with knows what i’m talking about immedi­ately and fully understands the concept that i’m trying to convey when they finish reading it?’” 
in reports of investigations of disasters, such as the malaysian airlines flight that disappeared in 2014, wallace said geographi­cal graphics can be especially useful in transmitting complex data to readers. 
“people were really craving information when flight mh370 went missing,” wallace said. “we’re always looking for reliable data to show what’s happening, and it doesn’t always come in a very friendly, mapping-ready format. we have to find the pat­tern in the data, the signal in the noise. we find the visual to sup­port the story.” 
comparative geographic vi­suals also help to make areas all over the world accessible to read­ers, especially through graphical juxtaposition of familiar locales with distant ones, wallace said. 
interactive maps, he said, are a favorite of readers because they allow sophisticated spatial mapping of information, such as chronological maps that show stories visually developing in time. advancements in technol­ogy have transformed the indus­try, as mapmakers can now use 
paid adverTisemenT 
more precise data and more high resolution satellite imagery than ever before. 
“i would say that nowadays we are experiencing ‘geo heyday,’” wallace said. “if you compare it to past times — people have always been making maps and doing geography, but the tools for visualization have changed.” 
cartography at the new york Times has been impacted by re­cent trends toward readers con­suming news online rather than in print, he said. 
“one of the foremost things we think about when we’re making our maps is not just to show the geography but also to think of the scale of the display that people are consuming information on,” wallace said. “more recently in the last few months we have started creating graphics that are really designed to be mobile first.” 
wallace said he was excited about the possibility for geo­graphical content to continue to create and support journalistic storytelling on the cutting edge. 
“nowadays, it seems like the sky’s the limit. we can do a lot with interactive data. we can do a lot with colors,” he said. “but maybe we’ll find over time that that sky wasn’t the limit.” 

Contact Maura Monahan at mmonaha@nd.edu 




App 
conTinued From page 1 



along with the map and app’s other functions, ginocchio said. 
“notre dame has invest­ed in the nd mobile app, which most of us have on our phones, and there is a tour module on there that notre dame hasn’t deployed, hasn’t used, so the idea is solicit the creativity and innovation of students to create those tours that even­tually will be available to visitors and really anyone,” ginocchio said. “we all have an opinion on what to see at notre dame and we all have different, interesting opin­ions on what to see because we are blessed with such a beautiful campus. 
“so it was really those ideas coming together, and the administration wanting to sponsor [this event].” 
ginocchio said the chal­
“You know, a lot 
of people visit 
Notre Dame, they 
aren’t neccesarily 
here for football 
weekend or for 
an admissions 
tour. They are 
here because 
they are passing 
through, or they 
are a friend or 
family member of 
someone who goes 


to Notre Dame ... ” 
Don Ginocchio 
University Alliances Director 
SAP 
lenge asks students to create a tour that is thematically linked, easy to follow and innovative. 
“it could be a theme around spiritual sights, architectur­al sights, athletic sights, pro­spective student sights, what a prospective student would like to see,” he said. “The idea of the contest is to en­gage students in educational and fun experience that ex­poses them to technology.” 
The deadline to enter a tour proposal was sept. 21, ginocchio said. a committee will review all the entries, and on sept. 25, the top 10 entries will be announced. 
“The judges are the all-stars of the notre dame leadership,” ginocchio said. “we wanted to involve all the communities that have an opinion: athletics, game day operations, commu­nications, admissions and alumni. it’s a really nice way for the different stakehold­ers and constituents in the university to come together.” 
according to ginocchio, there are 13 judges, in­cluding Joyce lantz, di­rector of recruitment and communication for undergraduate admissions, Julie boynton, director of interior architecture and patrick Flynn, professor of computer science en­gineering and electrical engineering. 
ginocchio said after the university announces the top 10 entries, the winning teams will create their tour. The students will have to create a video to accompany each tour stop, along with a paragraph that explains the significance of each stop and a picture of each stop on the tour. once students cre­ate these videos, they will be placed in the tour module in the nd mobile app. 
The entries will then be judged again, and on nov. 6, the judges will choose top five tours. 
ginocchio said the tours will go live on the nd mobile app on nov. 13. 
“we don’t have and prob­ably will never have a lot of signage on campus,” he said. “what’s nice about technol­ogy is that it provides a non-intrusive way for those that have an interest to access all that information and decide what they want to see. we want everyone to appreciate notre dame the way we do.” 
ginocchio, who is on the judging committee, said the committee will consider fan and user feedback when evaluating the tours and choosing the winners. The winners will be announced on dec. 1. 
“There will be four win­ners. First place wins $2500, second prize is $1000, modo labs, who is the vendor for the software is providing an­other $1000 prize, and sap will provide sap merchan­dise to one of the winners,” ginocchio said. “The com­mittee did talk, and if there is another really great idea at that time we’ll evaluate if there is something we can do for that team, at least recog­nize them in some way, in­cluding just asking them to help us implement their tour, which is recognition within itself.” 
ginocchio said the chal­lenge aims to educate stu­dents in a fun and interesting way about technology and also help the university im­prove the visitor experience. 
“you know, a lot of people visit notre dame, they aren’t necessarily here for football weekend or for an admis­sions tour,” ginocchio said. “They are here because they are passing through, or they are a friend or family mem­ber of someone who goes to notre dame, or they’ve al­ways wanted to visit notre dame or they saw the movie rudy, and, you know, they want to see those sights. This will help them do that.” 


Contact Jenna Wilson at  jwilson@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




nami-nd representatives vol-
it the way you want.” the bathroom.” 

Backpacks Identity 
unteered to set up the exhibit, 
buell emphasized that the buell said this is dangerous 

conTinued From page 1 conTinued From page 1 
and many of them distributed 
journey for each transgender to members of the transgender 
informational fliers throughout 
person is different. community because in some 

said the event received over-the day. Koch said she hopes this her gender identity. “For every trans person that places, it is illegal to enter bath-
whelming support and in many event prompts people to strike up a “one of the toughest aspects speaks, the audience needs to rooms that do not match a per-
ways, it was a collaborative effort conversation. of my personal journey is not remember this is just one trans son’s assigned gender. 
from many different groups. “i’d like for people to be shocked finding, or not even knowing person speaking,” buell said. she said transgender students 
“it’s been a long process, but an by this event and to feel like this is 
how to find someone who was “The trans community is made have started avoiding bath-

extremely rewarding one as we too much and there shouldn’t be like me,” buell said. “when i of very diverse, very unique in-rooms at school altogether by 
fight to end the stigma of mental this many victims,” Koch said. had an experience or a curiosity dividuals, and every journey is not eating or drinking during 
illness and suicide,” paige said. “i skoch said “send silence or something happened in my their own and unique to them. the day, which can affect both 
believe that this powerful display packing” last came to campus in life that didn’t fit in to what i was i can tell you things about be-their physical health and aca­
will force people to stop, think and the spring of 2014, and she said she being shown around me as the ing in the trans community that demic career. 
start talking.” hopes to repeat the event’s success binary and male gender, i kind are completely opposite of what Though buell describes her-
Koch said the stigmatization of in battling the stigma of mental 
of said ‘all right. i don’t know someone else has experienced. self as an open book, she said 

depression and mental illnesses illnesses. what that is, but i’m going to put “give every trans person the the experience of being trans-
was the driving force behind the “in my four years here, this con-it up in my head and not worry opportunity to tell their story gender is a hard one. she said 
event. versation has gained a lot of mo-about it and not think about it.’” and to talk about their journey, one way to make it easier for 
“what a lot of people don’t un-mentum and i think i’ve witnessed 
buell said she searched the the challenges, the successes, transgender people is to not im­

derstand is depression is not just myself in various interactions, and internet to find other people like because it’s not going to be the pose gender roles from a young 
sadness,” Koch said. “everyone on a broad level, a breaking down her, and spent five years reading same as the last trans person age, and to raise children in a 
feels sad, but depression is a legiti-of that stigma,” skoch said. “This biographies of other transgen-you spoke to.” more gender-neutral way un­
mate disorder that could be chemi-awareness is the goal of this event der people before she was able buell said one of the big-til they express gender on their 
cal or an event in your life that and other events that nami spon­to self-identify as transgender. gest questions concerning the own. 
triggers it.” sors ... and what the notre dame “i have been described by a lot transgendered community is “i don’t wish this upon any-
senior and former nami-nd community is working towards 
of my friends and people here in the problem with which public one. This is tough,” buell said. 

president maggie skoch said her through the various efforts on the community and the area as bathroom to use. “i’ve made a lot more out of it 
personal journey and stories of campus. the most out and proud trans “everybody needs to go to than i ever expected to make 
other notre dame students’ jour-“‘send silence packing’ makes person they’ve ever met,” buell the bathroom,” she said. “it re-out of it. it’s tough. so if you 
neys kindled her passion to spread tangible a very difficult topic and said. “i’m just meghan and i’m ally has an impact on the trans-have children and you allow 
awareness for mental illnesses. issue through a visual display The just living my life and i’m doing gender community. … it makes them to express their gender 
“i think it’s easy to provide peo-hope is that this event itself will 
it the way i feel is best for me. choosing a bathroom difficult when they’re ready to express 

ple with a statistic, to say that sui-bring about the continuation of a “i hope other people realize sometimes when your gender their gender, it gives them a bet­
cide and mental health issues are conversation that’s already hap­it’s okay to be yourself and beat expression is showing the oppo-ter shot of not going down the 
things that need to be addressed,” pening ... a conversation about to your own drum and go about site of what the gender marker wrong path and having to re­
skoch said. “what this display does mental health at notre dame, life in the best way you can and on your driver’s license says or verse direction or correct direc­
really well is take what is a mere america and across the world.” not let others push you into box-is different from what the ste-tion, which is tough.” 
statistic and brings it into the real es and push you into a way of reotypical gender expression 
world, into a display, and it fosters Contact Selena Ponio at living,” she said. “do it for your-may be. There’s this point of Contact Nicole Caratas at 
self; it’s your life. enjoy it and do hesitancy when you walk up to ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu paid adverTisemenT 

conversation as a result.” sponio@nd.edu 


INSIDE COLUMN 

reverse culture shock 
Alaina Anderson 
news writer 

you’d think i’d be used to it by now. 
as a junior, i should expect and accept the late nights writing papers and studying for exams. but as a junior returning from abroad, accepting the late nights and study culture has been a lot harder than i imag­ined. before you go abroad, people always warn you about the culture shock you’ll experience when you get to a new country. what they don’t prepare you for is how the country you called home will turn into a cul­ture you’ll never be ready to return to. 
my time in rome was the most amazing experience of my life. in my 102 days abroad, i traveled to eight countries and made mem­ories that will last a lifetime. To keep those memories alive, during my many hours of procrastination i go back and read all of my blog posts from my travels. The exposure to so many new cultures and experiences inspired me to write detailed descriptions about how i felt and what i saw on some of my weekend trips. it was a time for me to reflect and absorb everything around me through writing, the one way i can absorb my thoughts and experiences best. 
as much as i missed life at saint mary’s, nothing could prepare me for the shocking amounts of work and responsibility wait­ing to swallow me whole. it’s a huge lifestyle change to make in a short amount of time, especially when weekends that once con­sisted of plane rides to new countries now consist of studying and an endless flow of papers (english and communication major problems). although it usually makes me sad, one of the beauties of my procrastina­tion problem is discovering new ways to handle culture shock from reading my travel blog. 
here is one passage i always return to whenever i can’t cope and feel like losing hope: 
“i’ve never really been a person who enjoys having a routine or a strict schedule to fol­low. i’ve always kind of gone with the flow, taking whatever life throws at me. To some, this quality may seem irrational or unstable. To me, i’ve realized it to be a quality i’ve re­cently discovered about myself and want to embrace more and more. i love embracing change. change makes me stronger, helps me live a happier lifestyle, teaches me to embrace positive thinking, opens my eyes to the huge world around me and eliminates boredom and regret from what-ifs.” 
it’s ok to miss my life abroad, but i have to take my own advice and embrace the changes life throws at me. after all, change is inevitable. although my culture shock and assimilation back to the saint mary’s lifestyle has been difficult, i would never wish to rush my time here. saint mary’s is my home, even with all the work that comes with it. in the end, the changes i face will only make me stronger, and i am so ready to embrace every moment of it. 
Contact Alaina Anderson at                          aander02@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
What’s good? Women supporting women 
Jennifer Vosters 
belleview 
it could have been a comedy: celebrity no. 1 dishes about celebrity no. 2 in an interview; celeb­rity no. 2 calls out celebrity no. 1 on live television (with celebrity no. 3 cheering in the background); america celebrates. 
except it was the vmas (which could be clas­sified as a comedy based on the outfits), and ce­lebrity no. 1 was miley cyrus and no. 2 was nikki minaj (and no. 3 was rebel wilson in a cop cos­tume, looming in the background). Two women in the same industry lopping at each other’s ham­strings while a third revels in the drama. and how many of us — me included — walked around for the next few days tossing out “miley, what’s good?” like spitballs? 
we encourage this kind of catfighting because on some level it’s satisfying to watch. it’s a familiar trope that’s fun to laugh at. except this continues in real life, beyond red carpets and spotlights. Time and again, we hear of women — especially women in power or competition — going for each other’s throats. and we laugh. 
or at least, we’re supposed to. That’s why, despite increasing disgust over its polarizing content, we still have shows like “The view.” but the four hosts may have finally overstepped their boundaries by attacking a miss america contestant, Kelley Johnson, who’s also a nurse. “why does she have a doctor’s stethoscope around her neck?” jeered host Joy behar, who in addition to coming across as profoundly stupid angered medical professionals across the nation. 
Fortunately, nurses and their allies took to so­cial media to put “The view” back in its place. like many traditionally female occupations, nursing is often the object of misunderstanding, condescen­sion and ridicule. but coming from other women, this double standard stings even more. we can comfort ourselves knowing how much we hated “The view” anyway and how we’d never ever say anything like that about nurses. but how many of us can say we genuinely respect all the other miss america contestants who get torn to shreds on so­cial media and don’t have a greater community to fall back on? 
The problem bleeds into more serious avenues, too. women join the ranks of those who swear that famous athlete X couldn’t possibly have raped that girl; she’s a liar, she’s trashy, he’s innocent. white feminists disregard the damage we’ve caused by prioritizing ourselves over women of color, pro­longing and even deepening the rut between the privileged and underprivileged that we’ve sworn to bridge for ourselves. are we so afraid of losing the respect and opportunities we’ve gained that we’re unwilling to share the spotlight, even with each other? 
i don’t feel sorry for miley cyrus, i don’t think nikki minaj received or made any serious damage and it’s pretty clear that Kelley Johnson and her fellow contestants will be just fine. but when wom­en who don’t support each other get more attention than women who do, our efforts for equity and respect are undermined. when we aren’t our own best friends, how can we expect to find allies? how can we say we’re moving forward when we’re claw­ing over each other to get there? and if we’re not — if the rest of us are taking the high road and lifting each other up — why are we encouraging our most public representatives to behave this way? 
The women of notre dame and saint mary’s are in a unique position to live out this commitment of support across boundaries. in our references to and interactions with each other, we can choose to treat each other not as opponents but as com­ponents of the same community. in the face of so much work to do — combatting sexual assault, eliminating the wage gap and shattering that glass ceiling, to name a few — we’ll be our own best friends if we can be each other’s allies. our inter­ests as women and as people in this community rely on securing the best interests of our neigh­bors. That mentality can make a difference. 
so don’t sneer at a woman’s career or lifestyle or outfit. don’t dish out cheap insults to those who aren’t around to spar back. don’t defend or sub­scribe to stereotypes. and don’t cheer when wom­en in the spotlight tear each other down. instead, demonstrate what we demand from others and show other women — all other women — the dig­nity we expect for ourselves. 
That’s what’s good. 
Jennifer Vosters is a senior living in Le Mans Hall. She is an English major with minors in theatre and Italian. She can be reached at jvoste01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



Where you were born and where you die 
April Feng 
story Time 

For all my international student friends who cannot be with their families during mid-autumn moon Festival this sunday. 
For all my friends who are experiencing cultural shock. 
For all those who are struggling to blend in and to find a home and to those who are still trying to find, accept and appreciate who they are and who they are becoming.

          (pronounced ku-hsiang) 
noun 

The place where you were born and where you die (translated by Jenny ng). 
“i have been away from  
for two years now, and i don’t think i will ever be back again.” i ex­plained to a freshman girl from vietnam, who was sobbing and telling me how much she missed home and how hard it had been to blend in notre dame. 
“april, what is  
? is it chinese? does it mean china?” 
“not really.” 

“does it mean hometown? Family?” 
“no, not exactly.” 
“what is it, then?” 

oddly enough, i did not know how to put the word in english. yet, this feeling of “i cannot translate it” is another form of  

i left china and came to america two years ago. little did i know then that i was embarking on a great journey, a journey of finding what meant to me. after 13 hours up in the air in the world of bliss, i landed in reality. Two hours later, i was on an airport shuttle in the middle of an endless cornfield. i was surrounded by a group of people of all colors speaking different languages (most of them i could not understand). i was very much lost, but of one thing i was sure — this place was definitely not home. 


during my first year at nd, though i was busily embracing exciting new challenges, china — the place where i was born and raised — always came back to me in my sweetest dreams: i was standing in the yellow river, with my feet deeply buried in the mud of my home country. i was riding a bike along the central line of beijing, from Tiananmen square to the bird nest, surrendering to the pulse of the city. i was eating the fish my grandma made for me, letting the taste of home cooked meals sink into my body. 
most frequently however, my dream was not about the beautiful images mentioned above. it was filled by one motion: i
 was walking on a path, a path to home, to my  . 
Then, there i was, at beijing international 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“Inside myself is a place where I live all alone and that’s where you renew your springs that never dry up.” 
— Pearl Buck      Writer and novelist 
airport, back in china for christmas break. i saw my parents waving to me from a distance. i ran toward them and gave each of them a big hug. Quite unexpectedly, my mom put her nose close to my face, sniffed hard and said, “wow, Feng dan (Feng dan is my chinese name), you smell like america!” i laughed. “come on mom, does it mat­ter?” she looked at me for a while and whispered, “no.” nevertheless, i could see from her eyes and i knew right away. it did matter. in the smell of america, something about me had already irre­versibly changed, without me even knowing it. i was no longer considered full chinese. i heard a crispy broken sound. The string between china and
          snapped. 
i left china after two weeks, confused and afraid. up in the air again, i experienced, for the first time in my life, the feeling of rootlessness. There i was, a tiny person, floating in the sky sur­rounded only by clouds, flying from one place to another, neither of them my  
suddenly, i was terrified by the journey, by the changes already taken place and yet to come, by the person i was becoming. i had a long conversation with my best friend the first night i was on campus. “you have 
to first find yourself to find  ,” she said, “and the best way to do so is to travel.” 
The following christmas break, i spent much time walking around beijing. it was the first time that i truly closely and carefully looked at the city, a place where i had lived for 18 years. i climbed to the top of Jing mountain and admired the Forbidden city at sunset, drawing the last ounce of heat from its long day. i tried to discover the old me in the warmth radiating from the jade and golden roof of the splendid royal palace. i sat by the foot of the thick cardinal wall surround­ing the Tiananmen square and leaned my entire body on it, thinking i would once again feel se­cured in its embrace, as i had many times as a child. i admired the asymmetry of the cornices of the Temple of heaven and climbed the sacred staircases in front of it, barefoot, dreaming that i could obtain a feeling of balance as i did before. i walked around the hutongs (narrow streets in traditional neighborhoods in beijing) and said hello to local people, trying to feel at home again. however, the buildings, the people, the colors, the smells — all of them became so strange, so distant to me. Though i still appreciated their as­tonishing beauty, i could only admire them from the perspective of april Feng, to whom they were simply beijing, not  
. i did find myself, but only part of it. 
i was up in the air again. in the dimly lighted cabin, i could not stop thinking about my ex­periences in beijing, again and again, until it occurred to me that neither china nor america would ever be  
for me. it is never a real concept until you leave it — the moment when you do, it changes from a place to live to a place to miss. my life had already taken me — through numerous transformations and conversions — to a place i had never been to, and when i turned back, the origin of my journey had already reced­ed into darkness. Forward had become the only choice. i just hoped, secretly but ardently, that i 
could take a piece of  with me. 

chinese new year arrived several days after i returned to campus. some of my chinese friends ordered some dishes from golden dragon and we celebrated the new year in the basement of Farley hall. we talked about those ingredients that one could never get in an american supermar­ket: sichuan green peppercorns that can make your entire mouth numb, the magical chinese anise that makes vegetable taste like meat, baby ginseng that can “increase your blood and nour­ish your vitality.” without these magical spices, sweet and sour pork tastes like ketchup-fried pork. general Tso chicken tastes like chicken mcnuggets soaked in ginger and vinegar water. we joked about the food and laughed very hard. Then, one of my friends said, “it is funny. These things will never taste like china, but they taste like  
.” That was the first time i heard the word since i came to america. i stopped laughing, cleared up all the complaints in my mind, and carefully tasted the food in my mouth. it was true. under the thick cover of basil, chipotle peppers and allspice, and mixed with all those 
american flavors, there it was,  . it was not a taste of china. it was not a taste of america. it was a mix­ture of both, like myself, and it was actually quite good. For some mysterious reasons, i felt like meeting an old friend in a new world. i will never forget that taste. it represents something to me. 
Two days after the new year dinner, i stood in front of a window in o’shaughnessy hall and looked at the golden campus at sunset. i acciden­tally caught the reflection of my eyes on the win­dow frame and suddenly, i saw it,  
than ever. i found it, finally, in my own eyes, and i understood at last. it is when you stare at yourself, long and hard, when you are no longer afraid of your changes, when you finally forgive, accept and appreciate who you are becoming, that you find 
o 
. it has never left, and it never will. it is always with you, every day and everywhere. 
Author’s Note: Thanks to Jenny Ng for giving me the 
best translation of  I have ever heard. 
Dan (April) Feng is a junior political science and economics double major. She is from Beijing, China and lives in Lyons Hall. April welcomes all comments (or complaints) and can be reached at dfeng@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“There is nothing like returning to a place that remains unchanged to find the ways in which you yourself have altered.” 
— Nelson Mandela     Revolutionary, politician and philanthropist 


By KELLY McGARRY 
scene writer 

platforms for speaking out against in­justice are not uncommon, but the mes­sage is never more powerful than when conveyed through art. 
Tuesday night at washington hall, the center for social concerns (csc) hosted two musical acts whose talents provide an outlet to illuminate social issues and call others to action. The musicians traveled from different parts of the appalachian region to share their regional culture and universal message with the community, especially students participating in the csc’s appalachia program. The typical venue for these artists might be a protest or rally, but their performance on a calm evening on notre dame’s campus served as a reminder to remain conscious of so­cial justice issues even in times of peace. 
The night began with a solo perfor­mance from singer-songwriter Tom breiding who hails from wheeling, wv, one of the sites for the csc’s appalachia 
By NICK LAUREANO 
scene writer 

my Film, Television and Theatre class­mates know, i have a propensity to inter­pret everything i watch as a western (even “mad men”). i think i am fascinated by the manner in which westerns use symbols to establish a deep, almost collective my­thology. white hats, boots with spurs, and six shooters trigger thoughts of a frontier populated with lonely, troubled men who must ultimately use violence in the name of justice. To my classmates’ relief — or hopefully, if perhaps a bit narcissistically, disappointment — i do not believe “mad max: Fury road” is a western. 
what i love most about “Fury road,” which is playing Thursday through saturday in debartolo 101, is how its richly textured mythology is presented. rather than give much in the way of exposition, “Fury road” simply immerses the audi­ence into its world, no questions asked. consider how director george miller pres­ents the audience with a haggard society under the heel of an ozymandian ruler, whose power comes from his control of the water supply. with just a few delicately framed shots, miller displays the slaves’ conflicting hatred and reverence towards their despot, immortan Joe. look at the tattoos designating max rockatansky’s “crazy blood” as “hi-octane,” which seam­lessly blend the film’s dieselpunk aesthetic with miller’s own twisted vision of the fu­ture. The most telling detail in this vein is the attention paid to the ceremony of immersion seminar. his performance included many heart-breaking originals that called attention to workers’ rights. a captivating storyteller, Tom gave ac­counts of the lives of 20th century min­ers and the abuses they suffered. his lyrics told their stories in a narrative style that emphasized the humanity of the miners and their families. one par­ticularly riveting song “The women and children of ludlow” recollected the horrific ludlow massacre, in which the coal companies opened fire on a tent camp of striking mineworkers and their families. in his lyrics, breiding made frequent references to the united mine workers of america, the labor union that sought to protect mine workers in the early 20th century, as it still does today. breiding’s dedication to the rights of workers was obvious in his focused lyrics and passionate performance. 
after breiding’s performance, The emancipators, a Knoxville-based band that identifies their genre as subver­sive hootenanny, took the stage. The 
war. steering wheels to the “war rigs” are stacked and stored in the form of a pyra­mid, or perhaps a christmas tree. a blind guitarist heralds the arrival of immortan Joe’s war party with piercing riffs from his twin-necked guitar/flamethrower.  Just fifteen minutes into “Fury road,” we have an incredible familiarity with miller’s world. “Fury road” may not be a western, but it uses symbols to establish its mythol­ogy with the same beautiful economy that characterizes the best westerns. 
“Fury road” is essentially a two-hour long, kind of silent, but very loud chase movie. rather than bore the audience, the straightforward story allows miller to showcase his distinctive style. consider miller’s unconventional use of color. many post-apocalyptic movies de-saturate their colors with reckless abandon. These mov­ies — which are practically black and white — often mistake gloom for true depres­sion. (even the instant classic “children of men” indulged in this trope.) conversely, miller hyper-saturates his colors, meaning vehicles kick up sand of the same yellow-orange tint as sulfur, and the audience is treated to a turquoise sky rather than the run-of-the-mill grey sky they’ve become accustomed to. miller knows the best method to portray his exceedingly com­plex story world is with an equally rich color palette. The results are breathtaking. 
despite the constant on-screen chaos, “Fury road” is shot and edited with su­preme clarity. miller and his cinematogra­pher, John seale, wisely refrain from using the shaky cam technique that too many emancipators derive their name from an abolitionist newspaper that was pub­lished in Tennessee in 1820. They men­tion the nuclear weapons facility in their hometown — the same facility that pro­duced the bombs that were dropped on hiroshima and nagasaki — as one source of ignition for their activism, among countless other issues. The ensemble in­cluded guitar, bass, banjo and even flute and took an entertaining angle by pass­ing out lyrics and asking the audience to sing along. The group consisted of mitzi wood-von mizener, guy larry osborne, durant Thompson and Kevin collins. The members have diverse backgrounds and careers, but come together to create music that promotes peace and freedom. Their setlist included many well-known songs such as the traditional african­american freedom anthem “Follow the drinking gourd.” Their rendition of “which side are you on?,” played on banjo with all members gathered around a single microphone, reflected the belief that there is no neutral ground 
filmmakers use as a crutch to “heighten” (read: create) tension. seale spends valu­able screen time on long shots (the op­posite of close ups), which allows the viewer to create a mental map of each scene. lesser actions films skip this step, leaving the viewer at the mercy of an in­decipherable barrage of quick cuts, rather than presenting a coherent action scene. 
miller’s most notable stylistic flourish is his manipulation of the frame rate. he indulges in slow motion frequently, but as an exclamation point at the end of key sequences, rather than a glorification of the violence. more interestingly, miller strategically speeds up the onscreen ac­tion at important moments. it accelerates to breakneck speeds when immortan Joe graces one of his disciples with eye con­tact, or when a mortally wounded “war boy” sprays chromed paint on his face before engaging in a suicide attack, in a deranged cross between seppuku and Kamikaze. This mesmerizing technique has the effect of mainlining adrenaline, and is reminiscent of the “sunday may 11th, 1980” sequence in “goodfellas.” 
perhaps the most notable aspect of “Fury road” is its protagonist. (spoiler: it’s not max.) The story’s heart and unexpect­ed hero is charlize Theron’s imperator Furiosa. much has been made about the film’s feminist undertones, with crit­ics singling out scenes in which Furiosa seems to be an even better warrior than Tom hardy’s max. similar themes were present in the summer’s second-best blockbuster, “mission impossible: rogue when it comes to issues of justice, and every person is responsible for making a choice. singing along to well-known songs brought the audience together, but The emancipators also delivered a powerful performance of original songs. one upbeat blues original “There’s work to be done” was a call to action that warned “you might go to jail, lose a job, or a friend,” but nevertheless addressed a huge array of issues. 
The emancipators closed their per­formance with a rendition of “we shall overcome” that was particularly mov­ing to the notre dame audience. The experience was reminiscent of Father hesburgh in the famous photograph hand-in-hand with martin luther King Jr. The emancipators asked to audi­ence to link hands in a similar fashion, and join their voices together in hope of freedom and equality across an array of issues. 
Contact Kelly McGarry at                                   kmcgarry@nd.edu 
nation.” whatever your stance on the fem­inist movement in action films, there’s no denying that tough, emotionally charged performances like Theron’s deserve a uni­versal audience. 
“Fury road” isn’t a flawless film. The end of the second act seemed clichéd on first viewing. one character makes a dev­astating realization, consequently walks off into the desert alone, and collapses; all while the orchestral score is cranked up to eleven. but to be honest, the second time i saw “Fury road” i didn’t care that this scene may be trite. i was so emotionally invested in the lives of its nearly tacit char­acters that this admittedly inorganic flash of melodrama felt somehow earned. 
ultimately, “Fury road” is something of a paradox. it’s a gloriously dense portrait of a wonderfully straightforward story. it’s a piece of popular, mainstream enter­tainment that shatters decades-old main­stream conventions. it’s a bizarre miracle. even though academy award winners Quentin Tarantino, alejandro iñárritu and charlie Kaufman are slated to release pictures in the coming months, you’re un­likely to see a better movie this year than “Fury road.” movies like “mad max: Fury road” are why i go to the movies. oh what a film! what a lovely film! 
“mad max: Fury road” is screening in debartolo 101 Thursday at 8 p.m, Friday at 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. and saturday at 
10:30p.m. 
Contact Nick Laureano at                              nlaurean@nd.edu 


SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 


By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

The late ‘60s girl group The shaggs is the most contentiously debated band you have never had the pleasure (or dis­pleasure, depending on who you ask) of hearing. experimental musician Frank Zappa has said they are “better than The beatles.” Kurt cobain praised their sole album “philosophy of the world” as his fifth favorite album of all time. music writer lester bangs argued the same al­bum was one of the landmarks of rock ’n’ roll history in his provocative, if os­tentatious, 1981 article in The village voice named after Zappa’s assertion. 
yet, if you actually listen to the band’s recorded tracks off the album, you are greeted by what sounds like the atonal improvisations of a group of kids getting their hands on their parents’ unguard­ed instruments. The vocals are chanted erratically, the drums follow no deceiv­able path and the guitars sound woeful­ly out of tune. rolling stone writer chris connelly wrote “‘philosopy’ may stand as the worst album ever recorded.” nevertheless, The shaggs have been re­peatedly covered, and their story is so bizarre that the band was the subject of a recent off-broadway play, which used all original music save for the title cut from “philosophy.” 
The shaggs were composed of the four wiggin sisters: dorothy and betty both on vocals and guitar, helen on drums and rachel on bass. The band formed, as the story told by journalist susan orlean goes, after the girls’ father austin wiggin Jr. began to see his palm-reading mother’s foretold fortunes about his adult life coming true; her biggest prediction was that his daugh­ters would play in a band. as a result, austin bought his daughters instru­ments, pulled them out of school and set a rigorous schedule for them to practice daily and perform at their small new hampshire town’s community hall. 
The shaggs wrote simplistic songs musing about the little things in their life that they were exposed to enough to write about: losing pets, praising parents, exuding kindness, futile day­dreaming. The lyrics are often just as odd as the music played over them. strangely, though, the sentiment be­hind simple lines like “There are many things i wonder / There are many things i don’t / it seems as though the things i wonder most / are the things i never find out” are poignant and lasting. so lasting, as a matter of fact, that the band’s straightforward way of writing songs has seen a huge resurgence in the past couple of years. 
The landscape of music has never been as fertile with similarly minded confessional bedroom punk, noise rock and folk from budding female artists, not entirely unlike the wiggin sisters, as it is now. These young musicians are effectively recontextualizing and giv­ing clarity to The shaggs impenetrable work and, not to overstate at all, justify­ing their utter adolescent existences. 
The band most inspiring this spiritual connection is girlpool, a stripped back punk duo with a penchant for raw in­strumentation and emotive harmonies. The project, helmed by cleo Tucker and harmony Tividad, combines repetitive guitar riffs with sing-talk vocals that pierce straight to the heart of their lyr­ics. “i was taught what to believe / now i’m only certain that no one is free / Tranquilize me with your ideal world,” Tucker and Tividad shout in unison on “ideal world,” seemingly reading from one of the wiggin sister’s diaries a few years after “philosophy” (which con­cludes “we do our best, we try to please / but we’re like the rest we’re never at ease / you can never please anybody in this world”). 
like The shaggs that came before them, girlpool peers Frankie cosmos and palehound, two solo-efforts­turned-full bands, originated covering concise, childlike topics like school, pets and loneliness — all of which are not mutually exclusive. The opening track to Frankie cosmos’s 2014 affect­ing debut “Zentropy” is The shaggs­esque “art school.” “high school makes you crazy / high school made me cry,” lead singer greta Kline reverberates. on an early take, the production is lo-fi, the guitar sounds cheap and the recording buzzes from being taped in the close quarters of her bedroom, which she portrays in the song’s music video while dancing alone to Justin bieber’s “baby.” 
elsewhere on “Zentropy,” Kline writes a touching ode to her passed dog by way of “sad 2,” echoing The shaggs’s own “my pal Foot Foot.” Kline’s trib­ute to her best friend features a wealth of tugging two to four line verses, end­ing with the most vivid expression, “i just want my dog back / is that so much to ask? / i wish that / i could kiss his paws.” The shaggs’ footprints can be seen and heard all over the sentimental track, especially considering “my pal Foot Foot,” which features a very simi­lar verse in “Foot Foot, where can you be? / Foot Foot, why won’t you answer me?... wherever you are / i want you to come home with me.” palehound’s con­tribution to this sub-sub-genre that i’ll cheekily call “pet sounds” comes in the form of “pet carrot.” her debut single, “pet carrot” has ellen Kempner haunt­ingly harmonizing with herself “i’ve got a pet carrot / my best friend is a parrot” over deep twanging folksy grunge. The vocals and abstractions harken back to “Foot Foot” as much as Kline’s direct style. 
still, a lot of the forces behind this strange revival are coming from more straight punk acts. after all, The shaggs resided at the intersection of pop and punk; their songs were attempts at pop structures, but not being able to play the instruments is one of the main ideas be­hind the origins of punk rock. examine for instance the 17-minute, 8-song al­bum “papa cremp” by cherry glazerr, another contemporary of girlpool and Frankie cosmos. on “Teenage girl,” the punk act juxtaposes images of girlhood with the reflection “internalize so much but so little / don’t make us feel belittled / world.” almost exaggerating the style, they dedicate an entire line in a quick moving minute-and-a-half-song to one gigantic yet suffocating word: “world.” 
This fascination from many of the aforementioned acts speaks to the universality of what could otherwise be perceived as acute introspections or excused as overly simplistic. The shaggs, in their quirky lyricism that it­self verged on the overly simplistic, have shown that brevity can no less make a lasting impact, in no short part because of the ease of relatability and individual extrapolation. 
getting a bit more dense, speedy ortiz’s recent single “swell content,” a bruising rush of garage punk about writer’s block, doubles as an allegorical embracement and kiss-off — simulta­neously — of first time immature rela­tionships, romantic or otherwise. in the first of a series of escalating diatribes, lead singer and guitarist sadie dupuis admits, “i have been rejected for se­mesters at sea,” recalling an unreliable college relationship that ended at the prospect of exploration abroad. 
meanwhile, the song’s recently re­leased music video recalls an even more youthful expression for the complicat­ed and often times suppressed range of teenaged emotions: summer camp. The short explores finding yourself in the rough, but open, environment of a typical day camp or sleep-away camp, with help from the buck’s rock performing and creative arts camp 
— where dupuis attended and worked as counselor, advising, among others, palehound’s ellen Kempner. speedy ortiz’s loose yet controlled playful style, teetering on falling apart at any second, here is empathetic to the sorts of last­ing experiences The shaggs presum­ably never had the chance to be a part of, having spent their days and nights practicing for their father. 
straying a bit farther away from The shaggs, but still navigating in the same musical not quite move­ment of the past two years, are the more fleshed out but just as person­ally intimate waxahatchee, mitski and angel olsen. all three musicians fea­ture tighter backing bands than The shaggs and infinitely more complex writing, yet they all employ elements of The shaggs searching perspective. Take the rollicking, overlaid drum riffs on waxahatchee’s “<” jarring as much as her heartbreaking croon, “you’re less than me / i am nothing.” or angel olsen’s and mitski’s antique-sounding voices, or their anachronistic, confes­sional album titles: “burn your Fire For no witness” and “bury me at makeout creek,” respectively. 
likewise, the more fully formed acts Tacocat, potty mouth, Torres, bully, chastity belt and hop along, all etch­ing out larger spaces to work in than their claustrophobic ancestor had, are nonetheless similarly indebted to The shaggs’s adolescent meditations. each has released a stellar album with some form of gruffness or hard edge in the past year, filling out the teenaged wiggin’s work making sure their sacri­fices in childhood were not for nothing. 
To curtly answer the question posed in the introduction, it’s probably not time to give The shaggs another listen 
— nor may it ever be. Their described outsider music is still far too atonal and unmelodic to enjoy and with the added knowledge of their background it’s even more difficult to listen to their songs with unbiased ears — it’s near impos­sible to hear any of the recordings and not feel a tinge of discomfort for their situation at the time. 
however, understanding their story and hearing the similarly minded music coming from their over-40-years-their­latter spiritual descendants makes The shaggs even more essential than when they were originally being hailed as “better than the beatles.” synchronistic, off-kilter artists like girlpool, Frankie cosmos and cherry glazerr are acting like translators, not only for the wiggin sister’s personal worlds, but also for the worlds of all frustrated young women. These young artists are finally putting into music what The shaggs weren’t able to nearly 50 years ago. 
in fact, dorothy wiggin returned to music to release “ready! get! go!” in 2013 as the frontwoman of the dot wiggin band. The album is slightly more listenable and as a result a lot less interesting than her work in The shaggs. The plain writing and atonal vocals are still there, but the properly arranged and played instrumentation only de­tracts from The shaggs’ signature style, or lack thereof. unfortunately, dot just barely missed the burst of the stylistic bubble that would have legitimized and explained her comeback. as it stands now, though, the continued expansion of said style in the two years since is only lending more credence to The shaggs’ highly contentious contributions. 
Contact Matt McMahon at                   mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Big Ten comes roaring back to life 
Michael Ivey 
sports writer 
The latest Top-25 college football rankings came out sunday and there were a num­ber of big changes. 
The sec went from ten ranked teams to six, ole miss skyrocketed from no. 15 to no. 3 and alabama plummet­ed from no. 2 to no. 12 after the rebels defeated the Tide. stanford jumped from un­ranked to no. 21 after its im­pressive win over usc, which fell from no. 6 to no. 19. 
but perhaps the biggest sur­prise — one that might have gone unnoticed — was at the very top of the poll: two big Ten teams, ohio state and michigan state, ranked no. 1 and no. 2 in the country, respectively. 
it is the first time since 2006 two big Ten teams hold the top two spots in the stand­ings. The two teams back then were rivals ohio state and michigan, and they actu­ally played against each other as the top two teams in the country on the final week of that season. in what became a classic game, the buckeyes won 42-39 and secured a spot in the national championship game, which they lost to cur­rent ohio state coach urban meyer and Florida. 
The big Ten i grew up watch­ing was the best: hard-hit­ting, old-fashioned football. every game was entertaining. coaches like Joe paterno, Jim Tressel, lloyd carr and barry alvarez roamed the sidelines and led their teams into bat­tle. There was something dif­ferent about big Ten football. as it got later into the season, the weather would get colder and the games would get more physical. The games got closer and more exciting. it was the best type of football. 
but that all started to change after the 2010 season. nebraska joined the confer­ence from the big 12 in 2011. The teams in the big Ten were split into two divisions and the winners of those divisions played each other in the con­ference title game. The con­ference had never had a title game before that season. 
in that same offseason, ohio state coach Jim Tressel resigned because of an ncaa investigation into his players selling autographs for tattoos. Then, during the season, the infamous sandusky scandal broke at penn state, leading to the firing of legendary coach Joe paterno. 
The 2012 big Ten looked vastly different that it had just two years prior. urban meyer was now the head coach at ohio state, and bill o’brien re­placed paterno at penn state. 
The best teams in the con­ference — ohio state and penn state — couldn’t com­pete in bowl games due to sanctions from their scandals. a 7-5 wisconsin team ended up playing in and winning the big Ten championship game and going to the rose bowl. it was a sign of how weak the conference had become. some even called the conference dead. 
The next year was a little better. There were only two good teams in the confer­ence, michigan state and ohio state, and they ended up play­ing in the conference cham­pionship game. The spartans beat the previously-undefeat­ed buckeyes, 34-24, actually preventing the big Ten from sending a team to the national championship game that year. 
in the 2014 season, the con­ference welcomed two un­likely programs, rutgers and maryland, as its newest mem­bers. ohio state and michigan state were once again expect­ed to be the two best teams in the conference. 
but they both lost in week 2, and many people said the big Ten was doomed from get­ting a team into the first-ever college Football playoff. 
but ohio state went on an unanticipated run the rest of the season, finishing the reg­ular season 11-1. after sopho­more quarterback J.T. barrett was injured in the final regu­lar season game, sophomore cardale Jones stepped in and led the buckeyes to a surprise playoff berth and a national championship. a couple weeks before that, former nFl head coach Jim harbaugh was announced as the new head coach of michigan, his alma mater. The big Ten was back on the rise. 
This season, ohio state started the year with the no. 1 ranking and michigan state started inside the top five. They now have the top two spots and will meet later this season when michigan state visits columbus on nov. 21st. michigan is slowly starting to look like its old self again un­der Jim harbaugh, and teams like northwestern, wisconsin and iowa have gotten off to de­cent starts to the season. 
don’t call the big Ten dead anymore. it’s very much alive and well. 
Contact Michael Ivey at mivey@hcc-nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of  The Observer. 

SMC Sports 
conTinued From page 16 
took 99th place overall. 
in their last event that featured team scoring, the belles took 15th place at the Knight invitational in grand rapids, michigan. Four belles — beeler, junior Kaitlyn alessi,  sophomore anna mcclowry and junior maggie pacana earned col­legiate personal records at that invitational, which was hosted by calvin. 
The miaa Jamboree will begin at 11:00 a.m. at the ottawa golf club on saturday in what will be saint mary’s final meet of september and last before the benedictine invitational on oct. 9. 
Soccer 
saint mary’s fell to calvin wednesday at the Jr. irish airport Fields by a score of 3-0. 
The belles (1-6, 1-4 miaa) were coming off of their first victory of the season in a de­cisive 4-1 victory over Trine last Thursday. Their four goals in that game marked a season high, and the three-goal margin was their larg­est victory since the 2013 season. 
yesterday, though, the belles ran into a Knights (7-2, 5-0 miaa) team cur­rently undefeated in the con­ference. calvin only trails conference leader hope by a half-game. 

The Knights scored the first goal of the game in the 11th minute when senior midfielder paige capel net­ted her first goal of the sea­son. she carried the ball through three defenders be­fore firing a low shot towards the inside right post that snuck by belles freshman keeper rachel mccarthy. The Knights followed that score with a rebound goal by freshman midfielder bekah maguire in the 36th minute, giving them a 2-0 lead going into halftime. 
in the second half, calvin continued to push the ball on offense, but saint mary’s was able to hold off the attack un­til capel scored her second goal of the game in the 80th minute. The belles only took one shot in the final ten min­utes of the game, and fell by a final score of 3-0. 
The match marked the fourth time this season the belles were shut out by their opponents, as their offense managed only four shots throughout the game. in ad­dition, the belles’ defense was unable to counter the Knights’ attack, as calvin managed to take 21 shots in the game and put 11 of them on goal. 
The belles will next take the pitch saturday against hope at noon at van andel soccer stadium in holland, michigan. 
Golf 
in its first conference jamboree of the season, saint mary’s shot a 346 and placed fourth wednesday at medalist golf club. 
hope walked away with the win, as its 317 was a 23-stroke advantage over runner-up and tournament-host olivet’s score of 340. Trine finished just one stroke ahead of the belles in third place, shooting 345. 
in the tournament, the belles were able to place two golfers in the top 10. Freshman Taylor Kehoe fin­ished in a tie for seventh place, as her one birdie and eight pars were good for a team-best 82 on the day, trailing the medalists by four strokes. Junior courtney carlson was not far behind, and her 83 on the day was good for a share of ninth. 
Juniors ali mahoney and rachel Kim rounded out the team score for the belles. mahoney’s 89 earned her 24th, as she finished in the top 15 for scoring on par fours in the tournament. Kim’s six pars on the day led to a score of 92, which was good for 27th place. 
senior sammie averill and sophomore isabella speedon also competed in the tourna­ment for the belles. averill was the fifth golfer in the saint mary’s lineup, and her 95 earned her a share of 32nd. speedon, however, competed as an individual and shot a 94 to tie for 29th. 
The belles will next tee off saturday at 1 p.m. at milham park golf course in Kalamazoo, michigan. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 





paid adverTisemenT 
W Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
and two [Florida state on sunday] in the country. i think we think we’re right there with everybody. we’ve only lost one game. 7-1-1 is a great record. There’s a lot to feel confident about.” 
To knock off the cavaliers, romagnolo said the whole team needs to show up and perform. 
“it’s going to take a team ef­fort,” romagnolo said. “when you’re playing other top-10 teams like ourselves, you need the team to play well. obviously someone needs to put it in the back of the net, somebody needs to step up sometimes and make that special play. but as a team in these types of games, you have to defend well as a team and keep the ball as a team, you have to attack as a team. it’s the team mentality to go out there with kind of a chip on our shoulder saying we’ve got something to prove this weekend.” 
more specifically, romagnolo said the game plan starts with the defense and the need to keep an orga­nized shape against a posses­sion-oriented team. 
“i think that virginia is a team that possesses the ball really well,” romagnolo said. “we want to make sure we defend well, we’re organized, we keep play in front of us.” 
once the irish get the ball, romagnolo said the key will be to have an aggres­sive mindset, while at the same time playing within themselves. 
“when we win [the ball, we want] a patience to our at­tack, but also an attacking mentality,” romagnolo said. “so that we get out in num­bers together and we read where the space is and we attack space. we have to be dangerous in our attack.” 
The notre dame offense has certainly been dangerous thus far this season. The irish are averaging 2.33 goals per game, and even though they were held scoreless against clemson, they outshot the Tigers, 15-13, and romagnolo said keeping up that shooting streak is important. 
“soccer’s a funny game,” romagnolo said. “you can outshoot an opponent and lose and vice versa. at the end of the day, i think we cre­ated enough chances to win that game. we always want to see even more quality chanc­es, and i think that’s some­thing playing opponents like virginia and Florida state, you might only have six shots in a game like that. it’s not about how many shots, it’s about creating quality oppor­tunities and finishing up on the opportunities that we do have.” 
while some teams may balk at the pressure of playing the top two teams in the coun­try back-to-back, romagnolo said the irish are excited to test themselves against the best. 
“[The team] is excit­ed to prove something,” romagnolo said. “we’re ex­cited about what we can do in the acc. These are great games to have this early in the season to be able to mea­sure ourselves and see what things we’re going well and what things we need to con­tinue to improve on ourselves so that we can make a great run as the season goes along.” 
The irish take on the cavaliers at 7 p.m. Thursday night at Klockner stadium in charlottesville, virginia. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 

MICHAEL YU | The Observer 
Irish freshman forward Natalie Jacobs dribbles past a defender  during Notre Dame’s 2-1 win over Santa Clara on Aug. 28. 


The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Naughton 
conTinued From page 16 
feel for things,” naughton said. “but over the years, i stepped into that role and now am more comfortable leading, with help from the rest of the captains.” 
one of her fellow cap­tains, senior defender cari roccaro, has also been a reli­able player for the irish over her 55 starts, and works with naughton to protect the irish goal. 
“[cari and i] have played together for several years,” naughton said. “she hasn’t always been on the backline, but through youth national Teams and stuff, we have been able to play on the de­fensive line together. 
“That’s helped us develop a chemistry within the en­tirety of the backline, so we can all be on the same page, have each other’s backs and trust in each other with whatever comes our way. it’s comforting.” 
naughton has competed on the international stage since 2009, most recently with the 
u.s. u-20 team. That experi­ence was valuable because it helped her stay in shape and improve her skills for play at notre dame, naughton said. 
“The training and the at­mosphere of [national team] practice really helped me in the college environment be­cause it’s faster, with all of the best players in the country, and the coaches are always top-notch,” she said. “you’re always going to get the best of everything, so it’s been really helpful for me coming into the college arena.” 
still, naughton, like the rest of her irish teammates, has found herself challenged by collegiate offenses. she said the top-ranked Florida state attack that notre dame lost to 3-1 in the 2014 acc semi­finals is “pretty unbelievable, probably the best i’ve seen in a really long time.” 
“From that [Florida state game], we learned that we have to step up the level of our own game, because to see them kind of run over us was defeating and demoralizing,” naughton said. “if we want to compete on the national stage, we have to be able to keep up with them.” 
after 2014 ended in the ncaa tournament third-round loss, naughton said she had high standards for both the irish and for herself this season. 
“For the team, we definitely want to make the best run that we possibly can,” she said. “For myself, the goal is just to be a consistent player and continue to do my job on the backline and make sure we make the other team pay for sending anything our way. 
“There’s always going to be some bumps and bruises along the way, but as a whole i think we’ve definitely met and exceeded most of our goals so far.” 
with the 2015 season heat­ing up and a matchup on the road against no. 1 virginia on Thursday, time will tell if the senior will exceed 2,109 min­utes played this year — a per­sonal high she reached when she was a freshman — while guiding the irish on a deep postseason run. 
naughton will graduate in december as a anthropology and spanish double-major and set her sights on the next level of competition. 
“i’ll be done here in a cou­ple months, which is bit­tersweet,” she said. “The [national women’s soccer league] draft is in mid-Jan­uary, so we’ll see what hap­pens. i obviously want to play soccer for as long as possible.” 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 





CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: Take one step at a time and make sure you have the approval of those who could potentially cut your progress short. sticking to rules and regulations and being ready to deal with unexpected changes will make the upcoming year an eventful one. your undivided attention will be required in order to achieve the goals you set. your numbers are 7, 16, 22, 25, 32, 39, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): romance will play a major role in your life. discussing future plans with someone you love will bring you one step closer to living the lifestyle you desire. call in favors if it will help you get what you want. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): emotional issues will ruin your day if you let a squabble turn into a major argument. Focus on doing things for others as well as finding solutions to the challenges you face. get along and do your best to keep the peace. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): make plans to have some fun. plan to visit a retreat, conference or destination that will offer intellectual stimulation. love is on the rise, and sharing with someone you care for will improve your life. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): draw on your resources and learn from those around you and you will take strides toward accomplishing great things. an opportunity to discover new philosophies or religions that fit your current mindset will bring you greater clarity. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you’ll be ready to make changes to your appearance, skillset or geographical location. don’t let someone’s reluctance to see things your way cause uncertainty when it comes to following through with your plans. push forward with strength and courage. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): make personal changes that will help you build greater confidence. being realistic about what’s possible and what isn’t will be the deciding factor regarding what you end up accomplishing. don’t waste time on sketchy plans or partners. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Keep a close watch over the things you value the most. emotional matters are sure to increase the pressure being put on you by someone you have been questioning lately. a sudden change will play out in your favor. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): avoid an emotional confrontation with someone over work-related matters. Try to do a good job and let your work speak for you. it’s oK to do things a little differently as long as the end result is spectacular. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): your busy schedule and efficient way of handling everything that comes your way will make an impression on someone special. you don’t have to exaggerate when you’re already doing great work. love is in the stars. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): be open and honest with others, but be willing to walk away if things don’t work in your favor. staying on top of an unfolding situation will give you a good indication of where you stand and what’s to come. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you’ll have insight into what others want and how to go about making things happen. The simpler you keep things, the easier it will be to strategically position yourself for future opportunities.  


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): someone will pry into your personal affairs. don’t divulge information that can be used against you. protect your reputation, assets and your possessions. someone you least expect will let you down or disappoint you. a realistic plan will be required.  

Birthday Baby: You are unpredictable, popular and adventuresome. You are unique and persistent. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 






make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 


ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Notre Dame readies for No. 1 Virginia 
Irish prepare for 

Naughton brings tough test against durability, 
Cavaliers experience to team 
By MAREK MAZUREK By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer sports writer 
Facing the number one 

in her collegiate career, de­team in the country is a chal­
fender Katie naughton has lenge no matter the circum­
recorded 6,900 minutes com-stances. Facing the top team 
peting in games for notre in the country on the road 
dame — and there are still five days after losing your 
nine matches left in her final first game of the season in 
regular season. double overtime a week be-
with naughton anchoring fore is another story. 
the defense, no. 16 notre dame That is the task ahead of 
has never allowed more than the irish as they face no. 
20 goals in a season. naughton 1 virginia on Thursday in 
and the irish are off to another charlottesville, virginia. 
strong start defensively this Though no. 16 notre dame 
year, conceding just four goals (7-1-1, 0-1-0 acc) lost a heart-
over their first nine games. breaker against clemson on 
naughton has started every saturday, irish head coach 
game since the beginning of Theresa romagnolo said 
her freshman year, and 2015 the team is staying positive 
is the third year as captain for and is excited to move into 
the elk grove village, illinois, a high-powered stretch of its 
native. schedule. 
“when i first was named cap­“i think we’re excited for 
tain [as a sophomore], it was a the weekend,” romagnolo 
new territory for me, so i was said. “i mean we play number 
trying to learn the ropes from one [virginia on Thursday] CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer the upperclassmen and get a 
Irish captain and senior defender Katie Naughton picks a pass during Notre Dame’s 4-1 win over the see w soccer PAGE 13 Mexico U-20 National Team on April 24 at Alumni Stadium. Naughton has scored one goal this season. see naughTon PAGE 14 
SMC SPORTS 

Belles beat Hornets, even conference record 
Observer Sports Staff 
Volleyball 
saint mary’s leveled its miaa record Tuesday night with a three-set sweep of rival Kalamazoo at angela athletic Facility. 
The belles (8-3, 2-2 miaa) rode a .390 attack percentage, the program’s highest rate since hitting a .415 percentage against western new england college on oct. 21, 2008, to a 25-16, 25-15, 25-8 victory over the visiting hornets (1-11, 0-5 niaa). 
in comparison, saint mary’s defense held Kalamazoo’s of­fense to a .036 attack percent­age while piling up five blocks and forcing 17 hornet hitting errors. 
senior outside hitter Katie hecklinski paced the belles with 12 kills on 24 attempts while making just one hitting error. hecklinski also added eight digs and a block to her score sheet by the end of the night. 
Junior outside hitter meaghan gibbons led the way for the belles on the defensive side, registering a game-high 11 digs, while sophomore defensive specialist mcKenzie Todd added another nine. Junior setters clare mcmillan and alexis grady each dished out 16 assists for the belles. 
gibbons (.533) and junior colleen Kilgallon (eight kills, .500) each posted kill per­centages at .500 or higher in the victory. 
The belles continue play this weekend by hosting hope at the angela athletic Facility on Friday at 7 p.m. before squaring off with another conference rival the next day on the road at olivet. 
Cross Country 
saint mary’s will return to action this weekend as the belles prepare to compete in the miaa Jamboree, hosted by hope. 
The Jamboree will be the belles’ fifth meet of the sea­son and fourth in the past three weeks. 
The miaa Jamboree will feature team scoring, which was not counted in last week­end’s spartan invitational, where the belles were paced by junior brittany beeler, who 
see smc sporTs PAGE 12 

CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 
Belles sophomore libero McKenzie Todd bumps the ball during Saint Mary’s 3-0 win over Manchester on Sept. 1 at Angela Gym. Todd finished the game with four digs. 




