tHE INDEPENDENt to UNCoVER NEWSPAPER SERVING tHE tRUtH NotRE DAME AND AND REPoRt SAINt MARy’S It ACCURAtELy 

VoLUME 48, ISSUE 104 | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2015 | NDSMCoBSERVER.CoM 
Students attend White Privilege Conference 
University seminar course takes scholars to Louisville, Kentucky, to explore race relations 
By SELENA PONIO 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students in the White Privilege Seminar, An Introduction to the Intersections of Privilege, examined oppression and privilege at the White Privilege Conference (WPC) in Louisville, Kentucky, on March 11-14. 
According to its website, WPC is committed to “un­derstanding, respecting and connecting.” the con­ference — which held more than 1,500 attendees this year — seeks to confront is­sues beyond skin color and invite different perspec­tives regarding the issues of privilege, the website said. 
“I think that I wasn’t there to necessarily learn but more so to absorb and under­stand,” sophomore Marlen Grussi said. “I feel like more than going to learn facts, I was able to become more aware of other people’s expe­riences and feel more sensi­tive to those experiences.” 
Grussi said she realized during the conference that every person plays a role in privilege and are often un­aware of the injustices they may perpetuate. 
“the conference itself re­ally did allow all of us to lean into discomfort by 
see CoNFERENCE PAGE 4 




Report examines print quota 
By GABRIELA MALESPIN 
News Writer 
Notre Dame’s office of Information technology (oIt), in conjunction with student government, re­leased their Fall 2014 PrintND Report that high­lights some of the key data on student printing in light of the printing quota con­troversy presented last semester. 
According to the report, 90 percent of undergradu­ates print fewer than 1,000 pages per semester and 90 percent of graduate students print fewer than 1,500 pages without need for additional quota. 
Junior Shuyang Li, stu­dent government’s director of campus technology, said findings were based on data that oIt collected from the printing systems on campus and reflects the information oIt has recollected from student printing and printer usage on campus. 
“At the beginning of this semester, we had a meeting with oIt to review printing metrics from last semester, and oIt provided us with all the data that came into the report,” Li said. 
Li said student government attempted to monitor the new system throughout the past semester and has been 
see QUotA PAGE 3 


SMC to raise tuition cost 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s College tuition will raise 3.9 percent for the upcoming 2015-16 academic year, according to a press release from tuesday. 
tuition and fees will be set at $37,400 and room and board will be $11,320, making the cost to live on campus and attend Saint Mary’s College $48,720, the release said. 
Vice President of Finance and Administration Susan Bolt said tuition, room, board and other fees make up 78 percent of Saint 
see tUItIoN PAGE 4 



Program partners alumni, nonprofits 
By MATTHEW McKENNA 
News Writer 

Notre Dame Impact Partners, a program run by the Mendoza College of Business’s Graduate Alumni Relations Program, pairs Notre Dame alumni who have experience in business with nonprofit organizations in the Chicago area. the alum­ni then use their expertise to tackle projects that range from nonprofit outreach to assistance in mergers, direc­tor of Notre Dame Impact Partners timothy Ponisciak said. 
Ponisciak said the program began a year ago when the Graduate Alumni Relations realized it offers many net­working and career develop­ment opportunities to alumni but does not offer many com­munity service opportunities. 
“the office of Graduate Alumni Relations manages the program with the goal of offering a community service activity to our alumni that al­lows them to utilize the busi­ness skills they gained while at Mendoza in order to assist a nonprofit organization with tackling an organizational challenge that perhaps it would not typically have the resources and funds to han­dle,” Ponisciak said. 
“Last year we had three projects completed for three different nonprofits,” he said. “this year, we will have four different projects for three nonprofits, as we are coor­dinating two projects with Catholic Charities.” 
Many students choose to study at the College because of its emphasis on service, Ponisciak said. He said Notre Dame Impact Partners seeks to continue this emphasis. 
“there are a number of op­portunities for students to leverage their business skills while in school in order to benefit their community,” Ponisciak said. “We wanted our graduates to continue to have opportunities to do this after school.” 
Alumni who participate in the program find it very re­warding — both personally and professionally, Ponisciak 
see IMPACt PAGE 5 





ndsmcobserver.com 

P.o. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Greg Hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                   Jack Rooney  Alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: Mary Green Asst. Managing Editor: Wei Lin Asst. Managing Editor: Lesley Stevenson 
News Editor: Margaret Hynds Viewpoint Editor: tabitha Ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: Erin McAuliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: Haleigh Ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach Llorens Graphics Editor: Erin Rice Multimedia Editor: Brian Lach OnlineEditor: Michael yu Advertising Manager: Elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine Park Controller: Cristina Gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu wlin4@nd.edu, lsteven1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

the observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the University of Notre 
Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. the observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
the news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant 
Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of the observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 

Post office Information the observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. the observer is published at: 024 South Dining Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices PoStMAStER Send address corrections to: the observer P.o. Box 779 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 the observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

News Sports 

Rebecca o’Neil Zach Klonsinski Margaret Hynds Rachel o’Grady Andrea Vale Ben Padanilam 
Hunter McDaniel 
Graphics Emily Danaher Scene Caelin Miltko 

Photo Emily McConville Viewpoint Austin taliaferro 


Corrections 

the observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What did you do to celebrate St. Patrick’s Day? 



Want your event included here? 
Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Tim Moriarty 
sophomore 
Zahm House 
“Going to the gym.” 
Theresa Sagartz 
sophomore 
Pangborn Hall 
“I wore everything green.” 
Ryan Brickner 
freshman 
Zahm House 
“taking a test.” 


Mike Catalano 
freshman 
Zahm House 
“Going bar-down.” 
Clarissa Schwab 
junior 
Farley Hall 
“Just relaxing!” 
Brian Kennedy 
freshman 
Zahm House 
“Absolutely nothing.” 
Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  Saturday  Sunday  
Baseball  Mindful Meditation  Men’s Tennis  Women’s Lacrosse  Softball  
Frank Eck Stadium  Coleman-Morse  Eck Tennis Pavillion  Arlotta Stadium  Melissa Cook Stadium  
6:05 p.m. - 8:05 p.m.  Center  3:30 p.m. - 5:30 p.m.  12 p.m. - 2 p.m.  12 p.m. - 2 p.m.  
The Irish take on  5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m.  The Irish take on  The Irish take on Ohio  The Irish take on  
Central Michigan.  Open to students,  Virginia.  State.  Georgia Tech.  
faculty and staff.  
Film: “Sewing Hope”  “Loyal Daughters  Graduate Student  Saturday Vigil Mass  Film: “Selma”  
DeBartolo Performing  and Sons”  Mass  Basilica of the Sacred  DeBartolo Performing  
Arts Center  Hesburgh Library  Basilica of the Sacred  Heart  Arts Center  
8:30 p.m. - 10:30 p.m.  7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m.  Heart  5 p.m. - 6 p.m.  3:30 p.m. - 5:30 p.m.  
Film about Ugandan  Student-produced  5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m.  Worship service.  Film about 1965 Civil  
school.  production.  Worship service.  Rights March.  


NDSMCoBSERVER.CoM | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2015 | tHE oBSERVER 

SMC to implement home recipe program 
By MARTHA REILLY 
News Writer 
Instead of complaining for a weekend away or a good night’s sleep at home, stu­dents can now cure home­sickness with a simple trip to the dining hall. Saint Mary’s new “Recipes from Home” initiative will introduce some students’ favorite foods to the rest of the school, as the din­ing hall will now serve a dif­ferent requested meal each month. 
Senior Mary Kate Luft pre­sented this idea to Barry Bowles, director of dining services, last year (Editor’s note: Mary Kate Luft is a copy editor for the Viewpoint sec­tion of The Observer). 
“He was more than happy to work with SGA and make these special meals of our choosing,” Luft said. “I’m ex­cited to show students that dining services does take their opinions and wants into account when choosing what to serve.” 
According to Luft, the reac­tion so far has been positive. 
“Many people have come up to me and told me they are looking forward to ‘Recipes from Home,’” Luft said. “they think it’s a great idea. Many people have already submit­ted recipes.” 
First-year Morgan Matthews said she looks for­ward to trying foods she nor­mally would not. Although she hopes that her dad’s sea­food medley will be one of the featured “Recipes from Home,” she also recognizes the value of experiencing other people’s favorite meals. 
“I was so excited when I first heard about ‘Recipes from Home,’” Matthews said. “there will be such a wide variety of foods presented. Everyone will get to try some­thing new. A girl can only have so many hamburgers.” 
Matthews said “Recipes from Home” will make her feel like she’s at her own dining room table back in Pennsylvania, but she mostly looks forward to the surprise element, since there is a new meal each month. 
“I’m not going to know what to expect,” Matthews said. “It’ll add some excite­ment because it’s more of a mystery.” 
Matthews also said she ap­preciates the effort that the dining hall staff has invested to make this new initiative a success. 
“By asking us our opin­ion, they are incorporating the views and opinions of the student body,” Matthews said. “they are serving the exact meals that we ask for and trying to make us feel comfortable.” 
According to Luft, that is 
“By asking us our opinion, they are incorporating the views and opinions of the student body. They are serving the exact meals taht we ask for and trying to make us feel comfortable.” 
Morgan Matthews 
freshman 
the whole purpose of this new approach. 
“Part of being a college stu­dent is complaining about the dining hall food, be­cause it can’t compare to what we have at home,” Luft said. “Barry Bowles and I will choose the recipe of the month based on the viability of it to be prepared in the din­ing hall and what we think students would most enjoy. 
“the best part of ‘Recipes from Home’ is that students can have meals similar to what they eat at home, which hopefully will make them happy,” she said. 
With some of students fa­vorite foods made available, Luft hopes that students re­alize that the dining hall prioritizes their individual requests. 
“‘Recipes from Home’ will personalize the dining hall for students by giving them more of a say in the food that is served, which will hopeful­ly provide them with a more positive and interactive ex­perience in the dining hall,” Luft said. 
Contact Martha Reilly at  mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 




Quota 
CoNtINUED FRoM PAGE 1 
in constant communication regarding the print quota changes with campus tech­nology throughout the year. 
“At the beginning of last semester, student govern­ment and senate formed a five-student team to get in­volved with and monitor the new printing system,” Li said. “We had monthly meet­ings with oIt as well as in­ternal meetings to discuss what was good and not so good with the new printing system and to see how much students were using the new system.” 
the new print quota sys­tem was implemented last semester in response to the financial deficit oIt faced printing] would be bad for students and had several discussions with oIt and pushed to change it back to the same [system],” Li said. 


Li acknowledged that al­though the Print ND Report indicated lower printing quota usage, members of stu­dent senate expressed their constituents’ complaints about the the quota’s rela­tively lowered limit and the elimination of rollover print quota from year to year. 
“there were three senators on the team who went out to their dorms heard other opinions as well,” Li said. “We heard a lot of student opinions that weren’t satis­fied with the new system.” 
Li said oIt has not indi­cated to student government officials that any additional changes will be made to the print quota system. 
“I’m trying to make sure that everything we com­municate to students at this point is accurate,” Li said. 
Contact Gabriela Malespin at gmalespi@nd.edu 
Li said student govern­ment’s frequent communi­cation with oIt addressed changes to the new quota system, such as the issues 
“At the beginning of last semester, student government and senate formed a five-student team to get involved with and monitor the new printing system. We had monthly meetings to discuss what was good and not so good with the new printing system and to see how much students were using the new system.” 
Shuyang Li 
junior 
student government director of campus technology 
with student printing, which totaled to more than $80,000. Li said oIt is still managing other changes in the new printing systems includ­ing the streamlining of the printing queues across cam­pus, the transition towards the point system, issues with one-sided and double-sided printing and quota rollover across semesters. 
of the price raise for one-sided printing. While oIt initially implemented an in­crease in one-sided printing as opposed to double-sided printing, student govern­ment negotiated a return to equal pricing in one sided and double sided printing, Li said. 
“We thought [the change in price for single-sided 


tHE oBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2015 | NDSMCoBSERVER.CoM 

Tuition 
CoNtINUED FRoM PAGE 1 
Mary’s College revenue. 
Bolt said campus costs rise each year in various areas, from wireless coverage to the salary of professors. 
there have been no major struc­tural changes within the College to increase the cost to attend Saint Mary’s, Bolt said. She said the College tries to keep prices as low as possible for students to get the best education and experience possible. 
“Saint Mary’s is a very small, intimate campus in terms of class size and services provided to stu­dents,” Bolt said. “A little over 60 percent of our expenses are peo­ple, and although I don’t believe Saint Mary’s has given any outra­geous raises, we must give raises to continue to build our community. 
“We have to charge students more so that the faculty are sup­ported. the type of education Saint Mary’s provides needs peo­ple to provide it here on campus.” 
Bolt said another large por­tion of expenses at Saint Mary’s include meal plans and dining services. 
“It is expensive to be able to offer a variety of health foods, respond to student requests and focus on sustainability,” she said. “Energy costs, trash costs and cable tV costs always seem to go up, too.” 
the choice to attend Saint Mary’s is an investment in a wom­an’s future, Bolt said. 
“Right now, students may say that their peers are the most im­portant part of being at Saint Mary’s, but surveys show that Saint Mary’s is preparing women for a lifetime of learning if that’s your choice,” she said. 
A survey conducted by the office of Institutional Research at Saint Mary’s asked graduates of the class of 2013, one year after their graduation, questions about the value of their Saint Mary’s experience. 
Bolt said 90 percent of the sur­vey’s respondents said Saint Mary’s prepared them well for their jobs. Ninety-four percent of respondents said Saint Mary’s prepared them well for graduate school. 
Bolt said these numbers speak highly of the education that is pro­vided at the College. 
the number of doctoral degrees earned by Saint Mary’s gradu­ates ranks in the top 25 percent of Baccalaureate Colleges, she said. 
Nearly 22 percent of the College’s revenue is supported by gifts and endowments, Bolt said. 
“A student’s tuition covers a por­tion of everything, but those reve­nues aren’t enough to pay for it all,” she said. “Donations and endow­ment distribution help to keep the College running. 
“For donors to invest at this level, clearly they see that the edu­cation is worth it. [Donations and endowments] says a lot about the quality of women here and the educational experience.” 
Saint Mary’s recognizes the high cost of education with the “Four-year Graduation Promise,” Bolt said. 
According the College’s web­site, the “Four-year Graduation Promise” started with the incom­ing class of 2017. Students who fol­low the promise’s guidelines are guaranteed to graduate in four years, or the College will pay for any additional courses a student needs to earn her degree. 
“‘Four-year Graduation Promise’ is a great advantage when looking at tuition, and while there are guidelines, the promise shows the way Saint Mary’s values student’s money and time,” Bolt said. 
Students are paying for their education and the experience of living at a residential women’s col­lege, Bolt said. 
“tuition always returns to the mission,” she said. “Everything we do is about the student’s edu­cation, maintaining a small com­munity and having the financial ability to cover it all.” 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Conference 
CoNtINUED FRoM PAGE 1 
approaching topics that, as students, we don’t get the opportunity to unveil in a classroom setting and much less in a social set­ting,” Grussi said. 
Sophomore Hugo Munoz said he appreciated the op­portunity to attend WPC because it initiated a nec­essary conversation about privileges in race, sexuality and gender, as well as other controversial topics. 
“I think that the most im­portant thing I got out of it is how [privilege] is a problem that affects us all,” Munoz said. “It is invisible to peo­ple in my position, but it has a passive impact in my social group and a violently explicit one in minorities.” 
Both Grussi and Munoz said there were undeniable ties between the seminar class and the conference. 
“the biggest connection between the conference and our class is the ability to listen to differing opin­ions from people who have a true interest in the con­tent of our conversations,” Grussi said. 
Munoz said the class of­fered limited preparation to engage with the topic on a more complex and physi­cally larger level. 
“thanks to the class, we were not people without un­derstanding over the topic,” Munoz said. “However, it is really hard to be fully pre­pared to such an intense experience.” 
Grussi said seminar stu­dents were encouraged to reflect on the topic as well as finish a research paper after the confer­ence. However, she said her reflection does not end after completing manda­tory assignments. 
“After the conference, I realize that there is work to be done on campus, and by my own volition, I intend to work more diligently to­wards building our commu­nity’s ability to respect one another and to be more self-aware,” Grussi said. 
Munoz said he thinks it is important to talk about white privilege at Notre Dame because graduates will become contributing members of society through a variety of careers. 
“We need to acknowledge that our very own class­mates are going to have the power to change our society 
— we just need to make sure they see it as a problem that needs a real solution soon,” Munoz said. 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 
PAID ADVERtISEMENt NDSMCoBSERVER.CoM | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2015 | tHE oBSERVER 




Impact 
CoNtINUED FRoM PAGE 1 
said. 
“It is a tangible way to give back to their community in a way that has a long-term ef­fect,” Ponisciak said. “It is a great way to meet like-minded alumni in the Chicago area, and it’s also a great way to get some relevant experience if considering a transition into working for a nonprofit or if one is interested in joining a nonprofit board.” 
Ponisciak said his experi­ence as director of the pro­gram has allowed him to connect with alumni he would not have met otherwise. 
“Directing ND Impact has allowed me to see just how talented our alumni are and how diverse their skills and backgrounds are,” he said. 
the program hopes to increase the number of lo­cations in which it has partnerships in the future, Ponisciak said. 
“We are currently looking to expand into another city, possibly Washington, D.C., so that the program is offered to other alumni groups as well,” Ponisciak said. 
Contact Matthew McKenna at mmcken12@nd.edu 

Aaron Schock resigns from Congress 
Associated Press 
Washington, D.C. — Illinois Rep. Aaron Schock abruptly resigned tuesday following a monthlong cascade of revela­tions about his business deals and lavish spending on ev­erything from overseas travel to office decor in the style of “Downton Abbey.” 
“I do this with a heavy heart,” Schock said in a statement. He said he had given the people of his Peoria-area district his all since his election in 2008, “but the constant questions over the last six weeks have proven a great distraction that has made it too difficult for me to serve the people of the 18th District with the high standards that they deserve and which I have set for myself.” 
Schock, 33, a young, media-savvy Republican, had drawn attention for his physical fit­ness and fundraising prowess. But more recently he has come under scrutiny for extravagant spending, payments to donors for flights on private jets and im­properly categorized expenses. 
the questions raised have included Associated Press in­vestigations of his real estate transactions, air travel and Instagram use. on Monday, the AP confirmed that the office of Congressional Ethics had reached out to Schock’s associ­ates as it apparently began an investigation. 
In a statement, House Speaker John Boehner said: “With this decision, Rep. Schock has put the best interests of his constituents and the House first. I appreciate Aaron’s years of service, and I wish him well in the future.” 
Schock did not inform any House leaders before making his decision, and the announce­ment took Republicans by sur­prise. Although the questions around his spending had begun to attract attention and raise concerns, he was not yet facing concerted public pressure from party members to step down. 
He is the second House Republican to give up his seat this year under unfavorable cir­cumstances. Michael Grimm, who pleaded guilty on tax eva­sion charges, resigned his New york seat in early January. 
Illinois Gov. Bruce Rauner will have five days from the March 31 effective date of Schock’s res­ignation to schedule a special election, which must be held within 120 days of the vacancy. 
GoP state Sen. Darin LaHood, 
PAID ADVERtISEMENt 
considered the front-runner to replace Schock in the heav­ily Republican district, will announce his candidacy Wednesday, Republican officials in Washington said. LaHood is the son of Ray LaHood, who served in Congress and later as President Barack obama’s trans­portation secretary. 
Schock, an energetic real es­tate investor who catapulted from the Illinois Legislature to win a congressional seat at the age of 26, touted his status as the House’s first millennial lawmak­er. He posed shirtless for Men’s Health magazine to promote fitness, and used Instagram the way older politicians rely on press releases, photo bomb­ing his growing fan base from London to the Florida beach scene. He was an in-demand fundraising force and vis­ited more than 40 congressio­nal districts in the lead-up to November’s elections. 
Last June, he was brought into the House leadership and named a senior deputy whip. 
But Schock’s fall was even swifter. only weeks ago, a Washington Post report about his “Downton Abbey”-style of­fice decor led to questions about his handling of expenses. the ornate redecoration, replete with 1920s-era touches, cost $40,000 and was charged to his office; faced with questions, Schock repaid the expense. 
Since Schock doesn’t plan to formally resign until March 31, the office of Congressional Ethics could still refer its find­ings before then to the Justice Department’s office of Public Integrity or the Federal Election Commission. once his resigna­tion becomes final, congres­sional investigators would lose jurisdiction. 
the office-redecoration expenses prompted an eth­ics complaint from a private Washington watchdog group and set off a flurry of reporting on Schock’s spending and reli­ance on political donors. 
An AP examination of Schock’s frequent flights around his cen­tral Illinois district found that he spent more than $40,000 from his House expenses for travel on planes owned by a group of donors. AP also used meta-data associated with Schock’s Instagram account to track his reliance on donor flights and his attendance at concerts and festi­vals where a Super PAC support­ing his campaign spent more than $24,000 for tickets. 



INSIDE COLUMN 

Embracing the Cloud 
Erin McAuliffe 
Scene Editor 

the sun is shining. People are playing quad sports. Bikes are again endangering your walks to class. But most importantly, the permacloud is gone. 
With the permacloud eliminated, there remains only one cloud to hin­der my spirits and functionality: the Cloud. 
I was making a mix tape/CD for a friend recently when I realized my limited knowledge of the technology/ black hole. I scrambled to authorize my old laptop’s itunes, as I have yet to figure how to download my external hardrive to my new computer after three months. I pulled up playlists on Spotify on the newer computer. I flipped through CDs with my toes. After hours of back-breaking work, I burnt the heartfelt creation and proudly presented it to play in the car — only to be met with silence. As my friend reciprocated my attempt at music sharing with a clean, easily accessible “Dropbox” playlist, I real­ized it was time for me to embrace the Cloud. 
For someone with 5,799 unread emails on her phone currently, it was going to be a big leap. My dad has tried to get me on the Cloud before, to which I normally respond with, “that’s such a dad move. I don’t need it. It will also lead the Illuminati to me.” 
Well, what a time to be alive be­cause dads, the Illuminati and the Cloud are in vogue. 
taking on the role of scene editor at the observer has gifted me with two more email accounts to check, so basically if I don’t get my life together soon, my unread email count will be unmanageable. Well, more unman­ageable than 5,799 unread emails al­ready are. 
So far, my adoption of the Cloud lyfestyle has been positive. Unlike organic clouds, the Cloud works to light the way to a more organized, clear desktop where you can actually see the picture of your spring break sunset wallpaper. I am happy to say my silver Mac has a cloud lining. 
I succeeded at putting some pic­tures on Dropbox when I realized I didn’t have a USB thumb drive — in­novation at its finest. I created a Google virtual invite to an event I made, which automatically syncs to someone’s calendar and hopefully guilts people into hanging out with me. And I got to an unread email count of 5,801 during the time I’ve spent writing this.
      Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu

      The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
I literally cannot even 

Christopher Newton 
Stepping out of the Cave 
Let us begin with an insight from everyone’s favorite butler, Alfred Pennyworth, who left us with the adage, “Some men just want to watch the world burn.” Whether the man has been Nero with his fiddle or the fictional Joker of Gotham, it seems there have always been those willing to put the torch to life, property and even society itself if it suited them. Enter Sen. tom Cotton (R-Arkansas) and his merry band of 46 other jokers, the would-be destroyers of the Middle East. these individu­als would see the region razed to the ground in a wanton orgy of genocidal civil strife and nuclear hellfire before they would engage with Iran in any constructive fashion. 
Before proceeding into a few brief reasons regarding how such an outcome may come about, allow me a small author’s note. What follows is by no means a partisan attack but rather an assault on the seemingly impenetrable bastion of ignorance, pigheadedness and outright stupidity cloaked in a veneer of democratic legitimacy that purports to call itself our legislative branch. I most caustically castigate this troupe of Republican n’er do wells not out of any enmity for their party, as those who recall my diatribes against President Barack obama’s mis­guided Middle Eastern policies may note, but out of an allergic reaction to aggressive and willful obtuseness. 
typically, I strive for wit and aplomb in this column, Plato byline and all. However, in light of a letter recently delivered to Ayotollah Khomeini by Sen. Cotton and his ilk, I set aside such pretense, if only for a day. yet this act of epistolary arrogance alone is not what has forced me to such bluntness. With its condescending reminders to the Iranian supreme leader that any treaty signed by an American president means nothing if not approved by Congress, the letter itself merely caps off the ongoing saga of negotiations with Iran and our elected officials’ unflinching incompetence throughout them. 
the letter belies a reflexive and simplistic worldview in which Iran is not so much a state that can be reasoned with, as it is a member of Bush’s Axis of Evil. Cotton and his 46 compatriots blithely ignore Iran’s motivations for seeking nuclear weapons while also undermining not only American regional interests but also the tottering geopolitical underpinnings of the broader Middle East. taking a hardline against Iran, as was done with North Korea, will remove any possibility of cooperation. 
Since the days of the Iranian monarchy, the state has sought at least the ability to produce nuclear power, at first with American assistance and in keeping with its self-perception as 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

the inheritor of the legacy of the Persian Empire. In more recent years, it has escalated its nuclear efforts towards more danger­ous ends. Iran is pursuing at the very least a nuclear breakout capability, the ability to, if threatened, produce a nuclear weap­on in a year or less. Countries such as Japan and Germany are thought to reside at this stage. 
Iran, wedged between a volatile Afghanistan-Pakistan region and the geopolitical morass that is the Middle East, finds itself surrounded by instability and adversarial neighbors. A nearly complete ring of American military bases and aircraft carrier task forces heightens Iran’s sense of insecurity. It is a nation that already perceives itself as under siege. It is a difficult per­spective for Americans to empathize with, given the protection afforded them by two oceans and a lack of geographically con­tiguous rivals since 1848. 
Despite these underlying motivations, however, Iran’s acqui­sition of nuclear weapons would have far reaching consequenc­es. Were Shia Iran to gain possession of such weapons, its Sunni rivals, particularly Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and possibly Egypt, would in time seek to acquire them. Pakistan and India would likely not welcome Iran into the nuclear club with open arms, either. the global non-proliferation regime would be gutted, perhaps irreversibly. 
Additionally, the failure of negotiations will lead to increases in tension between Iran and the United States and possibly even violence between them. At a time when Iran is leading the counteroffensive to seize tikrit, Iraq, and Bashar al-Assad, it appears more likely than ever to cling to power, alienating the country is shortsighted and counterproductive. 
Where working with Iran to mold a geopolitically malleable region might serve American interests, rejecting any sort of collaboration on ideological grounds will leave a wide swath of territory awash in blood and an even wider area unstable. If Sen. Cotton deigns to be shrewd for even just a moment, he may yet come to see that Iran has far more to offer as a partner than as an implacable foe. 
Undermining America’s credibility regarding treaties at this junction serves no positive or logical purpose. Reinforcing the siege mentality of Iran will only force it down the path of nu­clear weapons, not away from it. Negotiations, not hostility and obstinacy, are required to prevent this cascade of events. 
Chris Newton is a senior formerly of Knott Hall. He is a political science major and international development studies minor. He can be reached at cnewton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The morality of midterms 

With the passing of Father Hesburgh, this past midterms week left many students (myself includ­ed) physically and emotionally exhausted. Whether we were waiting in line at 2 a.m. for Fr. ted’s visita­tion, shivering outside the Basilica while waiting for the funeral procession to begin or studying for three midterms and two quizzes, we were all ready for a week of well-earned rest. 
Some iteration of “My exams should have been canceled!” had no doubt entered most students’ conversations as we all tried to reconcile attend­ing the events for Fr. ted with our already grueling midterms study schedules. Indeed, many classes and exams were canceled on Wednesday afternoon so students could attend or watch the funeral and subsequent procession. While it could be argued that the administration shouldn’t ever override the right of a professor to hold an exam, I think most loyal Domers would agree that Wednesday was an appropriate exception. 
But what about the exams on tuesday, the day of Fr. ted’s visitation, or thursday, the morning after the memorial service, or even on Wednesday morn­ing, the day of the funeral itself? Should the ad­ministration have given more time off for students seeking to grieve and celebrate the life of a beloved University president? the short answer is no. the administration needs to respect the independence of professors to hold classes and exams when they feel it is appropriate. the whole point of tenure is to allow professors to teach when and how they choose without fear of being controlled by the ad­ministration. therefore, a minimalist class cancel­ation policy is in the best interest of the University. 
However, the cancelation of the week’s other exams was, as always, left up to the discretion of the professors. While it’s true that some professors actually did exercise this right and moved exams to later dates, most of us were not so lucky. this brings me to the question that I haven’t quite been able to answer: When should professors cancel exams? 
If the goal of a professor is to successfully exam­ine what students have learned up to this point by giving a test, then they should want to administer exams at a time when there aren’t factors like emo­tional and physical fatigue at play. I understand that professors cannot control when exogenous events like a death or another test create stressful conditions for students and that making exceptions on the emotional claims of students is a slippery slope that should probably be avoided. However, if it is within a professor’s best interest to test stu­dents in conditions that don’t force them to com­promise their physical wellbeing, then they should still make every attempt to create fair testing envi­ronments for students. 
this begins with actually scheduling exams across the semester (which many departments claim to do despite the fact that so many of us still have three or more exams on midterms week) rather than on the week before spring break. Furthermore, when extremely rare events like Fr. 

ted’s death create conflicts for so many students, professors should recognize that these students are not going to be able to devote the amount of time that they had previously allotted to studying for their exam and professors will be forced to examine the students’ knowledge in poor conditions. 
Professors, if you aren’t willing to move tests to improve the conditions in which the majority of students take them, then why bother testing us at all? At best, you’re testing our ability to pull all-nighters three nights in a row and still manage to write coherent sentences, not our actual knowledge of the course material. Whether or not you think Fr. ted’s passing is an appropriate reason to move an exam, it highlighted the inherent problems with midterms week by exacerbating the students’ poor testing conditions. If it is the duty of professors to create fair testing environments for their students, then why is midterms week still even a thing? 
Many students left campus that weekend proudly proclaiming that they survived midterms week. But when survival is an accomplishment, what does that say about the environment created by our University? I don’t want to remember the week of Fr. ted’s death as being unnecessarily stressful, but unfortunately, I think many of us will.
 Patrick Glennon
              junior Alumni Hall        March 17 

Does God hate contraception? 
I am a lawyer and a graduate of the University married or not, who engages in intercourse, must with God on the subject and has learned that God (1969). I recently became belatedly aware of play conception lotto, or, more accurately, half of hates contraception? Some of my classmates still Notre Dame’s lawsuit vs. the United States over the people, since only one-half can become preg-can’t get over the fact that Notre Dame let women obamacare contraceptive coverage provisions. to nant? that God does not care whether the baby is be admitted. Given the positions the institution say that I was stunned to find that, in 2015, this is wanted or capable of being fed? takes, I can’t get over the fact that any would an issue to which my alma mater would choose to An institution calling itself a university goes want to enroll. devote its energy and resources would be an un-to this trouble based upon the premise that we derstatement. Are supposedly educated and ma-know God hates contraception because an elderly             James Geagan ture people supposed to believe that God hates man elected by other elderly men supposedly be-class of 1969 contraception? that God insists that everyone, comes invested with the power to speak directly       March 17 
UWIRE 

Hope for the Legal Justice League 
Madeline Galiegos 
the Rocky Mountain Collegian 

As part of International Women’s Day, a special series of LEGo figures made their appearance on the Internet. the figures, dubbed the Legal Justice League, were created by Maia Weinstock to honor the women of the Supreme Court. the set, which Weinstock personally crafted, includes Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Sonia Sotomayor, Elena Kagan, and Sandra Day o’Connor — all of whom are currently or were at one time justices of the Court. 
the set was created to “celebrate the accom­plishments of women in the legal realm, and to encourage girls and women to work toward high positions in the U.S. judicial system” (Business Insider, 2015). Not long after the debut of the fig­ures on her Flickr account, the Internet blew up with excitement and support for mass production of the toys. Although the individual figures are not currently available for purchase, many people have already offered to buy these one of a kind figurines. 
Following the massive demand for the Legal Justice League set, Weinstock submitted the idea to the LEGo ideas website in hopes that the proj­ect could rally enough support from the public to become the next series of LEGo toys. However, once LEGo caught wind of the idea, they an­swered Weinstock’s proposal with a disappoint­ing response. the company cited that they do not accept projects that involve politics or political symbols and therefore cannot manufacture the Legal Justice League. 
Although this is understandable, it is a shame that LEGo will not produce figures that are based on women who have had such an impact on histo­ry simply because of the fact that they are politi­cal figures. that being said, the same thing goes for male figures in politics. there are a lot of great historical figures that could be produced that can help teach and familiarize children with history, figures that shouldn’t be excluded solely based on political affiliation or historical context. After all, Abraham Lincoln appeared in LEGo form in the LEGo Movie, so why can’t we honor other impor­tant heroes? 
Despite the fact that LEGo already produces a vast amount of career-oriented characters, the addition of historical figures could only benefit children. yes, there is already an array of fan­tastic characters created by LEGo- astronauts, scientists and police figures that help promote the idea that children can be anything they want. However, it would be even better if there were figures that helped children learn about people who have shaped the modern world. the Legal Justice League is just one of many sets that could be impactful on youth and adults alike. Sets like Weinstock’s can empower girls to be a part of the legal system, whether that means as a lawyer, a judge or a member of the Supreme Court. the fact of the matter is, LEGo figures should not be im­pacted by fear of political correctness, but should immortalize positive role models for young girls and boys alike. 

The Rocky Mountain Collegian is the student newspaper serving Colorado State University’s community. Hallie Gardner can be reached at blogs@collegian.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By MATT McMAHON 
Scene Writer 

A lot has happened since Kendrick Lamar stole his mom’s van, wove an intricate story around his hometown and eventually took a victory lap for all of Compton’s sur vivors three years ago on “good kid, m.A.A.d. city.” In the mainstream, Pharrell continued his brainwashing of the universe by infecting everyone who has ears with “Happy.” Peer Chance the Rapper went viral covering the “Arthur” theme song and turned it into the uplift ing anthem for a generation uninterested and unopti mistic in having one. on the other end of the spectrum, yG somehow best captured the “good kid, m.A.A.d. city” concept album form, transforming DJ Mustard’s club friendly “ratchet music” into a platform for conscious storytelling in “good kid, m.A.A.d. city”’s more troubled, spiritual younger brother “My Krazy Life.” Meanwhile, Lamar continued to simultaneously conform to and one up his competition on a string of stellar guest verses and changed the rap world forever with “Control” … or, maybe, didn’t. 
thus lies the context for Kendrick Lamar’s new album — or not completely. In the greater context of American news, events such as the shooting of trayvon Martin in Florida and George Zimmerman’s acquittal, the death of Eric Garner in New york and the adoption of his last words, “I can’t breath,” in protest and awareness movements, the shooting of Michael Brown and the subsequent Ferguson riots, the shooting of tamir Rice in Cleveland, police bru tality and documented racism in Chicago, Missouri and New york and United States’ Justice Departments and the most recent University of oklahoma chapter of the SAE fraternity’s racist chant videotaping all have illustrated the very real, very harmful racial inequality still present in the country. It is in this national context then, and not simply in the current state of music, that Kendrick Lamar released his much anticipated sophomore studio album, “to Pimp A Butterfly.” 
“to Pimp A Butterfly,” the title an allusion to Harper Lee’s novel “to Kill a Mockingbird,” opens similarly to “good kid, m.A.A.d. city,” with Lamar scheming on a girl. However, where “good kid” illustrated an intimate, per sonal narrative from Lamar’s past, “to Pimp A Butterfly” deals with a more universal musing on the black condi tion. Performing a gymnastic act of flipping between the verbose, over enunciated educated Black Man and the less articulate industry slave type, Lamar character izes the changing of priorities due to quick, unwrangled fame on opener “Wesley’s theory.” over a soulful sample of ’70s Jamaican singer Boris Gardiner and experimen tal jazz production from Flying Lotus and thundercat, Lamar details the same sentiment as Kanye West on “New Slaves”: corporate industries prey on young, bud ding talents like Lamar, West, athletes and artists and use them up and profit off them while fundamentally warping their desires and offering little reciprocal sup port — proverbially “pimping butterflies.” 
Like how “good kid” could be pitched as a movie — on the album cover it’s billed as “a short film by Kendrick Lamar” — “to Pimp A Butterfly” unfolds like a musical. 
Kendrick repeats a building monologue at the end of var ious tracks, laying out more and more sides to his com plex internal struggle with fame. Along the way, he paints portraits of characters from his past and present, inter acting with them through verses delivered towards him from their perspective. 
through this narrative, Lamar explores heavy, racially charged themes relating to this imagery of pimping but terflies and black inequality across the album proper. A number of interrelated conflicts signify the double con sciousness and duality facing every black American: the familiarity of home versus the existing, but lofty, oppor tunity to escape; street smarts versus book smarts; fame bringing widespread acceptance but removing the indi vidual from everyday reality; success offering an oppor tunity to rise up but also bringing about its own ways of oppression; rallying around black children and teenag ers who are innocently killed while purporting gang vio lence against members of your own race. 
Contradictions and negations permeate the album, only further speaking to the complexity of the issues at hand. “Complexion (A Zulu Love)” boasts a Zulu phi losophy denouncing colorism, “Complexion don’t mean a thing / It all feels the same,” only to be followed up by “the Blacker the Berry.” In the latter, Lamar commands and praises his ethnicity, echoing the phrase, “the black er the berry, the sweeter the fruit.” He is at his most con frontational here and employs the most aggressive flow and delivery to grace the album. He honors his roots, us ing guest vocals from reggae star Assassin, last heard in America on Kanye West’s similarly abrasive and unfor giving “I’m In It.” 
Similar dichotomies arise in tracks “u” and “i” and the one two punch of the downtempo, immediate “Momma” and the R&B originating “Hood Politics,” which com pares an illuminated Lamar returning home with new knowledge and a guilty conscience for succeeding and abandoning his home to the logistics of the neighbor hoods like the one he grew up in and the singular way of life known to them. 
Lamar, boasting his lyrical ability and keen sensibility, articulates so many ideas he makes it easy to grasp hold on any number of them, each weighted and extremely pertinent on its own. But with each passing song, the artist captures the ongoing narrative of the debate over African American identity and what it means to be black in America. In this sense, the album is timeless in the an nals of black history. With name checks and philosophi cal ideas from everyone from Marcus Garvey to Martin Luther King Jr. and tupac Shakur to oprah, the album spans the 1900s to 1920s, ’50s and ’60s and still feels su premely relevant to the now. 
Meanwhile, Lamar and his collaborators sonically cultivate a robust, intricate collage of black musical in fluence, from the funk of George Clinton and the P Funk alluding “King Kunta” to the jazz backings of the in terludes and spoken word sections, to the Soul of Isley Brothers’ lead vocalist Ronald Isley. “to Pimp A Butterfly” embraces all aspects and aesthetics of blackness, devot ing time and celebration to each. the album is calcu lated and assured; it’s rash and desperate; it’s exhausting and exhaustive without seeming any bit overlong or unnecessary. 

the climax of Lamar’s musical comes in the form of the speech break as his live audience gets restless during the album version performance of lead single “i.” After the shaky voiced, heartbreaking performance of “u,” itself a voice cracked, faltering take on betrayal and the results of unsupportiveness, counterpart “i” demands love and support for yourself. Interspersed through the album, Lamar explains that if you stay true to yourself and love yourself for that, you will love and embrace that in others, and others will reciprocate. During the speech, he mo tions to take pride in your heritage, ownership for your individuality and agency in rising above your situation. 
While the single debut of the track in September 2014 insinuated a lighter, summery — possibly shallower — side of Lamar, one focused on self love and promotion of positivity, the extended version found on the album sends a deeper, earned message. the move is a bit of marketing and artistic genius; with heavy radio play, co option by NBA television broadcasts and a Best Rap Performance Grammy propelling the single and anticipation for the album, Lamar grabbed an audience willing to hear him out and then injected the crux of his powerful, poignant argument into the song, with which his audience was al ready most familiar. 
Following D’Angelo’s “Black Messiah” and Kanye West’s “yeezus,” “to Pimp A Butterfly” is an unapologeti cally black, necessarily black album from a prominent, mainstream voice in popular music. Lamar’s fans tran scend identifiers such as race, ethnicity and socioeco nomic status; over the past three years, he has built up so much support that his every next move, including details on his next album, have seen widespread speculation and heavy anticipation. Showing maturity, Lamar chal lenges his audience to be active, whereas his previous work — as much as it bounced — was a passive listening experience. 
on “to Pimp A Butterfly,” he uses his well earned sta tus as the current king of hip hop to deliver a strong, brave, emotionally charged message. It’s clear in its bite, it’s razor sharp, and it’s wholly focused — not one track wastes a moment of its one hour and 20 minute run time; all offer their own thesis relating to Lamar’s recur ring themes. Moreover, it’s an album that will be heard by a lot of people, and, hopefully, listened to, considered and understood by just as many. 
Contact Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
“To Pimp A Butterfly” 
Kendrick Lamar 
Label: Top Dawg Entertainment 
Tracks: Complete Album 
If you like: Flying Lotus, Kanye West, D’Angelo, A$AP 
EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 



By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
Scene Writer 

“you can’t miss tobias Jesso Jr.,” the ads for Jesso’s de­but album “Goon” proclaim. “He’s 6-foot-7.” 
Jesso’s height is just one element of the myth that has built up around the 29-year-old singer-songwriter over the past year. the Vancouver native moved to Los Angeles and spent most of his early 20s trying to make it as a song­writer and guitarist. then in 2012, he experienced a series of events in quick succession that left him heartbroken and dejected. His girlfriend left him, he was injured by a hit-and-run driver while riding his bicycle, and he found out his mother had been diagnosed with cancer. 
Reeling from these events, Jesso returned to his child­hood home in Canada and took up the piano on a whim. He emailed his demos to former Girls bassist Chet “JR” White, who not only listened to the lo-fi recordings but was impressed. Jesso returned to the States to record with White, was signed to true Panther Records and began re­ceiving plenty of buzz from the indie music press. 
Despite his height and mythic backstory, Jesso’s mu­sic isn’t larger than life. “Goon” is an album full of inti­mate piano ballads about heartbreak and professional disappointment. 
White, Black Keys’ drummer Patrick Carney and Ariel Rechtshaid handle production on the album and wise­ly stay out of Jesso’s way for the most part, allowing his songwriting to be the focus. “Goon” retains all the charm and simplicity of his early demos, only slightly polished up for release. Jesso’s piano playing and fragile voice are still the stars but are accented by defeated horn sections, lush strings, backing vocals and minimal percussion. Sometimes he’s backed by acoustic guitar — like on the short, breezy “the Wait” — but mostly, he’s tickling the ivories and pouring out his heart. 
the highlights are often emotionally affecting, with the simplicity of Jesso’s songwriting striking a universal chord. the album’s centerpiece is the six-minute-long “Hollywood,” a song in which the narrator is left frustrat­ed by the star-making machinery of LA. “I think I’m gon­na die in Hollywood,” Jesso sings. He sounds absolutely defeated, like even the West Coast’s endless sunshine isn’t enough to outweigh the entertainment industry’s con­stant rejection. 
the soulful “How Could you Babe,” with its gospel backing vocals and organ chords, mines Jesso’s heart­break to heart-rending results. His voice is at its most pained on the track, rising to a wail that adequately ex­presses his despair. 
the go-to reference points employed by critics in de­scribing Jesso’s music are ’70s songwriters like Randy Newman, Harry Nilsson and John Lennon. the compari­sons stick sonically — the production recalls lush instru­mentation and foregrounded piano of the era’s records. yet Jesso’s songwriting lacks the humor and cynicism that balanced out those artists’ sentimental streaks. 
“Everyone that’s written about the record has made this connection to Lennon’s demos,” Jesso told Interview recently. “I was going for Paul, though.” the McCartney influence is all over “Goon,” especially on tracks like “For you” and “Leaving LA.” Jesso shares Macca’s knack for gorgeous melodies and heartfelt lyrics, and it seems in­evitable that the Grammys will pair the two together for a performance sometime in the future. 

By the end of a 47-minute album, however, this doe-eyed earnestness becomes somewhat exhausting. Even the sentimental Beatle could pen a song as funny and pri­mal as “Why Don’t We Do It in the Road?” every once in a while.  “Goon” would benefit from a change of pace or a little of the wit Father John Misty exhibited on “I Love you, Honeybear.” yet overall, “Goon” is a strong showcase for Jesso’s songwriting, even if it doesn’t always quite live up to the myth. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at mmunhall@nd.edu 
“Goon” 

Tobias Jesso Jr. 
Label: True Panther Tracks: “Hollywood,” “How Could You Babe,” “Leaving LA” If you like: Paul McCartney, Randy Newman 


By EMILIE KEFALAS 
Scene Writer 

once upon a time, upon a time, upon a time there lived a young maiden — no — a young girl — wait, no — a beautiful, small-footed, motherless and occasionally fatherless female protagonist. Despite the cruelty and abuse inflicted upon her by her father’s controlling new wife and taunting stepdaughters, this kind-hearted fe­male protagonist somehow remains good and pure in all her thoughts and actions. Her only Achilles’ heel is mid­night, the unanimously decreed magic hour in fairytale democracy. Everyone knows fantasy neglects the simple concept of time management. 
Cinder-faced Ella was long ago transformed into Cinderella without the help of any storybook fairy godmother or magical-tree-bibbidi-bobbidi-boo. Her European-folklore roots gifted her with multiple names and story alterations adapted from different languages, but her archetype is and always will appeal to the uni­verse as the persecuted heroine, Cinderella. Even covered in ashes and filth, she’s beauty and goodness incarnate. the meaning and story of her name itself has evolved into both an analogy and a complex, similar to the socio­logical “syndrome” nameplates attached to the prognos­tics of her fellow fantasy friends “Peter Pan” and “Alice in Wonderland.” 
And let me tell you, Cindy certainly gets around. In a span of less than six months, little princess wannabe’s across the continental fanbase were exposed to not one but two cinematic doses of enchanted footwear, inter­species human/animal relationships and far-off castles inhabited by charming, royal bachelors. 
Pop culture has never been as transfixed by Cinderella than it has during these past several months, largely due to the Walt Disney Studio’s recent duo of Cindy-centered cinematic releases, including Rob Marshall’s screen ad­aptation of Stephan Sondheim’s “Into the Woods” and Kenneth Branagh’s newly-released live-action version, “Cinderella.” Both have refueled the spirit of an already iconic princess, but they portray her in slightly different fits, and I’m not just talking about a green vs. a blue poofy dress. 
Perhaps this is as a most opportune time as any to re­surface a couple memorable encounters with Cinderella on the big and small screens. Her story has seen its share of screen adaptations, reboots and cosplays, but before we watch her transform from Anna Kendrick to Lily James, let’s examine some of Cindy’s acclaimed roles in show business. 
Walt Disney’s “Cinderella” (1950) 
“Cinderella, you’re as lovely as your name … in the sweetest story ever told.” Before the trend of reinvent­ing storybook staples into dark character analysis, there was the simple magic of this classic portrait only made possible by Disney imagination and animation. Made on the cusp between the classic “Golden Age” Disney animations of the 1930s and 1940s and the less critically-acclaimed productions of the 1950s, this “Cinderella” is representative of both eras. 
In this adaptation, she is the much-loved child of a widowed aristocrat. After remarrying so as to provide his beloved daughter a mother, Cinderella’s father dies unexpectedly, leaving her at the mercy of her cruel step­mother, Lady tremaine, and her stepsisters, Anastasia and Drizella. 
It is not an exaggeration to state that Disney’s 1950s release of “Cinderella” saved the Walt Disney Company from financial crisis, proving itself one of Walt’s most suc­cessful films since “Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs.” 
Beloved by many a princess-wannabe and Disnerd, this classy and chic Cinderella was actually not Walt’s first. Prior to making a full-length animated film ver­sion of Cinderella’s story, Walt made a short film titled “Cinderella” in 1922 as the last of his Laugh-o-Gram se­ries. this “Cinderella” was set entirely in the Roaring ’20s, complete with a flapper dress instead of a ballgown and a swanky car in place of a coach. 

Rodgers & Hammerstein’s “Cinderella” (1957) 
once upon a time, the woman immortalized as “Mary Poppins” and Maria in another Rodgers & Hammerstein musical, “the Sound of Music,” was the first Cinderella to declare, “In my own little corner, I can be whatever I want to be, on the wings of my fancy I can fly anywhere, and the world will open its arms to me.” 
Rodgers & Hammerstein’s version of “Cinderella” is the first and only formatted for television by the legend­ary musical team, with music by Richard Rodgers and a book and lyrics by oscar Hammerstein II. “Cinderella” was originally broadcast live on CBS on March 31, 1957, as a vehicle for Julie Andrews. the story followed a simi­lar outline as the Disney version, though audiences now had two sets of scores to please their palates. the broad­cast was viewed by more than 100 million people and has since been remade for television twice, in 1965 and 1997. 
If my own midnight were not approaching, I would dare continue to recall Cindy’s countless other variations and developments in the movies and beyond. Cinderella is hardly running away from the ball she’s having right now with a new movie, market and merchandise for her diverse fanbase. She lives throughout multimedia as a lesson, setting an extraordinary example of hope and goodness withstanding the anguish of life’s long, dark tunnels. 
the beauty of Cinderella is not simply in her face or her breathtaking ballgown. you want her patience and virtue to prevail, no matter how many times you’ve watched her happily-ever-after. She is neither a helpless victim of pity nor a product of her treatment. Her outlook is a model of faith and trust in the goodness of others. We should all have faith in our dreams and in the dreams of oth­ers, because someday, “your rainbow will come smiling through.” 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 
EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Prepare for the Madness 

Samantha Zuba 
Senior Sports Writer 
It’s that awkward time of the year. 
March Madness hasn’t started yet. the NFL draft is more than a month off. you won’t see NBA or Stanley Cup playoff action until April. MLB spring training is underway, but the season hasn’t started yet, and there are only so many injury updates a person can read. 
It’s the calm before the sports insanity. tomorrow, March Madness will hit, relieving American sports fans who don’t watch soccer of their boredom. 
I know you can’t wait. But be prepared to pace yourself. For a while, you’ll just have March Madness to focus on. It’s like that one big exam that you ditch all of your other classwork for. 
But it’s also that one midterm placed a week before your other four. Soon, you’ll have more than enough to handle. 
It’s oK. you can stay focused and sane once April comes, and the sports world starts buzzing. I mean really buzzing, not just the trade rumors and chatter about a possible tim tebow comeback that fill air time when there’s nothing actually happening to talk about. 
the key is to prioritize. March Madness is a great time to prac­tice before you split your atten­tion among multiple sports. 
Some people seem to watch the entirety of every notable March Madness upset. they show up at work or in class, gushing about key moments in the upset, and you’re like, “How did they think ahead to watch that awful-sounding matchup? Didn’t they have a finance exam to study for anyway?” 
you can only tune in for so many games, so what do you do? 
Just watch SportsCenter after­ward. then you know a little bit about a lot of games, like an en­cyclopedia. It’s likely what some of even your most knowledge­able friends did anyway. 
or you can try selecting games to watch out of a hat. Spending your time trying to logically determine which games will be good is a fruitless endeavor. the matchup between two highly-touted teams will be an uninter­esting blowout, and some No. 16 seed will beat Kentucky. you’ll watch the first but miss the sec­ond. the whole thing is random. 
that being said, another piece of advice: Keep your expecta­tions in check. Crazy things do happen, but Kentucky could go all the way, and you’ll be disap­pointed because what kind of an underdog story is that? 
In times like those, switch from following the men’s bracket to the women’s bracket, or vice versa. Something you want to have happen is bound to happen in one bracket or the other. 
Another important thing to do during March Madness is pre­pare talking points. If the con­versation strays to a game you missed, bring the conversation back to common ground. throw out some vague but assertive statements about Jahlil okafor and remember to include lots of buzzwords. 
“Man, okafor is just unstop­pable. He is such an athlete. Synergy. Networking. Client-centric. the mitochondria is the powerhouse of the cell.” 
this strategy will work. talking about March Madness often involves throwing a lot of random information around, particularly in large group settings where no one actu­ally knows what they’re talking about, but no one wants anyone else to know, and the winner of debates is the loudest person. 
I’d like to offer one final thought. If you do lose money on your bracket, just remember that now you have less money to lose at Feve. At least the money on your bracket went to a some­what intellectual cause. I mean, you tried to reason your way to a good bracket, whether through educated guesses or systemati­cally choosing which jersey col­ors you like best. 
take a deep breath because the Madness begins soon. the awkward gap is almost over. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


SMC TENNIS 

Saint Mary’s splits spring break trip to Florida 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s was busy over spring break, splitting six matches in the span of six days in orlando and Sanlando, Florida. 
the Belles (5-6, 0-1 MIAA) won their first three matches of the trip against Coe and Illinois Wesleyan on Sunday and St. Scholastica on Monday. the trip ended with the Belles dropping their final three matches of the trip against St. Francis, Haverford and Wheaton. 
In its first match of the trip, Saint Mary’s defeated Coe, 5-4. In singles action, seniors Jackie Kjolhede and Shannon Elliott won their matches in three sets, while junior Margaret Faller and freshman Bailey oppman pulled out victories in straight sets. the doubles pair of sophomore Sam Setterblad and freshman Maddie Minaudo won its match by a score of 8-2. Later on in the day, the Belles dominated Illinois Wesleyan, winning all their matches in straight sets. Among the winners for Saint Mary’s were Fetters, Kjolhede, Elliott, Faller, senior Kayle Sexton and fresh­man Kelsey Kopf. 
the Belles were on the winning end of a 6-3 match Monday against St. Scholastica. Fetters, Kjolhede and Elliott won their matches in straightsets, and Sextonedged her opponent in three sets. Setterblad and Minaudo won their doubles match by a score of 9-7. 
Later on in the day, the Belles lost a close, 5-4 match to St. Francis. In singles play, Kjolhede, Elliott and Kopf were victori­ous for Saint Mary’s, while the duo of sophomore Kaity Venters and freshman Rina Moore was the lone victors for the Belles in doubles. 
“We fought hard in some long matches,” Belles coach Dale Campbell said. “We won two matches over three hours long to defeat Coe, 5-4, so that was an impressive victory. We won three out of four matches in a two-day stretch and probably would have won all of them had we not run out of gas.” 
on Wednesday, the Belles lost to Haverford by a final score of 8-1. Setterblad and Minaudo were the lone Belles winners of the day, winning their doubles match, 8-5. 
Saint Mary’s lost its final match of the trip Friday to Wheaton, 6-3. Faller and oppman were the Belles’ winners in singles, and Fetters and Elliott were the lone winners in doubles action. 
“We need more work in doubles and continue to get better play­ing patient points in singles,” Campbell said. “overall, we are getting better with depth, place­ment, etc. We have to continue to play with more determination, more focus and learn how to win the tough matches. our confer­ence opponents will be ready to battle.” 
the Belles’ next match is Saturday at 1 p.m., when they travel to conference foe Alma in Alma, Michigan. 
Contact Michael Ivey at mivey@hcc-nd.edu 
SMC GOLF 

Belles take next step 
By DAISY COSTELLO 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s started its spring season over spring break by placing 15th at the Jekyll Islands Collegiate Invitational at Indian Mound Golf Course in Jekyll Island, Georgia. 
the tournament, which was played Friday through Sunday, hosted a field of 19 Division-III teams, five of which were ranked in the top 25 in the country. the Belles shot 1,042 (+178) over the course of the weekend, but Belles head coach Kim Moore said she viewed the tournament as a step­ping stone for the team moving forward. 
the Belles struggled Friday and Saturday, posting team scores of 349 and 353, respectively. Moore attributed the lackluster perfor­mance to the Belles’ inability to practice outdoors in winter. 
“the transition from hitting and practicing indoors to out­doors can be a little difficult,” Moore said. “the touch and feel needed in golf is something that 

FOR RENT 
COMMENCEMENT WEEKEND RENTAL - Great location - next to campus and Eddy Street Commons ­walk to everything. Email nd-house@ sbcglobal.net 
can’t be simulated indoors.” 

With the weather improving in South Bend, the Belles should be able to get outside and work more efficiently on improving certain areas of their game in or­der to present a more balanced attack going forward, Moore said. the team overall struggled to hit greens as well as putting, which is an aspect of the game Moore said she wants Saint Mary’s to work on before future tournaments. 
“[I] figured our short game would be a little off,” Moore said. “Now that all the snow is melted, we can get outside and get some good quality practice in.” 
there were positives that came out of the Jekyll Island tourna­ment, beginning Sunday with the team’s score of 340. Junior Katie Zielinski led the Belles with her tournament-low round of 79 (+7), followed by sophomore Courtney Carlson’s score of 85 (+13). 
Driving and ball protection were two aspects of the Belles’ game Moore said she was pleased with. the team in general kept the ball out of hazards and had opportunities to score well, but sinking putts was the issue it ran into, she said. 
“We didn’t always take advan­tage of those chances, but it was good to see that they were there,” Moore said. 
Moore said she liked the fo­cus her team showed during the sometimes grueling five-hour rounds at the tournament. often, she said, it’s easy for golfers to get overly tired or distracted over the course of the round. 
“I felt they stayed focused and took one shot at a time,” she said. 
the team’s goal for the year, according to Moore, is to win the conference’s NCAA tournament bid, a goal she believes the Belles can accomplish. 
“We just need to get back into the ‘swing’ of things,” Moore joked. 
the Belles return to action March 28-29 at the Washington University-St. Louis Invitational at Gateway National Golf Links in Madison, Illinois. 
Contact Daisy Costello at mcostel4@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
early June to early August as our live-
WANTED 
in nanny. Email: info@greymattersintl. com 

TRIPLE DOMER NEEDS NANNY­-SUMMER ONLY, P/T, or F/T: ND You better lose yourself in the mu-family needs an energetic, outdoor-sic the moment you own it you better loving, reliable gal to travel to beautiful never ever let it go. You only get one Jackson Hole WY from end of May/ shot, do not miss your chance to blow. 

NDSMCoBSERVER.CoM | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2015 | tHE oBSERVER 

WOMEN’S DIVING 

Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmcobserver 


Casareto qualifies for NCAAs 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
Senior diver Allison Casareto qualified for the 1-meter and 3-meter boards at the NCAA Championship during the NCAA Zone C meet in Columbus, ohio, on thursday and Friday. 
Casareto earned an eighth-place finish on the 3-meter board thursday with a score of 613.70. With new rules in place for this year, she needed a top-12 finish on the 1-meter board to qualify, which she achieved by finishing 12th. 
Junior Lindsey Streepey nar­rowly missed out on qualification for both the platform dive and the 3-meter dive. She finished ninth in the platform, seven points and one place away from qualifying, despite the fact she only competed on the platform twice this year and Rolfs Aquatic Center does not have a platform board on which she could practice. She finished 10th in the 3-meter dive with a score of 
602.00 and also finished 16th in the 1-meter event. 
Junior Emma Gaboury also competed in the platform dive, finishing 19th, as well as finishing 13th in the 3-meter and 21st in the 1-meter. Freshman Annie Crea fin­ished 31st in the 1-meter and 38th in the 3-meter. 
“the hardest thing about NCAA zone diving is that … divers only get one meet to qualify for the na­tional championship,” Irish div­ing coach Caiming Xie said. “It’s not like swimming, where you can qualify at any meet during the season.” 
However, Caiming said his team, especially Casareto, con­fronted the situation exceptionally well. 
“Since it’s zone meets and only one can qualify for nationals, that gives divers a lot of pressure,” Caiming said. “However, Notre Dame divers handled the pressure very well. 
“there were some very good performances during both the pre­liminary and final rounds. Allison especially did a great job to qualify for nationals. they all enjoyed the meet and showed confidence on their dives.” 
Casareto told UND.com qualify­ing for the NCAA Championships has been a highlight of her career at Notre Dame. 
“Being able to compete at NCAAs is something I’m sure any athlete dreams of doing,” Casareto said. “I have always had an immense amount of respect for those who compete at this particular level, and to be able to qualify during the final season of my career is the ulti­mate high note for me personally.” 
Casareto is the first member of the Irish diving team to qualify for nationals since Jenny Chiang in 2013. 
Casareto, along with senior swimmer Emma Reaney, will com­pete at the NCAA Championships this week in Greensboro, North Carolina, starting thursday and finishing Sunday. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at        doboyle1@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 

SMC names new head coach 
Observer Staff Report 
Saint Mary’s introduced Ken Nuber as the new head coach of the College’s soccer program tuesday in a press release. 
Nuber — a native of Cincinnati and a 1993 graduate of the University of Saint Francis in Fort Wayne, Indiana — brings 18 years of head-coaching experience at the NAIA level to the Belles program in addition to five seasons as the re­cruiting coordinator and assistant coach for Notre Dame’s women’s soccer program. 
A year after he graduated, Nuber took charge of his alma mater’s men’s soccer program and soon took up the head job in the women’s program as well. After a couple of years coaching both teams, Nuber shifted to solely Saint Francis’ wom­en’s team, guiding the Cougars to 12 consecutive winning seasons. He was named the Mid-Central Conference coach of the year twice at Saint Francis, and his squad won 10 consecutive National Soccer Coaches Association of America (NSCAA) team Academic Awards. 
In his five seasons at Notre Dame from 2008 to 2012, the Irish went 94-21-8 and recorded three College Cup appearances, including a na­tional championship win in 2010. 
Nuber is currently the director of coaching for the Junior Irish Soccer Club in Granger and coaches the club’s under-15 and under-16 girls teams. He will continue in his role as the director of coaching at the club while assuming the reigns at Saint Mary’s. 
Nuber holds a United States Soccer Federation National “B” License and the NSCAA Advanced National Diploma. 
While at Saint Francis as a player, Nuber set the school record for goals in a game and scored 43 goals while tallying 17 assists in his career. 
Nuber replaces Michael Joyce as the Belles’ head coach and inherits a team that finished 6-11-3 overall and 4-9-3 in MIAA play this fall. 



ROWING 

Notre Dame starts season strong at Oak Ridge 
the Cavaliers also won the a conference title. 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 

Sports Writer third varsity eight race with a “We want to follow in the 
time of 6:10.166, while the Irish footsteps of our basketball 

the Irish opened their sea-took their third consecutive team and win the ACC cham­son this past weekend with second place finish with a time pionship,” Ryder said. “that a two-day regatta at the oak of 6:27.274. will entail beating UVA, but Ridge Cardinal Invitational in the Cavaliers swept the re-we think that we are in a good oak Ridge, tennessee. maining morning races, in-place right now and that with 
the first day of the cluding the second varsity our training over the next Invitational took place this past eight and varsity four. It was month or so we will be able to Saturday, where No. 12 Notre not until the first race of the do that.” Dame won outright in one race afternoon session the Irish se-Consistency proved to be the and had competitive finishes in cured their only victory of the order of the day for the Irish the rest of the races during its day in the first varsity eight on the second day of the oak opening regatta. race, where they posted a win-Ridge Invitational, where they 
the first varsity eight-man ning time of 5:56:767 — four claimed four second-place fin-boat race opened its season in seconds ahead of second-place ishes in five heats. No. 9 yale a heat that included Kansas, finisher, Central Florida, and swept the Sunday event, but the Alabama and No. 2 Virginia. several seconds more in front Irish remained competitive, the Cavaliers took the win with of Louisville and Kansas. never finishing more than a few a time of 5:53.656, while the the Irish finished outside of seconds behind the Bulldogs’ Irish claimed the second place the top-two positions in only squad. position at 6:03.508. Kansas one heat during the first day, Ryder praised yale’s talent and Alabama came in third and as the Irish third varsity eight and appreciated the opportu­fourth, respectively, each with-claimed third with an event nity to pace themselves against in milliseconds of each other time of 6:29.808. the squad. and about 20 seconds behind the constant competition “We don’t have a rivalry with the Irish squad. with Virginia will prove a theme yale,” Ryder said. “We usually 
the first varsity four-man for the season as the Irish con-only race yale at NCAAs. So event featured an identical tinue to aim for their goal of an it was unusual for us to race lineup, with Virginia claiming ACC championship. According them this early in the season. its second victory with a pace to junior Savannah Ryder, the they are a great team though, time of 6:43.578 to the second-Cavaliers stand as a benchmark and it was a good chance for us place Irish’s time of 6:52.626. team of sorts in their pursuit of to see where we stand against 
FENCING 

Irish qualify 12 for NCAAs 
record. for the Irish at sabre. 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 

Sports Writer Junior Sarah Followill spoke Followill described the 
highly of her teammates’ team’s preparation process 

the Irish qualified 12 performance at Regional as difficult but dynamic and entrants to the NCAA Qualifiers. manageable. Championships during their “I think momentum [from “It’s always hard when showing at the Midwest earlier in the season] will def-you’re competing every week-Regionals on March 7 in initely carry over,” Followill end to manage your time,” Evansville, Illinois. said. “Every fencer compet-Followill said, “but it’s our 
Freshmen Francesca Russo ing has extreme potential to job and we always find a way and Claudia Kulmacz fin-qualify.” to do it. It’s been tough with ished second and third in Followill’s anticipation midterms but school always women’s sabre, posting 10-2 proved correct as the Irish comes first. … We have the and 9-3 records, respectively, qualified the maximum num-best manager in the world, on the afternoon. Junior foil ber of 12 entrants heading and so many other people to and 2012 olympian Lee Kiefer into the NCAA champion-help us along. From our per-took first in her weapon cat-ships in Columbus, ohio. the sonal trainers, sports medi­egory with a perfect 16-0 re-Irish join Columbia as the cine staff, nutritionists and cord, followed closely by the only two schools to qualify even our personal tutors, third-place finisher, senior the maximum number of par-we have every resource we Madison Zeiss. Senior Nicole ticipants, with Penn State, need to be successful student Ameli held the highest place-Princeton and St. Johns each athletes.” ment on women’s epee, going earning 11 bids. Harvard Followill also spoke to the 14-2 to claim second place and regional rival ohio State success of first-year head in the event, while senior earned ten bids apiece. coach Gia Kvaratskhelia. Ashley Severson and junior Kiefer, the two-time de-“Gia is amazing,” she said. Catherine Lee claimed fourth fending NCAA champion who “As our new head coach, he and fifth places with identi-currently ranks No. 4 globally dove into this season with cal 12-4 records. in the senior open category, commitment and dedication 
the men’s team witnessed is joined by Zeiss in the foil and has pushed us into suc­2011 NCAA Champion Ariel group. Epee captains Ameli cess this year.” DeSmet earn a second-place and Severson each quali-the team’s efforts across finish with his 10-2 record in fied, while women’s sabreus-the board have earned it a foil, just one win ahead of his es Kulmacz and Russo also fighting chance at individual teammate, freshman Virgile qualified. and team titles in the com-Collineau, who claimed the men will send six en-ing NCAA Championships. third with a 9-3 record on tries to the tournament as the Irish finish their season the weekend. Freshmen well, headlined by DeSmet March 19-22 at the French Jonah Shainberg (11-2) and and Collineau in foil. McGrath Field House on the campus Jonathan Fitzgerald (10-3) and freshman Nicholas of ohio State in Columbus, took second and fourth place Hanahan will represent the ohio. in men’s sabre, while junior Irish in men’s epee, while Garrett McGrath nabbed sec-the freshmen Shainberg and Contact Brett O’Connell at ond place in epee with a 10-3 Fitzgerald will take the stripe boconne1@nd.edu 
their program this early in the season.” 
All in all, the team’s reaction to the weekend’s events were largely positive. Junior Jill Ryan lauded her teammates for their focus on technique and claim­ing the opportunity to get out­side in the nice weather will allow for further improvement. 
“the weather was a lot nicer than in past years,” Ryan said. “I think we covered a lot of ground technique-wise that we have been missing on the ergs. We have some unfinished busi­ness with yale and UVA, but we’ll see them again later in the spring.” 
Junior Joanna Mulvey echoed the benefits of their spring break trip to tennessee. 

“this year’s spring training trip was definitely one of the most productive during my time at ND,” Mulvey said. “the regatta at the end of the break involved more teams than usu­al, which was a great way for us to get into the racing mind­set moving forward. Not every race played out the way we had wanted it to since the goal is al­ways to win, but a lot of impor­tant improvements were made from race to race.” 
the Irish will continue their spring season on March 28, when they head to Columbus, ohio, for the Big ten-ACC Double Duel. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 





NDSMCoBSERVER.CoM | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2015 | tHE oBSERVER 

MEN’S GOLF 

ND tees it up on both coasts 
Softball 
CoNtINUED FRoM PAGE 16 
we’ll just use scouting reports, but each team we treat the same.” 
Gumpf said Cleveland State “can flat hit the ball,” as she said the Irish must contain their opponents’ power hitters to win the game. 
“We just need to be able to control their hitters and make sure that they’re hitting the pitches we want them to hit,” Gumpf said. “We have to keep the ball in the yard.” 
Notre Dame will square off against Cleveland State at Melissa Cook Stadium this af­ternoon, with the first pitch scheduled for 4:30 p.m. 
Contact Ben Horvath at bhorvat1@nd.edu 
PAID ADVERtISEMENt 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame finished 12th at theLamkinSanDiegoClassicand 10th at the talis Park Challenge in Naples, Florida, over spring break. 
Competing against a field that included four opponents ranked inside the top 30 in the nation at the Lamkin Classic, the Irish fin­ished with a score of 912, shooting 301 in the first round, 309 in the second and 302 in the third. 
As the competition progressed, the conditions at the San Diego Country Club became difficult for all golfers, with the average score for the field on the final round be­ing 75.5 strokes. 
Sophomore Blake Barens, how­ever, performed well above the average, shooting a career-best 18-hole score of 71 in his final round after shooting a 76 in the first round and an 80 in the sec­ond, enough for him to finish in a tie for 47th. 
Sophomore Matthew Rushton shot a 32 on his opening nine, on the way to a first round of 69. However, he could only shoot a 77 in the second round and an 81 in the third to finish 47th overall. 
Junior Cody Sciupider made three birdies on the final round to earn a share of 52nd place after rounds of 80, 77 and 72. 
In his first start of the spring season, Freshman thomas Steve earned a share of 75th place after shooting a first round of 76, a sec­ond round of 75 and a final round of 80. 
Sophomore Liam Cox shot a fi­nal round of 78 to follow his first two rounds of 82 and 85 and fin­ish tied for 82nd. 
At the talis Park Classic, Barens and Steve each earned a share of 20th place with a total score of 873. 
Barens again set a career-best round, shooting a 70 in the first round followed by a 74 in the sec­ond and a 71 in the third. 
Steve opened with a two-un­der-par 69 and ended the first day in fifteenth place after a 73 in the second, and then shot a 73 in the final round. 
Rushton shot a 78 and a 76 on the first day, but a final round of 69 earned put him in a tie for 50th place. 
Sciupider shot rounds of 73, 72 and 78 to also earn a share of 50th place. Cox shot a first round of 81, a second round of 73 and a third round of 80 to finish in 71st position. 
Notre Dame will play its final event of the 2015 regular season schedule at the Mason Rudolph Invitational on April 3-4 at the Legends Club in Nashville, tennessee. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 



Baseball 
CoNtINUED FRoM PAGE 16 
said. “We want to be able to con­tinue to get our position players at-bats, and we want to have them be there at a place where they’re seeing live pitching. It would be tough to go weekend to weekend and expect that you’re going to get the same type of skill level be­ing shown. to a certain extent, it’s an opportunity to see some of the arms that just haven’t gotten enough innings yet. We need to get them innings, and we will be able to start to do that.” 
After the home opener against Central Michigan, Notre Dame will plunge into the rest of its season, beginning with a three-game series against ACC foe No. 16 Louisville starting Friday. Aoki said his team just needs to keep playing up to the team’s slogan of “competing one pitch at a time.” 
“I think the physical improve­ment will continue to come as these guys get more at-bats and more innings pitched under their belts,” Aoki said. “Especially for some of these younger guys, they’re going to be put into more and more difficult situations, which is hard to believe for some of the situations that some of these young pitchers of ours have gone into and performed so well in. 
“But they’re going to; it’s going to happen. When you have the quality of teams that are going to come in and that they’re going compete against, they’re going to be put into really tough spots, and it’s going to be expected that they compete at a high level.” 
Notre Dame will take on the Chippewas in its home opener to­night at Frank Eck Stadium, with the first pitch slated for 6:05 p.m. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 



tHE oBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2015 | NDSMCoBSERVER.CoM 

Cavalaris, linebackers Joe Linebacker Ben Councell, who
Football 

Schmidt and Jarrett Grace, offen-played in all but one game last 
CoNtINUED FRoM PAGE 16 

sive lineman Nick Martin, receiv-season but never seemed fully 
ers Amir Carlisle and Cam Bryan recovered from a 2013 ACL injury, approach of playing the position,” and tight end Chase Hounshell, will not return as well. Kelly said of Golson. “taking care who played on the defensive line “For Ben, that was Ben’s deci­of the football. take the last drive in previous seasons. sion that he wanted to move on,” in the LSU game, for example, Kelly said he expects a battle for Kelly said. “He chose not to con-some of the plays he made there the starting middle linebacker job tinue to play. We respected that 
— poised in the pocket, checking with the return of Schmidt and decision. … He’s just going to get the football down, staying within Grace, whom he added both pro-his degree and move on to the the realm of the offense. Much of vide vocal leadership on defense. next chapter for him.” that needs to continue.” “We’ve got a very good situa-
Kelly said he will be looking tion where we have both of these Uncertain futures for a different type of develop-guys that can help us lead there,” After sitting out all of 2014 as ment from Zaire in the next seven he said. “And we’ve got a very ath-part of the University’s academic weeks. letic, young player in [sophomore] investigation of five Irish players, 
“Leading his group, being vo-Nyles [Morgan]. We think it’s a cornerback KeiVarae Russell and cal, being consistent, all those good problem to have. We’ll take defensive lineman Ishaq Williams things need to be built on a day-those kinds of problems. Last year are still hoping to return to Notre to-day basis in the spring,” he during the season, we didn’t have Dame next season, Kelly said. said of Zaire. “He’s capable of that kind of luxury.” He added that he has “commu­doing it. He showed he has that However, the Irish will not re-nicated effectively” with Russell, in him. Now it has to be on dis-turn three players who had an-but his contact with Williams has play both in practice and not other year of eligibility left with been through a third party. just in games.” the team. “I know what KeiVarae’s situa-
While Kelly was quick to clarify offensive lineman Matt tion is and have had a lot of con-that he never told either quarter-Hegarty, who started the final tact with him,” Kelly said. “I can back that they would assuredly 10 games of the 2014 campaign confidently say, standing in front split time under center in 2015, the at center, announced March 5 of you today, he’s making all the head coach said he believes both that he would not play for Notre steps necessary to be back here, will help the Irish in the fall. Dame next year. be part of our football team this 
“Based upon what we saw in “We’re in a situation certainly summer.” our bowl preparations, based where we had a spot for him the head coach said Williams upon what we saw in the LSU on our roster,” Kelly said. “We is currently working while he fig-game, I think they’re both going thought he would be competing ures out what his future will hold to compete,” Kelly said. “I think for a starting position. He chose to at Notre Dame. they’re both very much going to take another option that is avail-“Right now, he’s got to get re-be part of our success in 2015.” able to him because he’s going to enrolled into school,” Kelly said. 
graduate.” “He’s got to reapply, go through Jade Barber and Chris Giesting Extending their stay Martin will take his place as that process. there’s some uncer-Track placed well enough to be sec-In addition to Golson, eight starting center heading into tainties there. He’s trying to do the 
CoNtINUED FRoM PAGE 16 

ond-team All-Americans. Barber other Irish players are expected to spring, Kelly said. things necessary to have a Plan B 
finished in ninth place by just a return as graduate students next on defense, Kelly said corner-if he needs one.” you’re going to have run a lot thousandth of a second, finish-season, Kelly announced. back Jalen Brown, who did not see better in the final.’ If she had put ing the 60-meter hurdles in 8.18 that list includes cornerbacks game time in 2014, was not invited Contact Mary Green at together a little bit better race [I] seconds. Giesting also finished Matthias Farley and Connor back to the program in 2015. mgreen8@nd.edu think she could have and would ninth in the men’s 400 in 46.46 have placed higher. I’m satisfied seconds. turner said Barber’s PAID ADVERtISEMENt with her performance. Getting near miss speaks to the difficul­sixth in the country, that’s noth-ty of the task. ing to scoff at.” “[Barber and Giesting] had 
Seidel also finished sixth in very, very solid performances,” the 5,000, running a school-re-turner said. “In Jade’s case, cord 15:48.31 mark to earn her that was her season’s best and first All-American scroll in track she missed it by one one-thou­and field. sandth of a second; the small­
“[Seidel] ran great,” turner est of margins you can think of. said. “She could have easily been that’s unfortunate because she third place instead of sixth. We had been seventh the last two are so happy for Molly. We knew years. that’s track and field and she was going to run well; she you just can’t take for granted had a great cross country sea-that an All-American will auto-son. Every time she’s stepped on matically be an All-American the track for us she’s run great the following season. and she’s been injury-free.” “With Chris, he ran at the end 
Notre Dame won first-team of January and he didn’t run All-American honors for the until the ACC finals with a hip women’s distance medley relay flexor. His hip’s ok now, but he team in a strange way. the Irish still wasn’t quite in tip-top shape initially finished in ninth place, and I wasn’t able to train him but Villanova dropped the baton exactly the way I wanted to go-during the 400-meter portion of ing into the indoor nationals. If the relay and it was recovered we had another week, which we by a fan. After turner filed an didn’t, we would have been able appeal, the Wildcats were dis-to have him a bit more prepared qualified and the Irish slid into for it. He wasn’t extremely disap­eighth, good for an All-American pointed; he came out and gave spot. 100 percent.” 
“I conferred with my assistant the Irish will now prepare coaches to see if it was definitely for the outdoor season, which Villanova that dropped the ba-gets underway next week. ton,” turner said. “So I went in Notre Dame will open at the and protested the final results texas Relays and the Bobcat and it was upheld. It wasn’t the Invitational in Austin, texas, way we wanted to be first-team and San Marcos, texas, respec­All-Americans, but you just can’t tively, from March 26 through have people handing you the ba-March 28. ton, you have to get it yourself.” 
In addition to the three first-Contact Marek Mazurek at team All-Americans, seniors mmazurek@nd.edu 



NDSMCoBSERVER.CoM | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2015 | tHE oBSERVER 

CROSSWORD | WILL SHoRtZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | CHRIStoPHER BRUCKER 

DOME NUTS | ALEXANDRIA WELLMAN 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | tHE MEPHAM GRoUP 


HOROSCOPE | EUGENIA LASt 
Happy Birthday: Use your imagination and you will come up with solutions to legal, financial or contractual problems. It’s important to take part in what’s going on around you at work or in your community. If you don’t participate, you will have no leverage to complain. Control will be necessary if you want the year to be stellar. Embrace each day. your numbers are 6, 13, 24, 26, 37, 40, 42. 
Birthday Baby: you are caring, mindful and astute. you are reserved and persistent. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Keep an open mind and listen carefully to what’s being said. Someone will withhold information if you don’t ask direct questions. Consider what you can do to make a difference in an important relationship.  


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don’t ignore your intuition when it comes to your relationships with others. trust your own feelings, not what someone is trying to make you think. Proceed with caution, especially if demands are being put on you. Focus on simplicity, moderation and organization.  


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Refuse to take on additional responsibilities if it will hinder reaching your goals. Confusion when dealing with other people’s personal matters will lead to trouble. Honesty and integrity will be necessary if you want to move forward. Follow through with your plans.  


CANCER (June 21-July 22): take care of business. Don’t let an argument or debate sway your mood or cost you valuable time that you should be spending being productive and doing your job. Deal with personal matters directly so you can carry on with your work. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Complete what you set out to do. you can alter your circumstances if you are persistent and take direct action. Don’t leave anything to chance. If you take control, you can bring about significant change that will benefit you as well as others.  


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Focus on self-improvement. Join a club or buy a good workout tape. If you want to be your best, it will take time, effort and dedication. take control of your life and update your image. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Deal with emotional issues quickly and you’ll avoid a stressful situation. An open attitude and willingness to compromise will bring you closer to someone you want to work or spend more time with. Be a team player.  


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don’t let someone’s last-minute changes throw you off your game. Be imaginative and work with whatever you are given. It’s your diversity and creative ideas that will be admired and rewarded. Romance is in the stars.  


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Get directions, information or instructions from a reliable source. Secondhand information won’t be trustworthy and could lead to loss or embarrassment. Home improvements will turn out well. A nice gesture will improve your love life.  


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Avoid getting mixed up in a joint financial venture with someone who is unreliable. Consider how you can use the information you receive to advance on your own. Don’t let an emotional situation turn in to a costly affair.  


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you’ve got what it takes to advance and should be able to carry out your plans with confidence. Express your feelings and discuss partnership plans that can improve your personal and professional future. Romance and celebration should be planned.  


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Caution and observation will be necessary if you want to avoid someone’s reluctance to let you move ahead. Listen to the contributions made by others, and use the information you gather to outmaneuver anyone who stands in your way.  


JUMBLE | DAVID Hoyt AND JEFF KNUREK 

Make checks payable to and mail to:  Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester  the observer P.o. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Name Address City  State  Zip  


FOOTBALL BASEBALL 
Kelly discusses spring Notre Dame ready practice, QB competition for home opener 
By MARY GREEN 
Assistant Managing Editor 
When Notre Dame takes its first snap of spring practice Wednesday morning, Brian Kelly will be focused in on a few key position battles, the Irish head coach said at his press conference tuesday. 
However, he does not expect every starting job to be locked up seven weeks later for the April 18 Blue-Gold Game, including the No. 1 signal caller. 
“I really don’t know,” Kelly said when asked about if a starting quarterback will be determined in the spring. “I think it’s going to take us some time to get a feel for how this competition is going. … It’s one thing to go out there and compete without footballs. It’s another thing to put the football in their hands, go run the offense 
— then we’ll have a better sense.” 
Graduate student quarterback Everett Golson started every game of the 2014 regular season, while 
By ISAAC LORTON 
Senior Sports Writer 
With the snow melted away, baseball is back at Notre Dame, as the Irish take on Central Michigan in their home opener tonight. 
Although it is chilly outside, Irish head coach Mik Aoki said Notre Dame (14-4, 3-3 ACC) is excited to be back playing at Frank Eck Stadium. 
“We’re looking forward to the home opener — that’s for sure,” Aoki said. “It will be better than the polar vortex of last year. Anything would be better than what we had to deal with last year.” 
the Irish concluded a month-long road trip to start the season with a series win over Clemson — their first road conference series win since joining the ACC — and 

junior Malik Zaire earned the snaps on the final, game-winning are looking to continue their early 
nod in the finale against LSU in drive. success tonight against a solid 
the Franklin American Mortgage “We need to see him continue squad from Central Michigan (13­
Music City Bowl. the quarter-hisdevelopmentin thedisciplined 7, 0-0 MAC). 
backs split series under center “Central [Michigan] is always 
against the tigers, and both took see FootBALL PAGE 14 [an] incredibly competitive, well-coached team and always a talented team that really, really makes you work,” Aoki said. “So we’re just going to have to go out there and do the same things that we’ve been doing and preaching all year.” 

Aoki said the Irish are aware of the attitude a smaller-conference team will be bringing with them in a one-game matchup. 
“We don’t think for a second that a Mid-American [Conference] school isn’t coming in here with a giant-killer mentality on their minds,” Aoki said. “they’re com­ing in here well prepared. … We’re ready to match the effort that they’re going to put forth.” 
these midweek, nonconference games are crucial bridges connect­ing the weekend series, Aoki said, in which the Irish get extra at-bats and the coaches get to see younger pitchers get more innings. 
“Baseball is much more of a skill-and-repetition thing,” Aoki 
see BASEBALL PAGE 13 
ND SOFTBALL 

Irish set to welcome Vikings 
By BEN HORVATH 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will square off against Cleveland State today in a one-game series at Melissa Cook Stadium in the first Irish home game of the season. 
the Irish (15-11, 1-5 ACC) are coming off a weekend trip to tallahassee, Florida, where they dropped two out of three matchups against No. 10 Florida State, with the sole vic­tory coming in the final game of the series. 
Notre Dame’s 12-0 win Sunday was highlighted by sophomore pitcher Rachel Nasland’s no-hitter, the 35th solo one in program history. 
Irish head coach Deanna Gumpf said Nasland and her team’s performance in tallahassee was a good way to finish the first half of the team’s schedule. 
“It was a nice way to finish being on the road and to come home with a win under our belts before we start our home­stretch,” Gumpf said. 
While the Irish have yet to play at home — they have played 13 road and 13 neu­tral-site games so far — they will play 21 of their remain­ing 28 games at Melissa Cook Stadium, something Gumpf said she sees as a positive. 
“[At home is] where you want to be at this point in the year,” Gumpf said. “It’s worth being on the road so much in the first half of the year because we get a heavy homestand for the rest of the season.” 
Gumpf said the opportunity to practice at home this week has helped the Irish in prepa­ration for their Wednesday contest against the Vikings (12-7, 0-0 Horizon). 
“Just being able to practice on our own field and be in our own dugout makes a lot of dif­ference,” Gumpf said. “I think [today] it’ll be an even bigger factor than [yesterday].” 
Despite this being just Notre Dame’s third one-game se­ries of the season, Gumpf said preparation for Wednesday’s game will be no different than usual. 
“Every team we play, we pre­pare for exactly the same,” she said. “If we can get video on that team, we’ll get video; if all we have are scouting reports, 
see SoFtBALL PAGE 13 
TRACK & FIELD 

Five ND athletes earn All-American status at NCAAs 

SARAH OLSON | The Observer 
Irish junior sprinter/hurdler Margaret Bamgbose races in a relay event in the Notre Dame Invitational on Jan. 24. 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
Sports Writer 
When Notre Dame returned home from the NCAA indoor championships in Fayetteville, Arkansas, it came back with three first-team All-American honorees and two second-team All-Americans. 
Juniors Margaret Bamgbose and Molly Seidel earned first-team All-American honors in the 400-meter dash and 5,000-me­ter run, respectively, while the women’s distance medley relay team was also All-American, completing the Irish stable of winners. 
Despite just sneaking in to the finals by eight thousandths of a second, Bamgbose finished sixth in the 400 with a time of 
52.65 seconds, notching her sixth first-team All-American scroll. Irish head coach Alan turner said he felt despite re­ceiving first-team All-American honors, Bamgbose could have performed even better. 
“I thought she should have run better in the preliminary race,” tuner said. “When we knew she had finally made it, I said, ‘Well 
see tRACK PAGE 14 






