The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 18 | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Jenkins delivers annual faculty address 
Cites improvements in academics and research, focuses on international outreach and diversity 
By CLARE KOSSLER 
associate news editor 
in his annual faculty ad­dress Tuesday in the debartolo performing arts center, university president Fr. John Jenkins said over the course of his 10-year presidency, notre dame has witnessed an overall improvement in academics, re­search and financial standing and identified internationality and diversity as two of its primary tenets. 
“our central goals, as i in­dicated in 2005, were to offer an unsurpassed undergradu­ate education, be an institution preeminent in research with excellent graduate programs, and ensure that all our endeav­ors are informed by a distinc­tive catholic mission,” he said. 
“since that time we have high­lighted two themes that touch on each of these goals — interna­tionality and a commitment to diversity and inclusion.” 
The continually increasing quality of successive incom­ing classes is indicative of the university’s success in the area of undergraduate education, Jenkins said. 
“such talented students have many other attractive alterna­tives, and it says much for our university when so many highly qualified students apply and choose to come to notre dame,” he said. 
Jenkins said along with be­ing stronger academically, notre dame undergraduates are more likely to engage in research now 
see JenKins PAGE 5 


ROSIE LoVOI | The Observer 

University President Fr. John Jenkins gives his annual faculty address at DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on Tuesday afternoon, calling for increased efforts to bolster Notre Dame’s internationality and diversity. 
students support 
smc panel examines papal charity with kilts 


encycical ‘laudato si’’ 
associate professor of biol-as providing a recycle bin in 
By MARTHA REILLY 

news writer ogy cassie majetic also said every dorm room would con-the poor are the most affect-tribute to a stronger sense of 
in response to pope Francis’s ed by the degradation of the unity on campus. most recent encyclical about environment. “all throughout the encycli­the environment, “laudato “it’s become really apparent cal, there’s a common theme of si’,” saint mary’s held a panel that these issues have dispro-interconnectedness,” o’leary 
portionate effects on the plan-



et,” majetic said. “There is no real debate that these things are happening.” 
according to majetic, “laudato si’” encouraged her to continue discussion of en­vironmental issues in her 
curriculum. 

Photo courtesy of Kelsey Sullivan 

Seniors Michael Lindt and Benjamin Brockman raise awareness and 
money for the Ronald McDonald House Charity by wearing kilts. 

By JENNA WILSON 
news writer 
if you’re looking for a good conversation starter, senior michael lindt suggests wear­ing a kilt. 
lindt and fellow senior benjamin brockman have been sporting kilts around campus to raise awareness for the ronald mcdonald house charity. 
“it’s the best way to start a conversation independently and say, ‘hey can i tell you why i’m looking really stupid in a kilt today?’ and people are more likely to say ‘oK, what’s going on,’’ lindt said. 
The two are participating in the men in Kilts campaign, a fundraiser where participants compete to raise money for the michiana branch of the char­ity. This is the first year the duo has participated in the event, lindt said. it is also the first time any notre dame student has participated in the event. 
see KilTs PAGE 3 
discussion Tuesday night. 

religious studies professor phyllis Kaminski began the conversation by explaining the encyclical’s relevance to college students. she said pope Francis calls for a deep ecolog­ical conversion that all people of good will can achieve if they acknowledge environmental issues. 
“he broadens catholic so­cial teaching,” Kaminski said. “he draws on the lived expe­rience of those most affected by ecological devastation: the poor.” 
“it was fun to read and was very affirming because these are some of the things i teach in the classroom,” majetic said. “i feel called to think about my own research. it’s very hard to turn a critical eye to oneself, but i think that’s what pope Francis is asking us to do in this document.” 
senior deirdre o’leary said she read “laudato si’” with cu­riosity from the perspective of a student, which helped her generate ways in which saint mary’s can improve from an ecological standpoint. she said even something as simple said. “when we’re able to be compassionate to the person sitting next to us, that’s not un­related to the environment.” 
o’leary said students’ love for others can translate into love for creation, which makes it easier to appreciate nature. 
“we have, as pope Francis said, an obligation to care for the environment,” o’leary said. “This doesn’t have to be a mundane task. we can do it with joy. as we’re walk­ing to class on this beautiful 
see encyclical PAGE 3 






ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                   Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 

News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 





QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
If you were a dog, what kind would you be? 

Rebecca Wiley 
sophomore cavanaugh hall 
“shetland sheep dog.” 

Kevin King 
senior Keenan hall 
“beagle.” 

Jake Grefenstette 
senior off campus 
“a big red one.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Dylan Naylor 
freshman 
Keenan hall 
“brittany spaniel.” 

Spencer Clark 
sophomore 
Zahm house 
“chocolate lab.” 


Emily Gust 
sophomore breen-phillips hall 
“pug.” 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
margaret hynds renee griffin Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Jp gschwind ben padanilam megan valley 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
erin rice adam ramos 
Photo Viewpoint 

Are You Getting the Dante’s Other Works Blackhawks Training Football vs. Georgia La Misa en Espaol 
emmett Farnan bianca almada 
Signal? Hesburgh Library Camp Tech Dillon Hall DeBartolo Hall 4:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. Compton Family Ice Notre Dame Stadium 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. Celebration of Dante’s Arena 3:30 p.m. Mass celebrated in 
Corrections 

Interactive improv minor works for his All day The Irish take on the Spanish. 
The observer regards itself as performance. 750th birthday. Team opens training. Yellow Jackets. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Core Facilities Fair An Evening with The Future of the Rules of Engagement Vespers 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Jordan Hall of Science Ramahan Faulk Past Raclin-Carmichael Hall Bascillica of the 
however, recognize that we will make 
10 a.m.-2 p.m. DeBartolo Performing Hesburgh Library at IUSB Sacred Heart 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Learn how core Arts Center 4 p.m.-5:30 p.m. 11 a.m.-12 p.m. 7:15 p.m.-8:15 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
faicilities benefit 7 p.m.-8 p.m. Lecture on revival of Lecture on global Evening prayer in the 
we can correct our error. 

research projects. Visual arts presentation. Ireland from 1891-1922. health volunteerism. Lady Chapel. 

ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2015 | The observer 

Professor analyzes data on constitutions 
By DEVON CHENELLE 
news writer 
The hesburgh center for international studies hosted a lecture by the university of michigan’s anatol rapoport professor of political science george Tsebelis on Tuesday. The lecture combined Tsebelis’s lifelong interest in institutions and his back­ground in mathematical mod­eling and comparative politics to examine what Tsebelis said were the most important insti­tution of all — constitutions — and to advocate for ones that are shorter and less mutable. 
when Tsebelis began, he said his talk would focus on democratic constitutions, investigating the effects of different constitutional struc­tures and whether data sup­ported a wider rule on the effects of constitution type. 
Tsebelis said while the pur­pose of constitutions are sim­ilar the world over, there is tremendous variety in length, 
Kilts 
conTinued From page 1 
The pair has been fund­raising since school start­ed, lindt said. so far, they have held fundraisers at Five guys and o’rourkes on eddy street.  They will continue scope and especially rigid­ity, as some 35 countries have constitutional articles they cannot amend. even the na­ture of the u.s. constitution was contested, he said. 
“[James] madison want­ed to be serious and have a constitution that stays there ... Jefferson wanted a constitu­tion that would be for 19 years” he said. 
Tsebelis said the u.s. constitution is short, par­ticularly compared to those written post-1945, which is unsurprising given the fact that older constitutions tend to cover fewer topics. 
every constitution has three sorts of provisions, Tsebelis said: the innocuous, such as the national anthem or flag, the social, which covers the right to work and education, and the enforceable, which in­cludes rights and the nature of the courts. 
“enforceable [provisions], these are the only ones we are going to modify,” Tsbelis said. 
Tsebelis presented graphs that demonstrated the relationship between constitutional length in de­mocracies and organization for economic co-operation and development (oecd) members and rates of change to their constitutions. The shorter and more rigid the constitution is, the less it will change over time, he said. 
“The longer the constitution the more time inconsistent it is,” Tsebelis said. 
Time inconsistency refers to positions that differ between current and future choices, often forgoing future welfare for present ease. The 1977 nobel prize in economics was awarded to Finn Kydland and edward prescott for demon­strating time inconsistency is bad for economic policy, Tsebelis said, and time incon­sistency is also negative for constitutions. governments head off economic time in­consistency by authorizing a central bank separate from 
to fundraise through oct. 1, when the competition ends. in the upcoming weeks, the pair is planning to solicit donations at tailgates for the georgia Tech and umass games, as well as fundraise during Trivia night at o’rourke’s on sept. 28. 
For those who can’t make it to those events, lindt said people can also donate online by going to meninkilts.org and donating to brockman and lindt’s team. 
dubbed “The dueling irishman,” the pair has raised approximately $750 thus far, lindt said. brockman said the pair is hoping to double or the central government, and short, circumscribed constitu­tions are political controls on time inconsistency, he said. 


another reason for a norma­tive standard of constitutional structure is because there are negative societal outcomes associated with a lengthy and shifting constitution, accord­ing to Tsebelis. 
“long constitutions are as­sociated with low gdp per capita ... in all countries we see length of constitution con­nected with corruption,” he said. 
Tsebelis said one explana­tion for the association be­tween constitution length and corruption was as constitu­tions lengthen they become subject to interpretation, mak­ing them more susceptible to manipulation. 
“rules are better than dis­cretion, and the constitution should be the rules ... and it should not be changing un­less there’s serious reason,” he said. 
triple that number by the end of the campaign. 
“notre dame people are su­per generous, so hopefully we can scrounge up some cash and donate it to a really great cause,” brockman said. 
according to the ronald mcdonald house’s website, all proceeds from the campaign will be used to provide meals and housing for families of se­riously ill or injured children when the children have ex­tended stays at the hospital. 
lindt said he and brockman joined the campaign after be­ing asked to participate by a friend who interned with ronald mcdonald house. 
“she asked if we wanted to participate and we said abso­lutely, we have no shame, we’d be happy to run around in kilts,” lindt said. 
Encyclical 
conTinued From page 1 
campus, we should appreciate god in the beauty of nature.” 
director of campus ministry regina wilson said she and majetic collaborated with english and environmental studies professor christopher cobb to organize the panel discussion. 
“we felt that this new encyc­lical offered the perfect incen­tive to gather and discuss saint mary’s commitment to protect­ing the environment,” wilson 
Tsebelis said putting govern­ment policy into a constitution does nothing for the policies while weakening the constitu­tion and thus the state. as an example, Tsebelis said recent efforts in his native greece to revise the constitution in order to change the electoral process were misguided. 
“There is no ideal electoral system, every political science freshman knows this. ... you shouldn’t have policy in the constitution to begin with,” he said. 
Tsebelis concluded his lecture by reiterating the need for concise and clear constitutions. 
“constitutions are becom­ing products of discretion and not the rules. ... i believe we in­tended the opposite” he said. 
“before we put things in the constitution ... we should be thinking is this a rule for the ages.” 
Contact Devon Chenelle at dchennell@nd.edu 
however, lindt said after becoming more involved in the campaign, it’s become less about the kilts and more about the impact of the charity. 
“wearing a kilt is very free­ing. it has a good flow. you’ve got to love it,” brockman said. “but, honestly, it’s just, know­ing you do look ridiculous, but knowing what it’s for makes it all worth it. These kids deserve it more than us maintaining our dignity, so it’s a lot of fun.” 
all the participants in the campaign had to spend time in the hospital ward with the children. This gives the par­ticipants a better idea of what the charity does and helps them become more passionate about the cause, lindt said. 
Contact Jenna Wilson at              jwilso35@nd.edu 
said. “we thought it would be interesting to hear different members of the community speak about how “laudato si’” speaks to their particular dis­cipline and their personal life.” 
according to wilson, “laudato si’” can catalyze change in the saint mary’s community and beyond. 
“The earth is our mother and our common home,” wilson said “saint mary’s students and all people should keep reflect­ing on this reality.” 
Contact Martha Reilly at mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 


paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2015 | The observer 




Jenkins 
conTinued From page 1 
than they were 10 years ago. according to Jenkins, one of the university’s major focuses in re­cent years has been to encour­age undergraduate research endeavors. 
“ … we want our students to see themselves not simply as pas­sive learners, taking in informa­tion from books and lectures, but also as inquirers themselves, rais­ing their own questions, conduct­ing their research and knowing the exhilaration of a discovery or hard-won insight,” he said. 
partly responsible for this in­crease in research, he said, is the funding provided by the “advancing our vision” (aov) program, which will also allow for 80 new faculty hires in the near future. 
overall, he said externally funded grants and contracts have increased from $73 million to $134 million between 2004 and the most recent fiscal year. 
complementing efforts to im­prove the experience and engage­ment of students and faculty, notre dame has made conscious efforts to increase its presence on the global stage, Jenkins said. he said that among other things, the university has created the office of notre dame international to help better respond to the trend towards globalization. 
“globalization in its many fac­ets — in markets and businesses, international politics, culture and migration — have shaped our lives and our work, and it will certainly shape the lives of our students,” he said. 
one important project notre dame is currently considering in its attempt to become more in­ternational is a partnership with Zhejiang university in haining, china, Jenkins said. he said he understands the concerns raised by many faculty members about the project, and that notre dame is currently trying to devise a strategy on how best to engage with china in spite of accusations of human rights violations. 
“a number of you on the faculty have expressed strong reserva­tions about such a partnership in a nation in which the official atheist communist party exerts so much control, human rights are often violated, freedom of ex­pression is limited, religious wor­ship is restricted and churches are harassed,” he said. “at the same time, china is likely to be one of the most influential na­tions of the 21st century. 
“many of our students want to learn the chinese language and understand its culture. its institu­tions of higher education are like­ly to become stronger and provide opportunities for research collab­oration, and many on the faculty expressed strong support for such a partnership. 
“in addition to these factors, i traveled to the vatican to discuss with key leaders the situation of the church in china. it is fair to say that, though all parties rec­ognize the complexity and chal­lenges of a potential partnership between a catholic university and a chinese university, we were encouraged to explore this ven­ture as a means of building bridg­es between the catholic church and china.” 

regarding the university’s fi­nances, Jenkins said he thinks one of notre dame’s strong points is “a history of sound, far-sighted fiscal stewardship.” 
similarly, he said need-based financial assistance has in­creased 83 percent since 2006 and the average university schol­arship has increased by $13,400 over the same period. 
however, he said one of the ma­jor challenges notre dame faces in the coming years is the rising cost of higher education and the demand to streamline the effi­ciency of university operations. 
“as you are no doubt aware, with the high cost of higher education, 
paid adverTisemenT 

universities are regularly por­trayed in the media as inefficient, bloated and complacent organi­zations,” he said. “ … we must be able to give an account of our op­erations to reasonable people with sincere and probing questions. 
“part of that answer must be to point to substantial efforts to seek efficiencies and improve processes. if we are unable to do this, then benefactors will be less likely to be generous, the public will be less likely to support insti­tutions like ours, and we will have fallen short of our responsibility as stewards of the resources en­trusted to us.” 
another challenge the university faces is the pressure of an increasingly digital world. Jenkins said he believes notre dame should continue to expand its endeavors in digital innova­tion, but notre dame will remain an institution centered around residential life. 
“we have all heard the predic­tions that disruptive innovation around digital technology will eventually make residential cam­puses obsolete,” he said. “on this account, we are the sailing ship that will soon be replaced by the steam engine, the compact disc that will be shoved aside by iTunes. 
“as it is clear from the construc­tion on campus, we do not agree.” 
The final challenge with which the university must come to terms, he said, is how to maintain a catholic identity while also re­maining a highly-rated research institution in a secular society. he said the university will con­tinue its current initiatives, which include the institute for church life, the alliance for catholic education, the sacred music program and various partner­ships with catholic charities and catholic relief services. 
“i am well aware of the growing secularism of our world and the growing skepticism of younger people about institutional reli­gious affiliation,” he said. “i am also aware of the challenges of striving to be a preeminent re­search university with a catholic mission. 
“whatever the challenges are, however, they are our challenges, and we cannot turn from them without losing our identity and our purpose.” 
Jenkins said he is confident notre dame will be able to re­spond to the challenges ahead and to continue to improve in ar­eas of undergraduate and gradu­ate education and research. 
“i am exceptionally proud of the work that we have accomplished in the past 10 years,” Jenkins said. “Through the hard work, talent and dedication of excep­tional coworkers — Tom burish, our provost; John affleck-graves, our executive vice president; the vice-presidents, the deans, other academic leaders and most of all, you, my faculty colleagues, we have accomplished more than i had dared to hope 10 years ago. 
“we all have much to be grate­ful for, and i above all.” 
Contact Clare Kossler at                      ckossler@nd.edu 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Take time to look up 
Kathryn Marshall 
associate saint mary’s editor 
no matter how rational our world becomes, almost everyone makes a wish when they look up and see a shooting star. 
There is no denying we are intimately con­nected with the world around us, but we often tend to forget this centuries-old relationship between man and earth. 
and lately, i have truly begun to realize how much the world around me, simply put, matters. 
i am not writing to push you to recycle, carry around reusable water bottles or eat organic-only foods (although those would be great habits to pick up), because that’s not the first step to saving the precious earth we walk upon every day. 
The first step we need to take in order to protect this miraculous world in which we live is discovering and appreciating the con­nection we have with it. pope Francis writes in “laudato si,” “if the laws are to bring about significant, long-lasting effects, the majority of the members of society must be adequately motivated to accept them and personally transformed to respond.” 
i myself was “personally transformed” this past spring. approximately two months ago, at the end of a semester abroad in austria, i was sitting along the banks of the river inn at dusk, looking up at the nordkette mountains and soaking in the peace of moment. i realized the world around us can heal our hearts and souls if we only take the time to let it do so, and then we, in turn, can take the steps to help heal the world. 
This past week i attended and covered a lecture that discussed the forgotten connec­tion between humans and the earth. The lec­ture also entered into discussion about pope Francis’ encyclical. 
connecting these conversations with my ex­perience abroad brings to mind pope Francis’ words when he writes, “happiness means knowing how to limit some needs which only diminish us and being open to the many differ­ent possibilities which life can offer.” 
as a busy college student, i know it can be difficult to be truly happy all the time. but i think learning to see, stop and admire the beauty of the world around us is one simple habit that can enrich our lives, just as “looking up” everyday in austria enriched mine. 
i may not become an environmental legisla­tor, but as a biology major and as a writer, i hope to contribute to the healing of this world, my center of peace, in my own little way. 
in “laudato si,” pope Francis reminds us the human being is full of “worthy creativity,” and we, as the next generation, need to apply this creativity to save nature, the “magnificent book in which god speaks to us and grants us a glimpse of his infinite beauty and goodness.” 
i hope you too can look up and cultivate an awareness of the simple way nature brings you happiness and in turn discover your own way to give back. 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The case for a basic income 
Curtis Stokes 
guest columnist 
welfare is corrupt. The supplemental nutrition assistance program (snap) is eas­ily exploited. The earned income tax credit encourages irresponsible parenting. problems with anti-poverty programs have been piling up ever since the new deal. republicans despair at these programs’ astronomical costs, while democrats try to cover up some of their obvious inefficiencies. both sides agree entitlements need fixing, but we have seen few solutions emerge from this agreement. since proposing serious entitlement reform is political suicide, programs continue to bloat and the federal bureaucracy continues to grow for the sake of maintaining some level of a social safety net. 
but inefficiency and entitlement programs don’t have to go hand in hand. a possible solu­tion i propose to solve the bloat of entitlement programs is a basic income. 
The mechanism by which a basic income works is simple. rather than provide welfare or unemployment to impoverished citizens, the government simply pays every citizen a lump sum regularly. restrictions can be added to this basic income, such as denying it to prisoners or citizens under the age of 21 or over the age of 
65. Then, citizens are free to spend the money however they like. The amount provided is de­pendent on the minimum quality of life the gov­ernment wants to provide. 
a basic income appeals in a moral sense to both liberals and conservatives. democrats support it because of its empowering effect on the lower class. in a modern economy, you have to work in order to live. employers can exploit workers into producing more value than they are compensated for since the workers don’t have the choice to not work. although compe­tition between businesses helps mitigate this problem, workers are still at the mercy of the job market. however, with a basic income, workers are better able to bargain for what their work is worth. 
republicans like the basic income idea be­cause it eliminates stifling bureaucracy from government anti-poverty programs. There would be no ham-fisted evaluations or ex­ceptions siphoning away valuable time and money from the taxpayer. distribution would be efficient and lead to a smaller government. innovation would also increase, since people can take a chance in starting a business know­ing they will at least have some steady income if the business fails. 
The idea of providing people with money for not working is offensive to many conservatives. however, the basic income is actually more fair than the current systems we have in place since every american, not just lower-income americans, would receive this money. rather than attempt to shrink the wealth-gap, a basic income elevates all groups. The progressive in­come tax has been criticized for punishing peo­ple who work harder to make more money while being moved into a higher income bracket as a result, gaining nothing. a basic income actu­ally embodies the conservative ideal that people who work hard deserve to be rewarded. with a more even playing field, people will succeed or fail based more on their abilities rather than the circumstance of their birth. 
The case for an unconditional basic income can be made by the numbers. in order to provide every american between the ages of 21 and 65 a basic income equal to the poverty line, it would cost $2.14 trillion, around 13 percent of the gdp. This basic income would allow the elimination of almost $1 trillion worth of benefits for low-in­come americans. The basic income would then have a final price tag of $1.2 trillion in extra spending to keep all americans above the pov­erty line. This amount is not insignificant, but reallocating money from social security, rais­ing taxes and excluding prisoners would make a dent. a more complete solution would be to shrink the payments to $6,000 a year. This sys­tem wouldn’t lift all americans out of poverty, but it would greatly empower workers, stream­line government and encourage innovation. 
dauphin, a city in manitoba, canada, im­plemented a basic income in the mid-1970s. research of this city indicated there was mini­mal disincentive to work, high school gradua­tion rates increased and hospitalization rates went down. alaska also has a basic income based off assets. nearly every alaskan citizen receives around $1,900 a year from a portion of oil revenues, and this has been credited with keeping many households out of poverty. 
i know basic income is a radical policy. and i understand the odds of it being passed in congress are slim to none. but by discussing it, we can better picture the america we want rath­er than the one to which we are resigned. 
Curtis Stokes is a sophomore political science and finance major. He lives in Stanford Hall and can be con­tacted at cstokes4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Fight the globalization of indifference 
Elizabeth Hascher 
dignified response 

here at notre dame, we tend to take great pride in being leaders. we are quick to point out the many ways in which we lead the country in academics, service and athletics, among other things. i, for one, am still not done bragging about that glorious 31-0 win over michigan last year or the ranking we re­ceived over the summer as the top university in the midwest. 
but even though we consider ourselves to be a community of informed, passionate citizens who lead the world in every aspect imaginable, there are ways we could be better, as shocking as that may seem to some. 
it is tempting to jump immediately to solving prob­lems that are easily quantifiable, such as reducing the number of sexual assaults on campus or increas­ing financial assistance to students with substantial need. it would seem as though our efforts could have the most tangible impact on these issues. however, i argue we must first affect change in an area that is more difficult to measure: empathy. 
a phrase that seems to keep coming back to me again and again is “globalization of indifference.” pope Francis first spoke these words in 2013 when delivering a homily in lampedusa, a small italian island in the middle of the mediterranean that has become a landing place for thousands of migrants fleeing poverty and oppression in africa. 
by using the phrase “globalization of indifference,” pope Francis means to reference the many ways in which it seems we are becoming increasingly un­able to empathize and show genuine concern for our fellow human beings who are suffering. he argues that while we may now know more about events and issues around the world, we also increasingly lack compassion for the people affected by them. 
some may say social media and greater access to communication around the globe has enabled us to know more about social issues and human rights violations around the world. They are correct in stat­ing we are now able to learn more about issues in different parts of the country and world and to do so quickly. 
however, knowing about an injustice someone is suffering is not the same as caring for them.  we also do not have to share someone’s experience in order to empathize with him or her. 
one does not have to be a syrian refugee forced to flee their home in the midst of war in order to recog­nize every person has worth and is deserving of love and compassion. 
one does not have to experience sexual assault to be able to understand a person has had something taken from them that can never be returned. 
one does not have to feel the entirety of human­ity’s suffering to recognize the importance of every person’s life and sense of dignity. 
certainly, it is impossible to come to a full and complete understanding of the injustices our fel­low human beings face without having experienced them ourselves. however, that does not mean we should stop trying to empathize and treat them as our neighbors, worthy of respect and love, instead of as faceless statistics. 
as we go through our days, it is important we in­tentionally seek out ways to be more empathetic and cognizant of the struggles of others. after all, how are we to lead if we do not truly understand the prob­lems? how are we to be advocates for change and a better world if we do not even try to empathize with the people whose lives are adversely affected by po­litical, economic and social injustices? 
if we are to continue to claim notre dame is a leading catholic institution and a force for good in the world, we have to fulfill our duty to our fellow citizens, our brothers and sisters, and recognize the common humanity in each of them. we must chal­lenge ourselves to grow every day in empathy and caring for others. we are all responsible for recogniz­ing the globalization of indifference and making an effort to bring it to an end. 
Elizabeth Hascher is a sophomore living in Lewis Hall. She hails from Grand Rapids, Michigan, and is studying political science with a minor in  international development studies. She can be  contacted at ehascher@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
confessions of a clone 
Erin Thomassen 
The examined life 
bioethicists are raging. Technology has taken a step too far: you cannot clone humans. 
alas, it is too late. we already have. 
dystopian novels forewarn of clones disguised as hu­mans. in reality, it is people who have disguised them­selves as clones. They have disguised themselves so well we have all forgotten they were people to begin with. 
i have likewise succumbed to clonation. i was once a homo sapien, but i have since become a homeostasian. 
For latin and greek scholars out there (not me, i had to rev up good ole google), that terminology will be elemen­tary. Feel free to skip it and pat yourself on the back, relish­ing that you already knew what you have just read. 
‘sapien’ means ‘wise.’ ‘stasis’ means ‘stagnation.’ it also means ‘reduced motility of the intestines with the reten­tion of feces.’ 
as a human resisting clonation, i would rather be wise than stagnated. i would rather give birth than retain feces. why, then, have i coded myself into a clone? 
Fear of sticking out. i stay in line. my head is down. 
looking up could result in eye contact. i could be called on, called forth to be who i was created to be. not a clone. not someone programmed to follow a formula to achieve something that has already been achieved. 
moles are whacked. i do not like to be whacked. i shall remain in my hole. 
venturing out is venturing into the unknown. it is safer to stay in my hole where i will not be whacked, where nothing will be asked of me. i shall stay here, curled up where we have lived our entire lives, ready to die. 
There is a time for everything under the sun, and my time for exploration has expired. until the age of 3, i was allowed to gurgle insensibly. now i must be sensible. From 4-10 years old, i was allowed to explore writing, piano and tennis. after that, i was instructed to choose one and mas­ter it, whipping it into submission. 
if i had enough discipline in any discipline, i could either 
a) write myself into an esoteric liberal arts college, b) mae­stro myself into a performing arts academy or c) lob my way onto a division i tennis team. i failed to write a novel about saving orphans in guatemala. i stopped piano les­sons in high school. i quit tennis after one summer camp. 
my time was up. Kids my age were olympic gymnasts and Teen Jeopardy winners. i was not among the excep­tional human achievers. back to the hole with me. 
in the hole was darkness, but within that darkness, i felt warmth — body heat. There were moles with me in the hole. i was not alone. i was surrounded by ex-human mole clones. 
if i were a human, this might be a frightening realiza­tion. but if i made myself into one of these mole clones, i did not have to be scared of them. if i adopted their way of life, their doctrines, their past-times, their sense of humor and disgust, i could live comfortably in their company for the rest of my days. 
i just could not do anything stupid like try to become human again. ex-human mole clones attack humans in the hole viciously, since they cannot reach the ones above ground. i could not dig a hole to the light and stick my head out either. it would expose the whole community. what kind of team player was i? 
i was no longer an i. i was one of them. i would follow procedure and stick to the program. i would let myself be reprogrammed and convince myself i had always been programmed this way. i was meant to be a cloned mole in a hole. i never would have thought it when i was above ground, but destiny is a strange beast. 
if i felt the silly urge to paint a watercolor, i reminded myself: cloned moles do not paint. They leave that to the individuals above ground. if i had wanted to paint, i should have done it years ago and become a master paint­er. now my painting has no utility, no value. i do not have precise brush strokes. my work will never be displayed. what is the point? 
what is the point? maybe to experience joy through creative self-expression and exploration without worrying about recognition. 
only i can express myself. only i can be me. This seems obvious, but obvious is self-evident, and self-evident is often surprisingly true. 
if i stay a mole clone, my human self shall never walk the earth. no one else is going to be me for me. 
it may be scary to abandon the mole clan and dig to the light. it may be hard to force oneself to walk when it takes less effort to crawl. but only in walking, skipping and dancing will i delight. only in shedding expectations will i be free. only in freedom will i love. only in loving will i be human — an uncloned, undroned human. 
Erin Thomassen likes listening to string instruments tuning. Please come tune violins and cellos near her window in Pasquerilla East Hall, preferably in the next two years, as she is a junior. She can be reached at  ethomass@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ERIN RICE | The Observer 
The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By NICK LAUREANO 
scene writer 
Football season is upon us, along with a brand new commercial for the university that will air during game broadcasts on nbc. let’s take a look at some of the best and worst notre dame ads from recent years. 
5. “Goals” 
“This is our goal. let no one ever again say we dreamed too small.” — university president Fr. John Jenkins 
it’s ironic that a commercial about the importance of imagination confines itself to cookie-cutter aerial shots of the dome. rather than showcase notre dame’s beauty in a creative way, this ad uses it as a crutch in an attempt to ele­vate a contextless speech to something 
Miko Malabute 
scene editor 
dating back to this summer of 2015, former professional basketball player brandon armstrong took the internet by storm with a quick video clip of him impersonating oklahoma city Thunder’s fiery superstar point guard russell westbrook. it was funny, it was pretty accurate and — most im­portantly — it was new. novel. nothing like it existed on the internet up to that point, especially not by someone of that caliber done in that type of capacity. 
however, just like anything and ev­erything on the internet nowadays, this viral sensation was overkilled and overdone. what sets this latest casualty to the internet’s accessibil­ity apart from the rest of the former viral sensations, however, is the fact profound. no clio awards have ever been handed out for ads like this. 
4. “Wake Up the Echoes” 
The newest ad is a case study in cli­chéd university commercials. it depicts students doing typical science and art in an attempt to show how well-rounded we all are. pretty solid idea for an ad … too bad every other college in the land has already done the same thing. 
also, bonus points to those chemistry students. i thought i was pretty good at organic chemistry … then i saw them writing out their assignments backwards. 
3. “An Irish Blessing” 
This one holds a special place in my heart. i have fond memories of watch­ing notre dame games with my family during my senior year of high school. 
that armstrong did this to himself. his niche became a gimmick, which devolved into a desperate cry for attention. 
Today, armstrong released his latest impersonation act, mimicking new york Knicks icon carmelo anthony. it started off funny, especially with actual in-game commentary spliced into the clip to mimic what viewers at home get to see on a nightly basis dur­ing the nba season. This effect set the stage for the rest of the video perfectly, as viewers could mentally juxtapose armstrong with anthony and — with a bit of revisionist history — see some of anthony’s antics and tendencies in armstrong’s reenactment. 
if it were that simple, however, then there would be no problem. sadly, armstrong decides to stray from what got him this “fame” (if we were to even call it that), and instead of imitating anthony he decides just to rehash some This ad is an indelible part of those memories. “an irish blessing” does a tremendous job of capturing the notre dame ethos that drew many of us to this school. There is no better example of this than the ad’s final line: “we are the university of notre dame.” we abso­lutely are. 
2. “Perspective Reimagined” (or “Waterworld”) 
i’m going to go out on a limb and say that last year’s much-maligned Tv spot is a misunderstood masterpiece. one can imagine don draper telling the creative team behind this ad to “take a great leap forward.” The results are cut-ting-edge visuals that showcase some of the typical campus highlights in an in­teresting way that actually fits the con­text of the voiceover. 
of his same jokes. The video quickly gets old, and i am personally reminded as to why armstrong seems perfectly content making these short viral clips. 
This video seems like another ex­ample of an internet that is too big, too fast and too accessible for its own good. nowadays, almost every Twitter user can regard themselves as a pseudo-comedian or a faux-reporter once they reach a certain number of followers. it is easy to feel a sense of vindica­tion and satisfaction once you build an online following, and it is because of that ease in reaching out to a mass population that viral sensations like armstrong are so quick to burn out and fade away after a short period of time. people are just over-saturated with this kind of content. everywhere they turn there’s someone or something that swears they’re the next big thing. The quality content just fits right alongside with the rest of the material out there 
1. “Notre Dame Cuts Costs With Xerox” 
a comedic masterstroke. This beard­ed gent was tasked with acting against a character that wasn’t really there, something for which chris pratt gained oodles of accolades recently after his performances in “guardians of the galaxy” and “Jurassic world.” and what can be said of the leprechaun cutout? he’s a deadpan virtuoso cut from the same cloth as alec baldwin and michael Keaton. however, there must have been a falling out between the university and Xerox, because nowadays printing costs are cut by allotting students a lilliputian print quota. 
Contact Nick Laureano at                      nlaurean@nd.edu 
in the digital sea of the internet, and thus everything becomes noise. 
it was fun while it lasted, but armstrong’s 15 seconds of fame had an expiration date as soon as it began sim­ply because of the nature of what made him so relevant (at least for the time being). he got some buzz going by im­personating celebrities and churning out small videos of them; but, as can be demonstrated throughout history, what helps someone stay relevant is innova­tion and ingenuity, not just copying other people’s work. i understand this is not by any means armstrong’s new career goal and is more of a thing he does for fun and attention. i simply hope he realizes that too. 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
ERIN RICE | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

rankings craze plagues sports 
Marek Mazurek 
sports writer 
as a fantasy football en­thusiast, i am a fan of the Tv show “The league.” in a recent episode there was a plotline that went something like this: 
a character calls onto a fantasy football radio show asking for advice on whether to play a certain player or his backup. The experts on the show tell him to go with the first player because he is rated higher. The charac­ter puts him in the starting lineup, but the backup actu­ally gets more points. The character calls back onto the show to complain, but the show’s hosts rib him instead, calling him a “rankings slave.” 
This simple Tv show bit highlights a larger issue that many in the sports world contribute to: the need for rankings. 
This phenomenon is evi­dent everywhere. every year, the week after the ncaa college football or basketball championship game, espn puts out a “way-Too-early Top 25” predicting what the next season (which is a year away) will bring. 
espn also puts out weekly power rankings for every major sport, seemingly for the sole purpose of provid­ing fans of certain teams an article on which they can leave angry comments because their beloved Jacksonville Jaguars were ranked last instead of sec­ond-to-last or something along those lines. 
radio show hosts use rankings to fill whole seg­ments during slow news days, whether it be ranking the best nFl quarterbacks of all time or the worst uniforms. 
and fans everywhere only feed the flames. we are all guilty of it when we wait with baited breath to hear how much farther our team has moved up in the coaches’ poll, as if it matters two weeks into the year. 
maybe there is just some­thing embedded within our human nature that compels us to seek hierarchical struc­tures in our environment. often when we are passion­ate about something, we seek to compare it to other similar things. 
however, it is time for us to cease being “ranking slaves.” 
go with your gut this week in your fantasy sports league. put in that backup tight end you have a hunch about. Fantasy games (and real games, for that matter) are not won by which team looks the best on paper. 
don’t look at preseason rankings, or if you do, at least read them with a grain of salt. since 1985, sports illustrated has only predict­ed the national champion correctly four times. Four times. out of 30 years. That’s good for 13 percent. 
and even now, does any­one honestly think the ap top 25 is even close to fully accurate with just two games to go judge? injuries hap­pen, teams collapse and no one will remember who was picked to win in week one. 
The ncaa even changed its whole system because some people thought the bcs ranking system wasn’t good enough. now we have a former secretary of state weighing in on whether Jacksonville state is a bet­ter team than alabama birmingham based on which team had a tougher strength of schedule. 
if that’s not a sign that it’s come too far, i don’t know what is. The debates will happen, they always do. all i’m saying is wait until the rankings actually matter — at the end of the season. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


MLB | marlins 9, meTs 3 

Marlins hit deGrom hard, end Mets’ winning streak 
Associated Press 

new yorK — Jacob de­grom was hit hard during a rare dud at home against one of his favorite opponents, and the miami marlins stopped the new york mets’ eight-game winning streak with a 9-3 victory Tuesday night. 
mets nemesis dee gordon homered and had four hits to back Tom Koehler, who plunked yoenis cespedes in the first inning and then helped silence the streaking slugger the rest of the way. 
new york’s command­ing lead in the nl east was trimmed to 8 1/2 games over washington, which beat philadelphia 4-0. The magic number remained 10 for the mets to clinch their sixth divi­sion title. 
christian yelich had three hits and two rbis following a surprise meeting with his “saturday night live” doppel­ganger, and Justin bour also had three hits and two rbis. 
pitching close to his sub­urban new york hometown, Koehler (10-13) was lifted af­ter walking the first two bat­ters in the seventh. but lefty reliever mike dunn struck out curtis granderson, cespedes and daniel murphy in suc­cession as the mets were thwarted in their attempt to put together yet another late comeback. 
last season’s nl rookie of the year, degrom (13-8) got the ball on the anniversary of a striking performance. The right-hander whiffed the first eight marlins batters at citi Field on sept. 15, 2014, match­ing the major league record to start a game since 1900. 
he entered with a 1.63 era in 23 career starts at home 
— and 3-0 with a 1.80 era against miami overall. but the marlins pounded him for six runs and a season-high 10 hits in five innings. 
it was the first time degrom allowed more than three earned runs in a start at citi Field. 
The crowd chanted “mvp! mvp!” as cespedes stepped to the plate in the first inning, and he was hit near the left hip on the first pitch he saw from Koehler, a 92 mph fastball. 
cespedes stared out toward the mound before taking his base. 
it appeared to be retalia­tion for monday night, when cespedes held his bat aloft and admired a 442-foot drive off marlins left-hander Justin nicolino for his ninth home run this month. 
cespedes didn’t slide on a force play at second and ap­peared to step on the foot of shortstop miguel rojas. Then in the seventh, mets reliever erik goeddel threw behind Koehler as the pitcher squared to bunt. plate um­pire dale scott warned both benches immediately after the wild pitch, and there was no further trouble. 
Koehler scored in the fifth after driving a double to right field for his first extra-base hit in 134 major league at-bats. 
Trainer’s room 
marlins: rF giancarlo stanton went to a hand spe­cialist for another opinion on his broken left wrist but there was still no specific target date for his return. The slug­ger took batting practice on the field monday. “hopefully, we’ll get a final answer today,” manager dan Jennings said. “one final check.” ... rhp carter capps (strained right elbow) is scheduled to throw a simulated game Friday in washington. ... ss adeiny hechavarria (left hamstring tightness) has been taking batting practice and ground­ers but isn’t quite ready to run full speed. “They’re mov­ing closer in a big hurry,” Jennings said, referring to all three players. 
mets: manager Terry collins thinks 1b lucas duda just needs big league plate appearances to get back in a groove. duda flied out to the warning track twice and is hitless in his last 14 at-bats. he is 3 for 25 (.120) since com­ing off the disabled list sept. 7 from a lower back injury. ... rookie lhp dario alvarez stumbled on the mound for a ninth-inning balk and limped off the field with what collins said was a groin injury. 

MLB | naTionals 4, phillies 0 
Strasburg pitches Nationals past Phillies 
Associated Press 

philadelphia—stephen strasburg gave up one hit and tied a career-best with 14 strikeouts in eight domi­nant innings, bryce harper hit two homers and the washington nationals beat the philadelphia phillies 4-0 on Tuesday night. 
strasburg (9-7) allowed only a single to cody asche leading off the bottom of the fifth — a hard grounder to right field. he has 27 strike­outs in his last two starts. 
The hard-throwing righty struck out the side twice and fanned eight of the last 12 batters he faced. he was still firing 96 mph fastballs in the eighth. blake Treinen tossed a 1-2-3 ninth to complete the shutout. 
The nationals have won three straight, but it’s seems too late to catch the nl east-leading new york mets. 
strasburg struck out 14 one other time in his ma­jor league debut against pittsburgh on June 8, 2010. he had 13 in 7 1-3 innings in a loss to the mets last wednesday. This was his longest outing since he went eight innings in a win over arizona on aug. 19, 2014. strasburg has one complete game and shutout in his career. it was against the phillies on aug. 11, 2013. 
harper drove one out to center field in the first for a 1-0 lead against david buchanan (2-9). he added an rbi single in the third to make it 2-0. harper hit an opposite-field, two-run shot to left in the eighth off adam loewen. 
harper finished 3 for 3 with a walk and four rbis. he leads the nl in batting average (.338), homers (39) and runs (108). 
buchanan gave up two runs and five hits in six innings. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

Volleyball 
conTinued From page 16 
armour all-americans, and nunge earned third-team accolades. deJarld and morningstar were also honored as prep volleyball academic all-americans. 
morningstar already leads the irish in blocks on the year, accumulating 36 through the first three tour­naments, including three solo blocks. nunge sits be­hind sophomore outside hit­ter sam Fry at third on the team in total blocks with 25. 
deJarld has been reliable at libero and collected 30 digs against hofstra at the seton hall classic, the fifth-most digs by an irish player in a single match in 15 years. her play earned her all-tour­nament honors. 

The younger players are held to the same high standard as the more vet­eran members of the team, Johnson said. 
“we’ve had some fresh­men in very big roles al­ready,” Johnson said. “our expectations are that they are committed to growing as volleyball players and as people.” 
notre dame and its new­comers will take the court next Friday when the irish begin the purdue boiler box challenge with a noon match against ball state. 
Contact Daisy Costello at mcostel4@nd.edu 
ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2015 | The observer 

NCAA FOOTBALL 

Beamer believes passing game is a work in progress 
Associated Press 
virginia Tech’s Frank beamer would love to have a rotation of experienced wide receivers, especially now that an injury to quarterback michael brewer has forced the coach to turn to inexpe­rienced brenden motley as his starter. 
The hokies (1-1) have re­lied heavily on starters isaiah Ford and cam phillips through two games, and will continue looking to work younger wideouts into the lineup when they play at purdue (1-1) on saturday. 
“i think it’s a work in prog­ress right now,” beamer said. “i think those first two are really good.” 
beamer also likes his trio of tight ends. The hokies have split the most athletic of the three, bucky hodges, out as a wide receiver on occasion. beamer acknowledges he has concerns about Ford and phillips wearing down. 
“i think it kind of gets back to the game plan and hope­fully some guys are going to come through, and if they don’t, i think we’ve got to start game-planning a lit­tle bit to save those guys,” beamer said this week. 
Ford and phillips played virtually every snap in the opener against ohio state, then played extensively against Furman. Ford leads the hokies with eight catches, phillips is second with seven. The only other wideouts with a reception, Kevin assante and demitri Knowles, caught one pass each in virginia Tech’s 42-3 win against Furman. 

Ford believes the younger receivers need to get better at paying attention to little things. 
“in the receiver room, we have a lot of talent in there, but it’s just paying attention to the details and the little things that can cause wins and losses,” the sophomore said. “as we’ve seen it last year, it was a couple of games that we lost, six. Four or five of those games we lost be­cause of the minor details.” 
Those details include blocking downfield to help the running game, being threats when left in one­on-one coverage and hav­ing earned the confidence of motley, who had thrown just three college passes before brewer broke his collarbone in the loss to ohio state. 
“i think our receivers help us, because those young guys and hodges, i think it’s just hard to leave them one­on-one,” beamer said, add­ing praise for how motley responded to his first start last week. he finished 16 for 24 for 233 yards and two touchdowns, both to Ford. he also ran for 38 yards and did not throw an interception. 
purdue is bracing for a dual-threat. 
“They’ve got the new quar­terback in there and he’s do­ing a good job of making the throws,” boilermakers coach darrell hazell said. “and anytime you’ve got a guy that can run the ball, you have to be aware of where he is at all times, so that’s what we have to do on the defensive side.” 
but going on the road is a different animal, beamer said, and so saturday will be telling. 
“The quarterback, and of course that’s the element right now that ... how’s it going to be this week? but i didn’t think he flinched last week,” beamer said. “i didn’t think he did. i don’t think he’ll flinch this week.” 
motley might also benefit from the hokies policy to take their quarterbacks with them on road trips. The idea is to let them see what a hos­tile environment looks life, and how the hokies have to adapt to it. 
“so he’s been through a lot of that,” beamer said. “and he’s made out of the right stuff. he’s smart. he’s in control. he’s calm. he’s not going to get all crazy on you. and i think that offensive team picks up on that.” 



MLB | royals 2, indians 0 

royals top indians with solid effort from medlen 
Associated Press 
cleveland — Kris medlen allowed five hits over 6 1-3 innings and alex rios con­nected for a home run that launched some unintentional fireworks, leading the Kansas city royals to a 2-0 win over the cleveland indians on Tuesday night. 
medlen (4-1) stifled the indians before royals manag­er ned yost turned things over to his top-ranked bullpen. ryan madson struck out two in the seventh, wade davis got through the eighth and greg holland worked around a two-on, no-out mess he cre­ated in the ninth for his 31st save. 
rios homered in the fifth in­ning off Josh Tomlin (5-2) for the royals, who won for just the third time in 11 games as they close in on a probable al central title. 
The indians, who pulled back to .500 for just the sec­ond time since april by win­ning the series opener, fell to 13-6 since aug. 25. 

rios put the royals ahead 2-0 with two outs in the fifth by hitting his fourth homer, a shot onto the pedestrian patio in left that prompted an accidental celebration in progressive Field. as rios rounded first, fireworks ex­ploded above the ballpark, a tradition usually reserved for any homer hit by an indians player. 
Tv cameras caught the fire­works technician with his hands clutching his head af­ter his quick-trigger mistake, which prompted a chorus of boos from the small crowd. 
it was a hard-luck loss for Tomlin, who had won his pre­vious five starts. The right-hander gave up two runs and four hits in his second com­plete game this month. after giving rios’ homer, Tomlin retired 13 of 14. 
medlen was making just his fifth start since bouncing over from the bullpen last month. The right-hander missed all of last season following Tommy John surgery. 
The royals took a 1-0 lead in the second on perez’s rbi sin­gle after the indians failed to catch mike moustaskas’ foul pop behind the plate with two outs. 
catcher yan gomes yanked off his mask, and looked skyward but couldn’t locate the high pop, which fell un­touched about 15 feet from the batter’s box as Tomlin and third baseman giovanny urshela helplessly looked on. moustakas made the indians pay by following with a double off the center-field wall and scored on perez’s clutch hit. 
The royals entered batting .280 with two outs — 37 points higher than the major league average. 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
deep inside its defensive end, missed touches and sent passes to unoccupied areas of the field all night. 
“we started very slowly,” clark said. “The first half, i don’t know when we’ve been so lethargic. … The first 20 minutes they really out­worked us.” 
The irish had played five and one half games in the regular season without al­lowing a goal, a 533 minute, 32 second stretch that set the program record for the longest shutout stretch to start a season. 
but just 1:32 into the twelfth half of the season, the streak was over. 
The musketeers finally broke through when junior forward Jalen brown found a loose ball in the six-yard box and slammed it into the irish net off a corner kick. 
“it seemed to bobble around and somebody stuck it in,” clark said. “i wouldn’t have expected us to lose a goal to a set piece because we’ve got good height. 
“it was a bit of a calam­ity, the set piece, and these things happen.” 
notre dame tried to coun­ter three minutes later when sophomore midfielder blake Townes fed a pass to senior midfielder evan panken, but panken’s shot sailed high and wide of the net. panken threw another shot on net in the 55th minute to finish off a slick irish passing combi­nation, but Xavier redshirt senior goalkeeper dallas Jaye came up with a diving stop. 
The irish found their legs in time to mount a late of­fensive flurry in the final five minutes. 
sophomore forward Jon gallagher tried to contort himself to bend in a one-touch shot on net in the 84th minute, but Jaye just let it float into his stomach. senior midfielder patrick hodan, notre dame’s lead­ing scorer last season, has yet to find the net this sea­son, and his stretch of futil­ity continued when he sent a shot from 20 yards just over the crossbar in the 87th minute. 
“The second half i was pleased with the display,” clark said. “They fought very hard in the second half even though we conceded a goal because i thought [the Xavier goal] was their only serious attempt on goal in the second half. … 
“That was positive, but obviously the result wasn’t.” 
Xavier had the only real chances of the first half but failed to break notre dame’s scoreless streak in the pe­riod. irish junior goalkeep­er chris hubbard made a sliding save when he came out to challenge a shot by musketeer sophomore for­ward matt vasquenza in the eighth minute. vasquenza also curled a shot just out­side the far post from a sharp angle later in the half, but those represented the best scoring chances of the half. 
“we didn’t look as though we were ready today,” clark said. “i don’t know the rea­son. we’ll talk about it and see what we did differently.” 
notre dame junior for­ward mark gormley regis­tered the only real chance for the irish in the first half, but he didn’t get everything behind his shot and it was easily smothered by Jaye. 

“we’ve got to move on,” clark said. “we don’t have a lot of time to nurse out wounds here. we’ve got a huge game on Friday, so we’ve got to put his one be­hind here. 
“i think road bumps are to wake you up, so hopefully this was our road bump and nothing more.” 
notre dame has a day of practice before jumping on a plane and flying down to chapel hill, north carolina, to face the third-ranked Tar heels on Friday. The game is scheduled to kick from Fetzer Field at 5 p.m. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 




Football 
conTinued From page 16 
game. i do, in fact, look at all of them, if there is anything we do with injury prevention.” 
Kelly said his message to his team is not to wallow in self-pity over the recent string of bad luck with injuries. 
“i think any team kind of looks at it and says, boy, why us?” he said. “but as i told our team, no one really cares. certainly those that do are happy that you got more in­juries because they’re in it for their own teams. so just no ex­cuses, you know? let’s go play. 
“we’ve got players that will step up, and we’ll get through it. everybody’s got to deal with some adversity, and this is our end of it, and we’ll be stronger for it.” 
Wimbush to play in 2015 
at the start of the season, notre dame had planned on keeping freshman quarterback brandon wimbush on the side­lines to give him more time to develop, as the team had done previously for Zaire and sopho­more deshone Kizer. 
however, with Kizer now the starter after Zaire’s injury, Kelly said the former third-stringer wimbush would see play­ing time this season as Kizer’s backup, and not just only in blowout games like Kizer did against Texas. 
“he’s going to have to play this year,” Kelly said of wimbush. “so i haven’t de­cided yet, but he’s going to play this year. let’s try to get him as much experience as possible, and we’re going to prepare him this week as if he’s going to play and go from there.” 
while wimbush, a highly touted recruit out of st. peter’s prep in new Jersey, certainly brings a talented skillset to his game, Kelly said Kizer’s experi­ence in the program led to him sliding into the starting slot. 
“deshone has had so much more time to develop into this position than brandon, and we’ll see where it goes,” Kelly said. “brandon will get second-team reps for the first time. deshone’s been getting it since the spring, so he’s got a lot more room for growth.” 
Linebacker rotation 
until Kelly announced graduate student Joe schmidt would start at the middle line­backer position during fall camp, there were still some questions as to who would step into that role, with schmidt, graduate student Jarrett grace and sophomore nyles morgan all contending for the job. 
however, after the first two games, schmidt has seen sig­nificantly more minutes on the field than his two teammates, which Kelly said can be attrib­uted to a number of factors. 
“Jarrett has been ham­pered by an ankle and a bit of a hamstring, so he has not been healthy the last week or so, and he’s still not a hundred percent,” Kelly said. “so that’s one of the reasons. if he was a hundred percent, you probably would have seen him a little bit last week. 
“and we really like nyles, but i think it goes to probably more about wanting Joe’s communi­cation out there. he’s practic­ing well, but if we had to go with nyles, we’d feel good about it.” 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 




paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2015 | The observer 


CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


SUDOKU | The mepham group 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: don’t let responsibilities limit you. concentrate on meeting your expectations so that you can move on to the things that will bring you happiness. you should make adjustments to your life this year that will help you eliminate the clutter and nonsense that has occupied so much of your time in the past. strive for personal freedom. your numbers are 7, 15, 22, 29, 32, 35, 49. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): push your limits. you will impress the people around you if you pick up your pace and present your skills with passion. when opportunity knocks, you have to be ready to open the door and jump into action. romance is encouraged. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): protect your position by offering to take on more responsibility. The effort you make will bring you the biggest return. a day trip, sending out your resume or going in for an interview is favored. assess your situation and make changes. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): someone will ask for proof or detailed facts and figures. simple and easy-to-follow instructions will help you get the assistance you need. There are gains to be made, but only if you deliver what you promise. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Follow your instincts. someone with more experience than you will offer advice. don’t hesitate to change your direction or your position if it helps you emotionally, mentally or financially. improve your appearance and you will boost your confidence. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): strut your stuff. engage in talks and you will dazzle everyone with your knowledge and insight. a business trip or visiting someone you’d like to work with is favored. schedule a romantic evening to improve your personal life. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Tidy up unfinished business. put your efforts into getting ahead. embrace a challenge and give it your best shot. your determination and insightful approach to problems will draw positive attention. a secret offer will tempt you. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): you will learn from the interactions you have with others. reconnect with someone from your past who is working in a field that interests you. if an opportunity is offered, take the initiative and move forward without looking back. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): someone will keep you in the dark regarding information you need in order to make an important decision. sniff out any hidden agenda or motive and you will be in a better position to negotiate and take control. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): personal changes, pleasure trips and engaging in banter with someone you find interesting and informative will make your day. don’t let your competitive nature tempt you to embellish, exaggerate or overspend in order to make an impression. Keep indulgence to a minimum. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): avoid trouble by harboring your opinions when you’re better off focusing on potential deals and tying up loose ends. don’t let your emotions cause you to engage in a discussion that is likely to end in a stalemate. 



AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): look at the big picture and analyze what’s required in order to get what you want. step up and participate using your sharp mind and your skills in a unique manner. love is favored, so put time aside for romance. 



PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): your unusual way of doing things will confuse the people around you. offer an easy-to-follow overview of what you are doing in order to avoid opposition and setbacks. be open to reasonable suggestions from other. 

Birthday Baby: You are intelligent, charming and passionate. You are competitive and persistent. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 




make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Kelly addresses injuries, quarterback depth 
By MARY GREEN 
assistant managing editor 
Two games into the season and with 10 left on the sched­ule, head coach brian Kelly confirmed Tuesday the irish have lost their fifth starter to injury. This time, it’s junior tight end durham smythe, who tore his right mcl against virginia last saturday. 
Kelly said at his Tuesday press conference the injury came in the fourth quarter, right before notre dame’s game-winning touchdown. he underwent sur­gery for both his knee and right shoulder, which was injured against Texas on sept. 5, ac­cording to Kelly. 
with smythe out, sopho­more Tyler luatua moves into the starting tight end role, backed up by freshman alizé Jones, sophomore nic weishar and graduate student chase hounshell. 
“i think each one of them has some different levels of, i want to say, expertise, but strengths relative to what we think they can do,” Kelly said of his tight ends. “i think you’ll see them all play, no question. i don’t think there is just one guy. 
“i think durham was able to do a lot of different things, so now i think you’ll see we’ll go deeper with the tight ends. but i feel very confident that in all of them that we’ll get the kind of play necessary at that position.” 
Five notre dame starters have now been sidelined for the 2015 due to injury: smythe, ju­nior quarterback malik Zaire, junior running back Tarean Folston, senior defensive line­man Jarron Jones and freshman cornerback shaun crawford. Zaire was also injured in the virginia game, while Folston was hurt against Texas. Jones and crawford’s injuries came during fall camp. 
“it’s just one of those things that, is there anything that you could have done differently in that situation?” Kelly said. “That’s certainly what i try to do in each one of these situations, and that one [with smythe], there was nothing you could do about it. it was just part of the 
see FooTball PAGE 14 


MEN’S SOCCER | Xavier 1, nd 0 
Xavier hands notre dame first loss of year in upset 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports editor 
notre dame suffered its first defeat of the sea­son, falling to Xavier 1-0 on Tuesday night at alumni stadium. 
with just seconds remain­ing in the game, a shot rico­cheted into the upper body of a Xavier defender just outside the six-yard box and the irish players screamed for a penalty shot, but ref­eree chico grajeda ruled it was clean and the clock expired. 
“There were claims for various things,” irish head coach bobby clark said. “i didn’t see it so i can’t com­ment on it.” 
The irish (4-1-1, 1-0-0 acc) came out flat against the musketeers (4-2-0, 0-0­0 big east) just 72 hours af­ter dominating last season’s acc champion clemson in a 1-0 victory on the very same field. notre dame coughed up the ball multiple times 
see m soccer PAGE 12 


ND VOLLEYBALL 
Freshmen usher in new era for Irish 
By DAISY COSTELLO 
sports writer 
in the first nine matches of 2014, the irish posted a record of just 2-7, a sign of times to come — the team would finish the season with just a 6-23 re­cord and only four acc wins. however, 2015 is a new season for notre dame, as the team have started the year with a record of 4-5 under the direc­tion of new head coach Jim mclaughlin, doubling its win total from last year through the same number of games. 
mclaughlin is not the only new face to the irish program. on notre dame’s roster of 15, six of the spots are filled with freshmen: middle blockers meg morningstar and Kristin baer, liberos Kelly byrne and ryann deJarld and outside hitters rebecca nunge and Katie houser. Those six have already taken steps to solidify themselves as mainstays in the program. 
irish associate head coach mike Johnson is a new mem­ber of the coaching staff as well, brought in under the leadership of mclaughlin. he said 2015 is a transition year for everyone. 
“To a degree, we’re chang­ing the whole system, so ev­eryone’s a freshman in the new system,” Johnson said. “many years, freshmen are farther behind, but in this case freshmen are not far be­hind the scale because it’s new to everyone and we’re all growing together.” 
Johnson said he has been impressed with the freshmen so far. Four of the first-years on the roster — morningstar, byrne, deJarld and nunge — have already seen significant playing time through the first nine matches of the season. 
“The impact [of the fresh­men] has been massive. They’ve continued to grow, and the whole team gets bet­ter as a result,” Johnson said. 
This year’s freshman class brought a long list of high school accolades with it to notre dame. deJarld and houser were hon­ored as second-team under 
see volleyball PAGE 11 




