The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 34 | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
UCC provides counseling services to students 
University Counseling Center addresses increasing number of students seeking support 
By CLARE KOSSLER 
associate news editor 

Editor’s Note: This is the fourth installment of a five-day series discussing mental health at Notre Dame in recognition of Mental Illness Awareness Week. 
during the 2008-2009 academic year, the university counseling center (ucc) reported 1,015 ini­tial intakes of students seeking counseling services. by the 2013­2014 academic year, that number had risen to 1,409. 
and according to director of the ucc susan steibe-pasalich, it increased again by an additional 4 percent between the 2013-2014 and 2014-2015 academic years. 
dr. peter barnes, a staff 


SENATE 


group discusses updated ticket plans, sustainability 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
student senate met wednesday night to hear pre­sentations on the new men’s basketball and hockey student ticket plan, local and sustainable food initiatives and student gov­ernment’s report to the board of trustees. 
senate was closed to the pub­lic when student body president bryan ricketts, student body vice president nidia ruelas and chief of staff dan sehlhorst pre­sented the student government sexual violence report, which will be delivered to the board of trustees oct. 15. 
brian pracht, assistant athletic director, gave the first presenta­tion on the new ticket plan for men’s basketball and hockey. 
“we’re not selling a season pass anymore — it’s going to be complimentary tickets,” he said. “but there’s going to be a three-day window for you to claim these tickets online.” 
pracht said there will be no ad­vantage to waking up early on the first day to claim tickets because students who go to more games will be given preference for ones that are expected to draw a large crowd. 
see senaTe PAGE 4 



NDSP, South Bend PD share student safety tips 

By COLLEEN KEEGAN 
news writer 
at wednesday evening’s student safety summit, local and campus police offered advice to students on how best to en­sure their safety both on and off campus. 
The seven officers on the panel represented both the notre dame security police (ndsp) and the south bend police department (sbpd). associate vice presi­dent of campus security mike seamon began the discussion by acknowledging the emphasis campus and local police place on student security. 

“our top priority is the safety of all our faculty, staff, students and guests,” seamon said. 
The panelists stressed the im­portance of using common sense to avoid unnecessarily dangerous situations. 
“be smart. have a plan in place before you go out,” rynearson said. 
walking alone is never a good idea, rynearson said, and stu­dents should always have a plan to 
see saFeTy PAGE 3 


Panel addresses consent and sexual assault 

By JP GSCHWIND 
news writer 
dorm parties are a cherished part of student life at notre dame, but the abusive drink­ing and negligence that can often accompany them lead to devastating results, Fr. peter mccormick, director of cam­pus ministry, said. 
in an effort to spread aware­ness about sexual assault and promote conversations about alcohol, consent and dorm parties, the gender relations center (grc) sponsored a pan­el discussion Tuesday night at debartolo hall. in addition to mccormick, the panel con­sisted of senior annie Kuster, a grc Fire starter, and junior daniel esparza, the president of men against sexual 
see culTure PAGE 3 






Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 

Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

What’s your go-to caffeine fix for a long night of studying for midterms? 


Catherine Young 
junior 
ryan hall 

“chocolate covered coffee beans from the candy wall in The huddle.” 
Kris Thieneman 
junior 
Keough hall 
“mio energy.” 
Ryan McMullen 
junior 
Keough hall 

“a box of samoa girl scout cookies and an apple. no more, no less.” 
Sarah Toner 
senior off campus 
“grande skinny vanilla latte with an extra shot.” 
Sofi Perera 
junior 
off campus 
“venti latte with non-fat milk.” 
Taryn Stamper 
junior 
ryan hall 
“coca-cola and sadness.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Katie galioto alex carson Email news@ndsmcobserver.com rachel o’grady victoria llorens Kathryn marshall 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
lucy du Kelly mcgarry 
Photo Viewpoint 

Dante Lecture A “Divine Comedy” Hindustani Concert Women’s Soccer vs. Exponential-Family 
caitlyn Jordan scott olehnik 

Hesburgh Library Flashmob Hesburgh Library Boston College Graph Models 
4:30p.m.-6 p.m. campus-wide 8:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Alumni Stadium Hayes-Healy Center Lecture on the 750th 2 p.m.-5 p.m. A blend of Indian 1 p.m. 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 
Corrections 

anniversary of Dante’s A lecture will follow the and Western violin The Irish take on the Lecture hosted by the 
The observer regards itself as birth. performance. techniques. Eagles. Department of ACMS. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Bonfire, S’Mores and Notre Dame Football Football vs. Navy Softball Exhibition Violence Awareness 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Cemetery Tours Pep Rally Notre Dame Stadium Melissa Cook Stadium Month Presentation 
however, recognize that we will make 
Holy Cross Hill  Joyce Center 3:30 p.m. 12 p.m.-4:15 p.m. Hesburgh Library 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
8 p.m.-10 p.m. 5:45 p.m.-6:30 p.m. The Irish take on The Irish take on 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Fr. Neil Wack will lead A home game weekend their rival, the Navy  Loyola and Butler in a Lecture by founder of 
we can correct our error. 

the tours. tradition. Midshipmen. fall exhibition. Catharsis Productions. 

ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2015 | The observer 


SMC students reflect on Uganda summer program 
By MEGAN UEKERT 
news writer 
students gathered in carroll auditorium at saint mary’s on wednesday evening to listen to the stories of four students who spent seven weeks in the summer serving with the sisters of holy cross in Kyarusozi, uganda. 
alice young, assistant director of global education, said each year the uganda summer practicum accepts four rising seniors who are either nursing or education majors. young said the program is also open to communicative sciences and disorders majors, de­pending on available spaces. 
after showing a slideshow of pictures from their trips, the four students each took turns reflect­ing on their time in uganda. 
andree wilson-nixa, a senior nursing student, said she lived in a small village with the sisters for seven weeks, working in a clinic about an hour away. 
“i knew my experience in uganda was going to be special — pulling into the convent, a dozen children were there to greet us,” she said. “The people added an el­ement to my experience that i will never forget. at each encounter, i was almost able to feel the hap­piness that surged within them. i hope to return to the place that left me with a full and gracious heart.” 
anna cronin, another senior nursing major, described her ex­perience working in a local medi­cal clinic. 
“The clinic was a level three clin­ic, so the only thing we couldn’t do was surgeries and supply oxygen,” she said. “we dealt with a lot of malaria patients, learned how to give shots and saw live births.” 
as a part of her nursing ex­perience, cronin said she and wilson-nixa embarked on moth-er-baby outreaches to bring medi­cine, beds and mosquito nets to a church where mothers await­ed healthcare. They provided malaria medication, hiv testing and general checkups for babies, she said. 
eleni shea, a senior com­municative sciences and dis­orders major, described her experience working at moreau primary school, the local school supported by the sisters of holy cross. 
“living and working in uganda allowed me to grow in so many ways — as a student, a catholic and a future communicative dis­orders teacher,” she said. 
shea said she was able to help students learn english and watch students with various learning 
and off-campus. 
Safety 
“crime is all about opportunity,” 
conTinued From page 1 
williams said. “we don’t want you 

to be an easy target.” get home and a group or buddy to according to ndsp deputy walk home with. chief Keri Kei shibata, the most 
“we have done a fantastic job of prevalent crime on campus is theft revitalizing the area, but there are of unattended property. cases of still some higher crime areas, espe-forced entry in dorm room and cially at night ” rynearson said. burglaries are extremely rare, so 
in light of this, lieutenant Tim the best prevention is to lock doors. williams said it is imperative that in the wake of recent active students remain vigilant both on shooter situations like last week’s 
paid adverTisemenT 

disorders improve academically. 
“i could have not asked for a bet­ter way to spend the summer,” she said. “i was extremely fortunate to have found my home among the people of uganda this summer.” 
sarah callis, a senior educa­tion major, said her experience in uganda provided her with a new outlook on her life and teaching career. 
“prior to traveling to africa, i would have never guessed that i could walk four miles home from school in a dress and then eat rice every day for a month, shower in the dark, improvise lessons at school, hitch a spontaneous ride on a bus heading for nairobi, Kenya, hike to the top of a moun­tain, wash my clothes by hand or live without our precious wi-Fi for two months — but i did,” she said. 
callis said her favorite part of the trip was fostering a relation­ship with the children in the community. 
“The kids were already walk­ing five miles to school and they still wanted to run home with us,” she said. “The students taught me more than i was able to teach them. The children love to learn, which made me love to teach.” 
Contact Megan Uekert at muekert01@saintmarys.edu 
shooting at umpqua community college in oregon, shibata also discussed the measures that are in place should such a situation arise at notre dame. ndsp officers are trained annually on how to respond to active violence on campus, she said. The nd alert system is also an essential part of the response to possible violence on campus as it allows information to reach stu­dents within seconds, she said. 
st. Joseph county sheriff mike grzegorek spoke about basic safety knowledge for off-campus stu­dents. he said in addition to keep­ing doors and windows locked, keeping curtains drawn to prevent people from looking into homes is an often-overlooked safety mea­sure. he said reaching out to neigh­bors can also be a useful step in protecting homes. 
“build strong relationships with your neighbors so that when you are gone, they can help,” grzegorek said. 
The panelists ended their pre­sentation by emphasizing the im­portance of looking out for others in the community. 
“The best way to promote safety is for everyone to help each other,” williams said. 
rynearson stressed the impor­tance of students using their in­stincts when it comes to personal safety. 
“if you feel something in your gut, don’t go into that situation,” rynearson said. “we all have a sixth sense,  so use it.” 
Contact Colleen Keegan at  ckeegan2@nd.edu 
Culture 
conTinued From page 1 
violence. Following the theme of “let’s Talk about hooking-up, consent and dorm parties,” they answered questions di­rectly from the moderator and anonymously submitted by the audience. 
To frame the discussion, the panel began with a short video called “Tea consent,” which provided a humorous perspec­tive on the topic by using the act of serving someone tea as a metaphor for sexual consent. 
The panel initiated their con­versation by talking about the purpose of dorm parties and the consequences that on-campus parties entail. 
esparza said students of­ten uses alcohol and parties as ways to release the stress of a long week, a mindset that can hold potentially damaging ramifications. 
“it’s very important that peo­ple don’t use things like dorm parties and alcohol as a crutch,” esparza said. 
because of the ubiquity of on-campus parties at notre dame and the strong connection be­tween residence halls and social life, Kuster said students can sometimes be lulled into a false sense of security when they go to parties in dorms. 
“we don’t necessarily connect going down the hallway with a place where some problem could be,” Kuster said. 
mccormick said these thoughts are consistent with his experience as a rector. while notre dame has con­sciously preserved the culture of on-campus parties because it values making residence halls central to student’s lives, he said the prevalence of alcohol on campus does involves some risks. 
“if we want you to feel that the residence halls are home, you should be allowed to wel­come your friends over, and you should be allowed to have parties,” mccormick said. “The mindset of why parties occur in dorms is very much rooted in the community mindset of notre dame.” 
The panel also discussed the differences in social life between men and women in college. 
Kuster said boys have more power than girls over almost every aspect of a party, from the alcohol they provide to the music they play, because most parties are held in boys’ dorms. although this may seem like a trivial issue, Kuster said this means girls can feel more help­less in unfamiliar situations. 
“when you show up to some­body else’s party and boys are the ones throwing the party, they have the control,” Kuster said. 
however, mccormick said, girls have the ability to decide which parties to go to and can always leave when they feel uncomfortable. 
“woman actually have more power and authority than what they think,” mccormick said. 
The panel then examined the question of why hook-ups and sexual assault seem to be so prevalent in college. 
esparza said many students enter college with naive ideas about how sex and relationships actually work, and consequent­ly, can make mistakes without realizing their errors. 
“sometimes, especially in college, many people typically don’t see it as rape because they really don’t understand how mutual relationships work,” esparza said. 
additionally, mccormick said the media portrays col­lege far different from reality, with an emphasis on casual sex, drinking and partying. in par­ticular, mccormick said, mov­ies embody this myth and give incoming students major mis­conceptions about college. 
“The thing hollywood doesn’t show you, the thing popular literature doesn’t show you, is how it feels when an unwanted advance gets made on you,” mccormick said. 
in order to break free from this ignorance, mccormick said students need to be actively in­volved in both learning about sexual assault and being mind­ful of their own actions. 
“we need to be more in­formed ... about the fact that our actions, whether they be subtle, quick or even unintended, have significant impacts on people’s lives,” mccormick said. 
Contact JP Gschwind at  jgschwin@nd.edu 



The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Senate 
conTinued From page 1 
“we will weight it so that the more games you go to, the better opportunity you will have to at­tend the big games,” he said. “so if you go to every game prior to the north carolina game, you will get a ticket to north carolina. if you go to two games before north carolina, i don’t know. you’ll have to play the odds. we’re definitely going to reward students.” 
students will still be able to buy tickets at a walk-up price be­fore the game if space is available, pracht said. 
“we knew we needed to do something different,” he said. “we were selling 1,500 to 2,000 student season passes a year and the show rate for students with those passes was 30 percent. so not very good.” 
sophomore carolyn yvellez, a staff member at the department of social concerns and a notre dame Food services (ndFs) intern, gave a presentation about increasing the amount of local and sustain­able food on campus. 
“Food services started the proj­ect of defining what local food is,” she said. “we’ve defined “local” as 250 miles from campus. we cur­rently spend about $3.5 million supporting local farms and 38 percent of the dining hall food is from local sources.” 
yvellez said that in a survey, students said they were more con­cerned about having healthy op­tions than they were about having local options. 
“The current industrial model is not a sustainable model for providing food,” she said. “[There are] debates about how much it’s threatening public health through creating antibiotic resistant bacte­ria, pesticides and disease. in gen­eral, local farms have a lower risk for these issues.” 
The senators discussed prob­lems surrounding local food sources and sustainability efforts on campus and potential chang­es, including eliminating trays and changing food options in laFortune student center. 
“with people already so upset about the styrofoam cups leaving the dining halls, there would be a riot if the trays disappeared,” amy smikle, howard hall senator, said. “i’m getting so much negative feedback and comments about the styrofoam cups disappearing, the trays disappearing isn’t going to go well. how do we tell them it’s better for the environment when they don’t even care about the sty­rofoam cups?” 
yvellez also said ndFs is look­ing for replacements for the burger King in laFortune and that a more local and sustainable replacement is under consideration. 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 
UCC 
conTinued From page 1 

limitations on what we could pro­vide any one student. however, for a large majority of students, short-term counseling is going to meet their needs.” 
steibe-pasalich said over the past year, the center has focused on improving its after-hours ur­gent crisis telephone service and has contracted with indiana paging network, an outside an­swering service. 
“Through this service, after-hours calls are answered immedi­ately by a live operator, who then dispatches the call to the on-call ucc counselor,” steibe-pasalich said in an email. “we believe this personal contact is an improve­ment over the past procedure which required that the caller listen to instructions and leave a voice mail message.” 
currently, she said, the ucc is working to update its website and “to continue to enhance after-hours services.” 
although more and more stu­dents are requesting counseling from the ucc, steibe-pasalich said many of the problems they report – including anxiety, depres­sion, family concerns, interper­sonal and romantic relationships and academic distress – remain the same. 
currently, the process for a student seeking help is to schedule an appointment with a licensed professional over the phone or, in the case of a crisis, simply to walk in to the ucc offices, located on the third floor of saint liam’s. after filling out paperwork re­garding general symptoms and complaints, a student then meets with a counselor, who makes rec­ommendations to a disposition team on the student’s treatment, barnes said. 
“we see a wide range of issues, from just adjustment to being here at notre dame, academic stress and stress management – all the way to more severe issues like [suicide],” he said. For students who need longer term or more specialized care, barnes said, the ucc refers them to a specialist in the south bend community. however, he said the center has also worked in recent years to ex­pand its psychiatric services and now has a part-time psychiatrist on staff. 
indeed, director of university health services sharon mcmullen said health services and the ucc collaborated last year “to place a ucc psychiatric provider at uhs for a few hours each week.” 
“This helped us to better meet the needs of students who are prescribed psychotropic medica­tions but who are not in therapy at ucc,” she said in an email. “This program was well-received and highly-utilized by students so we expanded it in 2015-2016.” 
mcmullen also said health services regularly partners with the ucc and the newly created mcdonald center for student well-being on issues regarding mental health and advises them “from the perspective of the cam­pus health care provider.” 
“our shared goal is to help to build a healthy campus environ­ment in which all of our students flourish,” mcmullen said. 
beyond the support the ucc has received from health services, barnes said the division of student affairs has also worked to provide the ucc resources to better assist the growing num­bers of students who are reporting mental health problems. 
“we see a quarter of all notre dame students at some point during their time at notre dame, and we could probably see a lot more than that,” he said. “what we’re learning is that being pretty stressed out and overwhelmed is becoming more and more nor­mal, unfortunately. 
“ … when peers conceal their difficulties and only show their positive sides, students can eas­ily get the misperception that they are alone in their struggles. This inaccurate social compari­son tends to exacerbate their problems.” 
Contact Clare Kossler at  ckossler@nd.edu 


The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By DAKOTA CONNELL-LEDWON 
scene writer 

at my first big concert, panic! at The disco lead singer brendon urie broke his ankle running to the back of the au­dience to play for the people who could barely see the stage. despite the pain, he limped back to the front, asked for a chair and finished the show. 
This is just one example of panic! at The disco’s commitment to music, and it’s a memory that made me ridiculously excited to hear the band’s new single, “victorious.” 
The song came out on sept. 28 and 
By KELLY McGARRY 
scene writer 

adult swim wrapped up the second season of the raunchy sci-fi cartoon “rick and morty” on sunday with a fina­le that leaves viewers asking questions. according to the episode description, “Things go ham in this one broh. They all don mussed up this time. The whole family mussed up broh.” in the final episode, the hijinks of rick and morty involve the whole smith family in a way that was completely absent in the first season, but has become increasingly more common. 
when the smith family reluctantly attends the wedding of rick’s friend birdperson, the action is shockingly down-to-earth, especially for its set­ting on planet squanch. The family is distraught when the courier flap kid­naps the dad to carry across the galaxy, for no other reason than that now they have to go to the wedding.  if you ignore the strange appearance of the alien guests, you’ve got typical unenthusias­tic sitcom wedding guests, complaining quickly rocketed to the #1 spot on apple music. it also made an appearance on spotify’s Today’s Top hits playlist. 
it’s definitely not a classic panic! at The disco song, but it’ll grow on you if you give it a chance. dark verses and a creepy yet energetic pre-chorus make up for the fairly cliché lyrics of the chorus. i’m not a fan of the childish, sing-songy sound of the intro (for a more effective take on the technique, see the French children’s choir in “nearly witches,” from panic’s “vices and virtues” al­bum), but the rest of the song makes you forget the disconcerting start. 
lyrics like “eyes like broken christmas 
about not knowing anyone, making comments about the age gap of the bride and groom and navigating awk­ward family tension. 
even when things get out of hand, the turmoil is both personal and political but lacks the sci-fi nature of other epi­sodes, where a typical problem involved the split of reality, an uncooperative miniverse or identifying impostors in falsely imprinted memories. in the final episode of the season, “The wedding squanchers,” rick is pursued for offens­es against a government and the fam­ily is torn by his dishonesty, a situation that could easily happen in a typical ac­tion movie within the confines of planet earth. 
rick’s alcoholism and cynicism usu­ally come out in a way that’s surpris­ingly charming, but now that we have a closer look into his psychology, this epi­sode was less hilarious than depress­ing. The feels were only exacerbated by the powerful placement of nine inch nails “hurt.” The episode leaves rick in a maximum security galactic prison, where he will remain until the season 3 lights / my touch is black and poison­ous / and nothing like my punch-drunk kiss” against a driving beat beg to be shouted and will probably stick in your head until your roommate demands to know what you’re humming. when he or she asks, you better take that invita­tion to introduce them to a pretty qual­ity song. 

you’ll just have to go with the ordi­nary lyrics in the chorus, “Tonight we are victorious / champagne pouring over us / all my friends were glorious / Tonight we are victorious,» while a bit cliché, they’re still fun and catchy. 
“victorious” is the third single 
premier, scheduled for summer 2016. 
The question of rick’s fate may be on the minds of some viewers, but fans are confident that he’ll find an ingenious way to get out of this situation un­scathed, probably negating his appar­ent self-sacrifice to return to his typical egotism. and of course we’re concerned for the fate of planet earth, which has now been taken over by the galactic federation. 
The real question that viewers can’t get off their minds regards rick’s choice for a new planet for the smiths to live on. of the three planets that are similar enough to earth yet out of the federal ju­risdiction, there is one that seems per­fectly suitable, and perhaps even more appealing for the fact that everything is on a cob. morty and summer are en­thralled by strawberries on a cob and flowers on a cob, even rick is excited at the prospect. he suddenly becomes suspicious at the mountains on a cob, and upon viewing a caterpillar under a microscope becomes horrified, cue dra­matic music, “everything’s on a cob!” 
after seeing the microscope view, it released from panic! at The disco’s fifth album. while we don’t have a release date (or a name) for the album yet, the band’s last album came out in 2013, so we’re definitely due for another masterpiece. 
For now, we’ll have to content our­selves with listening to the three singles from the mysterious upcoming album, “victorious,” “hallelujah” and “death of a bachelor,” all of which promise more music in the vein of “vices and virtues,” panic’s 2011 album. 
Contact Dakota Connell-Ledwon at dconnel5@nd.edu 
makes some sense that living on a plan­et where everything is “on a cob” would be problematic. apparently the mol­ecules are cobs, and human molecules not being cobs, the smith family would have trouble doing things like eating and breathing … but they haven’t had any trouble breathing up to this point, so why the panic? 
when they look around, it’s pretty ob­vious that the cobs are everywhere, so the realization that literally everything is on a cob shouldn’t come as much of a surprise. The other strangeness in the situation is that no one in the fam­ily questions rick’s alarm. it’s as if they understand cob problem just as well as he does. 
This could just be something that the writers threw in to be left unexplained, but i’m having trouble letting it go. in any case, we look forward to season 3 for a definite answer to the fate of rick, planet earth and maybe even some in­sight into the cobs. 
Contact Kelly McGarry at                                   kmcgarry@nd.edu 
LUCY DU | The Observer 



The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Finding a voice 
Margaret Hynds 
news editor 

in case you’ve been living under a rock for the last few days and haven’t heard, it’s mental illness awareness week. 
as the news editor for this paper, this is a hard story for me to cover, because journalism (ideally) requires a certain level of objectivity that proves hard to maintain when the stakes are high and the writer is personally invested. and when we’re talking about mental illness, the stakes are incredibly high, and i’m more than personally invested. 
For several years, i’ve struggled with an­orexia and depression. it’s not something i talk about often, but i’ve watched it prevent me from being as happy and as successful as i could otherwise be. more than that, i’ve let my own shame prevent me from helping others that i see struggling because i’m too afraid to talk about my own history and ongoing illness. 
That needs to end. 

when i see people clearly going through a difficult time in their life, i want to shake them and tell them it’s okay to get help if they need it. i want to tell them that we can’t fix the seemingly insurmountable problem of mental illness unless people are willing to talk about it. i want to tell them that i know, because i know. i’ve been there. 
but i struggle to reconcile my firmly held belief that this must be tackled head-on with my intense fear of vulnerability. 
so i think it’s time to start being honest: some days are really, really hard. i’m lucky to be surrounded by truly wonderful people, but there are days when i cannot bring myself to go to class. There are days when i feel extreme­ly isolated and alone. and there are days when i question why i’m even at notre dame. i’m not smart enough. i’m not pretty enough. i’m not good enough. 
i love this university, but i know as well as anyone that it can be an environment that ex­acerbates existing anxieties and disorders that people live with, and it can lead others who have never experienced them to develop them. 
what worries me most on this campus is the pervasive thought that getting help means giv­ing up; that it means you’re not strong enough to handle what everyone else can deal with so easily. let me assure you: personal weakness has nothing to do with it. having the self-awareness to realize you can’t go it alone re­quires strength and courage that do not come easily. 
i can’t say what will stop mental illness, and i can’t offer any one solution that can help each individual person. what i can say, though, is that getting help is the best deci­sion i’ve ever made. working through what i’m dealing with has radically improved my life. sometimes it sucks, and it’s almost always dif­ficult, but it is so, so worth it. 
so now i’m joining the conversation — not as a writer covering the news, but as my own person. 
i’ve come to realize that i can’t speak for everyone, but i can speak for myself. it’s about time i did. 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Disposable friends, disposable causes 

Jennifer Vosters 
belleview 

i love Facebook. i love that all i need to do is type “f” into my search bar for google chrome to take me to my newsfeed. i check it several times a day, liking photos, reading status updates and keeping my profile as manicured as a hedgerow in Kensington gardens. no spelling mistakes, no unwanted photos and no trolls. all is well. all is controlled. my own little world, subject to my preferences and standards. 
it’s kind of creepy when you think of it like that. Facebook, for many of us, is how we keep our lives organized — or attempt to, at least. and it serves a valuable function: keeping us connected over distances, sharing our news, stories and jokes and helping us maintain active relationships with people we don’t see. it also tempts us to over-reg­ulate ourselves. even as our society comes to un­derstand the enormous benefits of diversity and the obligation to respect those who are different from us, Facebook gives us the power to eliminate from our sight anything we choose, anyone we disagree with and any idea we don’t like. we exer­cise that power with a vengeance. 
“if you’re planning to vote for Jeb bush, please unfriend me.” “comment on this status if you don’t stand with planned parenthood so i can unfriend you.” “unfriend me if the second amendment means nothing to you.” i will delete any comment i don’t like. i will block any person i don’t agree with. 
we’re promoting a concept of friendship that revolves around who we agree with the most, and we value it based only on how well we can rant together and not on what we can learn from each other. unwilling to de-glorify our opinions, we would rather project from our soapboxes into a bunch of agreeing ears, or into empty space, than remain associated with an opposing view. homogeneity is the prerequisite for respect; everyone else can buzz off. with 24-hour news updates available to us, and with anyone able to publish her opinion for the world to see, we think we need an opinion on everything, one we must defend above all else. anyone who disagrees — click, click — unfriended. our pride, inflated by how much we think we know, is now more impor­tant than actually pursuing the best answer — which involves dialogue with others. 
we protect our fragile egos — safe in our little Facebook empires — by treating people as more disposable than principles. That’s a dangerous precedent, if history has taught us anything. This hypercontrol gives us a feeling of authority over other people’s opinions and, by extension, their worth: if we don’t like it, it’s not worthy of our at­tention or association. The flipside is dangerous, too. we think liking a photo or commenting on a status is “doing our part.” hundreds of thousands of people liked humans of new york’s recent picture of a refugee reunited with his son, me included. how many of those people have taken the time to donate to nonprofit organizations like uniceF, unhcr or catholic relief services, which provide real aid to refugees? how many have researched the origins of the crisis in syria, which many believe is linked to environmental stress and climate change? how many have ad­vocated somewhere other than on their Facebook walls for greater government support for refu­gees? spreading awareness on Facebook is one of the many wonderful benefits of social media, but substituting meaningful action with a simple click of the finger? not beneficial, not realistic and simply not enough. we need only look back at the pitifully inadequate Kony 2012 campaign for confirmation. 
so as we move into the next few months — as our newsfeeds fill with presidential debate up­dates, football scores, pictures of immigrants, news from the vatican and more about planned parenthood — let’s stay humble, friends, and re­member the indispensable opposition, which is still as relevant as ever. let’s face the opinions we don’t want to see and remember that we need them, as much as we need our own opinions, to understand our world. There’s a world outside Facebook that deserves and demands your at­tention. so stay friends with your suitemate who supports donald Trump (he’ll need your shoulder to cry on after the election). Keep liking humans of new york’s pictures, but also email your repre­sentative about sending aid to refugees. be a full person, instead of a tiny cyberspace despot. 
it’s what real friends do. 
Jennifer Vosters is a senior living in Le Mans Hall. She is an English major with minors in theatre and Italian. She can be reached at jvoste01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

No defense for Kelly’s calls 
brian Kelly is mistaken when he says all of us are judging his coaching in hindsight. not everyone was looking back at it as being a bad call; many were looking at it in real time. They thought he made a very poor call at the time that he made it. we were watching with a number of people who did not understand his 2-point conversion call after the team scored their first touchdown — and they know football because some of them are former irish players. 
any coach or psychologist could tell you that the right thing to do was let them feed on their scoring elation by getting the point after touch­down because that might start them on a roll. There was still plenty of time left in the game at that point for Kelly to do just that. missing the two points after touchdown did nothing but de­flate them and reduce the touchdown to being almost meaningless after they fought so hard to come back from a deficit. Kelly’s decision to go 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“You may not control life’s circumstances, but getting to be the author of your life means getting to control what you do with them.” 
— Atul Gawande      Physician and author 

for two points at that time showed a lack of faith in his team and their ability to come back with two touchdowns to win that game. his whole decision seemed to be based on the fact that clemson was going to sit at 21 points for the rest of the game without another score (wrong!) and that notre dame didn’t have enough ability to overtake them (wrong again!). it came across as totally inept and faithless thinking on his part, showing a lack of confidence in his team. 
Kelly made the same mistake in the northwestern loss and obviously never learned from it. That he blames this loss on his team, its wide receivers and turnovers is totally unac­ceptable, and it shows his lack of understand­ing the part he played in the loss. The team fought back from their mistakes and put them behind them. They could have won that game if it were not for his mistakes and ineptitude as their coach. his game judgment is poor. he has 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

A mother’s worry 
i certainly hope none of notre dame’s students were confused enough to actually take seriously the climate change lecture given by that talking-head for the nuclear industry. ms. cravens is a fictional writer doing what she does best — spewing nonsensical fiction. 
nuclear power is not the solution to fight­ing climate change. i live in oceanside, california and less than 30 miles from my home, cesium-137 and -134 were measured at eight becquerels per kilogram. These are the deadly contaminants flowing from Fukushima daiichi nuclear power plant that have been devastating the west coast of the u.s. 
our ocean is almost 80 degrees now in october. i have never felt water so warm here until the last three years. i can’t even go to the beach anymore because i have little kids, who are about 50-times as sensitive to the effects of low-level radiation as adults because their cells divide more rapidly. even natural background radiation is responsible for up to half of all ir­regularly inherited afflictions such as multiple sclerosis, diabetes, reproductive abnormalities and many more. 
nuclear power plants, even when they oper­ate within the standards set by the nuclear regulatory commission, regularly release a great team that’s deserving of better coaching decisions. 
half of our family went to that game and the conditions were very tough to play in. notre dame did a wonderful job in settling dwown and playing a great game after they were able to settle down. also, where was Kelly when the flagrant foul was committed by clemson in the end zone and never called by the refs? and why did he call that play when going for the second 2-point conversion? Kelly ought to listen to the analysts because he might learn something from them. but then again, he might claim that their analysis was based on hindsight also, and that he did not deserve to be called on the carpet for the coaching decisions he made in that game (wrong again!). 
Judy Clark 
oct. 5 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Imagination will often carry us to worlds that never were. But without it we go nowhere.” 
— Carl Sagan     Cosmologist, author and science popularizer 
radioactive particles into the air and water as part of their normal procedures. constant expo­sure to low-level radiation from a nuclear plant is actually worse than receiving one extreme dose. higher doses of radiation kill the cells. but they are killed completely, so, over time, they can eventually rebuild. low-level radiation, like the kind we are all getting from Fukushima, mutates our cells by attacking our dna. ninety-nine per­cent of all mutations are the bad kind, not the natural selection type — the result is cancer. 
Laurel Kaskurs DeFalco 
oct. 7 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Stand by coaches, not front office 
Michael Ivey 
sports writer 
on dec. 28, after their win in the final game of the regular sea­son, the san Francisco 49ers an­nounced they and head coach Jim harbaugh decided to mutually part ways. 
harbaugh had been hired by the 49ers in 2011 to revitalize a once proud franchise that was en­during hard times. That’s exactly what he did. 
in his first three seasons as 49ers head coach, harbaugh led the team to records of 13-3, 11­4-1 and 12-4, two division titles, three straight conference finals appearances and one super bowl appearance. he revitalized the career of quarterback and former no. 1 overall pick alex smith and developed young quarterback colin Kaepernick into a superstar. it looked like he was developing them to be a force in the nFl for years to come. 
alas, the 49ers front office got greedy. 
They didn’t like harbaugh’s fiery and unorthodox personal­ity despite his success, and a rift soon formed between him and the team hierarchy. it got so bad it started to affect the team. in 2014, the 49ers posted an 8-8 record and missed the playoffs for the first time of the harbaugh era. as it turns out, that era wouldn’t last long. 
There were rumors going around during the season that it would be harbaugh’s last year as coach of the team regardless of how the team did, and that harbaugh would leave and take another nFl coaching job, or possibly, go back to coaching college football at his alma mater, university of michigan. 49ers owner Jed york denied those claims at the time. 
however, after the last game of the season and the news of harbaugh’s departure started to break, there was fiery speculation that harbaugh could become the michigan head coach as soon as the end of that week. sure enough, the next day, he was on a private jet to detroit, and the day after that, he was standing at a press conference in front of the famous block “m.” 
york claimed the 49ers and harbaugh agreed to mutually part ways. however, harbaugh later said, “i didn’t leave the 49ers. i felt like the 49ers hierarchy left me.” 49ers assistant coach Jim Tomsula was later named the 49ers new head coach. 
Fast forward to now. harbaugh has led michigan to a 4-1 record and the no. 18 ranking in the ap poll. They have been one of the most surprising teams in college football and there’s already talk of harbaugh as a possible coach of the year candidate. it looks like harbaugh is building michigan into a national power again. 
meanwhile in santa clara, the 49ers currently have a record of 1-3 and have suffered three straight blowout losses. They are in last place in their division and have looked lost under Tomsula. Kaepernick is constantly running for his life and can’t stop throw­ing interceptions, and the defense just doesn’t know what to do. There’s not much hope for them the rest of this season or beyond. and just like that, the organiza­tion is right back where it started before harbaugh. 
i have never quite seen a fran­chise destroy itself quite like the 49ers have. perhaps it’s because the last time something like this happened, i was too young to remember it. 
The 49ers situation reminds me of how the great chicago bulls dy­nasty of the 1990s ended. despite the bulls’ success, there was a rift between bulls head coach phil Jackson and general manager Jerry Krause, who felt he never got enough credit for the team’s success. Krause told stories to the media that portrayed Jackson as a control freak who mistreated his assistant coaches. 
in 1997, Krause gave Jackson a one year contract and told Jackson the 1997-1998 season would be his last as bulls coach, even if they won the champion­ship that season. The bulls did win the championship that year, their third straight and sixth in the span of eight seasons, but Jackson was let go. after Jackson was let go, Jordan retired for the second time of his career, and key players scottie pippen and dennis rodman left the team. without them, the bulls finished with the worst record in the nba the next season, and would con­tinue to be one of the nba’s worst teams for the next half decade. it was a monumental organization­al collapse, and it all started from the front offices greed. 
These examples are just a few of the many reasons why when a rift is happening between coaches and the front office, franchises should stick by the coaches and not the front office. The coaches are the ones that are coaching and developing their players; they know more about the players than anyone in the organization. if you are a successful profes­sional sports organization, why would you want to risk losing the success you are having by sid­ing with a bunch of greedy front office executives whose feelings get hurt when they’re not praised enough? 
Contact Michael Ivey at mivey@hcc-nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SMC SPORTS 

belles head into miaa Jamboree with momentum 
By MICHAEL IVEY, SEAN KILMER and BEN PADANILAM 
sports writers 
SMC Golf 

saint mary’s is preparing for the miaa end of season weekend Jamboree this week­end at bedford valley in battle creek, michigan. adrian is set to host the two-day event that takes place this Friday and saturday. 
“This being our last tourna­ment of the fall, we are approach­ing it like any other tournament, but we are a little more anxious,” belles head coach Kim moore said. “we’ve come off of two de­cent events, so we are looking forward to continuing our mo­mentum. we have some work to do so that we can finish in the top 2 and that is our goal.” 
The belles are coming off of a successful weekend, where they finished in first place the third miaa Jamboree last Thursday with a team score of 333. it was the belles first tournament win under head coach Kim moore. Two days later on saturday, the belles finished in second place at the fourth miaa Jamboree. 
“This recent momentum has given us a lot of confidence go­ing into this weekend, and i’ve noticed that so far in our prac­tices,” moore said. “we are still working and preparing like we have for every event, but every­one’s demeanor has changed in a good way, and we are excited to get to battle creek, michigan, on Friday.” 
senior sammie averill shot a career-low 77 saturday to finish as the individual medalist. 
“i am so excited and proud of the last two rounds that sammie has played,” moore said. “i’m not surprised that she has done so well. she has always had the po­tential to play that well, i’m just glad she has picked a good time to bring it out. i expect sammie to continue playing that well this weekend. she is really start­ing to believe in herself and it is definitely rubbing off on the rest of our team. i’m expecting some good things out of her this weekend. 
“honestly our conference title has been on the line the past four rounds. in golf, you obviously can’t win a multi-round tourna­ment on day one, but you can def­initely lose it. we approach each round of our conference jambo­rees as a one-round tournament, and we want to make sure we stay towards the top. This week­end, being the last two rounds, i expect the top teams to play well and leave it all on the course. i’m confident that we can make up some ground and that we have saved our best rounds for last.” 
SMC Volleyball 
in one of the more entertain­ing games of volleyball that will be played this season by either team, saint mary’s team fell just short against alma, 3-2, Tuesday night. in the match, the lead changed hands 26 times, and the belles (11-8, 4-4 miaa) and scots (8-10, 4-4) were tied 50 times. 
only two points decided every set but one (25-23, 33-31, 23-25, 19-25, 17-15), and the belles came close to rallying from a 2-0 deficit. Junior setter alexis grady led the belles with a triple-double, her second of the year, with a 32-as­sist, 13-kill and 15-dig perfor­mance against the scots. Junior setter clare mcmillan recorded a double-double on the night, while sophomore left-side hitter mcKenzie Todd matched her ca­reer high with 26 digs. 
in the first set, the belles pulled ahead 23-22 late, but lost the next three points in a row to end up on the wrong side of a 25-23 score. The second set was a barn-burner; saint mary’s was down 24-22, but managed to rally to tie the set at 25-25. after a stretch in which alma had three set points, the belles pulled ahead at 30-29. however, the scots converted kills on four of the next five points to win the set 33-31. 
despite losing the second set in dramatic fashion, the belles rallied back to take the next two sets and forced a decisive fifth one. The belles jumped out to an early lead in both the third and fourth sets, and also held off a late charge from alma to claim each set. 
in the fifth set, the belles went up 13-10, but could not hold on, dropping it 17-15. 
saint mary’s will now travel to no. 5 calvin on Friday to kick off the second half of its conference schedule. 
SMC Soccer 
saint mary’s failed to score a goal for the fifth straight game wednesday, falling to albion 2-0. 
The belles (1-9-1, 1-7-1 miaa) continued their season-long of­fensive struggle, as the team has failed to score a goal in all but two of its games thus far. The britons (7-5-0, 5-4-0 miaa), however, repeated their 2-0 victory over the belles from earlier this sea­son and pushed themselves into fourth place in the conference standings. 
The match started off slowly, as both teams failed to score in the first half. however, the britons were able to control the game in the second half, as they outshot the belles 13-2. britons sopho­more forward Jenna urso, who had a game-high eight shots, scored the first goal of the game in the 72nd minute. Four min­utes later, britons junior forward and leading scorer domenique sarnecky scored her ninth goal of the season to cap off the 2-0 win. 
looking forward, the belles will look to rebound when they return home after four straight road games to host olivet on saturday. 
on sept. 12, the comets (8-3-0, 5-3-0 miaa) played host to the belles and came away with a 3-1 victory. currently in third place in the conference, they pose a sig­nificant challenge to the strug­gling belles squad. 
The belles are set to kick off against the comets on saturday at noon at Jr. irish airport Fields. 
Contact Michael Ivey at  mivey@hcc-nd.edu, Sean Kilmer at skilmer@nd.edu and Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu. 
freshman Filip Kraljevic and virginia junior luca corinteli to advance to the main draw. 
monaghan will battle Krickovic in the first round of the main draw at case Tennis center in Tulsa, oklahoma on Thursday at 11 a.m. 
M Tennis 
conTinued From page 12 

at a national collegiate event. 
monaghan is set to take on auburn junior marko Krickovic, who is currently the nation’s 76th ranked singles player. Krickovic won three matches to advance to the main draw. First, he defeated wisconsin­green bay senior leopold gomez islinger in straight sets. Then, he won two three-set matches against ole miss 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

949-292-1200 must see. deposit. Call 574-386-0882 
FOR RENT 

3 BR 2 BA house with pool. “We keep this love in this photo-Beautiful home 1 mile from ND. Georgetown sub. Close to ND. graph. We made these memories for 2 furnish rooms 4 rent $650 each 52162 Pickwick Lane. $1200/mo + ourselves. Time’s forever frozen still.” 


ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2015 | The observer 



ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | iTa all-american championships 
irish duo preps for doubles draw 


EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 

Irish graduate student defender Max Lachowecki looks upfield during Notre Dame’s 3-1 win over Virginia on Sept. 25 at Alumni Stadium. 
Observer Staff Report 
at sunny riviera country club in pacific palisades, california, notre dame senior Quinn gleason lost in her first matchup at the iTa all-american champi­onships. she fell to vladica babic of oklahoma 6-3, 6-2 in the first round of qualifiers. however, her tournament is far from over, as she has yet to play in the dou­bles draw with partner monica robinson. 
The pair was ranked 10th in the iTa preseason rankings, and finished 22-9 overall last season, including a 14-6 record in dual play. They have also had almost a week of practice in california to prepare. 
robinson fell in the final stage of the pre-qualifying round at the championships. 
The rest of the team recently finished playing at the purdue Fall invitational. it was the first tournament of the season, and freshman rachel chong made her debut for the irish, winning two of three matches, with the lone loss in a three-set match. she also played doubles with sopho­more brooke broda, who was the only irish player to pick up three singles wins on the weekend. as a pair, they reached the quarterfi­nals before falling to illinois’ pair of louise Kwong and ines vias. 
sophomore allison miller took two of three singles matches at the invitational, while junior mary closs and senior alaina roberts each took home one win in three matches in their respec­tive draws. 
in other doubles action, closs and miller advanced to the semifinal round of the tour­nament, where they fell 6-0, 6-0 to mississippi state senior georgiana patrasc and fresh­man anastasia rentouli, who ultimately took home the tour­nament title. closs and miller also fell in the third-place game to come home fourth. 
The main draw of the iTa all­american championships kicks off Thursday, as gleason and robinson will look to bring home success in the doubles draw. 


M Soccer 
conTinued From page 12 
to bail the irish out after one such turnover. 
The irish, however, found a response just two minutes before halftime, though, as graduate student defender max lachowecki sent a ball forward to freshman forward Thomas ueland streaking in alone to­ward the wolverine net. ueland chipped the ball around the charging louro into the back left corner of the net for his third goal of his freshman campaign. 
“what a goal we did score,” clark said. “The whole goal was a thing of beauty.” 
sophomore forward Jon gallagher had the only real chance for either team in over­time outside of Farina’s despera­tion header, but his shot from 17 yards out at the start of the sec­ond 10-minute extra time period sailed well over the bar. 
clark said he was pleased with the response he saw from his team despite the slow start. 
“There’s good character with this team,” clark said. “if you’re going to win things, you’re going to have to handle setbacks. you don’t score five goals in every game. when we did go behind, it was disappointing, but the nice thing was there was still plenty of time in the game to get back into it. 
“i thought in the overtimes we were the team that wanted to win the game.” 
notre dame will next take to the pitch saturday at noon as it welcomes acc foe duke to alumni stadium. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 


offensive momentum en 

W Soccer Interhall 
route to a scoreless halftime 
conTinued From page 12 
conTinued From page 12 
score — both ryan (4-0-1) and 

cavanaugh (2-3) had two un­on a run by senior captain and successful trips to the red zone 
with last time out, as they out-quarterback gracie gallagher. in the opening stanza. 
shot miami 16-6 had an 8-1 ad­pasquerilla east began its cavanaugh senior receiver 
vantage in corner kicks. despite next possession with two deep and captain Katie Kaes was 
their wealth of chances, the passes, but the pangborn de-pleased with her team’s defen­
problem has been getting the fense came up with a goal-line sive effort against ryan’s three-
ball in the back of the net and stand to keep the pyros out of quarterback offense. 
romagnolo said the key to ac-the end zone. gallagher then “we did really well contain­
complishing that is increased connected with junior receiver ing them,” Kaes said. “it’s really 
chemistry. heather lystad for a 60-yard hard working against a team 
“we’ve been working on touchdown to push the phoxes that has multiple girls that can 
getting a chemistry going,” further ahead. play quarterback, and they’re 
romagnolo said. “This week pangborn’s defense came up all equally good at throwing 
has been about generating with yet another stop, forcing and running. our defense was 
more opportunities for our­pasquerilla east to punt. Time great with minimizing that 
selves, getting our rhythm, expired on the first half with damage.” 
our chemistry in our attack. i the phoxes fewer than 10 yards ryan’s offense was led by its 
thought [the team] had a very from another score. trio of quarterbacks: senior 
good week.” in the second half, gooding erin clark, junior shawn hall 
creating new bonds will caught a 20-yard fade off the and freshman grace seibert. 
also be important for the irish play action deep in the back of hall ran for a 70-yard touch-
as they will be without senior the end zone, putting the pyros down right after halftime, and 
midfielder glory williams in-on the board. clark followed with a pass of 
definitely. sophomore Taylor despite an interception by her own later in the game. 
Klawunder will start in place of junior defensive back maddie cavanaugh responded with 
williams for the third straight mcgovern, the pyros were un-two touchdowns in kind, but 
game and romagnolo said romagnolo believes they are a would not say what they were able to score again in the second hall’s second touchdown 
the team is getting used to tough team to beat and said the specifically. half due to a staunch pangborn sealed the deal late in the 
Klawunder’s style of play. team needs to be ready to de-“we’re always look-defense. lystad closed the fourth quarter. 
“[williams] brings very fend at all times. ing to make adjustments,” game out with a 15-yard touch-clark was happy with ryan’s 
unique qualities in terms of her “syracuse is going to romagnolo said. “i think we down run for the phoxes. quarterback scheme overall. 
being a captain, her leadership be a hard-working team,” look at a game and if things gallagher said she was “it’s proven pretty difficult 
and her experience in there,” romagnolo said. “They’re going aren’t working, we definitely thrilled with her team’s to replace [injured freshman 
romagnolo said. “but we have to get behind the ball, they’re look to make changes to shake performance. Jenny moore], just because not 
so much talent on this team. going to defend well, they’re things up.” “we came out really strong one of us has all of her versatil­
… Klawunder’s played in there organized. like we saw against notre dame is currently tied which was awesome,” gallagher ity,” clark said. “but at the end 
now for two games and she’s miami, it just takes one chance. for ninth place in the acc and said. “defense played amazing. of the day, i think all of our Qbs 
playing really well, she’s just a we have to stay focused and we with only six games left, wins offense got everything click-could step up and play in the 
different type of personality. can’t switch off on any play. … will be at a premium for the ing. i’m so excited we could position. it was just a test to see 
we have to find our personality we’ve got to be able to expect irish as they take on syracuse come out and play so well.” who was gelling well.” 
without [williams] in there and that they could attack at any at 7 p.m. Thursday at alumni pangborn will take on Kaes was very proud of 
i think we’re starting to see that moment and stay organized.” stadium. badin on sunday at 4 p.m. at cavanaugh’s resilience, but 
now.” romagnolo also said chang­labar practice complex, and said the team does have areas 
Though the orange (4-8-1, es may be in place against Contact Marek Mazurek at pasquerilla east will face lewis to improve. 
0-4-0) are winless in the acc, syracuse, although she mmazurek@nd.edu on monday at 10 p.m. at riehle “i think we need to work on 
paid adverTisemenT 

Fields. how we do under high-pressure 
situations,” Kaes said. “in a Contact Dominic Iannelli at stressful game like this, i think riannell@nd.edu we did exceptionally well, espe­
cially against ryan, who is very, Ryan 19, Cavanaugh 14 very good.” ryan will play pasquerilla 
By MAUREEN SCHWENINGER 
west in a battle of the unde­
feated oct. 27 at 7 p.m., while 

ryan remained undefeated cavanaugh will take on breen­this season after defeating phillips this sunday at 6 p.m. cavanaugh on Tuesday, 19-14. 
during the first half, each Contact Maureen Schweninger team experienced a lack of at mschweni@nd.edu 
sports writer 





ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2015 | The observer 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

Across 35 Home security 60 Composer
1 Didn’t wait measure Camille Saint-___ to make the 36 It was created by 61 Cap site decision two volcanoes 62 ___ Island, Fla. 
6 Be a couch 38 Italian city 63 Collegepotato, say associated with application need9 Bawls out the real-life Saint 64 Wilfred Owen’s 
14 Brings on Nicholas “Dulce et 39 Tumbler locale Decorum ___”
15 “My life is ___!” 

40 “The ___ 65 Pentium source 17 Hoffman who 
Commandments”
co-founded the (1958 hit)

Yippies Down 41 “I agree 100%” 
18 Culturally ahead 1 Fictional of the times 42 Fire ___ character who 19 Italian hangout 43 “___ qué?” says “I nowprophesy that I
21 What a raised 44 Uses a powder hand may signify puff on, say will dismember my dismemberer”
22 There’s one 46 Facetious words between the ulna of enlightenment 2 Domestic and the radius 47 Sources of some relationship 
23 Free tweets 
3 Protection for a mechanic, say
26 Tennis’s Sánchez 48 Hardly an 

Vicario instance of 4 Opposite of morn modesty 5 What Ariz. and 
27 Minor hits? 
Hawaii are the
52 Finally cracks 
28 Goons only two states
29 Succeeds 54 Blink of an eye 

not to have 31 Long-distance 54 Nitpicked 6 Clouds, e.g. call? 56 Print producer 7 Choice 32 Creator of 58 Town in a Hersey 8 Suburb of Cairo U.P.C.’s novel 
9 Indian nobles 10 Jet 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
11 Somewhat 12 Flirt 13 ___ high 
standard 16 Poet who made radio broadcasts in support of
Mussolini 20 Actor Lew 22 Setup for a 
surprise party 24 Six-footer? 25 Performed 
pitifully 27 “Twilight” girl 28 Queens’s ___ 
Stadium 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  17  
18  19  20  
21  22  
23  24  25  26  
27  28  33 
29  30  31  32  34  
35  36  37  38  
39  40  41  
42  43  44  45  
46  47  
48  49  50  51  52  53  
54  55  56  57  
58  59  
60  61  62  
63  64  65  

Puzzle by Ben Pall 

30 As it might be 38 Hotties 51 Editor Brown said 43 Pursue some 52 Impales32 2001 Sean Penn e-mail chicaneryfilm 53 Dawn
45 Sacked out 33 Splinter 46 Like craft shops, 55 Jean Renoir’s 33 Routine with typically field 
a one-handed 48 Actual, after “in” 57 Some winter 

freeze, say 
49 Info on college wear 34 Diner giveaways applications 58 “___ wrong?” 

37 Houston ice 50 Some stadium hockey pro cries 59 Writer Brown 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: The more you do for others, the more you will get in return. This is a sharing, caring year that can bring great satisfaction while enhancing your reputation with your peers or in your community. love is on the rise, and making positive changes within important relationships will lead to happiness and peace of mind. live life fully. your numbers are 1, 7, 12, 20, 27, 38, 42. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): you will attract attention and stir up plenty of action. let your imagination run wild and delve into creative projects. show off your skills and make a point to stand out in a crowd. live, love and laugh. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don’t leave anything unfinished if you want to avoid criticism. once you have taken care of your responsibilities, you will feel free to do something that is new and exciting. someone unique will inspire you to incorporate change into your everyday routine. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): make personal changes. a pick-me-up will get you pumped up and eager to get your plans underway. don’t let anyone talk you into a costly venture. Figure out a way to stick to your budget and get what you want. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): living in the past and daydreaming will be comforting, but hardly helpful. you’ll be faced with criticism and complaints if you don’t start moving forward and living life. Family and friends will leave you behind if you don’t keep up. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): put dramatic tendencies in the closet. you are best to do what you say and bring about the changes you’ve been contemplating and procrastinating about. you have everything to gain and nothing to lose. romance will improve your love life. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Keep demanding individuals at a distance. get your priorities straight and your responsibilities taken care of so you can get on with your day without feeling guilty. a last-minute social invite will lead to an interesting liaison. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): being a participant will show others what you are capable of doing. a change in the way you are treated and the offers people make will lead to greater prosperity. romance is in the stars, and celebrating with someone you love is encouraged. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): concentrate on getting ahead, not getting angry. it’s up to you to put forth your best effort and let the results you get speak for you. Follow the path that excites you the most, not the one everyone else is taking. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you’ll be the center of attention. your playful, free-spirited attitude will draw followers, but also skeptics. make sure that whatever promises you make are ones you intend to honor. your flirtatious ways will get you into trouble if you aren’t careful. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): someone will hold you to a promise or question what you say. be hopeful and be prepared to share your strategy with facts and figures to back you up. don’t be afraid of being different. make your uniqueness your platform. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): chat with people about your plans and how you intend to move forward. love and romance are in the stars and can help you reach your personal goals. The future looks safe, secure and inviting. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): accomplishment will require deep concentration and an understanding of what it will take to turn your desires into a reality. don’t be fooled by what others are saying. stand by your own principles and do what suits you best. 

Birthday Baby: you are proud, helpful and practical. you are patient and tolerant. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
OLARY  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
OBATU  

DAGHES PREBUS  
 


“ 

” 
Ans: 

(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: OZONE FROWN LITANY DISMAY Yesterday’s 
Answer: The television screen had become so dirtythat it had — AFILM ON IT 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name  enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  
address  
city       state  Zip  


The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S SOCCER | nd 1, michigan 1 (2 oT) 
Wolverines stymie Irish in draw 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports editor 
seconds before the final buzz­er sounded, irish sophomore for­ward Jeffrey Farina sent a strong header towards the corner of the net, but michigan sophomore goaltender evan louro gath­ered the ball into his chest and hugged it as the clock expired. 
it was a perfect microcosm of no. 7 notre dame’s night during a 1-1 draw on wednesday night at alumni stadium. 
The irish (7-2-3, 2-1-1 acc) controlled play after halftime, but couldn’t beat louro on any of their scoring chances to come away with the victory over the rival wolverines (5-2-3, 2-0-2 big Ten). 
“we made a lot of really good chances,” irish head coach bobby clark said. “we came up against a very hot goalkeeper. Their goalkeeper came up with several fantastic saves. 
“That’s the way it goes sometimes.” 
louro made several highlight-reel saves as the game wore on. Two came within one 30-second period off the foot of irish se­nior midfielder patrick hodan, who led the irish in scoring last season but has just a single goal this fall. The first louro knocked away by stretching to his left. The ball was then sent into the box again, where hodan one-timed it out of the air. louro dove at full extension, this time to his right, and just got his fingertips on the ball to force it off the post. 
“Their goalkeeper tonight had several outstanding saves,” clark said. “poor old patrick hodan has a hard time because even when he hits it now he hits crackers [off the post].” 
notre dame was again bit by its recent string of slow starts, falling behind early on a goal in the 23rd minute by michigan freshman midfielder Francis atuahene. atuahene received a pass and found himself with a lot of green space around him before firing a beautiful shot off the very base of the far post and ricocheting into the back of the net. 
“we gave up a kind of soft goal,” clark said. “we were our own worst enemies i thought early on in the game. we had critical turnovers. 
“actually right at the start of the game, two minutes into the game [irish junior goalkeeper] chris hubbard had a great save” 
see m soccer PAGE 9 


WOMEN’S INTERHALL 
phoxes top pyros 
Pangborn 21, Pasquerilla East 7 
By DOMINIC IANNELLI 
sports writer 
under the lights of riehle Fields on monday, pangborn defeated pasquerilla east, 21-7. 
pasquerilla east junior cap­tain noelle gooding noted that though the end result was dis­appointing, the pyros (2-3) still played a strong game. 
“obviously this isn’t the re­sult we wanted,” gooding said. “but we went out there, we had a great time, we made some great plays. i’m just really proud of the way everyone came togeth­er. we had a lot of injuries. we faced a lot of adversity on this team, but i think we did a great job overall.” 
The pyros started with the ball, but pangborn (4-1) came up with a key fourth-down stop to thwart the opening drive. pangborn took over and scored 
see inTerhall PAGE 10 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

notre dame looks to rebound against syracuse 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
after two straight losses, no. 16 notre dame will look to re­bound Thursday as it takes on conference opponent syracuse at alumni stadium. 
For the first time this season, the irish (8-3-1, 1-3-0 acc) are coming off back-to-back loss­es to no. 2 Florida state and miami (Fla.), but irish head coach Theresa romagnolo said that despite the recent rough patch, the team is ready to get back on the field. 
“i think [the team is] excited to come out against syracuse,” romagnolo said. “i think the miami game was a game we were a bit unlucky not to get the result in that game. so i think they’re excited to get back on the field to play well together, to create opportunities and to play well.” 
creating opportunities is not something the irish struggled 
see w soccer PAGE 10 


MEN’S TENNIS | iTa all-american championships 
Monaghan enters as top seed 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame’s three represen­tatives in the pre-qualifying all fell this past weekend, leaving senior and top-seed Quentin monaghan as the only remain­ing contender in the saint Francis health system iTa all­american championships. 
going into the tournament, the irish had four players com­peting in the event as singles. however, in the round of 256 
— the first round of prequalify­ing singles — two of the team’s competitors fell to their oppo­nents. Freshman alex lebedev lost in a tight, three-set match to auburn sophomore dante saleh, 6-7(5), 6-2, 7-6(4), while senior alex lawson lost to Texas a&m sophomore Jordi arconada in straight sets, 6-2, 6-3. 
both players did play in con­solation matches following their losses in the round of 256. in his match against east Tennessee state senior ricardo pabon, lebedev came away with a vic­tory in straight sets by scores of 6-2, 6-4. lawson also walked away with a victory in his match, defeating marquette ju­nior Kristiyan Trukov in straight sets as well, 6-0, 6-2. 
The irish did have a com­petitor advance to the round of 128, however, as junior eddy covalschi defeated Tcu freshman gianni mancini in dominant fashion, winning in straight sets by scores of 6-1, 6-0. however, in that next round, covalschi ran into wake Forest junior sam bloom — a former five-star recruit — and fell in three sets, 6-4, 4-6, 6-2. 
as a result, monaghan is the only irish competitor set to play in the event’s main draw start­ing Thursday. currently the nation’s fifth-ranked singles player, monaghan entered the tournament as the top seed and automatically qualified for the event’s main draw. he is the first notre dame player since current irish head coach ryan sachire (’00) to be the top seed 
see m Tennis PAGE 8 




