The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 36 | MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
‘Dante Now!’ blends poetry, performance 
Italian studies department hosts campus-wide event featuring ‘Divine Comedy’ student poetry readings 
By CHRIS CARBONARO 
news writer 
amidst the many football-related activities of a fall Friday afternoon, the italian studies department gave visi­tors and students alike a much different option last Friday. 
students in various italian classes, donning robes and red cloth caps and golden wreaths on their heads, walked around campus in groups and recited excerpts from the italian poet dante’s “divine comedy” as part of the annual “dante now! a divine comedy Flashmob.” 
“[The event is] to try to in­troduce people to dante and show them how beautiful it is,” italian studies research assistant professor anne leone said. “in my experience, a lot of people are kind of cu­rious about dante. it’s a nice way to answer some people’s questions.” 
according to the william and Katherine devers program in dante studies website, stu­dents read dante’s work at various public places between 2 and 3 p.m., such as on the steps of bond hall, in front of the library and in front of the main building. at 3 p.m., students performed a choral reading of a section of dante’s work at the grotto. The read­ings were followed by a public talk in the carey auditorium 
see danTe PAGE 4 

Observer File Photo | The Observer 
Italian students recite a portion of Dante’s ‘Divine Comedy’ as a part of of last years “Dante Now!” event. The Italian studies department sponsored the annual event on Friday as a way to promote Dante’s poetry. 


construction mishap causes wi-Fi outage at smc 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
saint mary’s editor 
on saturday, saint mary’s campus had a major sys­tems outage that started at approximately 8:40 am when internet fiber cables were cut downtown near memorial hospital. 
according to an email sent to students on sunday afternoon, during some construction a crew mem­ber cut through a large bundle of dark fiber that severed internet service to many customers. 

repair began around 5:30 

p.m. saturday to splice the cables back together and service was restored around 
12:15p.m. sunday. chief information officer michael boehm apologized for the inconvenience to students in an email after the outage. 
boehm said in the email, “we attempted to send out updates via email to our user community over the last 24 hours but due the internet outage not all users 
see wi-Fi PAGE 4 




Professor brings Byzantine Catholic liturgy to campus 
By DEVON CHENELLE 
news writer 
as notre dame strives to ex­pand its international profile and strengthen its catholic identity, the university has recently found a way to do both simultaneously by hosting a different type of lit­urgy on campus 
beginning this fall, byzantine catholic divine liturgy is offered the first sunday of every month at 10 a.m. at the chapel of mary, seat of wisdom in malloy hall. 

The first liturgy was a great suc­cess, with a packed chapel filled with a congregation of roughly 50 notre dame students, faculty and staff, as well as members of the larger south bend community, Fr. Khaled anatolios said. 
while “roman catholic” and “catholic” are often treated as interchangeable terms, there are millions of catholics worldwide who do not practice the roman rite, and are therefore technically not roman catholic. while tradi­tionally found in the middle-east, these “eastern catholic” church­es have spread westwards, with the byzantine eastern catholic church now present on notre dame’s campus. 
“having this liturgy gives peo­ple a chance to come together and form a community and practice according to the way that they’re used to ... there are people on campus who have this byzantine background and they’ve never had a place before where they 
see byZanTine PAGE 4 


Rowing team holds Erg-A-Thon fundraiser 

By JENNA WILSON 
news writer 
last Friday, the women’s rowing team utilized their indoor rowing machines, known colloquially as an ergometer or an erg, to host their fifth annual erg-a-Thon. 
co-chairs of this year’s event, alexis olson and Katherine lumetta said the team raised money and awareness for pancre­atic cancer. 
“we have a bunch of ergs set up on Fieldhouse mall. There are go­ing some ergs that will be open so people can come up and race their friends or race a member of 
see rowing PAGE 4 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 9 irish insider wiThin 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                   Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 

News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What do you miss most about your home state? 

Harry Federspiel 
freshman 
Zahm house 

“i miss my puppy back in new york.” 


Andy Lessard 
freshman 
Zahm house 
“i miss the mountains and in-n­out.” 
Mary Gelder 
freshman 
mccandless hall 

“i’m from michigan, and i miss my dog and my cat.” 


Marie McCusker 
freshman 
mccandless hall 
“i’m from nebraska, and i miss my books.” 
Elsbeth Weempe 
junior off campus 

“i miss the guys, the cows and the sky.” 


Kaela Crowley 
sophomore 
pasquerilla east hall 
“i miss the california beaches.” 

Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

haleigh ehmsen Zach Klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

rachel o’grady ben padanilam alex winegar victoria llorens 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
susan Zhu matt munhall 
Photo Viewpoint 

Exponential-Family Lecture Law School Lecture Mindful Meditation Football Pep Rally 
amy ackermann claire radler 

Graph Models Hesburgh Center for Law School Coleman-Morse Hesburgh Library Hayes-Healy Center International Studies 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Center 5:45 p.m.-6:30 p.m. 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 4 p.m. “The Death Penalty, 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. A home game weekend 
Corrections 

Lecture hosted by the “Vulnerability over Dignity and Doing Meditate with Campus tradition. 
The observer regards itself as Department of ACMS. Violence.” Justice.” Ministry. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Violence Awareness Prayer Service Physics Colloquium “Iron Sharpens Iron” ND Women’s Soccer 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Month Presentation LaFortune Student Nieuwland Science Hall Coleman-Morse vs. Wake Forest 
however, recognize that we will make 
Hesburgh Library Center 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Center Alumni Stadium 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 8:30-9:30 p.m. “Invisible streams 10 p.m.-11:30 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Lecture by founder of Pray for those that Drive Evolution of Weekly praise and The Irish take on the 
we can correct our error. 

Catharsis Productions. affected by violence. Galaxies” by Prof. Howk. worship service. Demon Deacons. 


ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2015 | The observer 
SMC starts financial literacy program 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 
This year, the saint mary’s financial aid office imple­mented a financial literacy program called $avvy to help students learn more about personal finance. 
selvin Quire, assistant di­rector of financial aid, said the financial aid office decided to start the $avvy program last year. 
“we found that students want to learn more about personal finance but had ob­stacles that prevented access to this information, such as a limited number of available courses or space within stu­dents’ schedules,” Quire said. “$avvy is … intended to make resources available to all stu­dents without those limits.” 
students will learn the ba­sics of different financial liter­acy topics and ways to apply it to their own personal expens­es and financial concerns, Quire said. 
he said the program is run through a variety of ac­tivities and that there will be presentations, guest speak­ers, tabling events, question and answer sessions, dem­onstrations and interactive activities, as well as providing free access to financial tools through an online resource called cashcourse, which fea­tures courses, quizzes and in­teractive worksheets. 

$avvy features a theme for each month, including bud­geting, credit, saving, invest­ing and financial aid, Quire said. There will be events every month, along with cashcourse assignments that are completely voluntary and do not take up too much time, Quire said. 
“Though we do not require a minimum score for comple­tion, a student’s quiz or test results will give them an idea of what they know about the topics,” Quire said. “The as­signments are self-paced, so students can work through the assignments comfortably and as many times as they please.” 
Quire said the program is still changing and adapting to fit the needs of students. 
“since this is the program’s first year, we do not have a typ­ical seminar or workshop for­mat yet,” Quire said. “we plan on delivering the information in a variety of ways to keep the program engaging. we hope to expand to more interac­tive events, such as scavenger hunts, as well as collaborate with other departments and groups on campus.” 
Quire said the program is beneficial to the saint mary’s community by enhancing the learning experience outside of the classroom. 
“personal finance manage­ment is something that ev­eryone encounters on a daily basis,” Quire said. “students will have the opportunity to build these practical skills now and prepare themselves for life after college.” 
Contact Nicole Caratas at  ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 

saint mary’s alumna presents Justice Friday 
realized it’s not enough to work the community is … i didn’t what to do, i think it’s a quick supposed to learn in high 
By ALLISON SANCHEZ 

news writer in an urban community, but to realize how much of an impact fix, and there is not good ratio-school, versus punishing them 
actually advocate for that com-that has on the community.” nale behind [expelling special at every chance we get.” 
This week’s Justice Friday munity and to embed yourself mersits said she’s realized needs students]. The students mersits offered a substitute installment was presented by within the issues of the com-the students in the special edu-know they did something to suspension such as hold-saint mary’s alumna meredith munity so that you can under-cation program tend to be the wrong, but they don’t know ing parent conferences before mersits about her experience stand the community and the first students the administra-how to mend it.” suspension and students being working in an urban school people you are working with.” tion expels. another downside of expel-granted access to the proper environment, in particular, mersits said she thought her she said this is the wrong way ling or putting special needs classwork they are missing disciplinary action and how it background at saint mary’s to deal with special education students in in-school suspen-while in iss. affects the students. would prepare her for interact-students because they need to sion (iss) is it hurts the way mersits said teachers need to 
mersits drew from her ex-ing with students. however, be in a positive, consistent en-they see the school system, es-meet students half way in the perience as a social work ma-mersits said one doesn’t know vironment and around posi-pecially students who have ex-classroom and try to set clear jor at saint mary’s and her what it’s like to interact with tive people rather than sending perienced trauma. expectations so students are 
time as a special education these students until they’re in these students to rehab facili­teacher in a segregated school the situation. ties or another school where environment. “The school i’m working at is they are pushed further down 
“The reason why i’ve called 100 percent african american the line. this discussion is because i’ve which shows how segregated “i think schools don’t know 
paid adverTisemenT 


“we can say that we under-encouraged to succeed. “as teachers we often don’t think, ‘what did i do in that sit­“We push this form uation and how did i set up that of free thinking, student for success or failure in that situation?’” 
but when the 
mersits said in education, 
punishment 

there is a principle where stu­system comes in, dents are causing trouble be-we tell them they cause of purposeful defiance 
versus unclear expectations. 
can’t do that ...” 
“a kid doesn’t necessarily 
Meredith Mersits 

want to be defiant. i think the 
Saint Mary’s alumna 

cases where students are pur­posefully defiant are slim, i 
stand [students who have been think most of the times kids through trauma] all day, but don’t know what to do. how do we implement it? we “we are not teaching them need to ask ourselves as teach-why they [were punished] so ers, are we trauma-informed i don’t think it’s beneficial teachers? do we teach with we’re just giving them a conse­trauma in the forefront? often quence; it’s not training their times, schools are punitive. brain to critically realize why we punish these kids for some-they got a demerit.” thing they can’t help” mersits said she has learned 
mersits said iss hurts stu-how important it is to acknowl­dents academically, because edge there is bias when dealing they fall behind and it is very with students. hard to catch up students with “we have this inherent bias academic needs. mersits said and, even if we say we don’t or this can be frustrating for the don’t want to have it, we see stu­students. dents of privilege [and think] 
mersits said students often what can we do to help them. act out because expectations but then when it comes to kids are not clear; students should who come from rough neigh-be allowed to think freely, but borhoods or family situations putative school systems oppose we think we need to send them creativity. away because that’s what’s best 
“we push this form of free of them. if we were informed thinking, but when the puni-trauma teachers, that’s not tive system comes in, we tell what we do.” them they can’t do that … if a Justice Friday installments kid in class knows the answer take place every Friday from 12 and blurts it out, we have to p.m. to 12:50 p.m. in conference punish him for that.” mersits room a and b of the student sad, “i think there is a very fine center. line between teaching someone to be an upstanding citizen, Contact Allison Sanchez at which is part of the skills you’re asanch01@saintmarys.edu 

The observer | MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Rowing 
conTinued From page 1 
the rowing team,” lumetta said. “There also are going to be mem­bers of the rowing team erging for the entire six hours.” 
The erg-a-Thon also doubled as an intra-dorm competition, where students could represent their dorms in erging races, olson said. 
“There will be a competition be­tween the dorms, so if you go and row a certain time, that will count for your dorms time, so we can see which dorm can get the fastest time on the erg,” olson said. 
lumetta said a three-dollar do­nation was required for students to participate in a 250-meter erg race. additionally, the team also sold t-shirts and bracelets to raise money for the cause lumetta said. 
Byzantine 
conTinued From page 1 
could worship in the tradition they grew up in,” anatolios said. 
interest in offering a byzantine catholic divine liturgy was first sparked when anatolios, a priest of the greek catholic melkite church, came to notre dame. 
“There used to be a small melkite community in town, but then they didn’t have a priest. when my bishop knew that i was coming here ... he [wanted] to have a byzantine catholic pres­ence on the campus of the most prominent catholic university in america,” anatolios said. 
This enthusiasm was quickly matched by figures on the cam­pus, anatolios said, as both he and the byzantine catholic lit­urgy were welcomed to campus with a profound hospitality. 
“i met [university president Fr. John Jenkins], at a new fac­ulty orientation and when he found out that i was a byzantine catholic priest he was very en­thusiastic. ... he got me in touch with Fr. william lies, who’s the vice president for church affairs 
according to olson, 75 percent of the proceeds went directly to undergraduate research at the harper cancer research institute and the college of science matched the team’s donation to the insti­tute. The remaining 25 percent of money raised will go to pancreatic cancer action network, lumetta said. 
according to olson, the team also held a raffle during the event. prizes included two field passes for the notre dame-navy game, an autographed football signed by head football coach brian Kelly, tickets to the men’s basket­ball game against boston college, tickets to the women’s basketball game against virginia, tickets to the men’s hockey game against minnesota-duluth, a basketball signed by women’s basketball head coach muffet mcgraw, a bas­ketball signed by men’s basketball 
and then he put me in touch with Fr. pete mccormick, who is the [director] of campus ministry ... and arranged for me to have this [liturgy]. i’ve had nothing but the greatest support from everybody on campus,” anatolios said. 
he said the greek catholic churches have their roots in the oldest christian history when various different regions cel­ebrated christian ceremonies in their own fashions. anatolios said these different rites had crystallized by the fourth centu­ry, establishing different “liturgi­cal families” around major urban centers. while the prayers, the languages and the styles of the services may have been different, this didn’t cause any problems or disruptions of communion within the church for many years, anatolios said. 
This unity in the church was finally disrupted by the doc­trinal disputes of the council of chalcedon in 454 and the growing distance between the catholic and eastern orthodox churches, anatolios said, which climaxed in the great schism of 1054. while the catholic and eastern orthodox churches head coach mike brey and the naming rights to one of the row­ing team’s boats for the upcoming season. 

“[The erg-a-Thon] started in 2011 because one of our team­mate’s mother had just passed away from pancreatic cancer, and our past academic advisor had also lost her mother to pancreatic cancer,” olson said. “it is a way for the rowing team to pay it forward. it was also a way for our team to help out get and more involved in service work and do it in a way that was close to our team because two people close to us were affected by it.” 
according to lumetta, the team has raised over $25,000 for pancreatic cancer research since the event began. lumetta said the team hopes to have raised over $10,000 during this year’s erg-a-Thon. 
remain distinct, several bod­ies within the eastern orthodox church reestablished commu­nion with rome over the centu­ries, anatolios said. 
“The byzantine catholic churches ... follow the byzantine rite that originated in constantinople and reunited with rome and reestablished communion with rome,” anatolios said, “it’s easy to break communion, but its very hard to reestablish it once its broken. The eastern catholic churches came about because there was the rec­ognition that there really aren’t serious doctrinal differences that should divide us.” 
anatolios said some differ­ences between the byzantine and roman rites include differ­ently worded prayers, a greater emphasis on icons, singing and bodily movement, and perhaps most surprising to those raised in the roman rite, married priests such as anatolios him­self. because of the ritual simi­larities between the byzantine rite churches and the orthodox churches, many feel the eastern catholic churches can serve as a connection between rome 
olson said as an irishon3 event, an initiative that encourages and rewards student-athletes for sup­porting each other, across all sports, through the attendance of various sporting event, the erg-a-Thon was a great way for students, both athletes and non-athletes, to support the rowing team, as well as to support a good cause. 
“it’s also an irishon3 event. it really counts for double-points, because not only are we rais­ing money, but this is the only women’s rowing event that hap­pens on campus — or anywhere near campus — during the year,” lunetta said. “since our rivers here aren’t good for rowing, this is really the only way students can get directly involved with the team throughout the year.” 
Contact Jenna Wilson at  jwilso35@nd.edu 
and other parts of the christian world. 
anatolios said he grew up in egypt and has connections with various members of the coptic and orthodox christian communities. 
“as a community that follows orthodox traditions, liturgical traditions, spiritual traditions ... we feel like a bridge between the roman catholic and orthodox churches,” anatolios said. he will also be on a panel at the american academy of religion regarding eastern orthodox theology. 
anatolios emphasized his gratitude toward the warm wel­come he has received on campus and hoped this new service on campus would help notre dame further connect with the tremen­dous vitality and variety of the international church. 
“i think that’s why Fr. Jenkins and Fr. lies were so enthusiastic, because i think that they want [notre dame] to express the full diversity and all the richness of the catholic tradition,” anatolios said. 
Contact Devon Chenelle at dchenell@nd.edu 
Wi-Fi 
conTinued From page 1 
got the updates.” 
senior Torie otteson said she realized the internet was out on saturday morning before the game when she tried to download her ticket for the navy game. 
after the game, otteson said she tried to work on midterm assign­ments but the outage hindered her ability to access readings on blackboard and research for two papers due next week. 
“i would say i lost approximately 5 hours of work time,” she said. 
otteson said she understands that the wi-Fi outage was out of the saint mary’s iT department’s control. 
“i still wish they would have some sort of backup to help as­suage issues like this in the fu­
“I still wish they 
would have some 
sort of back up 
to help assauge 
issues like this 
in the future. We 
live in the 21st 
century, and it is 
impossible now 
to do basically 
anything 
without internet 
connection.” 
Torie Otterson 
senior 
ture,” she said. “we live in the 21st century, and it is impossible now to do basically anything without internet connection.” 
according to an email sent to students, the department of in­formation technology will con­tinue to monitor the service over the next several days to ensure things continue to work as expected. 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Dante 
conTinued From page 1 
of the library.
 “‘dante now!’ is a way to have more laymen expe­rience the beauty of the ‘divine comedy’ because it’s still relevant today,” sopho­more mary lien said. “The truth imparted in the ‘divine comedy’ really is something super relevant to the catholic tradition on campus, so ‘dante now!’ gives people a chance to learn more about dante, to read dante in the modern time and be able to experience it firsthand.” 
lien said the public nature of the event allows anyone to experience dante’s works. 
“you don’t have to look at a poster beforehand, you just hear people on the street re­citing dante and can join in,” she said. 
sophomore greg Jenn said reading the poem aloud in­troduced people who might never have explored dante to his poems. 
“as a group, we’re drawing people in,” Jenn said. “we’re not individuals, we’re invit­ing people into the commu­nity of dante. it’s supposed to be read in a group.” 
many students in italian classes have been preparing for “dante now!” since class­es began in august. 
“we got the piece of paper at the very beginning of the year and we talked about it,” Jenn said. “we’ve spent several class periods going over it, analyzing the text and speaking the italian to practice.” 
according to instructor of italian studies and gradu­ate student Thomas graff, understanding dante is as important as being able to recite it. 

“we go through it in class get the cultural background, answer the questions like ‘who’s dante?’” graff said. 
in addition, many students have attended a reading workshop to develop their pronunciation of the text, leone said. 
“we work on the rhythm, intonation, phrasing and pronunciation in those work­shops.” she said. “it’s open to the public but it’s usually the classes that have been studying it so all of our lan­guage classes come in dur­ing their language period on wednesday.” 
while participation in the event is part of many stu­dents’ classes, anyone can join in, graff said. many people pick up the handouts with the text on it and re­cite the poems alongside the students. 
“you can get involved even if you aren’t in the class,” lien said. “we give out these papers for people to join us, to read if they feel comfort­able reading italian. There’s a translation beside the italian original script so lay­men will have no trouble un­derstanding it.” 
being fluent in italian is not necessary to experience dante’s works, lien said. 
“‘The ‘divine comedy’ is essentially a poem,” she said. “it has that cadence and rhyme to it that you can really hear. you don’t even have to understand the lan­guage, you can just hear the beauty of how it sounds in italian. i think it’s beautiful to anyone.” 
however, it is possible for those who are interest­ed in dante’s works to ex­plore their meanings. after the recitations, professor Theodore cachey, associate professor christian moevs, and leone gave a public lec­ture in the library, each dis­cussing a different aspect of dante’s hell. according to graff, notre dame makes understanding dante’s works possible because of its professors. 
“The dante professors we have are incredible, some of the best in the nation,” he said. 
both lien and Jenn said they encourage students who are curious about dante to consider enrolling in a course focused on his works. 
“in my personal opinion, dante is probably one of the greatest poets of all time,” Jenn said. “why would you not want to listen and be ex­posed to that?” 
Contact Chris Carbonaro at ccarbona@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



INSIDE COLUMN 

Fear less 
Susan Zhu 
graphic designer 

my heart is never as heavy as it is during irish state of mind week. on one hand, i am happy to see real effort being made to bring awareness of mental illness to campus. on the other, i am disheartened to see the lack of interest from the student body. This is no one’s fault; mental illness is incred­ibly difficult to understand, especially if you have not expe­rienced it yourself. it is difficult to put into words, and it is a difficult truth to admit to friends and family. 
i have depression. i’ve had it on and off for years, but these past few weeks have been especially hard. i am working every day to get better, and i know that it does not define me. i can still feel joy, and i can still enjoy this life i’m lucky to be living. last February, when i wrote my first viewpoint column for the observer, i talked about my past experiences with mental illness. Today, i’d like to talk about the impor­tance of feeling fear. 
every morning when i wake up, i set a goal for the day. sometimes it’s just to get through the day, and other times, it’s to give seven compliments, or smile at every stranger i see that day. every day is exhausting, and every night, when i am finally tucked into bed, i reflect on that day’s goal and whether or not i was successful. 
This is how i cope with my episodes of depression. my situation and my feelings are not the same as someone else’s who also struggles. everyone’s story is different and unique, but everyone’s fight is as worthy and as difficult as another’s. 
i know i am slipping when i feel fear. it is a deep-set fear that invokes terrible memories, a fear that stimulates an overwhelming sadness on some days. 
i want to take these next few hundred words to talk a little bit about fear, and what it means to be brave. is bravery mak­ing it through each day? is bravery confronting the darkness and seeking professional help? is bravery accepting that you need time for yourself and that sometimes, you just can’t do everything? why do we spend so much energy to force our­selves to be brave, instead of allowing ourselves to feel fear? 
Fear saved my life. i was not brave when i decided not to take my own life that night. i didn’t take my life because i was scared. i was terrified, actually. i didn’t know if it would work, and i couldn’t imagine the terrible consequences that would happen if it didn’t. i was terrified. it was the most scared that i would ever be, and i hope to never feel that fear again, the fear of going on living, but also the fear of not be­ing successful at ending my life. i chose to stay alive because i was scared. i didn’t choose to stay alive because i was brave. 
do not be inspired by my story, as that is not my intention. i am not worthy of inspiration, or lauding. i was a coward, and for that i am forever grateful. i am grateful that in that moment i was not brave, that i was not fearless. i am grateful that i was doubtful, and that i was unsure. 
i think it is critical to feel things. i know how it feels to not care, to be indifferent, and i am scared of feeling that way again. it baffles me that people aim to be apathetic and try to beat each other in the contest of who can care less. i think we all need to care more. i think we need to let ourselves feel all of the feelings that this life is trying to give to us, whether it’s happiness or sadness or joy or heartbreak. 
sometimes the bravest thing to do is to feel afraid, because it makes you question your choices before you make them and can change the outcome of your story drastically. when have you been afraid? it is everything to feel fear, to question yourself, to doubt yourself, to love and to care with all of your heart. 
are you content? are you intrigued by what i have told you? are you humbled? are you inspired? are you truly inter­ested at all? The answer to any of these questions is of little importance to me, but should be of immense importance to you. 
mental illness and depression are very real here at notre dame. don’t let the awareness fade out after this week. it’s time to stop just praying. it’s time to start talking. 
Contact Susan Zhu at szhu4@nd.edu The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Change hearts first, laws later 

Kate Hardiman 
annuit coeptis 

last week’s shooting at umpqua community college in oregon that left ten dead, including the shooter, was yet another act of senseless violence that rocked our society. conversations abound after trag­edies such as these, often politicizing what occurred in order to call for change and reform. 
sadly, these opinions and idealistic wishes seem to get lost in the cacophony of our political discourse. when applying for this columnist position over the summer, i wrote about the church shooting in charleston, south carolina, that left nine innocent people dead June 17. barely a month later, a gunman opened fire at two military centers in chattanooga, Tennessee, killing four. many other acts of mindless violence also occurred before and after the afore­mentioned events. in fact, as a recent washington post headline informed, “so far in 2015, we’ve had 274 days and 294 mass shootings.” 
The charleston shooting commanded much media attention and occupied center stage in political de­bates. however, it only led to one tangible reform: the banning of the confederate flag. Thought by some to be a symbol of past evil in the slave south, and a his­torical relic by others, the confederate flag suddenly became the focus of the charleston shooting and an emblem for the shooter’s motives. 
yet, the banning of the confederate flag did noth­ing to stop the later shootings that occurred in Tennessee, oregon and many other cities, nor did it pledge to do so. its removal may have prompted temporary feelings of satisfaction for some, but in the long run it was an inconsequential response to the violence that so often plagues our society. an analogy can be drawn between the banning of the confederate flag and the discourse that so often fol­lows gun violence in the united states. 
some politicians, activists and media members call for a reduction of guns in general or a revision of the process by which they may be obtained. others advocate for more guns, suggesting that more armed individuals will enable the takedown of shooters intending harm. like the removal of the confederate flag, these two opposing opinions inspire temporary feelings of gratification for individuals supporting each side. Then, like clockwork, the arguments fade away until the next tragedy occurs, after which they resurface with all their apparent potency. 
i do not know whether more guns or fewer guns will lead to a reduction in the number of senseless acts of violence. There are powerful and passion­ate arguments that support both sides. yet, it seems like both of these solutions fail to confront the issue that underlies all of the gun crimes of the last several decades. 
mass shootings, from columbine in 1999 to last week’s, have all been motivated by hatred. some have been directed toward particular groups of people, while others seek simply to cause harm and inspire fear. 
hatred, and the cultural crisis that breeds it, is a more intractable problem than the proliferation of guns. Targeting the root causes of enmity is some­thing on which even the most opposing sides of the political spectrum can agree. possible causes of hatred abound, but in nearly all recent instances of publicized violence, families and friends of the shooter have stated after the fact that he or she was “troubled” or “alone.” 
what if we could begin to realize before tragedies occur that a person is so unhappy or isolated that they might harm dozens of people and themselves? albeit difficult to accomplish, recognitions like these could be the first step in reducing violence. what if reducing acts of hatred lies first within the changing of hearts, not the changing of laws? 
governor of ohio and presidential candidate John Kasich summed up this idea beautifully in the first gop debate when he called on the american people to “reach out to people who live in the shadows.” Though Kasich was speaking about immigrants, his point is clear. marginalized individuals need the support system that a caring community or devoted friend can provide. 
hatred in all forms is the true enemy, and those inspired by it will continue to cause harm with any means they choose. addressing its root causes by reaching out to those whom we see are in pain or alone is a step that we can all take much sooner than consensus can be reached in washington. 
society can, and should, look to itself first, and the law second in order to recognize hatred before it manifests into violence. 
Kate is a junior majoring in the Program of Liberal Studies and minoring in philosophy, political science and economics. She hails from Pittsburgh and is a proud member of Breen-Phillips Hall. 
Contact her at khardima@nd.edu. The views ex­pressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

more novels needed in pls 
Kitty Baker 
british invasion 
under my Tv, much to my roommate’s chagrin, lie several of the program of liberal studies (pls) books i have had to read over the years that i am unable to place on the shelves in my own room. as i look now, i can see plato’s republic, aquinas’s on Faith, cicero’s on duties, Juan of norwich and several other notable philosophical and theological works. what there is a surpris­ing lack of in the pls curriculum, and therefore a notable absence under my Tv, are novels. 
i would completely prefer a good novel to something philosophical or theological any day. i have nothing against a good old aquinas logi­cal argument, but if i had to make a choice, i’d find austen a much more desirable and enjoyable read. 
now i know that the point of having a good education is not to simply read books that i like. There is an apparent joy in struggling with a text for hours, reading the same page over and over again in hopes of finding something of value for your class discussion tomorrow but i haven’t found it yet (and i suppose i will not find it until i learn to start my assignments a few days before they are due, not a few hours). if we were reading Kate atkinson, i might find it a little bit easier to sit back with a glass of wine and peruse the pages of an engrossing detective mystery. 
obviously Kate atkinson will never be a part of our curriculum, not even i would consider her a great author, although she is a great novelist. but why have novels gotten such a bad reputation in the academic community? it’s not necessarily 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“Find somebody to be successful for. Raise their hopes. Think of their needs.” 
— Barack Obama President of the United States 
from the professors, but novels definitely come under fire from several of my fellow students. i remember people questioning why pride and prejudice was on our great books seminar iv list. why should a novel read often by house­wives and high school freshman exist on the same list with works from malthus and bacon? what does a story about a middle-class woman who eventually weds a rich man offer besides a happily ever after ending? 
i do think people’s minds were changed after we actually discussed the novel, but it defi­nitely wasn’t an easy change. i can completely understand, after we had read so many exten­sive works, why a relatively short easy read like pride and prejudice could be considered so dull and not have much to offer. but novels offer us something more than a deliberate and thorough argument of why we believe in god or how a man should practically run a country. 
authors who write novels choose to do so deliberately. if you want to reach a mass liter­ate audience, write a novel. i will be the first one to say if i was not in pls, i would not have read half of the books that were required of us, even if everyone told me that it would improve my mind and expand my horizons. it is much harder to read the extensive economic theory of smith then it is to read don Quixote’s adventures through la mancha. a novel allows the reader to engage with characters, to follow their story­line. as we discussed in our classes on war and peace, a novel allows the reader to follow a story right through to the end. while we don’t know the course of our own lives, we can at least feel secure in knowing that a novel will finish, not necessarily in the way that we want it to, but it will eventually end and complete its trajectory. That is a very comforting fact. 

The novel reaches a much wider audience, as i mentioned before. while the college-educated might pick up a philosophical work, more people are going to be willing to peruse a novel. and with larger audiences comes a lot of power. subtly, an author can put through whatever views they like. For instance, in elena Ferrante’s four-part series The neapolitan novels, she manages to cover the changing ground of social and political change in italy. i knew very little about italian history, and still know very little, but learned much more than had i never picked up the work in the first place. more people will read a novel and probably be affected by it. The novel provides you with a world of opportunities to explain and put out your ideas on a variety of things. 
novels can provide us with a wealth of knowl­edge, without us even realizing, and it is impor­tant that we recognize them as a valuable form of writing. it’s been a long time since i’ve read a book for fun (mostly because i’ve been strug­gling to read a thousand pages of Tolstoy that was due at the beginning of the year). but it is good to be aware that there are other ways to be valuably educated, without simply just do­ing the homework that was assigned the night before. 
Kitty Baker is a senior program of liberal studies and film, television and theatre major and proud Cavanaughty. She can be reached at cbaker7@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“Life isn’t simple. But the beauty of it is, you can always start over. It’ll get easier.” 
— Alacia Bessette Pianist and novelist 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Only at Notre Dame: Part II 
once again i am speechlessly impressed by the wonderful institution and to attend to mass ev-attending ‘extra’ mass during the week, but also sons and daughters of the notre dame family. ery now and then during the week. as mass pro-that they pray for our faculty. i, for one, can defi­
i found myself near the administration build-gressed, i noted one of my students sitting a few nitely use the extra prayers. ing the other morning and realized that it was rows away from me and after mass greeted the just about time for mass at sacred heart (11:30), student, who acknowledged that she prayed for Jamie O’Brien so i meandered into the basilica and planted her professors at the mass. assistant chairman myself in a side pew. it was an opportunity to what a great feeling to know that some notre department of accountancy reflect a bit on the privilege to teach at such a dame students not only practice their faith by sept. 25 

The observer | MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
results over the past few years. on the scale services at megachurch hillsong in los 
By MATTHEW MUNHALL 

scene writer of pop experimentation, “revival” isn’t as angeles. “Kill em with Kindness” seems to 
bonkers as cyrus’ recent “dead petz,” but be quite literally about turning the other 
when considering the narrative arc of it’s more interesting than her best friend cheek in the face of cruelty. closer “rise” is selena gomez’s career, the most obvious Taylor swift’s middle of the road “1989.” even more explicit in its spiritual message, parallel is Faith, the character she played The forward thinking approach to pop underscoring its call to “rise with your in “spring breakers.” despite her strong is most apparent on “hands to myself,” mind and make your higher power proud” christian roots, good girl Faith is not en a highlight produced by swedish pop with a gospel choir. The rebirth suggested tirely opposed to engaging in some spring maestro max martin and his proteges by the album’s title is not just personal, but break hedonism, but only up to a point. she mattman & robin. martin pairs The xx’s spiritual, even if being told to “close your is game for partying and excessive drink muted minimalism with his signature fo eyes and change your life” seems perhaps ing but hops on a greyhound home as soon cus on big pop melodies, much the way he too simple a solution. as her best friends get in too deep with a did with The yeah yeah yeahs on “since u sometimes on “revival” the hit making gang of south Florida drug dealers. been gone” a decade ago. The steel drum machine threatens to swallow gomez 
gomez herself has behaved similarly in driven “me & the rhythm,” also produced whole. “same old love” was co written by her transition from teen idol to adult pop by mattman & robin, seems like Top 40’s charli XcX and gomez captures her bratty star, maturing without blatantly trying to take on Jamie xx’s “in colour.” sneer to a T to the point that it wouldn’t rebel. unlike miley cyrus — who has spent gomez seems to have taken a page out be all that shocking to learn that the final the past two years singly focused on taking of swift’s book when it comes to songwrit version kept the vocals from charli XcX’s a sledgehammer to the image of hannah ing, allowing the tabloid narratives about demo. montana — gomez has taken a more her personal life, especially her on again, For the most part, though, gomez is gradual approach to shedding her disney off again relationship with Justin bieber, fully in charge of her artistic evolution. channel past. to inform her music. when she sings “you The album’s lone ballad, “camouflage,” 
“revival” — gomez’s second solo album don’t know how to love me when you’re so also serves as its emotional climax. while (she previously released three albums ber,” it’s difficult not to instantly think of the song is about the end of a relationship, with her backing band The scene) and her a certain teen heartthrob with a penchant it can also be read as a contemplation on first away from disney owned hollywood for bad behavior. it’s a savvy promotional gomez’s own personal evolution. “i got so records — reflects this progression. The strategy, of course, but because the results much s**t to say,” she sings in the chorus, album opens with a spoken word intro, on are often quite emotionally affecting it “but i can’t help feeling like i’m camou which gomez muses in whispered tones, never seems like a gimmick. flage.” it sounds like the lament of some “i’m reborn in every moment, so who These two strains — innovative pop one who has spent the past decade being knows what i’ll become.” This ethos under production and celebrity gossip subtext managed by others. on “revival,” however, pins “revival,” which, from its sound and — coalesce best on “good for you,” one gomez is no longer camouflaged — she fi lyrical content to its behind the-scenes of the year’s best pop singles and her big nally gets to speak everything that’s on her narrative, is about gomez moving transi gest hit to date. while it is ostensibly about mind. tioning into adulthood on her own terms. trying to look for good for a love interest, 
gomez’s last album, 2013’s “stars it comes off as utterly lonely and despon Contact Matthew Munhall at dance,” felt like an album full of rihanna dent. over a beat of finger snaps and hazy mmunhall@nd.edu castaways; the swedish production duo synths, gomez’s breathy vocals relay sad stargate even admitted they had origi ness, and she would sound like a lana del 
“Revival” 
nally written “come & get it” for rihanna. rey pastiche if her performance weren’t so “revival,” in contrast, seems meticulously great. in gomez’s hands, it becomes a med 
Selena Gomez 
crafted for gomez’s sensibility. she has itation on how draining it is trying to be neither the strongest nor the most memo a “marquise diamond” and the constrict 
Label: Interscope 
rable voice in pop music, so instead she ing standards society places on young 
Tracks: “Hands to Myself,” “Good for You,” 
has smartly surrounded herself with inter women’s appearances, especially those in 
“Camouflage” 
esting production from hit boy and rock the spotlight and under constant scrutiny 
If you like: Taylor Swift, Jason Derulo 
mafia. her relative anonymity as a singer in the supermarket checkout aisle. becomes a non issue when surrounded like bieber’s recent output, much of by strange sonic touches — an approach “revival” has a vaguely christian subtext thatJason derulo has followedto satisfying — both gomez and her ex frequently attend 

Susan Zhu | THE OBSERVER 


NOTRE DAME 41, NAVY 24 | MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2015 | NDsMcObsERVER.cOM 
Smooth sailing 
Irish get back on track, pull away from Midshipmen behind second half adjustments 

Irish respond well in tough spots against Navy 

Alex Carson 
Associate sports Editor 
In the first 132 seconds, Navy kicked off, forced an Irish three-and-out and scored on a three-play, 70-yard drive to take an early 7-0 lead against No. 15 Notre Dame at Notre Dame stadium. 
It was the perfect start for the visitors, and the perfect way an upset might have gotten under­way on a different day — a punch in the mouth not too long after the opening snap. 
Last week at clemson, the Irish suffered a similar start. but this time, they didn’t double down on it; sophomore quarterback Deshone Kizer led the Irish straight down the field on a smart second drive, pounding it in from a yard out to knot the game at 7-7. 
Notre Dame (5-1) wouldn’t trail again. 
And while it wasn’t perfect the rest of the way, it’s hard to pick out too many serious flaws in Notre Dame’s play saturday in a 41-24 win over the Midshipmen 
see cARsON PAGE 3 
By BEN PADANILAM 
sports Writer 
Notre Dame’s offense to­taled 459 total yards on saturday, leading the way in its 41-24 victory over Navy. 
While the defense came out of the gate slow against the difficult triple-option scheme of the Midshipmen (4-1, 2-0 AAc), the offense of the No. 15 Irish (5-1) picked up the slack until the second half, when the rounded team effort allowed them to pull away in the second half. 
The Midshipmen got on the board first, after the Irish offense went three-and-out on its first possession — the only time it did so all game 

— and downed the punt at the 29-yard line. Midshipmen senior quarterback Keenan Reynolds took the first play of the drive 51 yards on a keep­er, which set up junior slot-back Toneo Gulley to score two plays later on a 13-yard scamper. 
The Irish responded quick­ly with a quick score of their own. After a touchback on the ensuing kickoff, sophomore quarterback Deshone Kizer and senior running back c.J. Prosise connected on two consecutive plays, picking up 10 and 25 yards to push the ball into Navy territory. Three plays later, Kizer hit senior receiver chris brown for 18 yards to convert a third and long. Then, after con­verting a fourth-and-two the play before, Kizer capped off the 12 play drive with a one-yard touchdown run to tie the game up. 
Irish head coach brian Kelly said he was very pleased with his offense’s response following the quick score they allowed to Navy on their first drive. 
“I thought we responded very well offensively,” Kelly said. “And I think that re­sponse [of] scoring right away, kind of settled everybody 
see sAILING PAGE 2 
PLAYER OF THE GAME 
C.J. PROSISE 
IRISH SENIOR RUNNING BACK 
It’s starting to become a trend. With 56 receiv­ing yards to add to his 136 yards and three scores on the ground, Prosise once more led the Irish to a strong offensive showing and a comfortable win over Navy. 

QUOTE OF THE GAME 
“I’m just really happy to be done with it.” 
Following Notre Dame’s second game in four against a triple-option attack, junior defensive lineman Isaac Rochell reacts to being done with the scheme. The Irish defense held Navy to just 79 yards on the ground in the second half. 
Defense steps up in second half to lead ND to win 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports Writer 
As Notre Dame and Navy left the field at the end of the first half, it appeared the Irish woes at defending the triple-option had returned. 
The Irish defense looked noth­ing like the unit that shut down Georgia Tech for more than three quarters sept. 19, as the Midshipmen ran for 239 yards in 28 first-half attempts, scoring 21 points. but second-half defensive adjustments helped Notre Dame pull away, as the Irish limited their opponents to just 79 yards on the ground and 95 overall for the rest of the game and allowed only a field goal. 
Notre Dame’s defense had forced a three-and-out to begin each of its first four contests this year, but for the second consecu­tive week the unit got out of the gate slowly. Navy senior quar­terback Keenan Reynolds broke loose for a 51-yard run on his first play of the game, and junior run­ning back Toneo Gulley finished 
see DEFENsE PAGE 3 



REPORT CARD 







QUARTERBACKS 

Like he’s done since taking over for Malik Zaire against Virginia, Deshone Kizer did what he needed to for Notre Dame’s offense to find success against Navy. His 22-for-30 performance wasn’t flawless — he telegraphed his one in­terception on the day — but Kizer did more than what was required for the Irish to come away with the victory. 
RUNNING BACKS 

After a poor ground game against clemson, it was a good bounce-back performance saturday for c.J. Prosise. Three touchdowns and 129 yards on the ground returned him to the conversation of one of the nation’s best running backs, and 56 yards on four receptions further aided the offensive effort. 
RECEIVERS 

The Irish receiving corps had a rough day at the office last week, but they stepped up to put in a solid shift in the win over Navy. Will Fuller got himself back on the scoresheet with another touchdown reception, and chris brown pitched in with another solid performance. Torii Hunter, Jr.’s 28-yard reception to get the Irish in field goal range at the end of the first half should not go unnoticed either. 
OFFENSIVE LINE 

In his first collegiate start, Alex bars played well filling in for the injured Quenton Nelson, and the Irish offensive line performed well with respect to the run and pass blocks. Ron­nie stanley’s personal foul that helped turn what would have been 1st-and-10 from the Navy 14 into a punt hurts the grade. 
DEFENSIVE LINE 

Utilizing a three-man front against Navy’s triple-option attack, the defensive line turned in another quality perfor­mance against the Midshipmen. There were some hiccups right after Jerry Tillery went down, but a strong second half kept Navy’s attack neutralized. 
LINEBACKERS 

When Navy checked away from Jaylon smith on its dive plays in the first half, James Onwualu struggled to get the job done. but an adjustment in the second half — brining in Jarrett Grace — helped the group control Navy. 
DEFENSIVE BACKS 

Just like against Georgia Tech, the secondary played well against a triple-option attack. KeiVarae Russell had seven solo tackles, and Elijah shumate had a game-sealing inter­ception to add to his big tackle for loss earlier in the day. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

It wasn’t perfect — Navy did break a big return and c.J. sand­ers didn’t do much with kick returns — but this was a good day for the special teams unit. Justin Yoon hit from 52 yards in a crucial situation and Tyler Newsome had a first-half punt downed inside the 5-yard line. 
COACHING 

While the slow start was a concern, Kelly made the key adjustments — Matthias Farley for Max Redfield, Grace for Onwualu — to allow the Irish to secure a much-needed, comfortable victory. 
OVERALL GPA: 3.44 (B+/A-) 
While there are certainly areas to nitpick in Notre Dame’s performance saturday against Navy, it’s important to remember where the game could have been worse. When the Midshipmen had momentum, the Irish did well to take it away, and each positional group put in a good performance en route to a comfortable win. After two years of nervous finishes against the Midshipmen, the Irish worked to ensure a drama-free fourth quarter. 
PLAY OF THE GAME 
DISHAN ROMAINE FUMBLES THE SECOND-HALF OPENING KICKOFF 
Nyles Morgan forced the fumble, and Devin butler recovered it, to give Notre Dame a short field to extend its three-point lead at the start of the second half. c.J. Prosise scored from 22 yards out two plays later, and the Irish opened up a two-score advantage they never gave back. 
Sailing 
cONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
down.” 

Following the scoring drives, each team’s following drive ended in a punt. Notre Dame was able to win the field posi­tion game during that stretch, however, as they downed a punt by sophomore Tyler Newsome on Navy’s 3-yard line. After two short runs, Navy faced third down from their own 10. Reynolds pitched it to senior fullback chris swain, but swain fumbled the ball, and Irish captain and ju­nior linebacker Jaylon smith recovered it at the Navy seven. On the ensuing offensive pos­session, Prosise took the hand-off on the first play and found a hole into the end zone, giving the Irish a 14-7 lead. 
After forcing a three-and­out from the Midshipmen on the next possession, the Irish offense wasted no time ex­tending its team’s lead. After starting at their own 16-yard line, the Irish took only five plays to go 84 yards, as Kizer found junior receiver Will Fuller down the field and Fuller worked his way into the end zone for a 30-yard touch­down, putting Notre Dame up 21-7. After the game, Fuller said Kizer was able to keep the play alive after the protection broke down. 
“I had a dig [route], so I’m just running through the win­dow,” Fuller said. “Then I saw him scramble, so I just kept moving, and he looked down field and saw me. [He] just put it on me, and [I] got in the end-zone. … I’m happy that he did everything he was supposed to do, and the play worked out well.” 
The lead did not last long, however. 
Following a touchback on the kickoff, Midshipmen ju­nior quarterback Tago smith 
— who replaced Reynolds for the remainder of the first half after he sustained a shin injury — led the team down the field, and senior full­back Quentin Ezell broke off a 45-yard touchdown run to close the gap to 21-14. 

Then the Irish committed their only turnover of the night after getting the ball back. On third-and-eight, Kizer’s pass to Fuller was picked off by Midshipmen junior corner­back brendon clements. After two short runs and its first completed pass of the game, Navy converted a fourth-and­three to keep its drive alive in­side Notre Dame territory. Two plays later, Ezell scampered for 22 yards and his second touchdown of the game to tie the game up with 24 seconds left in the half. 
Despite the short time, the Irish were able to get a score before the end of the half. After returning the kickoff to their own 25-yard line, Kelly called a draw for Prosise, who was able to slip through the hole and gain 12 yards on the play. After a timeout, Kizer found junior receiver Torii Hunter Jr. for a 28-yard gain, setting up a 52-yard field goal attempt for freshman kicker Justin Yoon with four seconds remaining. 
Yoon had just enough on the kick and sent it through the up­rights to give the Irish a 24-21 lead as the clock expired. Kelly said he trusted Yoon would be able to make the kick, despite it being the longest attempt of the season for him. 
“We had a little bit of a breeze there, and his max distance was right at that number,” Kelly said. “so, we were con­fident that if the mechanics were good and the snap was good and the hold was good, that he could make it.” 
After a tight first half, the Irish were able to pull away in the second half. On the kickoff, Midshipmen junior slotback Dishan Romine fumbled the return after being hit by Irish sophomore linebacker Nyles Morgan, and Notre Dame re­covered and took over at the Navy 26-yard line. On the sec­ond play of the drive, Prosise bounced a run to the outside and took the ball 22 yards into the end zone to extend Notre Dame’s lead to 31-21. 
With Reynolds back in the game on its next possession, Navy drove down the field in an attempt to respond. senior kicker Austin Grebe missed his 44-yard attempt, however, leaving the Midshipmen emp­ty-handed on the possession. 
Taking over at its own 27 fol­lowing the miss, Notre Dame began another march down the field. The ten-play drive was capped off by an 11-yard touchdown run by Prosise, giving him his third touch­down on the day. Kelly said he liked what he saw from Prosise on the run. 
“I thought his run late was extraordinary in the sense that we were backed up, he was very patient, waited for his tight end on the kick-out block,” Kelly said. “That just takes so much patience and trust in an offensive lineman and for him to show and ex­hibit that, I just think speaks volumes of the kind of player he is.” 
The Irish defense was strong the rest of the way, and the of­fense was able to run the clock in the fourth quarter. The teams traded field goals at the end of the third and beginning of the fourth quarter, bringing the game to its final score of 41-24. 
After the game, Kelly said he was pleased with his team’s performance following the tough loss to clemson last week. 
“We beat a very good team by 17 points,” Kelly said. “I think that’s a validation. … I thought their focus was out­standing. And it paid off.” 
Next up for the Irish is a matchup with Usc on saturday at Notre Dame stadium. Kizer said the team can focus on the Trojans after closing out Navy. 
“We haven’t really talked too much about Usc,” Kizer said. “In the position we’re in now, it really allows us to go from week-to-week and from game-to-game. … so we’ll grind down tomorrow, put the Usc film on, and get ourselves ready for another big one.” 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 


NDsMcObsERVER.cOM | MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2015 | THE ObsERVER 

Defense 
cONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
the drive with a 13-yard score just two plays later. Notre Dame head coach brian Kelly said the slow start was due to avoidable mistakes. 
“On that particular long run, we just overran the play,” Kelly said. “We had our safety right there unblocked, and we simply did not execute.” 
A second-quarter fumble, re­covered by junior linebacker Jaylon smith, was a rare first-half highlight for the Irish defensively. For the rest of the first 30 minutes, Notre Dame struggled not only in stopping Reynolds, but in stop­ping Navy’s offense without him. Reynolds ran for 95 yards before halftime, while two touchdowns from senior fullback Quentin Ezell came with junior quarter­back Tago smith taking snaps for the Midshipmen while Reynolds was injured. Kelly said his team struggled for most of the first half with stopping Navy’s fullback. 
“We couldn’t get to the full­back,” Kelly said. “We couldn’t get our five technique down. so, consequently when we tried to get into our front that put our sam and our Will [linebackers] on the dive, we just couldn’t get there. 
“They weren’t running it to Jaylon, they were running it to James Onwualu’s side. They ob­viously checked away from Jaylon every time, and when James was 
Carson 
cONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
(4-1, 2-0 AAc) at Notre Dame stadium. 
When Navy mistakes gave the Irish opportunities, they took them — a first-half fumble in­side Navy’s own 10-yard line was immediately followed by senior running back c.J. Prosise’s first of three touchdown runs, and when the Midshipmen fumbled on the opening kickoff of the second half, it took just two plays for Prosise to score once again. 
It looked like Notre Dame had taken a good grasp on the game midway through the sec­ond quarter — after a pair of touchdowns, the Irish were out to a 21-7 lead with 7:10 left in the half. 
Then Navy came back. It’s what solid opponents do. Despite senior quarterback Keenan Reynolds going down, the Midshipmen put together a pair of solid drives to knot the game at 21-21 with 24 seconds left in the first half. 
but Notre Dame did what a good, veteran football team should: it didn’t let the game enter the break tied. 
Prosise ran up the gut on a draw play to get the Irish 12 yards on the first play, then Kizer hit junior receiver Torii Hunter, Jr. for a 28-yard gain. 
It put Notre Dame in range for freshman kicker Justin Yoon, who hit from 52 yards to send the Irish into halftime with the trying to get down to tackle he was getting knocked off.” 
but coordinator brian VanGorder’s defense used the break to adjust and looked like an entirely different unit in the second half. The Midshipmen were unable to drive the ball inside the Irish 20-yard line for the remainder of the game, and Reynolds had little impact on his return, rushing six times for only 15 yards while smith threw an in­terception to senior safety Elijah shumate at the end of the fourth quarter. 
The defensive improvement coincided with the introduction of graduate student linebacker Jarrett Grace, who had five to­tal tackles on the day. Kelly said Grace’s size allowed him to be ef­fective where the Irish had strug­gled in the first half. 
“We went with Grace in the second half, a bigger body,” said Kelly. “He was able to get himself down on to that fullback a little bit better in the second half.” 
Grace, however, said it was a combined defensive perfor­mance — and not simply his introduction — that led to the improvement. 
“As far as my role went, I don’t think that that was the most im­portant part,” Grace said. “I think it was just about them having an overall gameplan and using the resources they had, which hap­pened to be putting me in there. 
“Navy had a few wrinkles, we didn’t know exactly what they were, but we knew they were 
24-21 lead and the all-important momentum the Midshipmen had taken back. 
That’s the execution of a championship-caliber team. 
Prosise’s second score helped the Irish hit back quickly after the half, and then he scampered in for an impressive 11-yard touchdown run to put Notre Dame up three scores. 
From there, the Irish never looked back. 
After rushing for 239 yards in the first half, the Midshipmen gained just 79 in the second. Notre Dame made adjustments, like bringing graduate student Jarrett Grace in for junior James Onwualu at linebacker to stop the dive play that burned the Irish for two scores, and came out with the attitude as if they wanted to put the game away as soon as possible. 
When there was an opportu­nity for Navy to claw back into the game — driving down 17 with just over six minutes left 
— the Irish shut the door, un­like three weeks earlier against Georgia Tech. senior safety Elijah shumate notched an interception inside the Irish 10, and Kizer and Prosise ran out the clock to secure the win. 
That’s what good teams do. 
“I was so pleased with the way that they were focused, during the week, preparing for Navy, not worrying about anything else,” Irish head coach brian Kelly said. “They weren’t talking about last week, they weren’t talking about Usc, they were focused on playing this football going to come and so I was just lucky enough to be put out there and succeed in a role that I can do well in with a great game plan.” 
Notre Dame sophomore line­backer Greer Martini again proved himself to be somewhat of an option specialist, playing a key role for the Irish by lead­ing the team with nine tackles. Martini said he was determined to show his strengths against Navy’s offense. 
“I wouldn’t say that I was an expert on triple-option in high-school,” Martini said. “I just kind of got my opportunity to play against the option here, I got on the field and I made that my thing, I became good at it and knew I had to perfect it to stay on the field. I’m a downhill lineback­er, I like to play the run and fill the holes, I think that the option just suits my strengths.” 
After four impressive quarters against Texas to open the season, saturday’s game marked another strong but at times inconsistent performance for the Irish de­fense. Grace said he feels the unit can still come together for a dom­inant 60-minute performance. 
“I think we’ve played pretty well, but we can take this to a much higher place,” Grace said. “I don’t think we’ve even touched where our ceiling could be. 
“I don’t think we’ve played a full game yet. The best football is definitely still ahead of us.” 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
team.” 
“Focused” seems to be a good word to describe saturday’s performance. There were blips, but in some ways, focus is more about how you come back from those blips than avoiding them in the first place. 
And I’m not sure anyone plays anywhere close to perfectly against the Midshipmen: just ask Ohio state’s title-winning squad last year, who had plenty of issues with Navy. 
Now Notre Dame sits at the close of the first half of its sched­ule, in with a chance of making the playoff. 
They’ll probably need to play better than they did saturday once or twice — a trip to No. 16 stanford immediately comes to mind — and they can’t afford to play much worse than they did against Navy. 
but at the end of the day, nit­picking about every little thing in Notre Dame’s win saturday isn’t what it’s about. There’s plenty of chaos left to happen this year. 
Unlike last year, the Irish took a good first step on the road back to the top of college football. They can’t fully control their final destination, but they can control the route they take there. 
One step down. six to go. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

SCORING SUMMARY 






1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  TOTAL  
7  17  14  3  41  
7  14  3  0  24  

NAVY 7, NOTRE DAME 0 
Toneo Gulley 13-yard run (Austin Grebe kick) 
12:48 remaining 

Drive: Three plays, 70 yards 1:14 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 7, NAVY 7 
Deshone Kizer 1-yard run (Justin Yoon kick) 
7:30 remaining 

Drive: 12 plays, 75 yards, 5:18 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 14, NAVY 7 
c.J. Prosise 7-yard run (Yoon kick) 
10:37 remaining 

Drive: One play, seven yards, 0:05 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 21, NAVY 7 
Will Fuller 30-yard pass from Kizer (Yoon kick) 
7:10remaining 

Drive: Five plays, 84 yards, 2:01 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 21, NAVY 14 
Quentin Ezell 45-yard run (Grebe kick) 
4:56remaining 

Drive: Five plays, 75 yards, 2:14 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 21, NAVY 21 
Ezell 22-yard run (Grebe kick) 
0:24remaining 

Drive: Six plays, 41 yards, 2:20 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 24, NAVY 21 
Yoon 52-yard field goal 
0:00remaining 

Drive: Three plays, 40 yards, 0:24 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 31, NAVY 21 
Prosise 22-yard run (Yoon kick) 
14:16remaining 

Drive: Two plays, 26 yards, 0:35 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 38, NAVY 21 
Prosise 11-yard run (Yoon kick) 
7:04remaining 

Drive: 10 plays, 73 yards, 4:01 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 38, NAVY 24 
Grebe 40-yard field goal 
0:18remaining 

Drive: 13 plays, 47 yards, 6:46 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 41, NAVY 24 
Yoon 36-yard field goal 
9:48remaining 

Drive: 12 plays, 60 yards, 5:30 elapsed 
STATISTICS 


RUSHING YARDS  
178  
318  
PASSING YARDS  
281  
22  



THE ObsERVER | MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2015 | NDsMcObsERVER.cOM 


CAROLINE GENCO | The Observer 

Irish senior running back C.J. Prosise finds a hole Saturday during Notre Dame’s 41-24 victory over Navy. Prosise carried the ball 21 times for 129 yards and three touchdowns, bringing his season totals to 823 yards and nine touchdowns on the ground. Prosise also added four catches for 56 yards to his stat line. 
When Navy scored to tie the game just before the half, it looked as if 
it could be a nervous second half for Notre Dame. Justin Yoon, how­ever, put the Irish back ahead with a 52-yard field goal as halftime 
SECOND HALF 
hit, and C.J. Prosise added two rushing touchdowns after the half to put Notre Dame ahead three scores early in the second half, en 
SURGE SINKS NAVY 
route to a 41-24 win over the Midshipmen Saturday. 




The observer | MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By NICK LAUREANO 
scene writer 

like paul Thomas anderson’s “boogie nights,” the opening minutes of J.p. sniadecki’s chinese railway documen­tary, “The iron ministry,” use a black screen to draw attention to the film’s sound design, which sets the film’s tone. where anderson foregrounds michael penn’s score — a broken circus theme of sorts that distills the melancholy zeit­geist of an industry (and nation!) in flux 
— sniadecki presents an aural assault. The high-pitched whistle of air brakes disengaging, the clanking of the inter-carriage couplings as the engine yanks the carriages from their slack dormancy to full tension and the earth-shaking rumble of an approaching train com­pose a mechanical symphony. The mes­sage is clear: the next 80 minutes are to be a no-holds-barred immersion into life on the chinese railway. 
a grey corrugated surface breaks the blackness. a few moments elapsed before i realized this giant accordion was the space between two carriages. by this point in “The iron ministry,” sniadecki had proven himself to be far too deliberate/discerning for the film’s 

Miko Malabute 
scene editor 

Around this time last year, I wrote an article in light of a mass invasion of privacy and leak of private photos in an event that has come to be known as “The Fappening.” For those who don’t recall, a hacker who went by the alias “Spooky Ghost” hacked an alarmingly large number of female celebrities’ nude pho­tos that were stored on their personal on-line drives (such as iCloud) and released them on the Internet. There was an im­mediate backlash and subsequent call to take these down (and rightfully so), for the sake of legality, privacy and decency. It seemed as if, for the most part, more rational and mature heads prevailed, as Internet users were disgusted by the blatant disregard for these celebrities’ privacies. 
A year later, photos of a nude Justin Bieber vacationing in Bora Bora have surfaced on the Internet. To say that the reception to them directly contradicted the outrage to “The Fappening” would be an understatement. 
first image to amount to a pretentious attempt at uncovering the art within the machinations of the railroad. (a rather impressive feat, i might add!) my suspicions were confirmed during a Q&a session with sniadecki after the screening at the debartolo performing arts center on Thursday evening. as a sort of in-between space, sniadecki ex­plained, the coupling between carriag­es is a microcosm of a train as a whole, which exists mostly in between the point of departure and its destination. 
“The iron ministry” is the latest ex­ample of a sub-genre within documen­tary filmmaking that prizes objective sensory overload over narrative co­herence. These films — which have roots in harvard university’s sensory ethnography lab — present a constant barrage of sights and sounds that may seem random, even jarring, to some. To sniadecki, however, this mode of film-making is all about “embracing the fundamental ambiguity and messiness of life,” and is a way of portraying life’s complexity, rather than pigeonholing it into an all-too-familiar narrative arc. i’m inclined to agree with sniadecki, but he doesn’t always make this an easy task. 
Now on the surface, the nature of these 
two breaches of privacy are different. 
Where “The Fappening” was due to a hacker going into people’s private online drives and releasing them, it seems that Bieber’s revealing pictures were due to paparazzi being in the right (or wrong) place, at the right (wrong) time. And, ob­viously, the former incident was largely perceived as a disregard for women’s 
privacy and an affront to feminism; the 
latter was just a case of seeing the latest scandalous picture of one of the most popular male celebrities on the planet. 
A little deeper look into the situations show that they are, in essence, both a part of a larger problem and being treat­ed with a disgusting double standard. Where “The Fappening” caused people to rush to the affected female celebrities’ defense, many were quick to poke fun at one of Bieber’s most vulnerable moments. As a matter of fact, Joel McHale of “The Soup” did an entire segment on Bieber’s photos, making joke after joke about it, even casually referring to Bieber’s geni­tals as “baloney pony.” Then there were a multitude of talk shows that just casu­ally talked about Bieber’s exposed body, 

here, the immersive style juxtaposes claustrophobia-inducing shots from within loud, outdated “green-skin” trains with spacious compositions of the hushed interiors of state-of-the-art bullet trains. while these transitions may be a fair representation of the chinese railway network’s diversity — certainly as sniadecki experienced it 
— i have a hard time believing they are entirely free of commentary. 
a clearer example of the film’s con­tradictory nature is delivered by some of its most interesting scenes. “The iron ministry” presents several scenes in which passengers discuss religion and politics on national and global scales. visually, these scenes are presented with the same handheld, fly-on-the­wall style as the rest of the film. a style that — whether sniadecki intends it to or not — suggests a level of objectiv­ity beyond what is seen in narrative documentaries like “hoop dreams.” The problem arises when sniadecki converses with the passengers in flu­ent mandarin. suddenly, the promise of the film’s style — its tacit agreement to merely document — is broken. we are observing not an organic interaction between passengers, but a contrivance. 
speaking about the incident with such a carefree air, as if they were talking about the scores from last night’s games. It is not hard to imagine that if this was a fe­male celebrity’s privacy being completely disregarded, the talk and reception to the photos wouldn’t be treated like such a laughing matter. 
I’m not naive, however. I understand that these two incidents cannot be held to the same standard because there is, after all, absolutely a double standard at play here. And it does not help that Bieber seems to constantly put himself in these vulnerable positions. After all, a quick scroll through Bieber’s Instagram shows him regularly semi-nude, and nowadays the breadth of his appeal comes from his new, mature style of music as well as his new, edgy image. Legal experts Peter T. Haven and Mike Cavalluzzi also seem to question whether or not the release of these photos is actually illegal or not. 
“Justin Bieber is what you generally refer to as a public figure,” Haven told Billboard. “In my opinion, given the fact that he’s a public figure, given the fact that he was in plain view or view that was accessible to the public, this just goes 
even sniadecki’s silent presence alone 
—
 by way of psychological principles like impression management — is enough to taint the course of natural conversation between passengers, and ultimately the film’s objectivity. it’s a problem akin to schrödinger’s cat — in that merely observing a phenomenon is sufficient to irreparably change it — and is one that the film’s style dispels without truly solving. 

when asked, “why trains?” sniadecki shared a childhood anecdote, then stressed that trains are something of a microcosm of an ever-changing china 

—
 a nation on a journey — and even of documentary filmmaking itself. it’s an audacious claim, one that i would likely dismiss if “The iron ministry” were a bad film. rather, in its repudiation of typical documentary narrative struc­ture and its self-proclaimed (though slightly misguided) commitment to documenting over editorializing, “The iron ministry” asserts itself as a film that is often good, at times contradic­tory, but never anything less than truly interesting. 


Contact Nick Laureano at nlaurean@nd.edu 
with the territory.” 
“The right to publish is going to hinge on whether [the photos] are newsworthy, and it’s very, very interesting because obviously anything about Justin Bieber is newsworthy,” Cavalluzzi further ex­plained. “He’s a public figure, he’s made his sexuality a part of his fame … and therefore the fact these go a step further are fair game.” 
All in all, though the legality may be a bit murky, the morality shouldn’t be. Yes, there is a double standard that we as a society turn a blind eye to, and we are all (for the most part, anyway) guilty of treating “The Fappening” dif­ferently than Bieber’s photos — and for very understandable reasons, I admit. But — especially in today’s age of hy­persensitivity and political correctness 
— shouldn’t there be a bit more sensitiv­ity when dealing with a person’s right to privacy? 
Contact Miko Malabute at  mmalabut@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Susan Zhu | THE OBSERVER 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

If polls were legitimate 

Alex Carson 
associate sports editor 
For some weird reason, ohio state is the no. 1 team in the country on polls conducted during the 2015 season. 
why? 
The buckeyes were very good last year, yes, but they haven’t done much of anything yet this season. Their best win? indiana, who got knocked around pretty well by penn state on saturday. 
of course, the problem of pollsters ranking teams based on their accomplishments a year before goes far past the buckeyes. baylor sits second in the polls, despite beating nobody of consequence to this point (sorry, Texas Tech) and Tcu sits third, despite strug­gling in games against the same red raiders squad and Kansas state. 
Throw in michigan state sit­ting at no. 4 in the coaches’ poll (and still receiving a first-place vote), and you’ve got the makings of a pretty terrible characterization of how teams have actually performed this season. 
The coaches’ poll is, gener­ally speaking, a disgrace to the sport. conducted often enough by interns in the sports infor­mation department, it typical­ly offers a rushed, misguided characterization of the teams. The spartans sit at no. 4, yet utah sits at no. 7? Florida state, at no. 8, is three spots ahead of in-state rival Florida? 
no way. 
The ap poll is better, but it’s far from perfect — it shares the same top three as its counter­part — and still has that inher­ent bias of last season evident in its rankings. 
so i’ll propose something: an actual ranking of the top four teams this year (because that’s all that really matters) based on, well, doing things this year. 
no. 1: utah (5-0, 2-0 pac-12) 
how anyone could submit their ballot at this point and not have the utes at the top is, quite frankly, beyond me. granted, 16 ap pollsters have the surprise team of the year sitting there right now, but the number should be much higher. 
The utes have, by far, the most impressive résumé in col­lege football to this date. no two ways around it. They’re one of two teams with a pair of wins over top-25 squads (northwestern the other) after wins over now-no. 12 michigan and no. 23 california, and the win in eugene, oregon, that broke the ducks remains a good one, despite oregon’s subsequent collapse. 
There are tons of question marks left in their season in a tough conference, but they’ve been the most impressive team this year. so they sit at the top. 
no. 2: Florida (6-0, 4-0 sec) 
File this one on the list of things i didn’t expect to see this year. 
it took a bit of a magical es­cape to top Tennessee a couple weeks ago, but the gators are playing some of the nation’s best football. if you buy the idea no. 10 alabama is good, which i do, then you have to buy Florida being for real (at least at this stage), after the gators walloped no. 13 mississippi, 38-10 in The swamp, a couple weeks ago. 
while the transitive property isn’t the greatest thing to use when comparing teams, it’s im­portant to use this early in the year. outside of utah, Florida might have the best win in col­lege football yet this year. 
They were tested and need­ed some fortune against the volunteers, but a trip to lsu this week should provide the marquee game the gators need to properly push their way in or out of the discussion. 
no. 3: clemson (5-0, 2-0 acc) 
clemson looks really, really good. The Tigers have all the makings of a championship contender — they have an of­fense that can put up points, a defense that can shut teams down and one of the best home-field advantages in col­lege football. 
That benefit given to them in death valley could be particu­larly important when they host no. 11 Florida state on nov. 7 in a game that should determine the destiny of each team. 
The Tigers already have a sig­nature win, over no. 14 notre dame, and they trounced a now-broken georgia Tech team this weekend. of all the teams in the running, the Tigers might have the easiest path to the final four — will they take advantage of it? 
no. 4: lsu (5-0, 2-0 sec) 
so we’ve run out of undefeat­ed teams that have wins over top-25 teams, so it comes down to the eye test. 
can anyone stop leonard Fournette? The Tigers have the best player in college football. That’s huge. so give me them at that fourth spot, at least un­til we see what happens this week in the other death valley against the gators. 
The winner will have the in­side track to the playoff.
 Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NFL | paTrioTs 30, cowboys 6 
Brady, Patriots pull away from Romo-less Cowboys 
Associated Press 

arlingTon, Texas (ap) — chants of “bra-dy” arose several times from a large new england contingent in Tom brady’s first visit to the $1.2 billion showplace of the dallas cowboys. 
First after a 1-yard plunge for his first rushing touchdown in almost three years, again af­ter a long touchdown pass to Julian edelman that helped seal the outcome and finally about 15 minutes after the end of the patriots’ 30-6 victory sunday. 
it wasn’t as easy as his boister­ous fans made it sound. 
brady threw a pair of touch­downs in the second half after enduring five sacks in the first half, including two for greg hardy and one from rolando mcclain in their season debuts after four-game suspensions, and new england pulled away from a powerless dallas offense missing Tony romo and dez bryant. 
“There were a lot of adjust­ments today,” brady said. “i don’t think we practiced a lot of what they were doing, but i think our defense played great. offense, we made a few plays but we can play better than that.” 
The super bowl champion patriots (4-0) won their seventh straight game going back to the playoffs last year. The cowboys lost their third in a row without romo and bryant, both side­lined by injuries. 
dallas (2-3) has at least four more games without romo (bro­ken left collarbone), and this was the biggest struggle so far for backup brandon weeden. he lost his 11th straight game as a starter going back to his time as a first-round draft pick in cleveland. 
The cowboys had just 59 yards at halftime, and trailed 20-3 be­fore their first long drive, which ended with the second of their two field goals late in the third quarter. 
coach Jason garrett said the cowboys would evaluate the quarterback spot during their upcoming bye after weeden went 26 of 39 for 188 mostly meaningless yards. The dallas running game was almost most­ly ineffective until it was too late. 
“brandon didn’t play well enough, but we didn’t play well enough,” garrett said. “we just need to be able to control the line of scrimmage more in the run­ning game and they did a good job loading the box up.” 
brady, in his 16th season, joined peyton manning and Fran Tarkenton as the only nFl quarterbacks with 4-0 starts at least four times. it wasn’t easy early. 
The 38-year-old hadn’t been sacked more than five times in the regular season since buffalo had seven in 2001, the year he took over as the starter and won the first of four super bowls. 
hardy, the defensive end making his dallas debut after a four-game ban for his role in a domestic violence case, was credited with two sacks, includ­ing one that resulted in a fumble recovered for a short gain by the patriots. 
he made headlines during the week for commenting on brady’s supermodel wife, gisele bundchen, after being suspend­ed because the nFl believed he roughed up his former girlfriend last year. 
mcclain, in the first game of his second season with dallas following a violation of the league’s substance-abuse policy, had the first sack. 
“Those are two great players,” said brady, who threw for 275 yards, about 96 fewer than he averaged in the first three games for the league’s no. 1 offense. “They add ‘em to the mix and they’ve got a defense.” 
but the cowboys didn’t get to brady after halftime, and the offense got rolling on a pair of throws to tight end rob gronkowski, who had 51 of his 67 yards receiving on the open­ing drive of the second half. dion lewis had a 10-yard scoring catch to finish that drive. 
brady’s sneak to put new england ahead for good in the second quarter was his first rushing Td since dec. 16, 2012, when he had the last of his ca-reer-high four that season. 
his 59-yard scoring pass to edelman put new england up 27-6 early in the fourth. brady was 20 of 27, and edelman had 120 yards receiving. 
“we made those adjust­ments from the first series,” new england coach bill belichick said. “we didn’t wait until half­time. There’s nothing magic about halftime. as soon as we see it, we’re doing it.” 
noTes: stephen gostkowski extended his nFl-best streak of made field goals to 19 with three, including a career-long of 57 yards in the final seconds of the first half. his previous long was 54. ... patriots lb dont’a hightower didn’t return after leaving with a rib injury in the first half. he sacked weeden be­fore the injury. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

USC center Tuerk out for season with knee injury 
Associated Press 

los angeles — southern california center max Tuerk will miss the rest of the season with a torn knee ligament. 
The Trojans (3-2, 1-2 pac-12) announced the extent of their all-conference center’s injury sunday, several hours after coach steve sarkisian took an indefinite leave of absence. 
Tuerk was hurt during the Trojans’ 17-12 loss to washington on Thursday. The senior made the all-pac-12 first team last season while starting every game. 
Toa lobendahn moved over to center from left guard after Tuerk was hurt. 
usc also announced that de­fensive lineman claude pelon is doubtful for saturday’s game at no. 14 notre dame after spraining his knee against the huskies. 
receiver steven mitchell is probable with a sprained ankle, and freshman cornerback iman marshall is healthy after incurring an abdomen injury. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
949-292-1200 must see. 
FOR RENT 

3 BR 2 BA house with pool. Beautiful home 1 mile from ND. Georgetown sub. Close to ND. 2 furnish rooms 4 rent $650 each 52162 Pickwick Lane. $1200/mo + 
deposit. Call 574-386-0882 
Yes, there are two paths you can go by, but in the long run. There’s still time to change the road you’re on. 


NFL | gianTs 30, 49ers 27 

Manning’s TD pass lifts Giants over 49ers 
Associated Press 
easT ruTherFord, n.J. 
— eli manning took a sip of a drink on the sideline, then slammed down the cup. not in frustration, but in celebration. 
larry donnell’s spectacu­lar catch over two 49ers with 21 seconds remaining lifted the new york giants past san Francisco 30-27 on sunday night, capping manning’s sen­sational clutch performance. 
manning had a career-best 41 completions in 54 at­tempts and his perfect throw to donnell finished off an 82-yard drive with a 12-yard touchdown. The two-time super bowl winner passed for 441 yards and became the winningest quarterback in team history with 102. 
“This win is special,” manning said. 
donnell was between antoine bethea and navorro bowman, two of the 49ers’ best defenders, when he leaped to snag the pass in the back of the end zone before falling on his back, the win­ning catch secured. 
“eli put it up there and i went up and got it,” donnell said. “once i got it, i held on tight.” 
new york (3-2) has won three straight and leads the nFc east. san Francisco (1-4) has lost four in a row and let this one slip away after an im­pressive comeback. 
carlos hyde’s 2-yard run with 1:45 remaining gave the 49ers the lead. but on a night of huge plays and lengthy drives, manning and donnell had the topper. 
There were 20 plays of at least 15 yards in the game, and san Francisco had three on its late drive. giants run­ning back shane vereen had the last long play, a 24-yarder. and manning, without his best weapon, odell beckham Jr., for much of the final series, engineered his 27th come­back victory in the fourth quarter or overtime. 
“it ranks up there as far as comebacks,” said coach Tom coughlin, who passed hall of Famer paul brown for 12th in career victories with 167. “They are resilient, tough-minded, they find themselves as a scrappy bunch. 
“i told them in the locker room it took every guy, people were playing and pushed into roles that maybe they hadn’t been in before. That’s a real sign of a team.” 
beckham’s speed and moves were too much for the 49ers. he set up new york’s first touchdown by using his elusiveness for a 31-yard re­ception down the middle. his 15-yard catch led to a 17­yard score on which he spun neatly and sped down the left sideline. 
The touchdown was his last reception; he left with a hamstring injury, something that has plagued his short pro career, and returned only briefly on the winning series. beckham finished with seven catches for 121 yards a week after he was fined for punch­ing a bills player in a win at buffalo. 
anquan boldin had eight receptions for 107 yards and a Td for the 49ers. 
“it’s good offensively to get into a rhythm like that. it’s something we can build off moving forward,” quarter­back colin Kaepernick said. “but we have to win games. That’s why we play.” 
both teams staged long drives all night. in an opening half filled with field goals, new york had possessions of 76, 81, and 66 yards, san Francisco had a 76-yard series. 


WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

Purple Weasels prepare for Walsh 
Pasquerilla West vs. Walsh 
By DOMINIC IANNELLI 
sports writer 
walsh takes on pasquerilla west on Tuesday night in what will be a quick turnaround for each squad following a pair of close losses. 
both teams played sunday games and will play their sec­ond games in the span of three days. pasquerilla west (3-1) fell to welsh Family, 7-0, on sunday while walsh (1-3-1) lost to lyons, 6-0. 
sophomore walsh captain maryanne Fisher said the diffi­culty of having a multiple-game weekend will be a challenge the wild women are prepared for. 
“next week being midterms week and us having two games will be hard and challenging, but we did it the first week of the season, and we will be able to handle it,” Fisher said. “i think it is also a nice break from study­ing to go out on the field and run around for an hour or two to clear our minds.” 
The purple weasels look to bounce back by relying on a near-perfect defense that sur­rendered its first points of the season sunday. senior captain maddie bray described the purple weasels’ preparation for the wild women. 
“This week has been all about repetition and perfecting the plays we’ve been effective with during our last three games,” bray said. “The talent and foun­dation is there, but sometimes during a real game when in­tensity and adrenaline is high, things can get messy if you don’t have enough practice with it. we also have a lot of new players in different positions this season, so getting used to playing with each other and communicating effectively is also really impor­tant this week.” 
last year, walsh beat pasquerilla west to reach the playoffs, however, bray said the purple weasels are not looking back on last season. 
“we tend to not focus too much on how a team has done in the past,” bray said. “any giv­en day a team can step up and upset anyone. we never want to be caught on our heels so we go into every game with the same competitive mindset. i believe that if we keep our composure and communicate effectively during our game against walsh, we’ll be very hard to beat.” 
The wild women and purple weasels will play at 7 p.m. under the lights at riehle Fields. 
Contact Dominic Ianelli at riannell@nd.edu 
Lewis vs. Pasquerilla East 
By TOBIAS HOONHOUT 
sports writer 
lewis and pasquerilla east wrap up their regular seasons monday night when the pyros and the chicks go head-to-head at 10 p.m. 
lewis (2-1-1) is looking to re­gain momentum as the playoffs begin after a loss to howard on sunday, while pasquerilla east (2-3) wants to end the season on a high note after a losing campaign thus far. 
lewis, led by senior captains penny vorissis, hannah skrbis and dorothy schlueter, sits atop the division with a 2-1-1 record. despite being one of the smaller teams in the league, the chicks have used their veter­ans on defense and some crafty play-calling to stay ahead of the competition. vorissis said she admires her team’s toughness. 
“our biggest strength so far this season has been our de­fense,” vorissis said. “we’ve been pretty air tight, and i’ve been pleased with how few points we’ve given up.” 
a tough schedule and several key injuries on both sides of the ball have helped pasquerilla east to sputter to a 2-3 record this season, but junior captain noelle gooding said the team still has a lot to play for. 
“our biggest strength i think is our attitude,” gooding said. “even though a lot of things haven’t gone exactly right for us, we are still able to make a good experience of it and have a ton of fun.” 
additionally, with a lot of young players stepping up into key positions this year, the pyros look to give the team ex­perience in seasons to come, gooding said. 
The chicks and pyros will face off monday night at 10 p.m. at riehle Fields. 
Contact Tobias Hoonhout at thoonhou@nd.edu 



The observer | MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

WOMEN’S SWIMMING 

notre dame nearly sweeps season-opening relays 
By RYAN KLAUS 
sports writer 
notre dame opened its 2015-2016 season with a vic­tory over the weekend at the dennis stark relays, where the irish defeated competi­
tors  illinois  state,  wright  
state,  iupui  and  olivet  
nazarene.  

notre dame won 11 of the 12 races Friday evening to finish with 240 points over­all. illinois state placed in second with 160 points and wright state rounded out the top three with 118 points. iupui and olivet nazarene finished in fourth and fifth, respectively, with scores of 108 and 82. 
Junior catherine mulquin contributed in notre dame’s first-place finishes in the 200-yard freestyle relay, 200- and 400-yard medley relays, and the 3 x 100-yard backstroke relay. Freshman sophia revilak also helped lead the irish to a top finish in the 200 free and the 200 and 400 medley relays and was a part of notre dame’s first-place finish in the 3 x 100 butterfly relay with senior catherine galletti and fellow freshman nicole smith. 

“individually, you could look at catherine galletti, catherine mulquin, [fresh­man] ella moynihan, [ju­nior] danielle margheret and [junior] Katie miller,” irish head coach mike litzinger said when asked about which swimmers im­pressed him the most. “but it was a relay meet, so the team stood out to me.” 
Friday marked litzinger’s first event as notre dame’s head coach after serving as an associate head coach at north carolina since 2011. litzinger has 14 combined years of head coaching ex­perience in his career at utah and st. bonaventure. 
“it is always great to start the year off with a win,” litzinger said. “however, this win is meaningful as it is a notre dame team win. The staff, swimmers and divers all get credit for this weekend’s win. i like to be­lieve that it is special simply because this is the first win for these women as team of the future. we have an idea of who we want to be later in the season, and this is a step toward that goal.” 
The meet, which took place at rolfs aquatic center, is one of four meets the irish will host this sea­son, and was one of four meets that notre dame compete in this month. The irish will spend fall break training in Fort myers, Florida, at Florida gulf coast university (Fgcu). The break will culminate in a dual-meet against Florida gulf coast on oct. 23. 
“we need to work on our speed and confidence,” litzinger said. “i knew we would see many things that we need to tighten up be­fore Fgcu, and we need to take advantage of the two weeks we have to prepare.” 
notre dame will end its month competing against big Ten opponents in two separate meets on the last weekend of october. The irish will host michigan state on oct. 30 before trav­eling purdue to participate in a triangle meet with purdue and ohio state on halloween. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu 
MEN’S SWIMMING 

irish get feet wet with win in first meet of season 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame scored 200 points to finish in first place at the 51st dennis stark relays on Friday at the rolfs aquatic center. 
The irish bested olivet nazarene, wright state, iupui and oakland to claim the victory in their first ac­tion of the season. 
notre dame picked up victories in the 200-, 400­, 3 x 500- and 800-yard freestyle, the 400-yard in­dividual medley (im), 3 x 100-yard butterfly and 200­yard medley relays as well as in one of the two diving events. 
The 200 freestyle led off the men’s competition, and gave the irish their first of seven event wins on the evening. sophomore Justin plaschka, freshmen daniel speers and Tabahn afrik and junior Kevin bradley combined for a time of 1:21.98, more than two sec­onds in front of the second-place team from iupui. 
notre dame grabbed its second win of the evening in the 800 freestyle, where sophomore richard mannix, freshman steven shek and juniors Trent Jackson and Joseph petrone finished in 6:52.63, good enough to best the team from wright state by almost three seconds. 

The 400-im squad of juniors Tom anderson, bradley and reed Fujan and sophomore robert whitacre posted a 3:28.09 to give the irish their third win of the night. 
in the three-man relay races, notre dame picked up a victory in the 3 x 100 but­terfly. Freshmen matthew grauslys and david stewart and plaschka won the re­lay with a time of 2:29.56. The irish also took home the top billing in the 3 x 500 freestyle race, as mannix, petrone and freshman connor brown touched the wall in 14:04.84. The irish team of freshmen Zachary stump and benjamin gorski and senior andrew Jenson settled for a third-place showing in the 3 x 100 
breaststroke event. 
senior  bogac  ayhan,  
gorski,  grauslys  and  
plaschka  topped  the  200  

medley race with a time of 1:32.54. notre dame’s swimmers finished picked up their sixth and final win in the 400 freestyle as afrik, speers, Fujan and Jackson combined for a 3:02.60 time. 
in the 400-yard medley relay, notre dame’s all-se­nior squad of ayhan, Jensen, shane mcKenzie and michael hudspith touched the wall in 3:25.90. The time was just under two seconds slower than the winning team from oakland, but still earned the team a runner-up finish. 
divers sophomore peter myers and junior Zane parker picked up the sev­enth and final irish event win of the night in the 3-meter diving event, while the duo finished second off the 1-meter board. 
notre dame’s next event is oct. 30 when it welcomes michigan state to the rolfs aquatic center. 
MEN’S GOLF 

nd still confident without no. 1 golfer 
By SEAN KILMER 
sports writer 
notre dame will head down to carmel, indiana, for the next two days to compete in the crooked stick invitational. 
The irish will return to the course in their first competitive action in almost a month after their last tournament, the Tar heel invitational, was cancelled due to hurricane Joaquin last weekend. 
crooked stick is a top-flight championship venue, irish head coach James Kubinski said, and is known to most people as the site of John daly’s victory at the 1991 pga championships. more recently, it hosted the 2012 bmw championships at which rory mcilroy took home first place. 
“crooked stick is a major cham­pionship venue,” Kubinski said. “it’s a good test all the way around. it’s fair though. players who ex­ecute shots will post a good score. The biggest challenge might end up being the wind in our forecast. distance control is such a big key, especially [at crooked stick], that a windy day will make 74 a good score.” 
Three weeks ago, the irish tied for first at the Fighting irish golf classic, and they are bringing the confidence from that result to this tournament. Junior blake barens finished tied for second overall, and freshmen miguel delgado and ben albin joined him in the top 10. all three improved their score in each round as the tourna­ment progressed, and albin fin­ished his tournament with a 67 in his third round. 
“our team looks very confident after the win at home,” Kubinski said. “Truthfully though, our whole vibe is different this sea­son. regardless of any result in a given week, the leadership from our juniors and impact of our freshmen — three in our starting five this week — is palpable. every young team will have a learning curve, but this group works very hard and loves to compete.” 
The irish are starting their sixth man this week due to an injury to junior matthew rushton, who usually holds down the top spot in the notre dame lineup. rushton finished in a tie for 22nd at the Fighting irish classic. after en­tering final round tied for eighth, rushton struggled and posted a 76 to finish the tournament. despite the sizable impact of los­ing a top player, Kubinski said he has a lot of confidence in sopho­more Thomas steve’s ability to step up and play well. 
“well, on the surface, we’re tak­ing our best players one to five and now starting players two to six on our team,” Kubinski said. “not having matt is a challenge, but our guys know Thomas is a capable player. it has to be that next-man-up mentality. we’re confident Thomas will contrib­ute with some good scores. he’s playing well right now and looks comfortable.” 
last year, steve started in 10 of the team’s 11 tournaments, so he already has amble tournament experience. in the acc champi­onships last year, he scored a 236 to finish 58th overall. 
barens is coming into the tour­nament off of a career-best finish at the Fighting irish golf classic, so he will get the opportunity to fill out the lineup at the top spot, Kubinski said. The coach also said he is very confident about this group as a whole, and he thinks they are a special group. They will now get a chance to prove them­selves without their top player. 
Contact Sean Kilmer at  skilmer@nd.edu 


Observer File Photo | The Observer 

Junior Liam Cox holds his follow through during the Notre Dame Kickoff Challenge Aug. 31, 2014 at Warren Golf Course. 

ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2015 | The observer 


Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
michigan. 
Junior defenseman Justin wade and senior left wing mario lucia scored for the irish. wade evened the game late in the sec­ond period while lucia gave the irish a temporary lead with a power-play goal early in the third. 
peterson was in net for all 65 minutes of the contest, record­ing 33 saves on 35 shots for a .943 save percentage. 
according to head coach Jeff Jackson, both peterson and Katunar were given an equal chance in net this weekend. 
“i think it was just like the last game,” Jackson said. “i thought cal was playing really well today. if chad had a really good start [on Friday], we probably would’ve let him finish. i told both of them before these games, i’m gonna start each of you and then play it by ear. cal was playing really well today, so we let him finish it.” 

These were the only two ex­hibition games for the irish this year. 
“i think that both games prob­ably helped us,” Jackson said. “The first game was slower, slop­py, a little more chippy. [sunday] was a little quicker, faster-paced. For the most part i was fairly pleased with it. i thought we did a good job in the first and third [periods] and then the end of the second as well. 
“They’re a young team, but they’re talented. They’ll make you move, and they did that today.” 
with the exhibition sched­ule now in the books for notre dame, the irish will begin the regular season next weekend with a pair of road games at penn state. Friday night’s game will begin at 7 p.m. and saturday’s is set to start at 3 p.m. both games will be played at pegula ice arena in university park, pennsylvania. 
The irish will play their first regular season games of the season at compton Family ice arena the following weekend with a home stand against no. 2 minnesota duluth. 
as the irish look forward to the regular season, Jackson said this is only the beginning of the de­velopment he wants to see in his team as the season progresses. 
“it’s the first week of the sea­son, so we got a lot to work on,” Jackson said. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at  hmcdani1@nd.edu 



Volleyball 
conTinued From page 16 
Tigers. sophomore outside hitter maddie plumlee had a career-high 19 kills (.158 at­tack percentage) along with two blocks and three digs. Fellow sophomore outside hitter sam Fry added 13 kills (.259) of her own in addition to three blocks and four digs. 
sophomore setter Taylor Zwickl, in her second career start, collected 50 assists, two kills and four service aces, tied for the 10th-most by an irish player all-time and the most since outside hitter Kristen dealy had four against louisville in nov. 2011. 
against the yellow Jackets (12-6, 3-3 acc) on sunday, the irish had difficulty slow­ing down the high-powered yellow Jacket attack, which was led by junior outside hit­ter Teegan van gunst with 13 kills (.310). The yellow Jackets got off to a quick start in the first set, at one point leading 21-8 en route to a 25-12 win. The irish fought back in the second set, but ultimately came up short, losing the set 25-18. The third set was not much different, as the yellow Jackets rode their momentum to a 25-17 third-set victory, completing the sweep. 
The irish could not keep pace offensively with the yellow Jacket attack, as Fry led the irish with just eight kills (.235). The yellow Jackets collected 39 kills on the day compared to just 24 on the irish side. plumlee and fel­low sophomore outside hitter sydney Kuhn each added five kills, and freshman outside hitter rebecca nunge tallied four kills. Zwickl added 18 assists on the day, and fresh­man libero ryann deJarald had 14 digs. 
The irish look to regroup before welcoming duke and wake Forest to purcell pavilion to begin fall break. They take on the blue devils on Friday at 7 p.m. and the demon deacons on sunday at 1 p.m. 



The observer | MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

W Soccer 
gave us a different look and helped us get into a little bit 
conTinued From page 16 
of a rhythm.” 

The irish dominated in forward because we feel all facets of the game, espe­that she’s a playmaker” said cially in front of their own romagnolo. “having anoth-goal. led by seniors Katie er player looking to link up naughton, cari roccaro and brittany von rueden, the notre dame defense sty­mied nearly all of boston college’s attacks. 
“everyone in the back is in a good covering position,” romagnolo said. “They’re all calm and composed and can play out of it if they win the ball.” 
The golden eagles were only able to muster up two shots on goal — both easily handled by junior goalkeep­er Kaela little. sunday’s 2-0 victory was little’s fourth shutout on the season. 


The irish experienced a scary moment in the 63rd minute when sophomore sabrina Flores was struck in the face by an errant pass. she was forced to leave the pitch with a bloody nose but returned in the 75th minute to close out the game. 
with only four acc regu­lar season games left, the irish will look to ride this momentum to the confer­ence tournament. next up is a home game with wake Forest. 
romagnolo was encour­aged by her team’s most re­cent performance. 
“i just want to keep this going and build off it. i think the first half was very good and the second half was good,” romagnolo said. “i would like to see us get more possessions again and keep building off our ability to play make and obviously finish our chances.” 
The irish have five days to recover from the taxing match with boston college and prepare themselves for a clash with the demon deacons. Friday’s home game will be played at alumni stadium and is scheduled to kick off at 7 p.m. 
Contact Dominic Bush at dbush@nd.edu 
M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
about fifteen minutes to go in the first half. They re­turned a quarter of the way into the second half and were both on the field for the game-winning goal. irish head coach bobby clark lauded the performance of his two young two strikers. 
“[Farina has a] very calm finish,” clark said. “he was in a position just before the end of regulation, but i think his ankles clipped. so the goal was a form of justice, i think.” 
senior midfielder patrick hodan also turned in a star-caliber performance for the irish, scoring two goals on the evening to bring his reg­ular season total to three. particularly impressive was his second tally, scored on a set piece that saw junior defender brandon aubrey fake a powerful shot to the bottom right corner before hodan finessed his own shot into the opposite cor­ner, clark said. hodan’s shot caught the goalie moving in the other direction and snuck between him and the left post to bring the score to 2-0. 
clark lauded the team’s set piece preparation. 
“The day before a game we always go through our set pieces, and that was one we talked about a lit­tle bit,” clark said. “There were really three guys that could have taken the kick there — the two main ones were aubrey, who has a lot of power and patrick, who has finesse. it was a beautiful free kick.” 
with the victory over duke, the irish enter the fi­nal stretch of the regular season. The team will travel to three away games over the course of the next two weeks before returning home for senior night against pittsburgh for the final game of the regular season. Three of those four games, includ­ing matches against virginia Tech and no. 6 wake Forest, will have significant impli­cations for seeding in the acc Tournament. in the acc’s coastal division, the irish currently sit two games back of no. 2 north carolina, which is a perfect 5-0 in con­ference play. 
clark said the level of com­petition in the acc is high, meaning notre dame’s final four games will not be easy. 
“There’s not an easy game in the acc,” clark said. “That’s a given. you throw northwestern into the mix 
— i don’t think we’ve ever beaten northwestern on the road in the past few years. so that’s one that we really need to take care of as well. i think the secret of being successful in this is taking one game at a time. The only game we need to concentrate on right now is the virginia Tech game.” 


spend the week practic­ing before heading east to face virginia Tech at 5:30 
p.m. Friday in blacksburg, virginia. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 

clark still said he is con­fident in his team’s morale and mental well-being mov­ing into one of the more chal­lenging stretches the season. 
“There’ll be no problem with morale,” clark said. “midterms covered about the last three weeks, and that’s one of the most diffi­cult stretches the boys have to deal with. This week will be the last really tough one, with fall break next week.” 
The irish get a brief re­prieve from action as they 


ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2015 | The observer 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

ACROSS 32 Folk song 66 Place to drop a1 “… and ___ played at Jewish line from goes” weddings 
67 Skin woe 5 Pre-dyed hair 38 Life Saver­
68 Oktoberfest
color, often shaped 

container 9 Hip again 41 Come out on top 69 Memento from 14 Help desk 
42 Approvals Zorro 
offering 

43 Giant who was 70 Food items
15 Connecticut Ivy 

the Super Bowl catapulted with16 This, that and XLVI M.V.P. a spoon, maybethe ___ 
46 Thos. Jefferson 
17 John Gotti’s 

founded it DOWN
nickname, with“the” 47 Nuclear reactor 1 Dark Lord of the part ___ (“Star Wars” 
19 Cautious 
title)

20 Father of the 48 Sluggish Symphony 51 Flat item to cook 2 Eminently
draftable

21 What a military food on 3 Not certain at all
operative may 55 Black shade provide 4 “Was I right, or 
56 “Vive ___!” 

23 1995 N.F.L. was I right?!”
expansion team, 57 More puzzling 
5 Ob-___
for short 61 Regular 
6 Lines going out
24 First human in 63 Densely 

in all directions space populated area 
7 “Run ___ now

27 Google image-… or what 17-,organizing app 24-, 32-, 43- and …” 30 Like an excited 51-Across each 8 Dirt disher puppy’s tail, old-have? 9 Bed with wheels style 65 Sculptor’s 10 Juillet season 31 Oklahoma town subject 
11 “Caught you, atlong last!”
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
12 Showed again 
SCAT 
DEBI T 

PHEW 
13 Large African
antelope
PEER 
I NURE 

HORA 
ALI I 

OCEANLI NER 
18 Arduous task 
SLOP 
NON 

ELECT 
22 Richard of “Love 
MOUL I NROUGE 

STY 
Me Tender” 
EPEE 
PESO 
25 Bowl noise 
THETA 
COL 

N I CE 
26 Huge fad

SOL I DFOUNDAT I ON 

27 Spread on
ATOM 
APE 

RH I NO 
crackers 
EASE 
WAGE 
28 Worshiped one 
TSP 

COCOAPOWDER 
29 Many an
ATOLL 
VIA 

H I YA 
illustration in 
MAKEUPTEST 

ONI T 
The Economist 
EVEN 
EARTH 

LENT 
33 Plant bristle 
REDS 
GUTSY 

EDGY 
34 Roman septet 

JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  23  
24  25  26  
27  28  29  30  
31  32  33  34  35  36  37  
38  39  40  41  42  
43  44  45  46  
47  48  49  50  
51  52  53  54  
55  56  57  58  59  60  
61  62  63  64  
65  66  67  
68  69  70  

Puzzle by Ian Livengood  
35 Curry who formerlyco-hosted “Today” 36 Italian writer Primo 37 “What ___ state of affairs!” 39 “No problemhere”  44 Spanish baby 45 Pontiac model discontinued in ’74 49 ___ about (around) 50 Station aide 51 Make drunk 52 Movie set aides  54 Skin woe 55 Extends (out) 58 Yahtzee equipment 59 Italian hot spot 60 Some deli loaves 62 “___ see it …”  
40 Bell tower instrument  53 Title character in a Sega game  64 Do something wrong  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: Keep an open mind when others make changes. The less said, the easier it will be to incorporate what you want to do without being criticized. revisit your past plans to see if there is anything you can update and recycle. a combination of talent, skills and ideas will lead you in an interesting and entertaining direction. your numbers are 6, 10, 17, 24, 30, 32, 49. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): mix business with pleasure. attending an industry event or touching base with a colleague during off hours will help you promote what you are capable of doing. avoid situations that have the potential to lead to conflict. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): you will impress someone with a little extra effort and affection. Travel and entertainment plans will help turn your day into an adventure. share your feelings and you will find a way to reach your goals with help from your friends. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): at times, it might feel like you are moving backward. lighten up and use your keen observational skills to outmaneuver anyone who tries to steal your thunder. a commitment will lead to a change at home. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t make a decision that will cause discord with someone you love. Focus on getting along, making compromises and coming up with a plan that will satisfy everyone involved in any personal changes you are planning to make. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): get involved in activities that will help you meet new people or improve a relationship you are already in. use your persuasive abilities to get your way. a promise made will bring you one step closer to a deal you want to seal. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): online job prospects look inviting. a change in direction will motivate you. put love on a pedestal and make your partner feel wanted. a little affection will go a long way. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Keep your plans a secret. avoid disputes at home or with loved ones. be rational, act calm and look for solutions that don’t compromise your beliefs. Think outside the box and you will find provisions that will help you make positive personal changes. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): send out your resume. what you do to expand your vision and what you have to offer will make a difference when you look for ways to advance. don’t be afraid to be different. it’s your uniqueness that will draw attention. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): love and romance will not go as planned. if you want to impress someone, it’s best to be honest about who you are and what you have to offer. giving a false impression will backfire, leaving you in an awkward position. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): check out investment opportunities. put time aside to take better care of your health. you will be given an opportunity to foster a long-term commitment. Take advantage of it if it will give you more down time. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): put everything in order and map out exactly how you want things to unfold. don’t let anyone with an unrealistic idea take over. protect against swindlers or those trying to bully their way into your life. 



PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): you’ll be pulled in different directions. don’t lose sight of what you want. a change is in order, but a disciplined approach to building your dream and finishing what you start must be put into play. romance is encouraged. 


Birthday Baby: you are creative, intelligent and talented. you are productive and curious. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
TORLL  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
DENRT  

GEWHIT YALELV  
 


Answer here: 


(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: EVOKE PLAZA CAMPUS EXPIRESaturday’s 
Answer: They had no chance of winning the balloon race because they couldn’t — KEEP UP 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer  
p.o. box 779  
notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year  
enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 

city      state Zip 

The observer | MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S SOCCER | nd 3. duKe 2 (oT) 
Farina, Hodan lead squad to win over Blue Devils 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writer 
patrick hodan scored two goals for the irish, but it was sophomore forward Jeffrey Farina whose overtime goal won the day for notre dame in a marquee matchup against con­ference foe duke on saturday at alumni stadium. 
The no. 7 irish (8-2-3, 3-1-1 acc) started the game strong, establishing a comfortable two-goal lead and controlling the pace of the game through 55 minutes against a beleaguered duke squad still seeking its first conference win — but they needed Farina’s set piece hero­ics to ultimately seal the deal in the 3-2 victory. The sophomore forward put home the golden goal in the 97th minute as the ball found its way from junior defender matt habrowski’s head to Farina’s feet right in front of the keeper’s box. 
Farina started the game alongside fellow sophomore forward Jon gallagher, though both were substituted out with 
see m soccer PAGE 14 


ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | nd 2, bc 0 
nd downs rival boston college 
By DOMINIC BUSH 
sports writer 
in a very physical match, the no. 16 irish come away with a commanding 2-0 vic­tory over acc rival boston college. 
notre dame (10-3-1, 3-3­
0) was relentless on offense, outshooting the golden eagles (9-4-2, 3-2-1) by a 21-5 margin. with the win and Thursday’s 1-0 triumph over syracuse, the irish have now put together a two-game winning streak after losing consecutive games for the first time all year. 
The game winner came in the 27th minute cour­tesy of midfielder Taylor Klawunder. The sophomore won position in front of the goal and headed in sopho­more midfielder sabrina Flores’ corner kick. 
Thirty minutes later, Taylor’s twin sister Kaitlin Klawunder entered as a sub­stitute in the 56th minute and immediately proved to be a wise coaching deci­sion. Kaitlin charged into the box following a save by boston college redshirt­freshman goalkeeper alexis bryant. she blasted the re­bound past the outstretched bryant for her first goal of the season. 
second-year head coach Theresa romagnolo said she saw a return to the ba­sics as key in her team’s turnaround. 
“sometimes we can may­be over-teach,” romagnolo said. “They’re such great players. They all see the game and need ideas here and there, but if they rely on what they know, good things are going to flow from that.” 
in addition to simplifying the game plan, romagnolo made a positional change, moving junior sandra yu from midfielder to forward. it was yu’s shot in the 57th minute that was redirected by junior forward Kaleigh olmsted leading to the re­bound Klawunder scored on. 
“we moved sandra yu to 
see w soccer PAGE 14 

HOCKEY | nd 7, guelph 5; nd 2, usnTdp 2 
irish win and tie exhibition games 
By HUNTER  McDANIEL 
sports writer 
hockey is back at notre dame, as the irish kicked off the new season with a pair of exhibition games over the weekend. 
The irish welcomed the university of guelph to compton Family ice arena and came away with a sloppy 7-5 victory on Friday night. 
six different players scored in the game for the irish, in­cluding two from freshman defenseman dennis gilbert. 
The irish started the sea­son strong, as sophomores defenseman luke ripley and left wing anders bjork both scored in the first 1:44 of the contest. 
The gryphons and the irish traded goals through­out the first two periods un­til the irish scored four in a row to stretch their lead to 7-3. guelph scored two late goals to make the final score 7-5. 
irish senior center and captain steven Fogarty, sophomore center/right wing Jake evans and fresh­man center andrew oglevie all scored for notre dame, as well. 
The teams combined for more than 40 penalty min­utes in the game, and seven of the 12 total goals came courtesy of the power play. 
Two goaltenders, junior chad Katunar and sopho­more cal peterson, split time in net for the irish, with each playing roughly half the game. Katunar stopped a to­tal of six shots in the open­ing 30 minutes, but petersen got credit for the win af­ter coming in and making nine saves over the final 30 minutes. 
Then on sunday, notre dame traveled to plymouth, michigan, where they tied, 2-2, with the united states national Team development program (usnTdp) at usa hockey arena in plymouth, 
see hocKey PAGE 13  

ND VOLLEYBALL | nd 3, clemson 2; georgia Tech 3, nd 0 
Notre Dame nabs first ACC win in five sets over Clemson 
Observer Staff Report 
The irish grabbed their first acc victory of the sea­son this weekend, finishing the weekend 1-1. The irish, (6-12, 1-5 acc) defeated clemson 3-2 (25-12, 25-22, 22-25, 19-25, 15-13) in a five-set match on Friday before dropping the match against georgia Tech in straight sets sunday, 3-0 (12-25, 18­25, 17-25). The win against clemson (5-13, 0-6 acc) puts notre dame at six wins on the season, as many as the program had through the entire 2014 campaign. 
The irish came out strong against the Tigers, taking the first two sets before the Tigers came storming back, taking sets three and four. The irish had to hold onto the lead in the fifth set and fend off a Tigers comeback en route to their victory. 
sevarl irish players had career nights against the 
see volleyball PAGE 13 





