ThE INdEPENdENT TO UNCOVEr NEWSPAPEr SErVING ThE TrUTh NOTrE dAmE ANd ANd rEPOrT SAINT mAry’S IT ACCUrATELy 

VOLUmE 48, ISSUE 100 | tuEsdAy, mArch 3, 2015 | NdSmCOBSErVEr.COm 
Patten to give commencement speech 
Oxford Chancellor to speak to graduating class in May after health concerns prevented 2014 address 
we are equally delighted that and around the world who of the BBC Trust, the gov-1992, when he was named 
Observer Staff Report 

he will join us this year,” has taken on and helped re-erning body of the Br itish governor of hong Kong. he Oxford Chancellor University President Fr. John solve complex international Broadcasting Corporation, served as governor until the 
Christopher Patten, Lord 
Patten of Barnes, has been 
named Notre dame’s 2015 
Commencement speaker, ac­
cording to a University press 
release. 

Patten was slated to deliver 
the Commencement address 
last year, but health concerns issues, including the trans-and chancellor of Newcastle territory was handed over 

fer of governance in hong University. In 2005, he was to the People’s republic of 
Kong and policing reforms in bestowed the title of baron. China in 1997. 
Northern Ireland, and he is a Patton began his ca-recognized as one of the 
leading Catholic who led the reer as a desk officer, and most influential Catholics in 
planning for Pope Benedict’s later a director, in the re-Britain, Patten has worked 
very successful visit to Great search department of the with Pope Benedict and Pope 
Britain. his experience and Conservative Party after Francis. 
expertise are certain to reso-his graduation from Balliol Notre dame’s 170th 
led to a change of speaker. 

“We were very disappoint­ed that Lord Patten was un­able to attend last year, and Jenkins said in a press re­lease. “he is a highly respect­ed statesman in Great Britain nate with our Class of 2015.” 
Patton, who has been chancellor of Oxford since 2003, has also served as chair College, Oxford. In 1979, he was elected as a member of Parliament for Bath. he served in the position until Commencement ceremony will be held Sunday, may 17, at 9 a.m. at Notre dame Stadium. 



University hosts second TEDx talks 
By MEGAN VALLEY and JEREMY CAPELLO LEE 
News Writers 
On Friday, 18 speakers, ranging from Notre dame undergraduates to faculty to community mem­bers, delivered 12-minute presen­tations for the 2015 TEdxUNd. 
The event took place at deBartolo Performing Arts Center, and presentations were based on the theme, “What if …” Brian Snyder, Notre dame class of 2002, was the event’s emcee. 
The videos of all the speeches will be available at tedx2015. nd.edu in the coming weeks. 
Prashan de Visser: “counter radicalisation of youth” 
de Visser is a graduate student at the Kroc International Institute for Peace Studies and the president and founder of Sri Lanka Unites, a 
see TEdx PAGE 5 



Professor emeritus of law dies 
Observer Staff Report 
Charles E. rice, professor emeri­tus of law, died Wednesday at the age of 83, according to a press re­lease issued by the University on Friday. 
rice graduated from the College of the holy Cross in 1953 and earned his juris doctor degree from Boston College in 1956, the press release said. he went on to earn a master of laws and doc­tor of juridical sciences from New york University in 1959 and 1962, respectively, the press release said. 

rice then entered private practice in New york City and taught at C.W. Post College, New york University and Fordham University before joining the Notre dame law faculty in 1969, the press release said. 
A popular teacher, rice was a pro-life advocate who co-authored many legal briefs on right-to-life and right-to-die issues, according to the press release. rice also au­thored thirteen books, the press release said. 
While at Notre dame, rice was a coach, referee and faculty ad­visor for the University’s annual Bengal Bouts, which raises mon­ey for the holy Cross missions in Bangladesh, the press release said. 
“Professor Charles rice epito­mized all that is best about Notre dame,” Fr. Wilson miscamble, professor of history, said in the press release. “his contribution 
see PrOFESSOr PAGE 4 


Carter to speak at service 
Observer Staff Report 
Former President of the United States Jimmy Carter and former Secretary of State Condoleezza rice, m.A. class of 1975, top a long list of dignitaries who will offer re­flections at the memorial service for University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore “Ted” hesburgh on Wednesday evening, the University announced in a press release monday. 
According to the statement, other speakers will include Carter’s wife, former First Lady rosalynn Carter; former president of Princeton University William Bowen; Indiana Sen. Joe donnelly, class of 1977 and Law School class of 1981; dillon hall rector Fr. Paul doyle; former football head coach Lou holtz; archbishop emeritus of Washington Cardinal Theodore mcCarrick; Indiana Gov. mike Pence; Board of Trustees mem­ber martin W. rogers, class of 1988; former Wyoming Sen. Alan Simpson and former Pennsylvania Sen. harris Wofford. 
University President Fr. John Jenkins will also offer a tribute, the release stated. 
“We are honored that the Carters, dr. rice and our other distinguished guests will join to 
see SErVICE PAGE 4 





Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, Notre dame, IN 46556 024 South dining hall, Notre dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                Brian hartnett  Alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: Isaac Lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin Song Asst. Managing Editor: Samantha Zuba 

News Editor: Lesley Stevenson Viewpoint Editor: Gabriela Leskur Sports Editor: mary Green Scene Editor: Allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: Wei Lin Graphics Editor: Keri O’mara Multimedia Editor: Brian Lach Advertising Manager: Elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine Park Controller: Cristina Gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
What is Fr. Ted’s biggest contribution to Notre Dame? 

Maura Mullahy 
freshman 
Walsh hall 
“Letting women in.” 
Bridget Kelly 
freshman 
Farley hall 
“Contributions to human rights.” 
Michael Marshall 
senior 
St. Edward’s hall 
“All the contributions to the civil rights movement.” 


Jane Schumacher 
freshman 
Welsh Family hall 
“Letting in the Notre dames.” 
Maggie Thomann 
freshman Pasquerilla East hall 
“Letting women in.” 
Abby Smith 
freshman Welsh Family hall 
“Women.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the University of Notre 
dame du Lac and Saint mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, managing Editor, Assistant 
managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The Observer is published at: 
024 South dining hall 
Notre dame, IN 46556-0779 

Periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices 
POSTmASTEr 
Send address corrections to: 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
024 South dining hall 
Notre dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. 
All reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Emily mcConville Alex Carson Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: Katie Galioto Brian Plamondon Selena Ponio marek mazurek 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
Sara Shoemake Erin mcAuliffe 
Photo Viewpoint 

Public Visitation for Procession to Burial Graduate Student Graduate Student Men’s Basketball 
Caitlyn Jordan Tabitha ricketts 
Fr. Hesburgh Site for Fr. Hesburgh Dinner Mass Joyce Center Basilica of the Sacred Basilica of the Sacred Coleman-Morse Basilica of the Sacred 4 p.m. - 6 p.m. Heart Heart to Holy Cross Center Heart Irish take on Clemson. 
Corrections 

12 p.m. - 6 p.m. Community Cemetery 6:15 p.m. - 8:15 p.m. 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. 
The Observer regards itself as 9 p.m. - 10 a.m. Wed. 3:30 p.m. Food and giveaways. Worship service. a professional publication and 
Open to the public. Open to the public. 

strives for the highest standards 
Four: 7 Catholic Memorial Tribute for Film: Winter Sleep Film: Rosewater Theater: “Romeo and 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
Fellowship Fr. Hesburgh DeBartolo Performing DeBartolo Performing Juliet” 
however, recognize that we will make 
Cavanaugh Hall Joyce Center Arts Center Arts Center Debartolo Performing 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
8:15 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. 7:30 p.m. - 9:00 p.m. 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Arts Center 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Student-led worship Limited number of Ticket prices vary. Ticket prices vary. 7 p.m. - 8:15 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

service. tickets available. Live acoustic music. 


Faculty reflect on legacy of Fr. Hesburgh 
By ERIN McAULIFFE 
News Writer 
The effects of University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore “Ted” hesburgh’s life and work were felt worldwide but especially resonated on campus. 
Campus staff and faculty, some of whom worked at the University during his presidency, felt pride in working for a school associated with such a progressive, influen­tial figure. 
For Edward hums, who teach­es accounting and serves as the University’s first faculty-in­residence with his wife, Shirley, hesburgh’s influence was preva­lent before he ever stepped foot on campus. 
“my mom and my dad would always talk about how they had this great young priest from Notre dame who came to mishawaka to do their Pre-Cana after my dad returned from World War II,” hums said. “This handsome young priest was Fr. hesburgh, so in our house, nothing was more respected than Notre dame, no one was more respected than Fr. hesburgh.” 
hums was able to develop a per­sonal relationship with hesburgh throughout his time as a Notre dame. he said hesburgh had an active presence both on and off campus during his presidency. 
“As students, we felt pride in having Fr. hesburgh as our University’s president,” he said. “There were all these other presi­dents of Universities, and all those guys were just bookworms. Our president was doing everything and doing so all around the world.” 
hums said after he graduated, he worked with Fr. hesburgh in the main Building for many years. 
“he was a people person,” he said. “he cared for everyone, and people respected his opinions. We were at a contentious Board of Trustees meeting about signing an NBC contract, and Father got up and spoke for about a minute. 
“he expressed his approval, say­ing, ‘you know, I think this is a good idea. I might have done something like this when I was president.’ And the contention dissipated — it was decided.” 
It was this presence and power that robert Schmuhl, chair of the American studies department, re­members as well. 
“Fr. hesburgh was always a voice of moral clarity on domestic and international issues,” he said. “Just as importantly, his words led to ac­tions that changed and improved the lives of the people affected by those issues. he was unafraid in addressing and taking a stand on controversial issues, never flinch­ing in the face of criticism.” 
For a few summers in the late 

SMC Republicans attend political action conference 
By MARTHA REILLY 
News Writer 
When the members of Saint mary’s College republicans attended the annual Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC), which took place from Feb. 25 to 28 in Washington d.C., they thought they would be listening to the news — not making it. 
College republicans president and senior Nicole O’Toole said she and vice president Shannon Golden were leaving New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie’s speech 
when  Fox  News  reporter  
Griff  Jenkins  approached  
them.  

“he asked if he could in­terview Shannon and me for Greta Van Susteren’s ‘On the record’ show that evening,” O’Toole said. “I discussed Chris Christie’s speech and how I admire his passion and energy. The 2016 candi­date should emulate a lot of his personal qualities.” 
Golden said her stance sur­prised Jenkins because she is from New Jersey but does not back Chris Christie. She said her time on Fox News, along with her overall experience at CPAC, increased her en­thusiasm about the College republicans organization. 
“This gave us the passion to get back to campus and spread the conservative view to other girls at Saint mary’s,” Golden said. “One of the most valuable things that we took away from CPAC was that we are the fu­ture, and this next election is about us and our future.” 
O’Toole said this year’s CPAC served as a learning opportunity for the College republicans organization. 

“I explored more deeply some issues I have been flip-flopping on and was in­spired by some of our coun­try’s smartest and brightest leaders,” O’Toole said. “We will definitely take back all of the incredible network­ing we were able to do, and we hope to send a conserva­tive speaker to campus this spring.” 
According to O’Toole, one of the most interesting parts of CPAC was the differing viewpoints of the speakers. 
“It was a nice reminder of the many different views of the republican party,” O’Toole said. “… I believe you can only truly be sure of your beliefs if you have re­ally investigated the other side.” 
O’Toole said one speech in particular made a lasting im­pression on her: a luncheon with the Clare Luce Booth Policy Institute, which hon­ored communications con­sultant KT mcFarland as its “Woman of the year.” 
“[mcFarland’s] best ad­vice for young conservative women was to always be prepared and confident,” O’Toole said. “men ask for more and do not feel rude about doing so. Women need the confidence men have in order to be more successful in the world.” 
Golden said CPAC speak­ers such as Texas Sen. Ted Cruz, Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker and Phil robertson of “duck dynasty” covered a variety of topics, but Sarah Palin’s speech was especial­ly focused on the military. 
“It was an extreme change of pace from all the other speakers who talked about what they would bring to the table if they run in 2016,” Golden said. “She talked about improving soldiers’ benefits and the support for when they return from war.” 
O’Toole said Palin’s speech distinguished itself from the others as she dis­cussed her son Track Palin’s military service. 
“Sarah Palin’s speech re­ally stuck out because she’s very colorful,” O’Toole said. “She emphasized the need to legitimize military de­grees so that veterans are able to get better jobs that they are more than qualified enough to do.” 
Golden said Kentucky Sen. rand Paul, who focused on liberty and economic free­dom, was a crowd favorite. 
“People were chanting ‘President Paul’ and go­ing crazy,” Golden said. “he seemed to get the best response from the crowd, especially from the millennials.” 
Golden said some of the most memorable parts of the conference were the op­portunities to network and her time on Fox News. 
“It was great being with like-minded peers from all over the country and hear­ing who everyone wants in 2016,” Golden said. “There were so many politicians and huge people in the republican Party. It was such a privilege that SmC College republicans was able to take part in this year’s CPAC.” 
Contact Martha Reilly at mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 

1990s, Edward and Shirley hums spent two or three weeks at Land O’Lakes, Wisconsin, as hesburgh’s guests. 
“he had a little rustic cabin on the property,” Shirley hums said. “he was never more relaxed than when he was out on the lakes. he would read all night and come down to breakfast around 1 or 2 
p.m. to pour himself a bowl of ce­real and chat.” 
Although their time at the cabin was spent fishing and relaxing, Land O’Lakes served as a central spot for many of the historical de­cisions hesburgh coordinated. For example, hums said the cabin’s dining table “looked just like a normal dining room table” to him, until hesburgh elaborated on its history. 
“Father would say, ‘Well, you know, this is the table around which we did the U.S. Commission on Civil rights vote. This is where we made the Land O’Lakes Statement to define what it means to be a Catholic university.” 
hesburgh was a man who was remembered by stories and deci­sions like these, but he was also remembered for his daily inter­actions, expressing warmth and gratitude to all he met. 
Jim yates, a staff member at hesburgh Library, was one of the many touched by these small but memorable interactions. 
“I work the weekends, and ev­ery morning, Fr. hesburgh would come in and ask for his reader for the newspaper,” yates said. “he was a warm-hearted man who embraced everything Notre dame and this library are about. his presence is and will continue to be felt and embraced in this workplace.” 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at  emcaulif@nd.edu 
Keurig founder explores leadership 
By JP GSCHWIND 
News Writer 

mendoza College of Business adjunct instructor Christopher Stevens delivered the keynote address at the 2015 Atlantic Coast Conference Leadership Symposium on Sunday morning at Legends of Notre dame. 
The conference focused on pro­moting a welcoming and tolerant atmosphere via strong leadership. Stevens’s remarks touched on a va­riety of topics related to these issues and the broader theme of what de­termines successful leadership. 
Stevens said inequality is grow­ing problem. he cited the rising incomes of the wealthy and the stagnant and even declining in­comes of the poor as well as un­derrepresentation of women in leadership positions at major com­panies. he said these issues need to be addressed by the next genera­tion of young leaders. 
“you’re not going to do it alone,” he said. “your success will be deter­mined not by how high you climb or many mountains you conquer, but by how many people that you bring with you.” 
Stevens said his own experience as one of the founders of Keurig Premium Coffee Systems taught him about the driving forces be­hind success as a leader in the busi­ness world and beyond. 
he played of a video clip of re­tired Gen. Colin Powell describing the essence of leadership after a reporter asked him to distill lead­ership into one word. Powell an­swered this question by saying trust was the most important component of leadership in his life. Stevens said this illustrates the value of working and serving those you lead with humility. 
disagreement and debate, how­ever, are crucial to cultivating cul­tures of success, Stevens said, in order to avoid complacency. 
“If two partners always agree in business, one of them is unneces­sary,” Stevens said. 
According to Stevens, leaders need to have a powerful vision behind what they are doing. he used the ex­amples of Walt disney, mary Anne radmacher, Eleanor roosevelt, dolly Parton and henry david Thoreau to illustrate the importance of this kind of creative dreaming and commit­ment to a cause. 
“People don’t buy what you’re sell­ing,” he said. “They buy why you’re selling it and what you believe in.” 
Stevens said finding success in sales and business requires chan­neling these values into a recogniz­able brand. he said examples of this abound, including mcdonald’s, GEICO and BmW. 
Stevens said building a strong reputation is not a simple task, however. 
“Creativity can make the dif­ference between an acceptable solution and an exceptional one,” Stevens said. 
Failure is a universal experience but too many lose hope after stum­bling at first and not learning from their mistakes, Stevens said. 
“‘No’ is an invitation to dialogue,” he said. “It means you haven’t given me enough reasons to say ‘yes’ yet.” 
Stevens said he learned this les­son from his work growing Keurig against competitors ranging from the standard cheap coffee that most offices previously bought and the ubiquitous luxury option of Starbucks. 
Stevens said the three rules of former Notre dame football coach Lou holtz simplify many of the themes he discussed: Always do the right thing, do the best you can at whatever you’re doing and show people you care. 
Contact JP Gschwind at jgschwin@nd.edu 


ND celebrates annual jazz festival 
By MADISON JAROS 
News Writer 
Jazz bands from colleges and universities across the country visited Notre dame this weekend to play at the University’s 57th annual Collegiate Jazz Festival. 
The festival, which has be­come less competitive and more educational since it be­gan in 1958, has always been entirely student-run, assis­tant director of bands and director of jazz studies Larry dwyer said. 
“Primarily, most of the major decisions are made by the students who run the festival,” dwyer said. “And that does make a difference. Overall, it makes the Festival a lot more fun. 
“I’ve had some of the judges talk to me at times, because some of them have been back to Notre dame multiple times and say, ‘We like to come back here just because of the spirit and vibe at your festi­val. Sometimes we go to other college festivals, and it’s all run by the adults … and it’s just not the same.’ So that’s one of the other elements that makes this a really good festival.” 

Festival committee member 
“It’s a great chance for South Bend community members and Notre Dame students to stop by to hear different styles of jazz and see a different side of this school.” 
Mia McReynolds 
festival committee member 

and junior mia mcreynolds said the students involved in planning the jazz festival had been working since this sum­mer to ensure the event ran smoothly. Planning the festi­val was a great opportunity to get a behind-the-scenes look at Notre dame’s art scene, es­pecially because the festival has so much history, she said. 
“It’s got a lot of history, but students aren’t very aware of it,” mcreynolds said. “It’s a great chance for South Bend community members and Notre dame students to stop by to hear different styles of jazz and see a different side of this school. 
“To me, helping out with the festival was a chance to take a break from my normal studies and get involved with the music scene.” 
mcreynolds said the show ran smoothly, bringing to­gether both Notre dame students and South Bend resi­dents in the audience. 
“The audience is histori­cally mostly South Bend resi­dents with a few students; this year was the same,” she said. “There were a lot more people in attendance the first night because of the Judges’ Jam. The five judges [for the festival] went onstage to play together, and it was awesome to see the pros perform.” 
Sophomore and festival committee member holly Backstrom said the festival was “a big success,” and the audience response was posi­tive, even though attendance from Notre dame students was lower than she hoped it would be. 
“I do wish we could draw a larger amount of student interest and attendance, but with so much going on this past weekend, from Bengal Bouts to hockey, we had to ex­pect that the numbers would be on the lower side since there were so many events to choose from on campus,” Backstrom said. “That being said, I still saw a good number of students in the audience and have gotten a lot of posi­tive feedback from those I’ve spoken to about the festival.” 
Contact Madison Jaros at mjaros@nd.edu 

Saint mary’s students discuss issues in the LGBTQIA community 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
News Writer 
In the latest installment of the Saint mary’s Justice Education program’s Friday series, a member of the Saint mary’s LGBTQIA commu­nity, senior molly Smith, and an ally, junior miranda Bronicki, gave a presentation on the issues the community faces on and off campus and the ways non-queer people can become strong allies. 
Smith began the presen­tation by identifying what each letter in the acronym LGBTQIA stands for: lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer or questioning, inter-sex — having an ambiguous biological sex — and asexual or agender (not identifying as male or female). 
Smith said the fact that Saint mary’s is a Catholic all-women’s college poses problems because of the Catholic view that is placed upon the students within the community. 
“There are some that want to put that view on people,” Smith said. “‘People who are queer should remain celibate or should not get married.’ 

It’s things like that that adds this layer of feeling like you’re a second-class citizen on campus.” 
Smith said there are few resources for the community on campus. The Straight and Gay Alliance is not currently active, and Smith said it was ineffective in connecting is­sues faced by the queer com­munity with other issues in society. Smith said she start­ed an organization called Intersect to tie in the queer community with other issues that students face, such as racism, religious discrimina­tion and classism 
There are also many stig­mas and stereotypes of the queer community present at the College, Smith said. For example, a student was elect­ed class president in con­secutive years, but once she came out, she faced discrimi­nation both from the student body and the administration. 
“The classroom is what I consider the safest place on campus … because a profes­sor has never made any com­ment,” she said. “If I’ve made any comment regarding my experiences, they’ve been cool with it and welcoming of those comments. Professors have helped put on events to education students.” 
Smith said there are many great students on campus, such as Bronicki, who are welcoming of the queer community. 
Bronicki, who identifies as a heterosexual and cisgen­der woman, offered an ally’s perspective and tips for be­coming a good ally on and off campus. 
Bronicki said her main reason for realizing the im­portance of being an ally is having friends who identify as queer. She said it is impor­tant to understand privilege, especially when it comes to media representation. 
“I can turn on a television and see things I identify with being represented, and a lot of times, it’s going to be more positive,” Bronicki said. “you aren’t going to see as many heavy stereotypes as you see often with homosexual couples.” 
Bronicki said the way to be a good ally is to be aware of the issues the queer com­munity goes through, not to assume someone’s gender or sexuality based on looks, to use someone’s preferred pronouns and to respectful­ly ask members of the queer community questions. 


“It’s okay to ask questions, especially because this stuff isn’t in our everyday lives until we get older, because it’s not in the media so much or in children’s books,” she said. 
Contact Nicole Caratas at  ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 
service 
CONTINUEd FrOm PAGE 1 
pay tribute to Fr. Ted and his many contributions to national and in­ternational affairs, the Catholic Church and higher education,” Jenkins said in the statement. “This tribute will be a special op­portunity to celebrate Fr. Ted’s re­markable life and career.” 
The tribute will begin at 7:30 
p.m. Wednesday at Purcell Pavilion and will also include music from Notre dame student choirs and instrumentalists, the release stated. 
members of the general public can obtain a limited number of tickets to the service beginning at 3 p.m. Tuesday at the murnane Family Ticket Office at Purcell Pavilion. 
According to the release, both the Carters and rice knew hesburgh for nearly 40 years. hesburgh served on the Select Commission on Immigration and refugee Policy in the Carter administration and as University president while rice was a gradu­ate student. 
Professor 
CONTINUEd FrOm PAGE 1 
as a teacher and scholar in the Law School influenced at least two generations of students to become lawyers who saw their work as a vocation and not just a career. his profound commitment to the pro-life cause and to the truths of natu­ral law, which were so evident in his writings, and in his speaking and television appearances, gave him an influence far beyond the Notre dame campus.” 
A funeral mass for rice will be celebrated monday at St. Joseph Church in mishawaka, Indiana, at 11 a.m., the press release said. Visitation will be held Saturday from 4 to 8 p.m. and Sunday from 2 to 7 p.m. at hahn Funeral home in mishawaka. 

PAId AdVErTISEmENT 



tEdx 
CONTINUEd FrOm PAGE 1 
movement dedicated to prevent­ing radicalization of Sri Lankan youths. The group has sprouted Congo Unites and Global Unites. drawing on his own childhood in Sri Lanka, de Visser explained how radicals target young people in or­der to pursue their agendas. 
“Our nation was divided along ethnic lines,” he said. “Our people ended up in a brutal civil war for 28 years, and we were born into that. As a young child, I didn’t un­derstand all the complexities of the war, but I did understand that a mi­nority of extremists on either side of the ethnic divide manipulated and brainwashed young people to be­lieve that violence was the only way to protect and preserve their ethnic identity and their rights.” 
de Visser said the best way to end these conflicts is to expose young people to the opposite side so that they can see it is not so dif­ferent. he said programs such as Sri Lanka United provide counters to radicalization. 
susan Jackson: “creating collaboration From contentiousness” 
As the president of the International Seafood Sustainability Foundation (ISSF) — a global part­nership among scientists, tuna processors and environmental nonprofits to keep tuna stocks sus­tainable and preserve conservation 
— Jackson has experience dealing with people whose interests conflict. She said the model that allowed ISSF to succeed is bigger than the niche it currently occupies. 
Jackson explained the methods that work best for “working with your antagonists” and said these apply to students at Notre dame. 
“By finding these partnerships and looking for opportunities to create collaboration, you can still always find a way to bring your personal values into your work, no matter where you end up,” she said. 
Julia mcKenna: “If hands Were Just for holding ... And Other ‘What If’s’ From a teenage Poet” 
An eighth-grader at Good Shepherd montessori School, mcKenna was the youngest speak­er at the talks. She performed a piece 0f spoken-word poetry, in which she asked a series of ‘What if?’ questions. 
“What if life was fair?” mcKenna said. “What if no one could use cheat cards like nationality, gen­der or class? What if instead of put­ting life on a teeter-totter, where one end is always up, and one end is always down, we put life on a rock-climbing wall? Because then there is nowhere to go but up.” 
The questions reflected mcKenna’s desire for a brighter future. 
“The thing is, we need to dream together,” she said. “So what if ev­eryone did big things instead of pursuing small realities?” 
Benjamin sunderlin: “What if We remade the Liberty Bell?” 
Sunderlin, a master of Fine Arts student at Notre dame, said the Liberty Bell serves as a meta­phor for United States’ ideals of freedom. 
“We hold our freedom as for­ward, as a defining characteristic of who we are,” Sunderlin said. “We believe in the American dream, not one to think it could quickly turn into a nightmare. We constantly seek to evolve and to grow, to better the lives of people who are oppressed, underprivi­leged and prejudiced.” 
he said that, as with the bell, the United States’ sense of freedom and justice has been cracked, but people refuse to fix it. 
“remaking icons shouldn’t be a dream that exists outside of our grasp, reason or interest,” he said. “Why shouldn’t we remake it?” 
Jackson Jhin: “transforming Noise Into music” 
With his synthesizer on stage, Jhin, a Notre dame sophomore, demonstrated the elements that differentiate between noise and music. he said predictability and variability are the most important aspects in determining what mu­sic is most pleasing to the ear. 
“music is fundamentally the balance between predictability and variability,” he said. “This is important because you need your music to be intriguing. you want it to be interesting. But at the same time, if it’s not predictable, if you can’t anticipate what’s going to happen next, it’s too chaotic.” 
deandra cadet and Edithstein cho: “center your story: claim your Identity” 
Cadet, a senior, and Cho, a 2014 graduate, spoke of the importance of “centering” oneself, telling one’s own stories. 
They began by telling a story of four blind men observing differ­ent parts of the same elephant and not realizing it was the same ani­mal until someone who could see told them. They said the elephant never got to tell its own story, and we often put ourselves in the same position. 
“Tell your stories from your per­spective, rather than regurgitating or reacting from the stories of you told by others,” Cho said. 
Cadet and Cho also spoke about Show Some Skin, an annual pro­duction at Notre dame that en­courages students to tell their own stories and to define their identities. 
“We attempt to reconcile our perceptions of ourselves with the perceptions of others,” Cadet said. 
Cadet said people should in­stead focus on their perceptions of themselves. 
Fr. david Link: “An Escape strategy For the War On crime: healing the criminal” 
“The simple fact of the matter, my friends, is that most people in prison did not fall into the cracks; they were born into cracks,” Link said. 
Link, a former dean of the Notre dame Law School who became a Catholic priest, said his experience as a prison chaplain convinced him that prisoners could and should be healed. 
“Before I got involved in prison ministry, I thought that all prison­ers were alike, that these were bad people who were given to a life of crime and to social deviance,” he said. “I needed a wake up call.” 
Link said the only way to truly beat the war on crime is to focus on healing rather than punishment. 
“There is significance in stand­ing by our brothers and sisters who society regard as the least and the last, because we know them as the lost and the lonely,” he said. 
Pete Freeman: “What If ‘thank you’ Were more than two trite Words?” 
Freeman, a freshman, said our culture says “Thank you” without really meaning it. he said the av­erage American says “Thank you” over 5,000 times a year. 
“Today, we’ve become habitual about throwing around the phrase ‘Thank you,’ and when others say it to us, we hardly say ‘you’re wel­come,’” he said. 
Freeman said sincerely thank­ing someone has numerous health benefits, including lowered blood pressure. 
Freeman is the founder of Thank Bank, an organization that finds creative ways to say “Thank you.” he said one of the biggest projects they’ve taken on was a giant mural for a “community matriarch” from his hometown, a 103-year-old woman who had been volunteer­ing for over 50 years. 
“We have a problem, and [the] solution starts with a total over­haul of how we look at ‘Thank you,’” he said. 
Katie mattie: “What If Iron man Was a Woman?” 
“This talk isn’t just about what if Iron man was a woman,” mattie said. “It’s a, what if we created a so­ciety where every kid felt confident in exactly who they are?” 
mattie, a 2014 Notre dame grad­uate, said there is a lack of strong female characters in big-budget films, despite research showing that films starring women do well at the box office. The rigid rep­resentations of male and female roles in films also contribute to the strict societal perceptions of gen­der roles, mattie said. 
mattie said she hopes people will develop a healthier perspec­tive towards gender. 
“I want the work I do today to lay a foundation, that when I do have kids, they can embark on their own hero’s journey and become whoever it is they’re meant to be without shame,” she said. 
Alesha Seroczynski: “What if Juvenile Offenders met Aristotle?” 
Seroczynski, a research asso­ciate at Notre dame’s Institute for Educational Initiatives and director of reading for Life, said reflection on Aristotle’s views of virtue can change the lives of at-risk youth. 
Seroczynski said the reading for Life program provides an op­portunity for nonviolent juvenile offenders to read and discuss relevant books in small groups. She said 97 percent of youth who participated in the initiative have not been prosecuted for a repeat offense. 

“There is a boy out there who needs the very best you can give him,” Seroczynski said. “A girl who is hungry for truth. The ques­tion really isn’t what if they need Aristotle. The question is, what if you take Aristotle to them?” 
Garrett Blad and Brittany Ebeling: “What If … We Got uncomfortable?” 
In a talk that incorporated personal experience and spo­ken-word poetry, Blad, a senior, and Ebeling, a sophomore, said shared discomfort can be a way to empathize with others and even address social and political problems. 
“If we talked about politics in the same way that we experience pit-in-the-stomach human con­nections, the dialogue could nev­er look the same,” Ebeling said. 
Blad said exercises in dis­comfort can be “an exercise in empathy.” 
“Entering into an uncomfort­able and vulnerable space, a space where layers of insecurity can be pulled away, seems to have the potential to broaden our under­standing of humanity,” he said. 
Paul Blaschko: “Learning how to read minds” 
“The more I study narratives, the more I’m convinced that read­ing minds and reading books aren’t all that different,” Blashcko said. 
A graduate student of philoso­phy at Notre dame, Blaschko said the neural mirroring that takes place when delving into the world of a novel allows the reader to un­derstand the actions and motiva­tions of characters, and in a sense, grants the reader the power to read minds. 
“Novels can allow us to expe­rience the world from someone else’s point of view,” he said. “By challenging ourselves to inhabit the perspectives of those who have lived very different lives than we have, we can empathize and un­derstand people even if we don’t agree with them,” he said. 
mark doerries: “What If children Were more than cute?” 

doerries, a postdoctoral fellow and conductor of the Notre dame Children’s Choir, said despite their small stature, children deserve to be taken seriously. 
“Are children cute?” doerries asked. “They’re so much more than that.” 
Through his role as conductor, doerries said he hopes to provide the opportunity for children to be heard. 
“I’m proud to be their nurturer and their guide on this adven­ture,” he said. “These are our fu­ture CEOs, athletes, and scholars. They are everything I want to be when I grow up.” 
Thirty-five members of the Notre dame Children’s Choir also performed a short concert. 
Grace mariette Agolia: “deaf child Area: reconciling the Worlds of silence and sound” 
Agolia, a sophomore, said that, along with the physical challenges of being a deaf, cochlear-implant user, there are both “beautiful and terrible” aspects of dealing with physical silence. 
“For a deaf person like me, si­lence is an experience all its own,” Agolia said. “Because I partake of both worlds, my experience of si­lence informs the world of sound. I have learned to integrate my expe­riences of both silence and sound, and that has led me to break the barrier.” 
Agolia said an equally important challenge lies in addressing the so­cietal marginalization of the deaf and hard-of-hearing communities. 
“Even though I have now over­come many of my challenges, and society has made progress in accommodating the needs of dis­abled people, there is still much work to be done,” she said. “We too need to integrate silence and sound in the society at large.” 
dustin stoltz: “trust is Overrated, Or: how We Play Nice With strangers” 
dustin Stoltz, a Ph.d. student in sociology, said people intuitively have faith in others even without certitude of their intentions. 
“Faith in humankind is the natural attitude,” Stoltz said. “And without it, what we call society would be impossible.” 
Stoltz said this faith that people exhibit in everyday relationships reflects the natural tendency to cooperate with others. 
“Sometimes, when we have no good reasons to trust, we will still cooperate and are generous and kind because we want to make sense out of this world, but also because we want to create a world that we want. 
“If we can work with enemies and hug perfect strangers, we should be optimistic. Because what this means is trust is over­rated. Because meaning-making is the foundation of faith.” 
mayor Pete Buttigieg (south Bend): “What If A city has to rethink Its Past to understand Its Future?” 
Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, said the city’s economic future lies in tapping into exist­ing sources of innovations, as op­posed to starting from scratch. 
“I began to believe that our city’s genius is through taking what we already have, seeing new value, refashioning that thing and turn­ing it into something that makes sense,” he said. “you ought to have locally sourced, home-grown, or­ganic innovation.” 
In the same way the iPhone transformed the existing cell­phone, Buttigieg said South Bend has the potential to become a hub for high-tech industry using exist­ing infrastructure and resources. 
“Building on what we already got, but imagining sources of val­ue that were inconceivable just a few years ago, we have a chance of becoming not the next Silicon Valley,” he said. “... That’s how we become the next South Bend.” 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu and Jeremy Cappello Lee at jcapell@nd.edu 

INsIdE cOLumN 

Sufferin’ sovereign 
Leaving out SmC? 
Caitlyn Jordan and Monica Villagomez Mendez 
Photographers 

We both remember exactly where and when we heard of Fr. Ted’s death. At one in the morning, I started scrolling through a flurry of tweets relating to his passing and then, 40 minutes later, I received a phone call from our photo editor asking if Saint mary’s was holding any type of events in his honor. At 6 a.m. the next day, monica saw a poetic post on Facebook about Fr. Ted’s death. This is all the information that we had got, Twitter and Facebook posts that barely gave details of what exactly had happened. Our yearning to find out more increased. But then and to this day, Saint mary’s College has yet to formally notify the student body of this great man’s passing. 
From day one of entering Saint mary’s as a student, we are told that SmC Belles hold a special connection with the Notre dame community. This connection can grow as Saint mary’s and Notre dame students alike are allowed to participate in clubs and activities together. however, in light of the situation, Notre dame has truly become just “the school across the street.” 
As of right now, only 100 members of the SmC community are eligible to take part in the mourning of Fr. Ted’s death due to the fact that most memorial services are closed to the public and require tickets. As monica and I scanned through the scheduling of events for this upcoming week, we quickly realized that we in fact could not take pho­tos of most of these historical events. Each event placed a Notre dame Id requirement at the end of their descriptions. Along with us as photojournalists, the rest of the SmC student body has formally been excluded from Fr. Ted’s memorial services with the exception of 100 tickets that were claimed in less than two and a half hours. 
The tickets themselves were announced at 10:15 a.m., a time when most students were in class. Before this rushed email was sent out, most SmC students and staff as­sumed that access to this memorial event would be denied. This would be fine if events at Saint mary’s were to happen for Fr. Ted, but alas, there has been no mention of such. No church services, no moments of silence, no banners, posters, flyers, not even a simple email stating, “Fr. Ted is dead.” It seems as though the news of this man’s passing went over the heads of the leader­ship of SmC. 
Forget the competition and the nick­names; at times like these, the holy Cross community needs to stand up in under­standing of the justice Fr. Ted performed for the world. It is truly saddening to see for both monica and I that if death cannot begin to bring this community together, it seems as if nothing will. 
Contact Caitlyn Jordan at       cjorda01@saintmarys.edu and Monica Villagomez Mendez at         mvillagomezmendez01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Stephen Raab 
Let’s Talk Smart 
renowned economist Stuart Chase once remarked, “True nationalism cannot survive the fissioning of the atom. One world or none.” Although the nuclear age may have dealt a mortal blow to the concept of state sover­eignty, the coup de grâce was the creation of the Internet. In the modern world, information zips across national borders and over oceans at the speed of light. Events a continent away now affect our lives in real time. We are increasingly close to what marshall mcLuhan called the “global village,” in which the various cultures of the world amalgamate into a single worldwide community. 
Unfortunately, the world at large has failed to recognize this cultural shift. As a result, we’re still attempting na­tionalistic solutions to international problems. Consider, for instance, the threat of terrorism. In the past, the en­emies of America grouped within well-defined borders, allowing us to besiege or bombard them into defeat. Now, terrorists move freely across national lines, where our soldiers dare not pursue for fear of international outrage. Likewise, dictators are permitted to freely kill and oppress their citizens, hiding behind sovereignty when challenged. 
We need an organization that can swiftly and effectively respond to these threats, without being hindered by the traditional limitations of national borders. In short, we need world government. And I’m not talking about the United Nations, which kowtows so completely to sover­eignty that it’s practically useless. I mean a legislative body with supremacy power over the laws of every nation on this planet and the executive authority to enforce its laws. 
The concept of global government brings horror to many people, who quake in fear at the thought of a 1984-style, all-encompassing dictatorship under the heel of Big Brother (a term I have always despised, being myself an older sibling). But history suggests that we have rather the opposite problem. Woodrow Wilson’s League of Nations lacked the muscle to back up its resolutions and so utterly failed to prevent World War II. Our current United Nations is almost purpose-built for inaction, as the five permanent members of the Security Council rarely agree on anything, and a single veto spells death for a resolution. 
Even the founding of America illustrates the benefits of centralization. The earliest attempt at uniting the colo­nies — the Articles of Confederation — was hampered by a laughably weak central government that attempted to give the states a degree of sovereignty. In 1787, Shays’ rebellion demonstrated just how flawed the system was, as the nation’s leaders couldn’t compel the states to raise money for an army. These limitations were fixed with the Constitution, which provided for a much stronger federal government. 

The example of the Constitution also provides an an­swer to the oft-parroted claim that world government would weaken American power. Four of the first five presidents of the United States were from Virginia — the economic powerhouse of the colonies. It’s safe to assume that the interests of America, which is to Earth as Virginia was to the colonies, will be well-represented in any inter­national government. (A world government might bring a case against us for human rights violations of the Gitmo or Ghraib variety, but I’d almost applaud that). 
meanwhile, the benefits to the United States of a world government would be enormous. There would be no hid­ing place for the agents of evil. International anti-terror task forces could sweep across the globe, locating and eradicating extremist networks regardless of their nation of origin. dictators would either obey international law or be subject to the scrutiny of the court system, saving us the trouble of intervention. We might even get an inter­national peacekeeping force with teeth, putting an end to sectarian conflict and eventually war itself. Someday, the prospect of Israel and Palestine blasting away at each other will seem as absurd as a war between Indiana and Illinois. 
New york City is, of course, the most logical location for the capital of the world government; the United Nations is already headquartered there. That being said, it may be a little too Americentric a location for some nations to agree to. Perhaps a suitable city in famously neutral Switzerland could be pressed into service. 
Sadly, there will be many who will not be on board with the next bold step in world history. Some will be too narrow-minded to believe in anything but the status quo. Those who benefit from sovereignty at the expense of their fellow man will likewise oppose the world government. This must not daunt us. A strong world government is our only chance of eradicating the ills that beset our world. Whatever it takes, we must unite — it is our destiny. 
Stephen Raab is a junior studying chemical engineering.  He resides in Alumni Hall and welcomes discourse at  sraab@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EdItOrIAL cArtOON 



ThE OBSErVEr | tuEsdAy, mArch 3, 2015 | NdSmCOBSErVEr.COm 
LEttErs tO thE EdItOr 

John mcGreevy on Fr. hesburgh 
In losing Fr. hesburgh Notre dame has lost the most important figure in its modern history. 
he was not self important. many people on this campus, and far beyond, are now telling stories of his generosity, his insistence that everyone mattered and his willingness to speak with anyone about his love for, and hopes for, Notre dame. But he was impor­tant. No one is more responsible for inspiring, push­ing and rallying colleagues to make Notre dame the premier Catholic research university, and indeed one of the country’s leading research universities. 
A smart observer scanning the world of higher education in 1952, when Fr. hesburgh became president of Notre dame, would have smiled at the thought of Notre dame as a leading private research university. Only Fr. hesburgh’s determination and vision made Notre dame’s ascent possible. 
Even more remarkably, he did it with an enthusi­asm and openness that proved enticing to the many people from around the world, from diverse ethnic and religious backgrounds, he enticed to join the Notre dame experiment. he knew that laypeople needed an ownership stake in the University, that women needed to be admitted as students and to become university leaders and that his own work outside the university helped build the university’s reputation. 

That confidence, that buoyant optimism about the University, the United States and the Church is some­thing to sustain us as we mourn his death and reflect on his legacy. 
John T. McGreevy 
I.A. O’Shaughnessy dean 
College of Arts and Letters Feb. 28 

Gregory Crawford on Fr. hesburgh 
In my seven years at Notre dame, I have had the opportunity to get to know Fr. hesburgh as a men­tor, a fisherman, an inspiration and — what meant the most to him — a priest. In fact, the first time I met him, in his office atop the library while I was interviewing for the dean of the College of Science position, he offered to give me a blessing, which I eagerly accepted. 
I remember being nervous as I waited to meet Fr. hesburgh, whose global renown was apparent in the vivid reminders — honors, photos and memen­tos — that filled his office. I was unprepared for the gentle, grandfatherly figure who entered, smoking a cigar that added to the room’s accumulated am­bience. Within minutes, I felt comfortable in his presence. Of all the fields he could have addressed, he focused on science, with a characteristic gen­erosity and concern for the listener instead of himself. I learned about his role in the start of the National Science Foundation, his medal of Science from the National Academy, his work in energy and nuclear power and his extensive impact on science even as a nonscientist. he also told me about the hiring of scientist morris Pollard, the first Jewish faculty member, as an expression of the universal reach he intended for the premier Catholic research institution. Needless to say, I was so inspired by Fr. hesburgh and his vision of Notre dame that, when offered the position as dean, I was honored to accept. 
After I arrived on campus, I was lucky enough to get an invitation to go fishing with Fr. hesburgh at Land O’Lakes, the University’s 7,500-acre Environmental research Center. It was a day of fishing, smoking cigars and telling stories that ranged from how he convinced a United States president to get him a ride on a supersonic jet to how a Catholic priest is qualified to mentor people getting married — even as a celibate — Fr. hesburgh explained, he knew it was a bad idea for a man to give his wife a toaster on their first anniversary. he was witty and humorous, caring and compassionate, serious and ever the teacher 
— wisely imparting lessons in every conversation. That fishing boat was the relaxed scene of an all-day seminar. 
Land O’Lakes is a historic place primarily be­cause of Fr. hesburgh. It is the site of a pivotal meeting led by Fr. hesburgh that resulted in a major statement — named for the place — that defined the role of a Catholic university in the modern world. Fr. hesburgh also took the politically-divided Civil rights Commission on a fishing trip to the site more than 50 years ago, and this is where he managed to help reach sig­nificant agreements that became the basis of the 1964 Civil rights Act. It was incredible for me to be at the same location, to sit at the same table and fish on the same lakes as those on the Civil rights Commission. I could feel the presence of the past. I was so fortunate to fish on those lakes with him during several fall breaks. 

Fr. hesburgh was a great mentor to me, especial­ly in the way he modeled virtuous leadership. The stories from the past — his stature in the Church, the nation and the academy — would have seemed unbelievable without watching his courage, his humility and his humor in ordinary settings. On one of our fishing trips, he said, “Greg, you do not need to call me Fr. hesburgh, please call me Fr. Ted.” Like any undergraduate in the presence of a revered professor, I was never able to do it. he will always be Fr. hesburgh to me. 
Gregory Crawford 

William K. Warren Foundation dean College of Science march 2 
Emil hofman on Fr. hesburgh 
In 1974, rev. Theodore hesburgh, C.S.C. orga­nized a meeting of high-level Notre dame admin­istrators (provost, vice presidents and deans). The meeting was to be held at the Notre dame property in Land O’Lakes, Wisconsin. Because the property is a beautiful wooded estate stud­ded with many small lakes and ponds, it is readily recognized as an ideal place for families to com­bine University business meetings with vacation fun. 
The vacation fun is mainly fishing in the many well-stocked lakes and ponds. Every afternoon, the Notre dame administrators and families are free to fish in any of the waterways except moccasin Lake, which is reserved as Fr. Ted’s personal fishing hole. Father frequently invited someone to be his guest on his boat in moccasin Lake. What a wonderful treat to spend one or two hours with Fr. hesburgh. 
Now for the main point of our meeting with Fr. hesburgh in 1974. The main point started that Thursday night. We were to have our last full day on Friday and then leave to return to South Bend on Saturday morning. 
After mass and dinner, Fr. hesburgh walked along the beach of the lake, reading his office as he walked. Ten-year-old michael J. hofman also was walking the same route, picking up pebbles. 
When Fr. hesburgh and michael met, they ex­changed pleasantries, then Fr. hesburgh told michael that he liked to go fishing. It was his fa­vorite sport and pastime. michael told Father that he wished that he could fish. Father asked if he would like to learn from him. michael said, “you bet I would.” Father said, “OK, I will arrange it.” 
Once in the boat, Father helped michael bait the hook and cast the line. After several tries, michael got a bite from what was obviously a big fish. Father helped michael reel in the fish. It measured to be 35 inches, 9 pounds. Father had several rules about fishing in moccasin Lake. The final one, that was strictly enforced, was that all fish caught in moccasin Lake would have to be returned to the lake. Father reasoned, “If I told michael he had to turn it back, michael would go back in with the fish; also, I would have to get a new dean of the Freshman year of Studies.” So Father told michael he could keep the fish. 

The question became what are we going to do with the fish. michael agreed that we would have it mounted. It is now on display in michael’s gal­lery in Asheville, North Carolina. 
Emil T. Hofman 
professor emeritus chemistry and biochemistry march 2 


ThE OBSErVEr | tuEsdAy, mArch 3, 2015 | NdSmCOBSErVEr.COm 


Matt Munhall 
Scene Writer 

One of the interesting recurring themes on drake’s excellent new mixtape, “If you’re reading This It’s Too Late,” is the Canadian rapper’s complicated feelings to­wards the Internet. “F*** going online, that ain’t part of my day,” he raps on “Energy.” It’s just one of many lines on the mixtape expressing drake’s contempt toward social media timelines and reminiscing about a time before hashtags. 
In the past few months, I’ve started to feel similarly exhausted by the constant barrage of content online. Streaming services like Netflix and Spotify, as well as pop culture websites like Grantland and Vulture, have result­ed in an almost endless stream of both content and criti­cism for pop culture obsessives. There is no excuse to not have heard a certain band’s discography or seen a certain film when it’s easily accessible online. Sorting through all this content is a different matter completely. 
All these essays, albums, music videos, podcasts and videos result in a mess of cluttered Safari windows on my 
By JIMMY KEMPER 
Scene Writer 

It’s midterm week. For most of us, that means lots of stress and little sleep, except for my history major room­mate, who’s snoring as I write this. If you are looking to avoid the stress for a few hours on Netflix, then I abso­lutely cannot recommend any Southern-Gothic movie made in 2013 about friendship and fatherhood more than “Joe.” 
“Joe” is my favorite movie from that highly specific genre right now. Not because it’s the only one of those I have seen, but because it is a genuinely great, well-acted and well-thought-out film. “Joe,” directed by david Gordon Green (“Pineapple Express,” “mud”) and based on the 1991 Larry Brown novel of the same name, revolves around the relationship between Gary (Tye Sheridan), a 15-year-old drifter, and Joe, the titular man who hires him (Nicolas Cage). 
“Wait,” you might say. “Nicolas Cage? That guy can’t act. Who let you write a movie review?” 
Before you post vulgar insults about my writing abili­ties in the online comments section for this article, un­derstand that this isn’t your “Ghost rider” or “Stolen” Nicolas Cage. This is the classic “raising Arizona,” “Leaving Las Vegas” and “moonstruck” Cage: a return laptop. Tabs end up functioning as a way to save content to consume when I have free time. music suggested to me by friends, articles by my favorite writers and reviews of films I want to see all get preserved in endless tabs on my browser. 
here’s a sampling of a few of the 30-plus tabs cur­rently open on my web browser: marc maron’s conver­sation with Father John misty on his “WTF” podcast; a Grantland staff survey on who is the most important rapper right now; a review of desiree Akhavan’s in­die comedy “Appropriate Behavior”; a feature on the Barcelona-based indie rock group mourn; Cameron Crowe’s 1977 cover story on Fleetwood mac for rolling Stone; the New Platz, New york, twee punk group Quarterback’s debut album on Bandcamp; an interview with Wes Anderson about the casting process for “The Grand Budapest hotel”; the latest episode of “Broad City.” 
These countless tabs begin to accumulate, crowding each other out to the point that their titles disappear. Some of these tabs have been floundering near the top of my browser for weeks, just waiting to be dealt with at some undefined point in the future. Along with the con­stant stream of content that is Twitter, keeping up with 
to form for one of the most passionate and powerful ac­tors of our time. 
Cage shines throughout the whole movie as he trans­forms into Joe — a serious, hardworking man who has had some violent and emotional past interactions with the law. The movie shines when Cage is with Sheridan. 
Gary’s relationship with Joe shows a strong chem­istry between the two actors. As Joe works with Gary poisoning trees for a local lumber company, he quickly becomes impressed with Gary’s work ethic and opens up to the young man. They share beers, explore the Southern wilderness and reflect on life. Over the course of the movie, Joe becomes a father figure to Gary. 
The relationship between Gary and his actual father, Wade (Gary Poulter), stands in stark contrast to Gary and Joe’s. Wade is an abusive alcoholic who Gary abso­lutely despises, with good reason. 
For instance, “Joe” opens with a dialogue between Gary and Wade, in which Gary criticizes Wade for not having a job and destroying anything good that comes their way. Wade then hits Gary hard before proceeding to be beaten even more violently by two unknown men. 
“Joe” and all of its respective actors perform best in the movie’s intimately brutal moments, most notably in the climax. The movie takes an incredibly dark turn that explores the characters as they are pushed to their pop culture starts to feel more like a chore than an enjoy­able pastime. 

The past few months, I’ve started to relish walking away from the pop culture conversation. I’ve taken an indefinite hiatus from Twitter, deleting the app from my phone. I’ve also learned to just close all my tabs every few weeks. If I haven’t read this oral history of Laurel Canyon during the month it’s been waiting around in an open tab, I have to admit to myself that I’m probably not getting around to it anytime soon. 
One of the most important lessons about being an in­telligent cultural consumer in the digital era is learning how to wade through an almost infinite amount of con­tent. The first step is realizing that you don’t have the time to listen to every great band, read every think piece or watch every prestige drama. Unlike drake, going online is going to be a part of my life at least for the foreseeable future. Tabbing out every once in a while helps keep me from becoming completely overwhelmed and drowning in the deluge of content. 
Contact Matt Munhall at mmunhall@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
extreme. 

(Warning: Spoilers ahead) Willie, one of Joe’s local rivals, offers Wade more money for alcohol if he gives him his daughter — Gary’s sister — dorothy. Willie does this to upset Gary, who had previously started a fight with him. In this final scene, it becomes evident who Gary’s real father is, as Joe comes to save the day and kills Willie. Unfortunately, Joe is shot by one of Willie’s accomplices and is dying. Joe runs out of bullets and is unable to shoot Wade, who silently jumps off a bridge in a final act of distress and failure. rather than help his real father, Gary runs to Joe’s side and hugs him as he bleeds out. 
What amazed me about “Joe” was how director david Gordon Green was able to create these powerful, real and moving scenes in such a simple (and low-budget) story. The love and connection between Gary and Joe in Joe’s final moments have none of the awkwardness or flatness that have accompanied the final acts of Cage’s movies of late. rather, we see a Nicolas Cage who doesn’t merely act as Joe, but becomes him, with all his flaws and mannerisms. “Joe” is a return to form for Nicolas Cage, a return which I hope to see more of in his upcom­ing films. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 

SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 
ThE OBSErVEr | tuEsdAy, mArch 3, 2015 | NdSmCOBSErVEr.COm 


By JOHN DARR 
Scene Writer 

“The Secret of Kells,” an absolutely gorgeous film from up-and-coming Irish animation studio Cartoon Saloon, is yet to receive the following it deserves in the United States. 
“Kells,” Tomm moore’s directorial debut, is a shining triumph of form and function in film. At the heart of the film is the Book of Kells. The beautifully illustrated and ancient Irish Gospel serves as the inspiration for both the artistic style and plot of the film as the tale of a young animator is told in a world that mirrors the beautiful paintings he strives to create. The film’s well-crafted cast of nuanced characters, its seamless incorporation of the fantastically mythological and its consistently breath­taking illustrations make a clear case for “instant classic” status. 
This past weekend, Tomm moore’s second film “Song of the Sea” was shown at dPAC’s Browning Cinema. “Song of the Sea” also delves into Irish mythology for inspiration. At the heart of the plot is the Celtic myth of the Selkie, a being which can switch between human and seal forms. Using the mythological world as an anchor, “Song of the Sea” takes a remarkably unflinching look 
By MEGHAN CLEARY 
Scene Writer 

Big Sean’s “dark Sky Paradise” can be consecrated as one of his best works to date. 
The album’s strengths are emphasized by its phenom­enal features, while its weaknesses remain well-masked by those same sidekicks. With names such as drake, Jhené Aiko and Kanye West, Big Sean was aided in put­ting out a project that resulted in the hype its bar was set for. “dark Sky Paradise” is an album that, although at times incongruous, certainly has consistency in its likelihood to get your mood and morale set for the day. 
The tracks setting the tone for the album allude to concepts seen throughout, be it tempo, lyric or overall sound. “dark Sky (Skyscrapers)” sets the tone for the al­bum’s message with lyrics, “I got a lot on my mind, I got more in my face / If I ain’t going to get it, that day is going to waste.” The track emphasizes the idea that Big Sean now sits at the top thanks to his hard work. 
“Blessings” features drake and continues to propel this message by emphasizing Big Sean’s motivation, at loss, fear and wounded relationships for a children’s movie. Thankfully, the youthful energy of the film and vibrant animation prevents “Song of the Sea” from ever seeming like a slog. The film’s central characters, a single father with a son and daughter, provide a realistic portrait of a family struggling with the loss of one of its members. 
It’s clear from the first minute of the film that “Song of the Sea” preserves the breathtaking animation style and quality of its predecessor. The film utilizes flat ob­ject shapes that echo the two-dimensionality of older artwork, yet incorporates immaculate shading and color-based textures that bring each scene to life. Each shot ex­udes attention to detail, framing the characters against their backdrops in ways that mirror the nature of each setting – the geometrical maze of the city, the twisted sprawl of the country path or the towering lookout of the lighthouse. 
In addition, the film does a fantastic job of capturing children’s imaginative perspective of the world around them. It often utilizes perspective shot from the central characters’ rather low angle to accentuate the youthful grandeur of the film’s universe. In addition, the mytho­logical figures in the film are alternately granted glowing colorful sheens and watercolor-wishy-washy-ness, al­lowing the viewer to grasp the vivid yet fleeting nature 
implying that his motivation is to transfer his success into his loved ones’ lives. Both Big Sean and drake bring verses appropriate to the feel of this track. Although at times the beat can sound mildly sporadic as if it is being fast-forwarded, it is countered by moments of somber silence. 
“All your Fault” featuring Kanye West is a standout track on this album, speaking to the direction main­stream hip-hop is heading. With emphasis on simpler, bass-heavy beats and melodic hooks, its sound will be an ear-pleaser to many. One of my biggest complaints regarding Big Sean prior to “dark Sky Paradise” was that his rapping was slow and monotonous, simply dragging along from line to line. With his quick-paced flow in “All your Fault,” I retract that complaint to note he is far too dependent on a standard beat to pull off such a pace. 
“Paradise” is a perfect example of this pace problem. It isn’t until the steady brass plays with mike Will’s beat that you can sing along with Big Sean’s words. Before and after this moment, the pace is distracting and of the imagined. The end product is a film that makes its adult viewers feel young again, and its young viewers be­lieve in magic. 

As suggested before, however, the film’s themes and emotional intensity seem a bit mature for its audience. The father of the children at the center of “Song of the Sea” is made emotionally distant by the loss of his wife. The son blames his sister for the loss of his mother, who passed in childbirth, and the film shows the family strug­gle to recover from the trauma. The mythological world interacts seamlessly with the real one, as fantasy serves as an allegory for the more material events in the narra­tive. Though the fantasy element is used to capture the more complex emotional hardships the characters en­dure, “Song of the Sea” still packs a punch straight to the heart. don’t forget to bring some tissues. 
Ultimately, “Song of the Sea” is a beautifully animat­ed film whose intended age group fails to limit its artis­tic quality and thematic content. It’s a must-see for any fan of animated film or cinema in general. With another brilliant and unique title under his belt, director Tomm moore has continued making a case for himself as the next great storyteller in animated film. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 
unsettling. The steadiness of the beat remains in the beginning of the second verse and then leaves midway through. When this happens, we once again awkwardly try to keep following along with Big Sean’s lack of flow. 
“deep” features Lil Wayne, a collaboration that proved to be a pleasant surprise. Of all of the abundant features on this album, Lil Wayne’s feature was preemp­tively written off. Both Big Sean and Lil Wayne deliver a message about their personal hard work. Wayne alludes to issues regarding Cash money records, while Big Sean stays general. “deep” is a great track that unites Big Sean’s clarity and invariable tempo with Lil Wayne’s syncopated inflection. 
Overall, Big Sean showed improvement. Although there are times when his lyrical delivery was off, it was a commendable effort to bring the world a new look. “dark Sky Paradise” is certainly a greater work thanks to the many artists involved in the compilation, but the foundation Big Sean has laid down is strong. 
Contact Meghan Cleary at mcleary2@nd.edu 

SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


sPOrts AuthOrIty 

Rose injury shakes up NBA 
Marek Mazurek 
Sports Writer 
It’s been a tough week for Chicago Bulls fans. 
Former mVP derrick rose was seriously injured for the third time in his career as the team is in the midst of a dog­fight for the second seed in the Eastern Conference. The ramifications of rose’s injury are evident and far-reaching, so here is a look at the rest of the NBA season with the rose injury. 
Obviously, derrick rose’s injury hurts the Bulls the most; however, there is some good news for Bulls fans. rose’s surgery went extremely well, and he will miss only four to six weeks, meaning he will most likely be back before the playoffs. The only hitch for the Bulls? They don’t know how good he will be. The Bulls faced the same question with rose’s two previous injuries, and for the most part, the answer has been that he’s not quite as good as he was before. 
rose went from being an mVP winner to an All-Star caliber player to just a solid starter in the last three years. rose’s newest injury is not as devastating as the prior two, but it comes right on the heels of the other two. With a cloud of doubt already existing over whether he can ever get back to his mVP level, the newest injury will undoubtedly create a mental obstacle that rose must overcome if the Bulls are to have a chance of winning the title. 
In the long term, rose’s in­jury leaves Chicago in a tough spot. rose’s contract goes through the 2016-17 season, and he is owed around $20 million a year until then. It has become increasingly clear that rose will never be able to re­turn to the mVP-caliber player the Bulls signed. 
rose’s most recent injury also raises the question of whether or not he will be a perpetual injury risk. No team wants to pay a player if he will only get injured, and the Bulls will be left with a tough choice in the years ahead. Obviously, how rose plays (or doesn’t play) in the next two years will impact this decision, but right now, rose’s long-term future and legacy are in limbo. 
The Bulls do have a better team this year than in the pri­or two rose injury years, but can one honestly expect a first-year All-Star in Jimmy Butler and an aging veteran in Pau Gasol to carry the Bulls far into the postseason? I think not. rose can overcome the mental barrier of injury, but he won’t be able to do it quickly enough for the Bulls to have a chance this season, and without rose being rose, the Bulls can be ruled out as title contenders. 
rose’s injury is not bad for everyone though. If you are a Cleveland Cavaliers or a Golden State Warriors fan, you should be rather happy about the recent turn of events. The day after rose went down, Las Vegas casinos shortened the Cavaliers’ odds of win­ning the NBA championship to 15-2 while the Golden State Warriors’ odds also dropped to 4-1. 
With rose out of the way, the East is Cleveland’s to lose. No other team in the East has a combination as dynamic as Kyrie Irving and Lebron James, and with the recent addition of Kendrick Perkins, Cleveland has enough power in the front court to win the East. 
rose’s injury has less of an impact on the Western Conference because a team from the Western Conference won’t have to play Chicago until the NBA Finals — if the Bulls make it. Should Chicago make it to the finals, it would have given any team it played a tough time. Chicago’s dis­ciplined half-court defense would have slowed down Golden State’s fast-paced at­tack, and Chicago’s length up front would have stymied the San Antonio Spurs’ aging Tim duncan. Now, with rose injured, it is very unlikely that Chicago will make it to the finals, and thus, the Warriors and the rest of the Western Conference will have one few­er potentially tough opponent to face. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


mEN’s LAcrOssE | Nd 20, dArTmOUTh 5 

Irish rout Dartmouth 
By GREG HADLEY 
Editor-in-Chief 
No. 3 Notre dame’s offense, already off to a hot start this season, took things to another level Saturday afternoon at Loftus Sports Center, over­whelming dartmouth, 20-5. 
The 20 goals marked the program’s highest output since march 19, 2005, when the Irish (3-0) topped Butler 22-5. Notre dame is averag­ing 17 goals per game this year, good for second in the country and almost six marks ahead of last year’s national finalist team (11.83). 
The offensive outburst was keyed by 15 different Irish players who recorded a point in the contest, also a season-high. 
“I gotta say, I was really pleased with the way our guys played,” Irish head coach Kevin Corrigan said. “We got up early and ... most of the time you do that, you tend to get sloppy, look for shortcuts; you think everything is going to be easy, and our guys didn’t do that. We just played good, sound lacrosse.” 
No Irish players scored more than three goals, but three 
— freshman attack mikey Wynne, sophomore midfield­er Sergio Perkovic and junior midfielder Cole riccardi — re­corded hat tricks. meanwhile, freshman midfielder Pierre Byrne scored his first career goals, and junior midfielder Bobby Gray collected his first tally of the season. 

“That depth is something you have to continue to build throughout the course of the year,” Corrigan said. “Getting a chance to play guys some real meaningful minutes was really important.” 
The Irish jumped on the Big Green (0-2) early, taking a 2-0 lead within the game’s first six minutes. dartmouth, howev­er, responded with two goals in a 1:16 span to tie things up. 
For the next 25 minutes, Notre dame dominated play, going on a 14-0 run and put­ting the game out of reach. Eight different Irish play­ers scored during that span, and by the end of it, the third quarter was halfway over, and Corrigan started to rotate in substitutes for his starters. From there, the Irish out­scored the Big Green 4-3. 
“you know, we were up,” Corrigan said. “It wasn’t, at some point, going to cost us the game to not play that [well]. But it’s nice because then it’s like, ‘All right, this is our identity. This isn’t just something we did today; this is our identity.’ And I like that.” 
Junior attack matt Kavanagh left the game leading all play­ers with seven points, five of which came from assists. 
Kavanagh led the Irish in goals each of the past two seasons but has expanded his game to deal with the in­creased defensive pressure he faces. Wynne leads Notre dame with 13 goals and is tied for third in the nation, but Kavanagh leads in points (16) and tops the NCAA in assists per game. 
The Irish defense had a rela­tively quiet day as dartmouth managed just 18 shots com­pared to Notre dame’s 50. Sophomore goalie Shane doss allowed three goals and made six saves before making way for senior Conor Kelly. Notre dame’s defense benefitted from dartmouth’s struggle to clear the ball out of its defen­sive zone, Corrigan said. The Big Green successfully cleared the ball on just 14 out of 24 at­tempts. They are last in the nation in clearing percentage. 
“We rode very well,” Corrigan said. “And I think we caused them some confu­sion in what they wanted to do with their clearing game. Our attack made it very hard for them.” 
Notre dame has the week off before it travels to denver to face No. 4 denver on its home turf Saturday at 3 p.m. 
Contact Greg Hadley at  ghadley@nd.edu 
Nd sOFtBALL | dIAmONd 9 CITrUS CLASSIC 

ND wins four in Kissimmee 
Observer Sports Staff 
despite dealing with an en­tire day of games being can­celed Saturday, No. 23 Notre dame finished the diamond 9 Citrus Classic in Kissimmee, Florida, with a tournament re­cord of 3-1. 
The Irish (12-6) opened the tournament strong Friday with a 3-2 win over No. 20 missouri and a 12-3 victory against Georgetown. On Sunday, Notre dame fell to mississippi State, 6-1, and beat Omaha, 7-0. 
Against missouri, Notre dame received a strong pitch­ing performance from sopho­more starter rachel Nasland, who allowed three hits against the Tiger offense during her complete-game victory. The win bumps Nasland to 4-2 on the season and marks the fourth time the Irish have come out on top against a top-25 team this season. 
It was against Georgetown, however, that the Irish bats re­ally came alive. Notre dame established season highs in hits (14), runs scored (12) and extra base hits (5). The Irish finished off the hoyas in five innings with a run-rule victory. Irish junior infielder micaela Arizmendi hit a three-run home run against the hoyas to bring the run rule into effect. She hit four-for-six on the day and led the team with four rBIs. 


Irish senior infielder Katey haus added two doubles in Friday’s games with three rBIs, and freshman infielder/pitcher Sara White added three rBIs of her own. On the mound, ju­nior Allie rhodes matched her teammate Nasland’s complete-game performance and struck out six. 
The second day of action yielded mixed results. In the first game against mississippi State (16-3), the Bulldogs jumped on Nasland to get out to a 3-0 lead in the second inning. In the fourth inning, a combi­nation of Irish errors and a solo home run allowed the Bulldogs to build a 6-0 lead on their way to the 6-1 win. 
Against Omaha (6-7), the Irish got back on track. Nasland pitched the second game of the day and was automatic on the mound, throwing a two-hit complete game against the mavericks and striking out eight. Overall, Nasland tossed nine innings of four-hit ball in two games Sunday, racking up 10 strikeouts and scattering four walks. 
Sophomore All-American outfielder Karley Wester add­ed three hits, two rBIs and two runs scored in Sunday’s games. Senior catcher Cassidy Whidden also crossed the plate twice, and sophomore utility player dana Bouquet notched an rBI when she came in as a pinch hitter. 
The Irish resume play Saturday when they travel to raleigh, North Carolina, for a trio of games against North Carolina State. Notre dame plays at 12 p.m. and 2 p.m. Saturday, with the series finale at 12 p.m. Sunday. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


trAcK ANd FIELd | ACC ChAmPIONShIPS 
Irish women take third at ACCs 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
Sports Writer 
At the ACC championships meet Feb. 26-28, the women’s track and field team finished 3rd overall out of 15 teams, while the men finished 12th out of 15 teams in Blacksburg, Virginia. 
“We finished where I thought we would finish,” Turner said of the women’s third-place perfor­mance. “Once I looked at the rest of the conference was doing, I felt third was where we would get, with a very good chance of get­ting second; we were only seven points out of second. Finishing third was a good, solid effort for the women’s team.” 
For the women, junior molly Seidel turned in a star perfor­mance as she won both the 5,000 meters and the 3,000 me­ters as well as the women’s most Valuable Track Performer award for the meet. Turner said he knew Seidel could run so well because she had been all season. 
“The whole indoor season, [Seidel] had been doing well,” Turner said. “That followed up what she did this fall finishing 19th at the NCAA cross country championships. She’s been pretty much injury free, but the main thing for molly was her self-confi­dence. She’s extremely confident in her abilities. She and coach matt Sparks did a great job of ty­ing up her indoor season.” 
Another winning performance for the Irish on the women’s side came with junior margaret Bamgbose winning the 400 me­ters with a time of 52.10 seconds. Turner said Bamgbose’s perfor­mance impressed him. 
“She has that level of self-con­fidence,” Turner said. “She’s only lost one 400-meter race all sea­son. I knew coming in that she could win [the 400-meter race] or she could be second or she could be third. ... We knew it wasn’t go­ing to be easy. margaret went out and established the lead early, and she’s always been a strong finisher. Once she had the lead midway through, I knew it was going to be tough for the rest of the girls to catch her.” 
Though the women finished third, the men finished 12th, a re­sult Turner said was disappoint­ing. Turner also mentioned that injuries played a role in the per­formance at the meet. 
“Well, obviously I’m disap­pointed that we finished so low,” Turner said. “All year long, I thought we’d be a middle of the road team in the ACC. But un­fortunately for us, we just had so many untimely injuries on the men’s side. you can enter up to 30 athletes for the champion­ship. We only took 21, and that’s basically who we had healthy. We have a good team, but the scores don’t reflect that.” 
despite the poor overall show­ing, Turner said he was pleased with senior Chris Giesting’s per­formance in the 400 meters. 
“[Giesting] was coming into the meet banged up,” Turner said. “he hadn’t run in over a month. If he had another week, he would win pretty easily. his getting sec­ond was pretty good. The relay had a good, solid effort there too.” 
Next for the Irish is the NCAA championship meet in two weeks from march 13-14. There, Turner said he hopes to see good per­formances from his experienced athletes. 
“We only have one man who qualified: Chris Giesting in the 400 meters,” Turner said. “he’s an indoor All-American. On the women’s side, we’re also going to have margaret [Bamgbose] in the 400 meters. It’s her first time running in the indoor na­tionals; she was an outdoor All-American last year. Jade Barber in the 60-meter hurdles, this will be her third time going in the indoor nationals. She’s been an indoor All-American the last two years, so I would expect that to con­tinue. And then we have molly Seidel running the 5,000 meters. Everyone we have going has an excellent shot of being first-time All-American.” 
The NCAA indoor track and field championships will be held in Fayetteville, Arkansas. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 


mEN’s sWImmING | ACC ChAmPIONShIPS 

Squad sets three records 
Observer Staff Report 
After a sixth-place fin­ish last season in its first ACC championships, Notre dame did one better this year, finishing fifth in the league meet the second time around, held at Georgia Tech Aquatic Center in Atlanta. 
Irish swimmers broke three school records and earned several NCAA ‘B’ cuts in a meet in which they finished better than No. 25 Virginia and Florida State. 
After the men’s diving team scored some valu­able points for the Irish last week, the swimmers jumped into the water Wednesday and performed well enough to sit in third place after the first day of swimming competition, behind just No. 17 Virginia Tech and No. 10 Louisville. The 800-yard freestyle re­lay quartet of sophomores Trent Jackson, reed Fujan and Tom Anderson and freshman Benjamin Jany set a school record with a time of 6:21.51, while Jackson earned an NCAA ‘B’ cut with his split of 1:35.04. 

After Thursday’s events, the Irish plummeted to eighth place but received some strong swims in the 500-yard freestyle and 200­yard individual medley. In the 500 free, Anderson fin­ished 14th in 4:24.87, and Jackson earned his second ‘B’ cut with a personal-best time of 4:23.37 seconds in the C final. 
In the 200 Im, senior standout Zachary Stephens finished 10th in 1:45.62, while Fujan and senior Cameron miller also got in times good enough to hit the ‘B’ cut. 
On Friday, the Irish surged into fifth place on the backs of strong perfor­mances in the 400-yard in­dividual medley, 100-yard freestyle and 200-yard free­style; Anderson touched the wall at 3:47.45 in the 400 Im final to snag a seventh-place finish. 
In the 100 free, freshman Justin Plaschka missed out on a new school record by .06 seconds before Jackson led the Irish in the 200 free with a ninth-place time of 
1:36.24. Fujan touched the wall a couple of seconds lat­er with a 16th-place finish. 
On the final day, Saturday, the Irish broke a pair of school records and held off host Georgia Tech, Florida State and Virginia to fin­ish fifth. Nappi broke the school record in the 1,650­yard freestyle with a 11th­place time of 15:14.62, and Jany finished behind him in 15th. 
In the 200-yard back­stroke finals, freshman rob Whitacre broke the school record and finished 10th with a time of 1:43.87, while Anderson and junior Bogac Ayhan touched the wall right behind him, finishing 11th and 13th, respectively, to grab the Irish more points in the event. 
After a fifth-place finish in the ACC championships, the Irish will now prepare for the NCAA champion­ships; the Zone C diving meet begins march 12. 

BAsEBALL | Nd 6, BELmONT 4; Nd 8, mErCEr 2; Nd 5, AKrON 4 
Nd extends streak to nine 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
managing Editor 
A last-minute tournament change due to winter weather was not enough to cool off Notre dame as the team swept three games this weekend at Claude Smith Field in macon, Georgia, to win the mercer Baseball Classic and stretch its winning streak to nine games. 
The Irish (10-1) topped Belmont, 6-4, Friday night and then took both games of a dou­bleheader Saturday, defeating host mercer, 8-2, before a 5-4 walk-off win over Akron later that day. 
It was a weekend of base­ball that almost didn’t happen for Notre dame, as the USA Baseball-Irish Classic was can­celed Thursday morning due to inclement weather in Cary, North Carolina. Left with few options, the Irish found an op­portunity to play at mercer, head coach mik Aoki said. 
“We ended up down at mercer, in large part because of the graciousness of both the mercer and the Belmont coaches,” Aoki said. 
Akron (5-4), which had also been scheduled to play in the USA Baseball-Irish Classic, was also extended the invitation to play in macon, and the Zips nearly ended Notre dame’s winning streak in the final game of the weekend. 
Akron scored three runs in the seventh inning to take a 4-3 lead, which it held enter­ing the bottom of the ninth. Irish junior left fielder/catcher ricky Sanchez reached base on an error to start the final frame, and junior shortstop Lane richards followed him with a triple to tie up the game. After senior robert youngdahl drew a pinch-hit walk, Akron junior relief pitcher daulton mosbarger came in and threw a wild pitch, allowing richards to score the winning run. 

Even though the game’s out­come was in doubt until the very end, the Irish dugout re­mained optimistic, Aoki said. 
“I just loved the way that our kids just continued to fight and to compete, and I loved the way that our dugout was,” he said. “It was full of confidence, and you just got the feeling that our kids felt like this game was go­ing to be won. 
“I just felt like the confidence level and the attitude never waned in any way, shape or form, so I was really pleased with that.” 
After managing two home runs in its first nine games, Notre dame hit four in the first game of Saturday’s double­header, an 8-2 win over mercer (7-5). 
Sophomore second base­man Cavan Biggio accounted for two of those home runs, while youngdahl and sopho­more third baseman Kyle Fiala added one apiece, with all of the four-baggers coming in the game’s first three innings. 
despite the power surge, Aoki said power hitting is not Notre dame’s offensive identity. 
“I think we’re going to hit some home runs here and there, but I don’t think that’s who our character is,” Aoki said. “I think who we are is a team that’s really going to be able to compete from pitch to pitch. I think that we’re a team that’s going to get our share of doubles and some extra-base hits.” 
Notre dame faced a tough test Friday night in Belmont junior starting pitcher Aaron Quillen, who struck out 11 bat­ters. The team managed just two runs through six innings but broke open the game with two runs each in the seventh and eighth innings to top the Bruins (2-5). Aoki said the Irish were able to wear down Quillen, who departed the game after seven innings and 112 pitches. 
“Our kids just did a phe­nomenal job of battling and competing, not letting swings or misses or strikeouts affect their psyche in any way, shape or form,” he said. “They stayed resolute in their desire to com­pete, and that’s what we did.” 
Notre dame will start ACC play with a three-game se­ries against Georgia Tech in Atlanta, beginning this Friday. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 


ThE OBSErVEr | tuEsdAy, mArch 3, 2015 | NdSmCOBSErVEr.COm 

on one last impressive swing. well. I wanted to come out a little 178-pound: though.
Bouts 

Although Guilfoile landed the last less conservative than I usually box In the third round, both fighters 
CONTINUEd FrOm PAGE 16 

few punches in the bout’s final mo-people in the first round because I Brendan “rainman” Lesch threw everything they had in their 
ments, his strong finish was not know that he’s a heavy hitter and def. Jason “downtown” early combinations. Willis man-final powerful hook to the ribs enough, as mcGinley claimed the he’ll take every opportunity to take Ellinwood aged to break through Cooley’s knocked him down. The ref-championship by split decision. big shots.” Lesch, a graduate student and defenses and back him against the eree completed an eight-second “[It’s] a little overwhelming dunn threw the first punches of former varsity soccer player, start-ropes for most of the round. Cooley count, and suddenly the match — three, four years of hard work the second round, but mcOsker’s ed off the first round aggressively, grew tired and took many blows to was over. kind of manifesting itself in one continued his strategy of holds and Ellinwood, a junior from Fisher his face. Willis’ strong third-round 
“I was gonna work from the moment there — so it feels really and triple combinations to the hall, had trouble fending him off, comeback earned him the title as bottom up for three rounds but good,” mcGinley said. “I got more abdomen and face. By the end of forcing the referee to briefly halt he won by unanimous decision. got a strong left hook, and I knew confident as the fight went on.” the second round, there were mul-the fight. Afterwards, Lesch did not “I think that he was beating me that, and so I just kept punishing tiple interruptions by the referee to let up and continued to impose his going into the third,” Willis said. “I his body, and after I got him good 149-pound: break holds. will on the fight. Lesch said his plan came out a little bit stronger, and I with one I just wanted to end it In the final round, dunn drew was to push the action early. think the length eventually both-with the first round because I devin “Opel” duffy def. back in a defensive effort to avoid “I tried to come out a little bit big-ered him a little too much. I just knew I could,” Alcantara said. Kieran carroll mcOsker’s advances. mcOsker ger,” Lesch said. “That seems to be landed a few more at the end. he 
Alcantara claimed the cham-The junior Carroll threw the first eventually connected on the fi-the way I fight, trying to push the was still hitting me harder.” pionship by referee-stopped punches against the senior and nal hooks of the match, dislodg-pace a little bit, shake him up early. contest.cornered Brennan 2013 148-pound division cham-ing dunn’s headgear as the bell That was my game plan. I thought 196-pound: against the edge of the ring and pion duffy in a fast-paced first sounded to end the final round. In it went well. Jason’s such a great with a final powerful hook to the round. Carroll led with a series of his fourth and final championship, fighter.” Jack considine def. Patrick ribs knocked him down. The ref-quick blows until duffy connected mcOsker claimed his third title by Ellinwood picked up the pace in Gordon eree completed an eight-second on a strong swing to Carroll’s face. unanimous decision. the second round and managed The 196-pound final pitted count, and suddenly the match duffy continued to push Carroll “I’m excited, I’m relieved,” to hit Lesch with a few quick jabs Considine, a sophomore from was over. around the ring, with both fight-mcOsker said. ‘It was my fourth to the face. After the first minute dillion hall, against Gordon, a 
“I was gonna work from the ers ending up tangled in the cor-time in the finals for the cham-of the round, the action slowed freshman from Keough hall. Both bottom up for three rounds but ner. duffy managed to pin Carroll pionship, [so] you would think it as both fighters seemed to wear fighters came out very aggressively. got a strong left hook, and I knew against the ropes once more as the gets very comfortable in this envi-down. Considine pushed the action early that, and so I just kept punishing first round came to a close. ronment [by now], and you would Ellinwood began to use his by forcing Gordon to either dodge his body, and after I got him good “That’s how I fight every time,” think that trying to go for the third height advantage to keep Lesch at away or fight on his heels. Gordon with one I just wanted to end it duffy said. “I just try to do as much championship tonight would have bay to start the third round. Lesch, used good early footwork to evade with the first round because I as I can and if I’m not spent at been more calm, but [there was] however, responded with a flurry of Considine’s advances, and both knew I could,” Alcantara said. the end, then I wasn’t aggressive the added pressure of this being the blows that led to another stoppage. fighters landed only a few good 
Alcantara claimed the cham-enough.” last time I boxed at Notre dame.” Lesch continued to push the action blows in the first round. pionship by referee-stopped In the second round, Carroll after his opponent recovered, but The second round was similar to contest. again tried to take the initiative, 167-pound: Ellinwood scored multiple coun-the first as Considine kept moving 
but duffy continued to dominate ter-punches when Lesch did not Gordon around the ring. Gordon 145-pound: by landing many triple-jab com-Patrick “Pattycake” shea connect with his hooks. Ultimately responded, however, and gave 
binations. duffy’s tighter punches def. Gage “American though, Lesch’s strong first round Considine a bloody nose which Peter “the Wild Irish rose” forced Carroll against the ropes, Psycho” O’connell carried him a victory by unani-stopped the action. Considine’s in­mcGinley def. “sloppy” Joe controlling the pace of the bout. By The final in the 167-pound mous decision. jured nose appeared to knock him Guilfoile the final round, duffy’s endurance weight division was a hard-fought Lesch said his memories of off balance as Gordon landed two 
The senior mcGinley and sopho-was beginning to wear, and Carroll contest between Shea, an off-cam-Bengal Bouts are one of the high-big body blows to end the round. more Guilfoile exploded at the start began to execute body shot combi-pus junior, and O’Connell, a gradu-lights of his time at Notre dame. Considine said he knew he had to of the first round, with mcGinely nations to force duffy against the ate student. The first round started “I’m really just blessed to be a improve his performance in the throwing the first four combina-ropes. quickly as both fighters looked to part of [Bengal Bouts],” Lesch said. third round if he wanted to win. tions and Guilfoile retaliating “I thought every round went go on the attack. The action was “That’s more important than being “In the first two rounds I just with a powerful blow to the face, pretty well, but by the third round I fast-paced, but the punches landed the champion. It’s a great tourna-couldn’t get in on him,” Considine causing mcGinley to draw back. was really tired,” duffy said. “I was evenly as both fighters relied on ment, one of the most fun things said. “he has a style where he was Though Guilfoile ended the first just gassed, and at that point it was their quick footwork to avoid the I’ve gotten to do while at Notre sitting back and waiting for me to round with another strong, final just hanging on because I thought heaviest blows. dame, and winning this year is come in, and it works for a while, blow, mcGinley had the advantage my jab was sticking. I landed the “Gage is a great fighter. he’s got something I’ll probably keep with but after a while it’s just abut scrap-due to a series of swift triple hook jab a couple times real nicely in the very quick hands and threw pow-me for a long time.” piness and throwing punches. combinations. second round and the third round erful punches,” Shea said. “I knew it Normally I’m a first two-round 
The second round saw mcGinley was just everything I had.” was going to be tough and ... I guess 184-pound: fighter. It’s the first time I’ve had to on the attack first again, but With twenty seconds left, duffy coming out with a win is all I could come out swinging in the third.” Guilfoile exhibited a more aggres-had one last burst of energy to have wanted.” Brian “cheese” Willis def. In the final round, Gordon be­sive fighting style. The sophomore fight back and claim the trophy by The second round picked up Bryan cooley gan to tire and tried to clench with threw numerous hook combina-unanimous decision. right where the first left off. The In the 184-pound weight divi-Considine and stall on multiple tions that culminated with a strong boxers opened with a flurry of sion, Willis, a junior from duncan occasions. Considine also seemed hit to mcGinley’s side, forcing him 158-pound: powerful combinations, but Shea hall, went up against Cooley, an to slow down, and both fighters’ against the ropes. mcGinley con-appeared to gain an edge with off-campus senior and club cap-blows lacked the same strength tinued to work the body while Garrity “Biscuit” mcOsker his slight height advantage. right tain. The fight started slowly but as they did in the first two rounds. Guilfoile concentrated his blows to def. ryan “Attila” dunn at the end of the round, however, quickly heated up with both fight-In the end, Considine managed to the face. In a matchup featuring plenty O’Connell responded with a com-ers throwing powerful combina-hang on and claim the narrow vic­
mcGinley said his defensive tac-of veteran experience, the senior bination that landed two blows to tions. Near the end of the round, tory by split decision. tics kept him in the bout. and two-time champion mcOsker Shea’s head. Cooley managed to get in a few 
“I knew Joe threw more powerful started strong against the junior The start of the third round was hooks to Willis’ body after he heavyweight: punches than I did, and he’s got a dunn. he managed to get dunn just as furious as the prior two, with dodged one of Willis’ jabs. really strong right hand and I gotta into a hold and drag him against both fighters looking to attack the The second round was much tyler “tuna” Plantz def. be honest, I was a little hesitant the edge of the ring, matching his head of his opponent. Shea broke more eventful, as both boxers start-Jackson “the Flash” Wrede coming out that strong. ... I wanted powerful blows with speed and open the bout when he landed a ed to open up and take more risks. In the final bout of the night, to be conscious but it turned into agility. jab and forced O’Connell back for Cooley landed a strong hook to Plantz, a graduate student, took hesitation and was more worried mcOsker, who has a tendency the rest of the round. he was de-Willis’ face to start the round, and on Wrede, a freshman from Knott about doing that than landing to increase the pace and number clared the winner by unanimous every time Willis went in, Cooley hall. Though smaller, Plantz, a my own combination,” mcGinley of his punches as the bout goes decision. managed to beat him back with a former varsity football player, at-said. “my natural approach was on, focused on defensive tactics in Shea said it felt good to finally hook or a jab. Willis said he was im-tacked Wrede with a fervor early to wait for him to come to me and the first round. dunn kept up with win a title after losing in the cham-pressed with Cooley. on in the match. however, Wrede try to counter and be a little more mcOsker, chasing him around the pionship bout twice before. “he was unbelievable,” Willis managed to land a few good coun­defensive.” ring, but mcOsker managed to re-“Third time is the charm. It feels said. “he hit so hard. Getting in the ter-punches that kept the bout in­
mcGinley made a comeback in taliate to each jab, controlling the great to win,” Shea said. “Losing ring with him was tough with how teresting. Plantz said his strategy the final round, quickening the pace of the bout. twice in a row’s pretty tough, es-hard he swings, and even though was to be the aggressor early on. pace of the bout as he launched “I knew [dunn was] a really pecially the second time around. I’d never sparred with him before-“Its kind of been my mentality a left hook, dislodging Guilfoile’s heavy hitter and he just kinda wails I wasn’t going to lose a third time, hand, he lived up to his expecta-going through all of these fights, headgear. Guilfoile tried to rally on people,” mcOsker said. “he and that’s what I was thinking tions. he’s just so clean as a boxer.” that if I can kind of get a good cou­and landed several right jabs doesn’t have the same sort of box-about I the second break before the Willis almost managed to pin ple of shots in early, I can kind of get but was unable to keep up with ing skill, but he’s been whipping on third [round] and that gave me the Cooley against the ropes at the end them on their heels instead of com­mcGinley’s aggressive style. people because he’s a good punch-motivation to do what I had to do in of the round, but Cooley forced him ing in,” Plantz said. “I’ve always got With thirty seconds left in the fi-er, so I wanted to come in there and the third.” back with a series of hooks. nal round, mcGinley connected make sure to box him and box him The momentum had swung see BOUTS (cont.) PAGE 13 


Bouts 
CONTINUEd FrOm PAGE 12 
to move inside of longer arms, so being able to dictate the pace of the fight early in the fight worked to my advantage in the last two rounds.” 
Wrede was much more disci­plined to start the second round and did not back down when Plantz attempted a series of body blows. Both fighters land­ed a plethora of powerful blows throughout the second round, as Wrede fought his way back into the match. 
Wrede began the third round with a ferocious series of hooks, but Plantz manged to weather Wrede’s initial attack. As the fight wore on, Wrede managed to land an increasing number of blows to the face of Plantz, who struggled to keep his defensive guard up. At the conclusion of the bout, the heavyweight championship was awarded to Plantz by unanimous decision because of his early round performances. 
Plantz said he owes part of his victory to his friends who cheered him on. 
“I couldn’t thank my friends enough,” Plantz said. “Some of my buddies that I’ve always had all four years I’ve been in my dorm, some I met away, some I met through football. That really helped me in the third [round].” 
Contact Christine Mayuga at cmayuga@nd.edu, Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu, Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu and Sean Kilmer at skilmer@nd.edu 
Nd WOmEN’s LAcrOssE | dUKE 17, Nd 3 

Irish humbled by Blue Devils 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 
No. 16 Notre dame suffered its second loss of the season Sunday, falling to No. 5 duke, 17-3, in durham, North Carolina. 
The Irish (3-2, 0-1 ACC) fell into a 6-0 hole within the first 15 min­utes of the game, though sopho­more attack/midfielder Cortney Fortunato put Notre dame on the board a little over a minute later with a goal on a free-position shot. 
however, that was the only goal for the Irish in the half, while the Blue devils (6-0, 1-0) managed four more goals to go into half­time with a 10-1 lead. 
Notre dame fared no bet­ter in the second half, as duke scored again about 30 seconds in. Fortunato scored two more goals, but her efforts didn’t narrow the gap as duke continued to attack the goal. 
After Fortunato’s third score, the Blue devils went on a 4-0 run to secure a final margin of 17-3 at the end of the game. 
Junior defender Katherine mcmanus indicated that despite the lopsided loss that the team can still go on and have a success­ful season. 
“[Sunday] wasn’t the outcome we wanted,” mcmanus said. “A lot can be learned from a loss [though] and I have a lot of faith in this team and where we will go this season. This loss will help us refocus and redefine as we move forward. We are an extremely tal­ented team with a tough schedule but when we play our style and execute our system we are tough to beat. 
Sophomore backup goalkeep­er Jennifer Blum played the last 
18:48 minutes of the second half following a yellow card called against sophomore starting goal­keeper Liz O’Sullivan. Blum had two saves and allowed six goals in the cage, while O’Sullivan tallied six saves and yielded 11 goals. 

duke managed more than twice as many shots as the Irish (31-14). Fortunato was the only Notre dame player able to hit the back of the net, scoring all three Irish goals and taking eight shots overall. She now has twelve goals this season. 
Six other Notre dame play­ers had one shot each, includ­ing junior attack rachel Sexton, junior midfielder Stephanie Toy, senior midfielder Caitlin Gargan, sophomore midfielder Katherine Eilers, sophomore midfielder Casey Pearsall and junior mid­fielder Brie Custis. 
duke dominated across the board, scooping 24 ground balls to Notre dame’s nine. The Blue devils also won 16 draw controls, while the Irish took only six. duke junior goalie Kelsey duryea re­corded eight saves. 
The Blue devils’ offensive pro­duction was more spread out than Notre dame’s with seven 
players in division I to reach 30 helpers this season. 
“I’ve been pleased [with my recent play],” hinostroza said. “We love helping the team win but we can’t be satisfied … we have a lot to do still.” 
But after Eagles senior left winger Cam Spiro’s goal cut the lead to 2-1 early in the third period, Compton Family Ice Arena had to hold its breath. From there, the Eagles con­trolled play — they outshot Notre dame 56-28 over the course of the game — but Petersen held strong in net, and when Wuthrich scored with 3:25 to play the home fans could breathe easy. 
Sophomore left wing Ali Thomas’s shot bounced around in the Eagles crease and eventually off Wuthrich into the net, giving the Irish a two-goal cushion as time wound down. 
“At the beginning of the sea­son, a two-goal lead meant nothing for us,” Wuthrich said. “It’s good to see us capitalize and not panic after they score.” 
“Being able to score a goal on this night was pretty special,” Wuthrich said. “But, I mean, [I have to] give all the credit to Ali Thomas; he played great tonight.” 
While it was Petersen’s night Saturday, Friday was devot­ed to demko as the Boston College goaltender recorded a 35-save shutout in a 2-0 Eagles victory. 
“I thought [Thatcher] was outstanding [Friday],” Eagles coach Jerry york said. “ … he made some difficult shots look relatively easy.” 
The first period was all that separated the teams Friday as a pair of goals 3:14 apart from Eagles sophomore defense-man Ian mcCoshen and fresh­man right winger Alex Tuch different players notching at least one goal. Senior midfielder Katie Trees was the leading scorer for duke with five goals. 
mcmanus said that in order to take positives from the match that the Irish have to continue to take each game one at a time. 
“We have a lot of strength as a team and I think in order to learn from this game and captialize on the loss we will just continue to improve day by day and take it one game at a time,” mcmanus said. 
Notre dame’s road swing con­tinues Saturday when it battles No. 7 Boston College in Newton, massachusetts, at 1 p.m. 
“This week we go back to the drawing board and make the adjustments in all areas that we need to make and execute them this Saturday with another great ACC opponent,” mcmanus said. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 
proved to be all that beat either goaltender on the night. 
“I thought the game was a closely-contested game,” york said. “ … Both goaltenders were very, very strong.” 
With the two-point week­end, the Irish will be the fifth seed for the hockey East tour­nament, and they will host massachusetts for an opening-round, best-of-three series this weekend. 
The minutemen finished as the league’s last-placed team, and Irish coach Jeff Jackson said he is weary of his team not competing at a high level in the series. 
“you worry about [a letdown] a little bit,” Jackson said. ” … We have to get their focus back right away; I’ve had teams lose on Friday night just because of it.” 
Prior to Saturday’s game, the Irish commemorated seniors left wing Joe Aiken, defense-man Eric Johnson, defense-man robbie russo, right wing Peter Schneider and Wuthrich. 
“[Getting the win for our se­niors] is the most important thing about tonight,” Jackson said. “It’s great that it helps us in the standings but to me, the most important thing is that they can have the memory of this game.” 
Notre dame honored Fr. Theodore hesburgh prior to Friday’s game with a video commemoration and moment of silence while the Irish wore “Fr. Ted” decals on their hel­mets throughout the weekend. 
“I had no idea when I first started here what kind of man we had with us here on cam­pus,” Jackson said. “ … The legacy that he leaves behind is this University.” 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
hockey 
CONTINUEd FrOm PAGE 16 
Anders Bjork’s shot from be­hind the goal line banked off Eagles sophomore goaltender Thatcher demko and into the net. 
The Irish went into the first intermission on their heels 
PAId AdVErTISEmENT 
— Notre dame managed just seven shots on goal in the opening stanza to Boston College’s 22 — but doubled their advantage 2:13 into the second period when fresh­man defenseman Jordan Gross wristed one past demko. 
hinostroza tallied assists on each of Notre dame’s first two goals, becoming just one of six 



at Bethune-Cookman. really tough. But he’s such a class coaches “I really didn’t think I was going act, and he made it extremely easy. CONTINUEd FrOm PAGE 16 to hire him, quite honestly, until he And I thank him for that. 
interviewed,” Kelly said. “he blew “I’m excited. This is a great denbrock will oversee the or-me away in the interview.” opportunity.” ganization of the offense, and Former Irish running backs Gilmore spent the past two sea-Sanford will coordinate the run coach Tony Alford left Notre dame sons as the defensive line coach at and pass game. in February for a position at Ohio North Carolina. With Gilmore, a 
“No egos, best idea wins is really State. veteran defensive line coach, Kelly the philosophy that we have re-denson piled up an Irish record stuck to a recent trend of hiring as-ally used as our mantra for the of-4,318 rushing yards from 1995 to sistants with whom he’s coached fensive side of the ball,” Kelly said. 1998, breaking the previous record before. “Everybody on this staff has made set by former Irish running back Gilmore was an assistant under a commitment that the title that Allen Pinkett. denson’s 43 rushing Kelly from 1991 to 1993 at Grand they want the most is a national touchdowns are second in Notre Valley State, coaching linebackers, title.” dame history behind Pinkett’s 49. running backs and serving as the 
Before returning to his alma “It is a dream come true,” recruiting coordinator. Gilmore mater in Idaho, Sanford spent denson said of returning to his joined Kelly’s staff at Central three seasons at Stanford, first as alma mater. “It happened a lot michigan in 2006 as the defensive the running backs coach (2011-quicker than I thought. I’m defi-line coach and followed Kelly to 
12) and then as the quarterbacks nitely appreciative for it. Cincinnati in 2007 and 2008 as an and wide receivers coach (2013). “At this point, it’s just about go-assistant head coach responsible Sanford also served as Stanford’s ing out just like when I came to for the defensive linemen. recruiting coordinator in 2012 Notre dame. I came in with the “my background with Coach and 2013. Kelly said Sanford was goal that I wanted to be the best Kelly was very intriguing to have “clearly a cut above” everyone else that ever left here. And that’s the an opportunity to come back with considered for the position. same process [in coaching].” him, and being involved with 
Sanford’s father, also mike, is A two-time consensus All-Notre dame was really special to of new teams and just figure out entering his third season as the American at Notre dame in 1989 me,” Gilmore said. “I thought it’d W Bball the conference,” mcGraw said. 
CONTINUEd FrOm PAGE 16

head coach at Indiana State and and 1990, Lyght will serve as Notre be a great fit.” “This year we know a little bit coached Notre dame’s quar-dame’s defensive backs coach, Sixth-year Irish assistant coach more going in, but we have a terbacks from 1997 to 1998. The replacing Kerry Cooks, who left mike Elston will move from coach-which mcGraw said was due to younger team. This team has re-younger Sanford attended nearby in February to accept a job at ing the defensive line to coaching some missed shooting opportu-ally improved. We got a lot better Penn high School while in the Oklahoma. the linebackers, while also adding nities by the Irish, though Notre as the season went on. I think we area. “We love the skill set that he the title of recruiting coordinator. dame shot 54 percent overall. really found it this year. We re­
“There was a comfort level with brings in particular,” Kelly said. Linebackers coach Bob Elliott is “We missed a couple shots ally did a lot of good things.” this area, with this community “We were looking for somebody now a special assistant to the head that would’ve put a little bit of a The expectations for the sea-and with this program,” Sanford that was experienced in coaching coach. dagger in them,” mcGraw said. son also differed from last sea-said. “I had a chance to live here man-to-man techniques.” Former Irish linebacker maurice “We missed a 3 that would’ve son, mcGraw said, with much of and had probably some of my A first-round draft pick in 1991, Crum Jr. is a defensive graduate as-put us up 11 with 10 minutes this year’s ambition resting on fondest memories of my insane Lyght enjoyed a 12-year NFL ca-sistant, while former Wisconsin to go, and when you get those the shoulders of Loyd. childhood that consisted of about reer. he began his coaching career offensive lineman donovan double-digit leads, at that point “Last year, it was just ex­11 moves. in 2011 at Oregon, where he spent raiola has been hired as an offen-in the game, I think that we re-pected [for us to win the ACC],” 
“There’s just something that’s two seasons under then-ducks sive graduate assistant. ally would’ve caught fire. But mcGraw said. “Even though we different about this program, head coach Chip Kelly. Lyght spent Former Irish quarterback and we missed some easy shots, and were picked No. 1 [this year] a about Notre dame than any other the past two seasons with Kelly staff member (2005-09) ron they got some opportunities for lot of that was on Jewell, and place that I’ve been a part of.” with the Philadelphia Eagles as an Powlus returns to South Bend as baskets off of some rebounds.” she had a fabulous year. Credit 
denson, Notre dame’s all-assistant defensive backs coach. the director of player development. With the league victory, Notre to the bench and to the starters, time leading rusher, spent the Vanderbilt hired Lyght in mid-Jan-Notre dame was originally dame moves into the ACC tour-but particularly to Jewell.” 2014 season as the running backs uary as its cornerbacks coach. scheduled to begin spring practice nament with a solid grip on the The ACC tournament begins coach at miami (Ohio) and was “It’s been a whirlwind,” Lyght monday. The Irish will now kick off top seed and first place. The Wednesday in Greensboro, hired in January for the same said. “It’s been tough going to camp march 18. Irish were in a similar situation North Carolina. On Friday at 2 role at South Florida but left Vanderbilt for a couple of weeks last year, but mcGraw said there p.m., No. 1 seed Notre dame will shortly after. From 2011 to 2013, and telling [head] coach [derek] Contact Mike Monaco at are some key differences be-face the winner of a Thursday denson coached running backs mason I was going to leave was jmonaco@nd.edu tween last year’s squad and this matchup between No. 8 seed 
one. miami and No. 9 seed Virginia. 

Football 
CONTINUEd FrOm PAGE 16 
negotiated right now.” 
Injury updates 
Kelly said senior linebacker Joe Schmidt, who missed the last five games of the season after break­ing and dislocating his ankle against Navy on Nov. 1, is “making progress.” 
“[he’s] moving straight ahead, starting to move a little bit,” he said. 
Fellow senior linebacker Jarrett Grace, who sat out the entire 2014 campaign with a tibia fracture, is “looking great” and keeping up with healthy teammates, Kelly said. 
“As a matter of fact, we had a morning workout where I showed some clips,” he said. “he beat [ju­nior linebacker] Jaylon Smith in a couple of cone drills.” 
The head coach noted senior safety Nicky Baratti had full clear­ance to participate in spring prac­tices after missing the final 10 contests of last season with a shoul­der injury. 
“he’s going to go,” Kelly said. “[he’s] doing everything, is in the weight room.” 

Senior defensive lineman Jarron Jones’ progress, however, is not as clear as that of the other players, as Jones is still hampered by a Nov. 22 Lisfranc injury. 
“he’s got those screws, and they protrude a little bit,” Kelly said. “he’s going to have to get those screws out. We’ll probably do that after break, then I think you’ll see some progress. But nothing that we’re concerned about.” 
coaching shuffle not done 
Though Kelly announced monday the hiring of four new assistant coaches — offensive co­ordinator and quarterback coach mike Sanford Jr., running backs coach Autry denson, defensive backs coach Todd Lyght and de­fensive line coach Keith Gilmore 
— the head coach indicated he was not done filling in positions on his staff. 
“We going to hire three more analysts — one on offense, one on defense and one on special teams,” Kelly said. “It’s going through hr right now.” 
Kelly said these staff members would serve more of a quality-con­trol role than an on-field coaching role. 
“They can assist in meetings, be a part of film study,” he said. “They can be given a specific re­sponsibility of film breakdown — ‘hey, you’re responsible for all the third-down-and-long fronts, all the blitzes in the red zone.’ They can have a particular responsibil­ity and oversight.” 
memories of hesburgh 
Kelly said he met University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore “Ted” hesburgh, who died last Thursday at age 97, during Kelly’s first year coaching at Notre dame. The two sparked up a conversa­tion about former Irish head coach Frank Leahy beforehesburgh gave him a piece of coaching advice. 
“he finished it off by saying, ‘Coach, I don’t follow the game, and I don’t see quite as well as I used to, but I still know that speed wins,’” Kelly said. “For all of that, for all that he was involved in, he still knew enough about the game to talk about speed in the game. I just thought it was so insightful for someone at that age, 92, to say, ‘Coach, keep recruiting speed.’” 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 

“Last year, we had a veteran team, but everybody [we played] Contact Renee Griffin at was new so we had to learn a lot rgriffi6@nd.edu 
PAId AdVErTISEmENT 



crOssWOrd | WILL ShOrTZ 


hIGhLy PuNLIKELy | ChrISTOPhEr BrUCKEr 
sudOKu | ThE mEPhAm GrOUP 


dOmE Nuts | ALExANdrIA WELLmAN 


hOrOscOPE | EUGENIA LAST 
Happy Birthday: Learn from past mistakes. Give and take will be your ticket to a better year. Accepting responsibility and following through with promises will result in popularity. Sticking to the truth will help you avoid costly mishaps. Take on a project or position that has potential for you to learn and grow. Opportunities will be apparent if you play hard and fair. your numbers are 8, 15, 23, 26, 32, 35, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Enjoy what life has to offer and you will discover a progressive path to follow. Take on a receptive attitude when it comes to learning, and you’ll find a unique way to improve your finances. romance is highlighted. Live in the moment. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Keep your plans simple and don’t share your thoughts until you are certain you can turn them into a reality. making empty promises will end up being costly. The innocence of a youngster’s point of view will be an eye-opener. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): make personal changes at home. Join an organization that will help you contribute to a cause you believe in. A chance to discuss an idea with someone who shares your principles will lead to a new beginning. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Use your energy wisely. don’t let the little things get to you. Step up and do your best to complete whatever job you’ve been given, and you will avoid criticism and discord. don’t redo when maintenance is what’s required. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): your entertaining personality will ensure popularity. Emotional issues with someone you love will escalate, making it a must to channel such energy into something you enjoy doing together. Planning a trip or getting involved in something you enjoy doing will spur enthusiasm. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Keep your personal money matters a secret. A strong feeling you have about someone will lead to profits. A change in a relationship will not turn out as anticipated. Approach partnerships with reservation. Act on your gut feeling. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): you can alter the future by making suggestions and bringing about reforms. A new friendship will turn out to be quite appealing. honesty regarding your likes, dislikes and goals will make a difference to the way a partnership unfolds. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Be secretive about what you are doing and you will avoid interference. The more you interact with others, the less you will get done. do not become sidetracked helping someone else get ahead. Put your needs first. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): deals can be made, money spent and contracts signed. Fixing up your surroundings, making a move or changing the dynamics of an important relationship will promote greater happiness and harmony. Love is highlighted. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): money matters and important partnerships must be looked at carefully. make your position clear, but be willing to compromise in order to get what you need to excel. A last-minute change can be expected. Prepare to counter strategically. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you’ll make gains doing your own thing and using past experience and connections to get what you want. dedication will lead to steady progress where work, money and your reputation are concerned. Love is in the stars and romance is encouraged. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Work until you feel satisfied with the results you get. Presenting ideas too soon will lead to criticism. Learn from the mistakes others make and you will develop a flawless plan. Take care of anything that may hinder your success. 


Birthday Baby: you live in the moment. you are a doer and a leader. 
JumBLE | dAVId hOyT ANd JEFF KNUrEK 



make checks payable to and mail to: The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
Address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
City State Zip 

ThE OBSErVEr | tuEsdAy, mArch 3, 2015 | NdSmCOBSErVEr.COm 
FOOtBALL 

Kelly announces new hires 
By MIKE MONACO 
Senior Sports Writer 
Notre dame officially an­nounced the hirings of new as­sistant coaches mike Sanford, Autry denson, Todd Lyght and Keith Gilmore on Thursday afternoon. 
Irish head coach Brian Kelly unveiled nearly half of his new-look staff during a monday press conference on campus. 
“I consider it to be the most committed, cohesive, experi­enced and probably brightest coaching staff that I’ve put to­gether in my career,” Kelly said. 
The 32-year old Sanford, who just completed his first season as Boise State’s offensive coordina­tor and quarterbacks coach, will be Notre dame’s offensive coor­dinator and quarterbacks coach. 
Sixth-year assistant coach mike denbrock, who was Notre dame’s offensive coordina­tor and wide receivers coach in 2014, will hold the new ti­tle of associate head coach. Former quarterbacks coach matt LaFleur bolted from South Bend after one season, return­ing to the NFL with the Atlanta Falcons. 


BENGAL BOuts 

Bengal Bouts finish 
Nd WOmEN’s BAsKEtBALL | Nd 67, NOrTh CArOLINA STATE 60 
Irish win, clinch ACC title 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 
No. 4 Notre dame closed out the regular season with a 67-60 win at North Carolina State on Sunday, clinching the ACC title out­right for the second year in a row. 
The Irish (28-2, 15-1 ACC) led by single digits for much of the first half with North Carolina State (16-13, 7-9) using solid defense and re­bounding to limit the Irish. The Wolfpack forced 21 Irish turnovers. 
“Their defense was excep­tional, very quick guards, but we were careless with the ball and made a lot of bad decisions,” Irish head coach muffet mcGraw said. “That’s probably the most disappointing thing com­ing out of the game, was that number of turnovers. We didn’t get enough shots. We only got 50 shots be­cause we turned it over so much. We’ve just gotta re­ally tighten up offensively and take care of the ball if we expect to advance in the tournament.” 

Junior guard Jewell Loyd led Notre dame in scoring with 16 points in 37 min­utes. Senior guard madison Cable added 12 points on 4-of-5 shooting. 
Loyd also tied sopho­more guard Lindsay Allen, freshman forward Brianna Turner and sophomore for­ward Taya reimer for the team lead in rebounds with five. 
“I should’ve rested [Loyd] a little bit more; 37 minutes is too long,” mcGraw said. “I was hoping to keep it to 30, but she was doing a lot of good things.” 
North Carolina State nar­rowed the scoring margin near the end of the game, 
see W BBALL PAGE 14 

hOcKEy | BOSTON COLLEGE 2, Nd 0; Nd 3, BOSTON COLLEGE 1 
Petersen carries Nd to split 
By ALEX CARSON 
Sports Writer 
It may have been senior night Saturday at Compton Family Ice Arena, but freshman goaltender Cal Petersen’s 55-save perfor­mance stole the show as Notre dame salvaged a series split with a 3-1 win over No. 9 Boston College after being shut out 2-0 in the first episode of the holy War on Friday night. 
Petersen started the Saturday game in fashion with a 22-save first period, and it took until their 40th try for the Eagles (20-11-3, 12-7-3 hockey East) to beat the Irish freshman. 

“That was a pretty amazing performance by Cal tonight,” Irish senior right wing Austin Wuthrich said. “ … At this point, you’re ex­pecting Cal to make the save just because he’s been playing so phe­nomenal lately.” 
The Irish netminder has now stopped all but 11 of the last 292 shots he has faced, a streak stretching over the last six games, all against ranked opponents. Petersen entered the weekend with three straight hockey East weekly award wins — he took home a pair of defensive Player of the Week awards before being named last week’s hockey East Player of the Week. 
“It’s kind of just a regular thing now,” Irish sophomore center Vince hinostroza said about Petersen’s night. “The past few weekends he’s been standing on his head … it’s great that he’s com­ing into form now.” 
Notre dame (15-16-5, 10-7­
5) took the lead in the game’s opening five minutes when freshman right wing 
see hOCKEy PAGE 13 


By CHRISTINE MAYUGA, MAREK MAZUREK, DANIEL O’BOYLE and SEAN KILMER 
Sports Writers 
135-pound: 
Alex “El cadejo” Alcantara def. Patrick “Il Lupo” Brennan 
Alumni sophomores Brennan and Alcantara fought head-to­head in the quickest but most de­cisive bout of the night. Brennan, known for his methodical style, threw the first punch, but it was Alcantara who clearly domi­nated the pace of the match with his quick fighting style and aggressive presence. Brennan landed several punches to the his opponent’s head but was no match for Alcantara’s rapid left hook combinations. 
“As one of the shorter guys, I’m used to fighting guys who have a lot of reach on me, so the plan was to come out and not be super aggressive. The plan was to work on counters in the beginning and getting insides as the match went on,” Alcantara said. 
Within the first minute of the bout, however, Alcantara had cornered Brennan against the edge of the ring and with a 
see BOUTS PAGE 12 
Kelly said the staff is still working through who will handle the play-calling duties, something that will likely be de­cided following spring practice. 
see COAChES PAGE 14 
FOOtBALL 

Blue-Gold Game to be at LaBar 
By MARY GREEN
 Sports Editor 

An annual spring tradition for Notre dame students and fans will be a little more exclusive this year. 
Irish head coach Brian Kelly announced at a press confer­ence monday that the 86th Blue-Gold Game will be held at LaBar Practice Complex, the team’s outdoor practice fields, on April 18. 
Ongoing construction on Campus Crossroads forced the Irish to select a different venue for the game than its usual site at Notre dame Stadium. 
Because LaBar normally con­tains just a few metal bench structures, Kelly said Notre dame is currently figuring out where to put spectators. 
“We’re in the process of bid­ding out temporary seating right now,” he said. “We’ve got a cou­ple companies that I think we’re involved in right now, putting to­gether bids for that. So we’ll have temporary seating in there.” 
A Notre dame spokesman said that, with temporary seating, the facility can hold only about 2,500 to 3,000 people, so the scrim­mage will likely be invitation-only and not open to the public. Last year’s matchup brought in 27,986 fans. 
Kelly said that might not be the only difference between this year’s spring game and those in past years. 
“We don’t know whether we’ll have a partner for that relative to NBC,” he said. “That’s still being 
see FOOTBALL PAGE 14 





