

The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

COMMENTARY 
Irish must reestablish identity for playoff push 

Brian Plamondon 
sports Writer 
on nov. 3, the college Football Playoff selection com­mittee will announce its first 2015 rankings. While that may seem like light years away, for a notre dame team that has a bye coming up, it is only two games from now. 
sure, the first rankings will probably look nothing like what the committee presents to the public after the confer­ence championship games are played. still, prior impressions are hard to overcome — espe­cially with human beings do­ing the picking for the college Football Playoff rather than a computer system. 
now six weeks into its sea­son, the knock on notre dame has been that the Irish are slow out of the gate and don’t have a signature win. They struggled to put away massachusetts and navy until the second half while digging themselves into too big a hole to overcome against a strong clemson team. Wins against Texas and Georgia Tech don’t look nearly as good as they did on paper in August. Where does that leave the Irish? 
In need of a decisive win against their biggest rival. 
It should go without saying that a loss would spell the end of notre dame’s playoff chanc­es. on the other hand, simply winning isn’t good enough for notre dame anymore. With a watered-down schedule, scrap­ing by and finishing 11-1 won’t cut it. 
Instead, notre dame must come out like a top-10 team and win convincingly saturday against Usc. coming off three slow starts in a row, that im­age is slowly becoming notre dame’s identity this season. Whether it is the offense sputtering early like against clemson or the defense getting knocked around during the first few drives against navy’s triple option, notre dame needs to put it together and play a full 60 minutes against Usc. 
The Trojans have had one of the more tumultuous weeks in all of college football, falling to Washington and losing their coach due to well-documented personal reasons and now don’t present the same opportunity as they did just a few weeks ago. 
“certainly, if they’re ranked 10th in the country, that’s going to affect us a little bit different­ly than them not being ranked, but I still think, when you talk about beating Usc, I think it still carries a lot of weight be­cause people know the talent that they have on that football team,” Irish coach brian Kelly said. 
Kelly had better hope so. 
With Usc struggling to a 3-2 record so far, it is all the more reason the Irish have to play sound football and show the committee they are even wor­thy of consideration. 
Another slow start, or a close finish in a game in which notre dame now has clear favorite status, and the Irish are just feeding the idea that their iden­tity this season is settled. 
starting tomorrow, the Irish need to establish a new identity for their 2015 season. six games into the season, it’s not too late for notre dame to change the course of its play on the field. sporting a solid overall offense and defense, the Irish have fal­tered this season by taking pos­sessions off here and there. To be a playoff-caliber team, that can’t happen nearly as often. 
Although Usc doesn’t pres­ent itself as the same type of powerhouse opponent it did a few short weeks ago, it does have enough talent for notre dame to see where it measures up. Quiet the Trojans with a convincing win and the Irish will be talked about as one of the best one-loss teams in the country, if not the best. struggle with a downtrodden Usc team and the Irish will move closer to an also-ran among playoff teams. 
Although the first rankings aren’t released until after three more games for most teams, the time is now for notre dame to assert itself and change its identity for the committee to see. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2015 | The observer 


to know that once you get the “I just go about my busi-

By MARY GREEN 
Assistant managing editor ball out to the guys, you expect ness,” he said. “I don’t really a five- or 10-yard route with the do too much outside football 
It’s a Wednesday evening in speed and life after the catch and school. my family’s always the middle of midterms week they have, it’s unreal,” Kizer here, so I’m with them most of for notre dame students, the said sept. 23 of Fuller and se-the time after the game.” time of year right before a nior running back c.J. Prosise, That family has witnessed much-needed fall break final-who have combined to aver-one of their own climb the ranks ly arrives, and Will Fuller has age 256.2 of notre dame’s 502.7 into notre dame lore, with places to be. yards per game. Fuller currently fourth all-time 
The junior receiver just “You can just put the ball out in touchdown catches at 23, be-wrapped up practice days be-there and hope that something hind recent standouts michael fore his team’s biggest rival great is going to happen, and Floyd (37), Jeff samardzija (27) comes to town, but he still has to more times than not, it will.” and Golden Tate (26). take an exam the next day and For Kizer and the Irish of-considering Fuller made just finish up a 10-page paper due fense, “something great” has six catches and scored once his the day after that before he can been established as the stan-freshman year, that figure’s a even think about getting a win dard so far this season. Fuller glimpse of the productivity the against Usc and certainly be-has made seven catches that receiver has had over the last fore his mind can wander to his have gained at least 30 yards two seasons, especially in his quick trip home to Philadelphia for notre dame in 2015, and breakout 2014 campaign. during the bye week. five of those ended with the re-so far this season, Fuller’s 
And yet, he stops for a few ceiver in the end zone. Arguably seven touchdowns are tied for seconds to sign a football for a the biggest of those came with seventh-most in the nation, fan’s young grandson, whose the 39-yard game-winner with while his 571 receiving yards favorite player is no. 7. less than a minute left against are 15th. he’s averaged 16.4 
he patiently answers ques-virginia on sept. 12. yards per catch in his career tion after question from report-Those grabs have brought at notre dame, ranking third ers — his responses are never crowds to their feet — or hang-among all active Fbs receivers too long, and his voice is barely ing in despair over walls, in with at least 100 catches and louder than teammate Keivarae the case of the charlottesville 1,000 receiving yards. russell’s is from across the comeback — and have made Yet you wouldn’t know that room — before slipping out to Fuller the talk of the game more from his demeanor. he’s soft-doesn’t really need much in any schoolwork,” he said. “Like pose for a quick photoshoot and often than not over the past two spoken, goes about his business life to be happy and satisfied,” fall break, I’ll probably play heading off to complete his next seasons. but Fuller’s own mind and certainly isn’t prone to lin-graduate student receiver Amir my video games a lot and just task. is always on the job he has to ger around with reporters for carlisle said. “he’s a real good relax.” 
Fuller has things to do, the finish up. longer than he needs to. friend of mine, too, and off the Fuller is a member of a large first of which is studying for “I’ll make a big play, and I’ll “I’m an introvert — not on the field, he’s quiet.” group of teammates who chan­that test in his “black chicago just get up and run to my side field, I’m probably more extro-While Fuller said his extro-nel their competitiveness into Politics” course. of the field, you know, just going verted on the field — but off the version on the field especially playing 2K, madden, call of 
but on saturday, Fuller will to the next play,” he said. “I try field, in the classroom, at home, comes out in the way he com-duty or anything else that just have one job, and that’s to stay level-headed until the I’m still the same like I am municates with teammates, comes up. finding the open field so a spi-game’s over, just try to help my around media,” he said. “I don’t he said he still prefers to let his “There’s a lot of us. Probably ral from quarterback deshone team as much as possible. change that much with my play speak for itself — unless a a good 20, 25,” he said, listing Kizer can find him. “You don’t have to get hype friends. I’m still a quiet dude.” defensive back has been run-off carlisle, Prosise, ronnie 
At least that’s how the Irish until we win. I’m happy with other players were quick to ning his mouth. stanley, Torii hunter Jr., chris plan seems to go week after the win.” offer a similar analysis when “That’s definitely the way I’ve brown, Jay hayes and c.J. week. even after a win, the even-asked about their teammate always been,” he said. “If there’s sanders as his fellow gamers. 
“You know, it definitely keeps keeled junior doesn’t switch up away from football. a cornerback that’s talking a lot Graduate student center nick 
you a little bit more comfortable his lifestyle in celebration. “Will’s a low-key, quiet guy, of trash, and I make a big play or martin, who said sept. 30 that something — like Kei [russell], Fuller once “literally beat me by if I made a big play on Kei — I’ve about 100 points in madden,” gotta say something. It depends was conspicuously absent from on how the cornerback is.” that list. 
carlisle said he sees Fuller’s carlisle said the junior’s gam­demeanor change on saturdays ing skills are among the best to a certain degree. on the team — Fuller declared 
“before the game, obviously, himself “hands down the best his energy will pick up, as well in every game” — and that he as all of us will kind of get hype, used to be a nationally ranked chanting together, getting each player in madden. other fired up, but he’s a pretty despite that accomplish­even-keeled guy for the most ment, Fuller said his focus is part,” carlisle said. still on the game on the field, 
Though he admitted he’s not on the screen. bogged down with homework “I just play casually, just to get and football most days, Fuller my mind off things. I mean, it’s said he likes to spend his free time-consuming, so it gets days time participating in one of the passed really fast,” he said. more popular team activities: After all, Fuller still has other playing video games. places to be. 
“my favorite thing to do is playing video games, probably, Contact Mary Green at what I would do if I didn’t have mgreen8@nd.edu 



PAId AdverTIsemenT 
CAROLINE GENCO | The Observer 
Irish senior safety Elijah Shumate celebrates after his interception in Notre Dame’s 41-24 win over Navy on Saturday. 
PAId AdverTIsemenT ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2015 | The observer 





Helton leads USC after Sarkisian’s dismissal 
By ALEX CARSON 
Associate sports editor 
To say it’s been a tumultu­ous week for Usc may be an understatement. 
dropping a 17-12 home decision to unranked Washington on oct. 8 and dropping out of the polls in the process would be enough to knock most teams off their game, but the termination of head coach steve sarkisian on monday threw a program that started the year in the top 10 into further turmoil. 
“After careful consideration of what is in the best inter­est of the university and our student-athletes, I have made the decision to terminate steve sarkisian, effective im­mediately,” Trojans athletic director Pat haden said in a press release monday. “ … Through all of this we remain concerned for steve and hope that it will give him the op­portunity to focus on his per­sonal well-being.” 
sarkisian, who had ap­peared at a university func­tion in August under the influence of alcohol, was ter­minated after “not meeting Usc expectations and stan­dards,” haden said. 
“he knew those expec­tations and failed to meet them, so we made a decision in the best interest of our stu­dent-athletes, and that was to terminate steve.” 

With sarkisian out, inter­im head coach clay helton will lead the Trojans (3-2, 1-2 Pac-12) into the rivalry show­down against the Irish. 
“I’m very confident in my ability to lead a football team and the opportunity ahead,” helton, who served as sarkisian’s offensive co­ordinator, said on the Pac­12 coaches’ teleconference Tuesday. “our kids are ex­tremely excited about it.” 
For no. 14 notre dame (5­1), it means the Irish will face a fourth different Usc coach in as many seasons: Lane Kiffin coached the Trojans in 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 
2012, ed orgeron in 2013 fol­lowing Kiffin’s dismissal the previous week and sarkisian last year. 
Irish head coach brian Kelly said he expects to see similar things from the Trojans this week as they’ve shown ear­lier in the season but noted helton is likely to put his own stamp on Usc’s game plan. 
“I’m certain that the sys­tem that’s in place is one that we’ll continue to see,” Kelly said. “but play calling is such a combination of art and sci­ence. now that he is clearly running the program, you tend to see a little bit more of that finish come out, where maybe steve had his thumb or stamp on it. I think cer­tainly it would make sense that clay would have a little bit of his. but I don’t think you go too far from what they are and who they are as an offense.” 
And while there’s been a lot of turmoil at the program, Kelly said he expects to see a Usc team that comes out and puts its best foot forward — comparing it to Texas’ perfor­mance last weekend against oklahoma in a 24-17 upset win following a blowout loss at TcU. 
“It’s a rivalry game for them as well. It’s a chance for them to respond,” Kelly said. “I think you look at the way Texas responded this past weekend with a lot of media scrutiny. I expect Usc to respond the same way, so we’re going to have to play ex­tremely well.” 
The situation the Trojans find themselves in this year is eerily similar to the one two years ago, when Kiffin was fired midseason, and helton said he thinks his team can draw off that experience to come together. 
“The biggest thing is a lot of these guys — fortunately or unfortunately — have been in this situation before,” helton said. “We were in in it two years ago. I thought that staff that was together did ex­actly what we’re doing right now; we bonded together as a Trojan family and a football team.” 
helton said his team has a big opportunity this week at notre dame. 
“[We have] the opportu­nity to play in one of the greatest rivalry games in the history of college football this saturday,” helton said. “ … What an unbelievable saturday it will be, and what a great opportunity for us as Trojans.” 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 



PAId AdverTIsemenT 







• 
Notre Dame Deloitte Center for Ethical Leadership 

• 
600+ Notre Dame Alumni at Deloitte 

• 
Recognized as the largest employer of Notre Dame students 



Dedicated to making a difference together 
Lessons in Leadership 
From the Locker Room to the Boardroom 
Friday, October 16, 2015.  5:00 – 6:00 p.m. Mendoza College of Business (Jordan Auditorium) 
Join us for a discussion on leadership with Notre Dame Women’s Basketball Coach Muffet McGraw and two former players, Cathy Engelbert (CEO, Deloitte) and Ruth Riley (retired WNBA) in a panel discussion moderated by Anne Thompson (NBC News). Hear leaders discuss how a commitment to excellence and teaming with others can help build leadership skills that 
Cathy Engelbert 
CEO, Deloitte translate into success in all areas of one’s life. 
As used in this document, “Deloitte” means Deloitte LLP and its subsidiaries. Please see www.deloitte.com/us/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of Deloitte LLP and its subsidiaries. Certain services may not be available to attest clients under the rules and regulations of public accounting. 
Copyright © 2015 Deloitte Development LLC. All rights reserved. Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited 

PAId AdverTIsemenT 


Certified Organic Juice and Dairy-Free Smoothie Bar 
First 50 Students or faculty 
get 50% off a juice or smoothie at our 2036 South Bend Ave location by mentioning this ad 
20% of net profit in November goes toward the general research fund at Notre Dame! 
“Rein Juice has been a great help to me this season and I cannot thank them enough” Kris Versteeg, Chicago Blackhawks 2015 

Follow us: 
@rein-juice 
reinjuice 
rein juicery 
www.reinjuice.com 574.520.1874 info@reinjuice.com 

The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

HEAD TO 




TROJANS PASSING 
After notching 15 touchdowns and throw­ing for nearly 1,300 yards in his first four games, Usc quarterback cody Kessler struggled last time out against Washington, going 16-for-29 for just 156 yards and two interceptions in a 17-12 loss. It was a head-scratcher of a performance from a player who started the year so well, extending his streak of consecutive games with three or more touchdown passes to six before the loss. 
notre dame will, of course, remember Kessler’s performance in the game between the two teams last year, when he threw for six touchdowns and 372 yards in the Trojans’ 49-14 rout of a beat-up Irish team. 
This year, the Irish haven’t been serious­ly tested much through the air. Texas was largely impotent, clemson did not try much in the air during the downpour two weeks ago and notre dame has faced two triple-option attacks that largely kept the ball on the ground. 
The Irish have had a tendency to give up big plays this year, and Kessler and his re­ceiving corps are the kind of group that can pounce on those opportunities. 
EDGE: USC 
TROJANS RUSHING 
Usc’s two feature backs, Tre madden and ronald Jones II, combined to average 7.4 yards per carry oct. 8 against Washington, and the Trojans still managed to lose. With former head coach steve sarkisian dismissed and offensive coordinator clay helton tak­ing the reins, it will be interesting to see if the play calling changes — but the Trojans will still have to find a way to turn their backfield talent into success. madden has been limited in practice this week nursing a tender knee, but even if he’s not 100 percent, Jones and Justin davis still give the Trojans options. 
on the flip, notre dame’s defense has been fairly successful against the run this year: In four games against teams that don’t run an option scheme, the Irish have given up just 
136.8 yards per game on the ground. If the front seven plays well for notre dame, they should be able to find success stopping Usc’s rushing game. 
EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
NOTRE DAME STADIUM 
CAROLINE GENCO | The Observer CAROLINE GENCO | The Observer 
TROJANS OFFENSIVE COACHING 
In the aftermath of a coaching change, it’s always tough to say what an interim head coach will do. While the general schemes the Trojans are running should effectively stay the same, interim head coach clay helton is likely to put his own spin on proceedings. but even with the potential uncertainty, the distractions of the week may have an impact on the ability of Usc’s scheme to work under the lights. 
notre dame defensive coordinator brian vanGorder should have everything he needs to put together a solid game plan after last year’s disaster in Los Angeles. It’ll be up to the defense to make sure it ends up being a successful one. 
EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
TROJANS SPECIAL TEAMS 
The focus of the special teams unit at the coliseum boils down to one thing this year 
— Adoree’ Jackson. his two kickoff returns as a freshman last year earned him notori­ety, and despite teams kicking away from him, he’s racked up more than 10 yards per punt return this year, breaking a long of 45 yards on the season. The veteran kick and punt coverage teams for the Irish should have their hands full containing Jackson. 
The kicking game for Usc is largely an un­known, even after five games — kicker Alex Wood is just 4-for-5 this year, with his miss an important 46-yarder in last week’s loss to Washington, but punter Kris Albarado has been good, downing six of 23 punts inside the 20-yard line and racking up five 50-plus­yard punts this year. 
EDGE: USC 
TROJANS SCHEDULE (3-2) 
sept. 5   Arkansas State (W 55-6) sept. 12  Idaho (W 59-9) sept. 19 Stanford (L 41-31) sept. 26 @ Arizona State (W 42-14) 
oct. 8        Washington (L 17-12)  
oct. 17  @ Notre Dame  
oct. 24  Utah  
oct. 31  @ California  
nov. 7       Arizona  
nov. 13  @ Colorado  
nov. 21  @ Oregon  
nov. 28  UCLA  

(r-Sr.) Tre Madden 
(Fr.) ronald Jones II 
(r-Sr.) Cody Kessler
(r-so.) max browne 
(r-So.) Chris Hawkins 

S
(Jr.) Leon mcQuay III 22 
(Fr.) Cameron Smith 
(r-sr.) Lamar dawson 
(r-Sr.) Anthony Sarao 
(So.) John Plattenburg 
(Fr.) marvel Tell III 

(Fr.) osa masina 

S
7 
(r-Jr.) Alex Wood 

PK
(r-so.) matt boermeester 36 
(r-Sr.) Kris Albarado 

P
(r-Fr.) reid budrovich 46 
(So.) Adoree’ Jackson 

PR
(r-so.) steven mitchell Jr. 7 
USC 

(So.) Ju-Ju Smith Schuster 

WR
(Jr.) de’Quan hampton 89 
(r-Jr.) Taylor McNamara 

82 
TE
(Fr.) Tyler Petite 
(r-Jr.) Chad Wheeler 
(so.) Toa Lobendahn 

(So.) Damien Mama 
25 
RB 
(r-Fr.) chris brown 

(So.) Toa Lobendahn 
4 
QB 
(r-so.) Khaliel rodgers 
(So.) Viane Talamaivao 
(so.) Toa Lobendahn 
(r-Jr.) Zach Banner 
(Fr.) chuma edoga 
(r-Fr.) Jalen Greene 
(Jr.) Darreus Rogers
(r-Jr.) Isaac Whitney 

50 
LT 

77 
LG 

62 
C 

50 
RG 

70 
RT 
(r-So.) Steven Mitchell Jr. 

10 
WR 

15 
WR 
(Sr.) Kevon Seymour

LCB 
(Fr.) Iman marshall 8 
(Jr.) Su’a Cravens 

OLB 
(so.) Uchenna nwosu 42 
(r-Sr.) Delvon Simmons 

DT

(Fr.) noah Jefferson 91 
55 
ILB 
(r-Sr.) Antwaun Woods 

NT
(r-sr.) cody Temple 98 

58 
ILB 
(r-Sr.) Greg Townsend Jr.

DE
(Fr.) claude Pelon 90 
(r-Jr.) Scott Felix 

OLB 
(Fr.) Porter Gustin 45 
(So.) Adoree’ Jackson 

RCB
(so.) Jonathan Lockett 23 
(r-Jr.) Conner Sullivan 
(r-sr.) cody Kessler 
(So.) Adoree’ Jackson 
(so.) JuJu smith-schuster 
(Jr.) Zach Smith 
(r-Jr.) nick schlossberg 

6 
H 

9 
KR 

57 
LS 

Greg Hadley 
editor-in-chief 
With the recent turmoil surrounding the Trojans off the field, there seems to be a growing sentiment in certain cir­cles that perhaps Usc will come out angry and play inspired against the Irish, free from the uncertainty and controversy that plagued them under steve sarkisian. maybe Usc might even push notre dame to the limit. After all, the Trojans have plenty of talent. but this school of thought flies in the face of common sense. even if the Trojans are better off without sarkisian, their preparations this week had to be hindered by the uncertainty and turnover. meanwhile, the Irish are coming off a solid win over navy and have revenge on their mind after last season’s rout. Under the lights, with plenty of pressure to not just beat Usc but rout it, notre dame will start slow, as always, but power away in the second half. 

Mary Green 
Assistant managing editor 
on paper, it might appear notre dame should have this one in the bag: Usc is led by a new coach, at least for the interim, and its starting center is out for the year, adding another wrench to the season. 
but brian Kelly said, if anything, that could be a uni­fying factor for a Trojans team with a lot of pride, so the Irish will still have to put up a good fight to keep the play­ing of “Fight on” at bay. 
That shouldn’t be too big a problem for notre dame, unless the transition from a triple-option offense to a more conventional one is more difficult than expected, which has been the case a few times the last few seasons. 
however, the Irish will pull away for a relatively worry-free win to cruise into the bye week. 

Zach Klonsinski 
sports editor 
notre dame has gotten into a recent slump of slow starts, and that should scare Irish fans. Usc, despite all the turmoil that took place out west this week, still has an elite crop of talent, and if you give them some momentum, the Trojans will be able to capitalize on it. 
That said, the Irish have every reason to buck that re­cent trend and come out fired up this week. It’s a must-win game if they want to keep their hopes alive for the college Football Playoff, campus will be full of energy, it’s a night game, and you better believe the coaching staff has posted “49-14” on every possible open space all week. 
Look for the Irish to make a statement under the lights saturday night. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 38, Usc 21 FINAL SCORE: notre dame 34, Usc 17 FINAL SCORE: notre dame 41, Usc 24 

ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2015 | The observer 

TO HEAD 

7:30 P.M. ON NBC NO. 14 NOTRE DAME 

SARAH OLSON | The Observer AMY ACKERMANN | The Observer 
IRISH PASSING IRISH OFFENSIVE COACHING 
once more, deshone Kizer managed While notre dame went three-and-

KeiVarae Russell (Sr.) 
the game against navy, putting the Irish out on its opening possession last week, 
RCB 
12 devin butler (Jr.) 
in a good position to have success. he’s the offense responded well with another topped 200 yards through the air in each banner day. When the Irish were offered Jaylon Smith ( Jr.) of his four starts this season and used a short fields, the proper play calls gave 
WLB 

4 Te’von coney (Fr.) 
pass-heavy second drive of the game to notre dame six points within seconds. get the Irish on the board last week. The Irish staff had the right mix of passes 

Romeo Okwara (Sr.) 

29 Elijah Shumate (Sr.) After a tough contest at clemson, the and sweeps to c.J. Prosise to exploit the 
DE 
98 Andrew Trumbetti (so.) 
S 
nicky baratti (sr.) 

receiving corps responded well to the midshipmen defense early, and they killed 
DT 
Sheldon Day (Sr.) challenge against navy but may have to off the game very well in the second half. 
93 Jay hayes (so.) 

Joe Schmidt (Gr.) take another step up against Usc. chris The only team that’s stopped the Irish 

MLB 
59 Jarrett Grace (Gr.) 
DT 
Daniel Cage (So.) brown has continued to be a reliable sec-so far this year has been clemson — 
99 Jerry Tillery (Fr.) 

ond option for the Irish, making it harder and even then, the game plan was good 
Matthias Farley (Gr.) for teams to defend such that Will Fuller enough to produce points had drops not 
DE 
10 max redfield (Jr.) 
Isaac Rochell ( Jr.) S

55 Jonathan bonner (so.) is taken out of the game. With the slew of harmed the effort. oh, and the Trojans options notre dame has at receiver, it’s gave up 41 points in their only other game 

James Onwualu ( Jr.) reasonable to think the pass game will against a top-25 foe. 
SLB 
48 Greer martini (so.) 
continue to have success. Usc’s pass defense is nothing to EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
Cole Luke ( Jr.) 
LCB 
24 nick coleman (Fr.) write home about — despite surrender­ing fewer than 20 points in four of its IRISH SPECIAL TEAMS five outings, the Trojans defense is giv-Justin Yoon had a crucial 52-yard field 
Will Fuller (Jr.) 
WR 
86 
ing up more than 200 yards per game goal at the end of the half against navy, 
equanimeous st. brown (Fr.) 
TE 
to opposing teams through the air. It’s the third-longest in school history, while surrendered just four touchdowns, but Tyler newsome had a punt downed inside Tyler Luatua (So.) saturday’s contest should give Kizer an the five that eventually turned into a navy 

82 nic Weishar (so.) 
opportunity to grow in confidence once turnover and seven points for the Irish. A 
RT 

Mike McGlinchey ( Jr.) more. forced fumble on the opening kickoff of 
75 mark harrell (sr.) 

the second half gave notre dame’s offense 
C.J.Prosise (Sr.) 
33 Josh Adams (Fr.) 
Steve Elmer (Jr.) RB 
EDGE: NOTRE DAME with more easy points in a marked differ-
RG 
62 colin mcGovern (Jr.) 

ence from the clemson loss, where special 
DeShone Kizer (So.) 
Nick Martin (Gr.) 
QB
C 

53 sam mustipher (so.) 12 brandon Wimbush (Fr.) IRISH RUSHING teams hurt the Irish. If there were questions about c.J. The kick coverage team, however, did 
Alex Bars (So.) 
56 Quenton nelson (so.) 
LG 
Prosise and the Irish run game after a give up one big return, and with Adoree’ 
LT 

Ronnie Stanley (Sr.) rough outing at clemson, some of them Jackson back deep for punts and kicks, that 
70 hunter bivin (Jr.) 
were surely answered after last week’s could be a concern. consistency is still performance against navy, when Prosise a worry, but another good performance 
WR 

Chris Brown (Sr.) racked up three touchdowns for the sec-could quiet those fears. 
88 corey robinson (Jr.) 
ond time this season. Alex bars com-
Amir Carlisle (Gr.) 
WR 
16 Torii hunter Jr. (Jr.) ing in for the injured Quenton nelson EDGE: EVEN did little to harm the ground game, as a combination of jet sweeps and runs up IRISH SCHEDULE (5-1) the gut allowed notre dame to roll once sept. 5 Texas (W 38-3)               more. sept. 12 @ Virginia (W 34-27) 

A few weeks ago, stanford’s ground sept. 19 Georgia Tech (W 30-22) game ran wild over the Usc defense, sept. 26 Massachusetts (W 62-27) 
DeShone Kizer (So.) 
Justin Yoon (Fr.) 

4 montgomery vanGorder (so.) 
43 John chereson (Jr.) going for 195 yards and three touch-oct. 3 @ Clemson (L 24-22) 
H 
PK 
downs in the cardinal’s 41-31 win in Los oct. 10 Navy (W 41-24) 
C.J.Sanders (Fr.) 
Tyler Newsome (So.) 
3 Amir carlisle (Gr.) 42 Jeff riney (Fr.) 
KR 
P 
Angeles. It’s not hard to imagine the Irish oct. 17 USC 
PR 
LS 

C.J.Sanders (Fr.) rushing attack doing a similar thing this oct. 31 @ Temple 
Scott Daly (Sr.) 

99 hunter smith (sr.) 7 Will Fuller (Jr.) 
week against the Trojans, especially giv-nov. 7 @ Pittsburgh en the tumultous week Usc has had. nov. 14 Wake Forest nov. 21 vs. Boston College EDGE: NOTRE DAME nov. 28 @ Stanford 


Alex Carson 
Associate sports editor 
realistically, this game should go one of two ways. Playing on a cold, midwestern night at the end of a tumul­tuous, emotionally-challenging week, Usc doesn’t come close to putting its best foot forward. That’s the first. 
The other scenario is the opposite. With a rivalry game after a week of intense media attention, the Trojans come in and play their best football of the year, showcasing the talent that earned them a preseason no. 6 ranking. 
I think it’ll be the latter, and with the issues notre dame has had the week after navy under brian Kelly, this game has the makings of one that will go down to the wire. 
Like he did at virginia, deshone Kizer will have to step up to win this game late for notre dame. And like he did at virginia, he’ll deliver. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 24, Usc 21 

Brian Plamondon 
sports Writer 
notre dame doesn’t have a very good track record post-navy: In the past eight years, the Irish are 2-6. It’s not just notre dame, however, as last season, teams that had a game the week after navy went a combined 1-7. 
With the steve sarkisian and max Tuerk news hitting Usc this week, notre dame couldn’t have caught the Trojans at a better time. 
Look for sheldon day to wreak havoc up the middle, put­ting pressure on Usc’s cody Kessler and giving the Irish secondary a chance against a talented crop of receivers. 
on offense, the friendly confines of notre dame stadium will be huge for deshone Kizer in a big rivalry game. Forget fancy stats, my gut says the Irish should take care of business and enact revenge from last year. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 38, Usc 24 


The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Irish secondary works through growing pains 
By GREG HADLEY 
editor-in-chief 
If last season was the only guide, Usc graduate student quarterback cody Kessler would be glad to see the notre dame secondary when he takes his first snap saturday night. 
In the Trojans’ 49-14 vic­tory in 2014, Kessler torched the Irish defensive backs for six touchdowns, 372 yards and an 80 percent completion percentage. 
but things have changed since then, and the notre dame secondary that will take the field this weekend will look far different from the one that was dominated a year ago. 
Just ask Keivarae russell. 
“They’re going to be going against a lot of different guys,” the senior cornerback said. “It’s a totally different team.” 
russell missed last year’s game while he was suspended, and junior safety max redfield left in the second quarter due to injury. meanwhile, junior cornerback devin butler had to step up in just the second start of his career, and junior cole Luke was expected to lead the cornerbacks in his first season as a starter. 
“obviously going into last year’s game against sc we were real banged up, a lot of guys were out,” graduate cor­nerback matthias Farley said. “We had a lot of true freshmen playing that had never played in that environment, never played in that game before.” 
This season, the Irish sec­ondary is much more settled. russell is back on the field and third on the team in tackles, and Luke has two intercep­tions to lead the team and a whole year of experience under his belt. redfield and Farley have split time at safety, and senior safety elijah shumate has three tackles for loss, one interception and 31 tackles. 
And perhaps most impor­tantly, the unit has gone from a relative dearth of leaders to a surplus of them. Farley is a captain, russell is considered a future nFL draft pick, and shumate has grown to become more vocal and assertive as a leader. 
“[It’s] skyrocketed,” head coach brian Kelly said of shumate’s leadership. “I wish I had another couple of years with him. he’s really come into his own. some guys, it just takes a little longer to get to that point. he’s just one of those guys who’s really as­cending for us.” 
Last season, shumate had a career-high 13 tackles against Usc. It was, however, part of an up-and-down season in which he was benched twice and struggled to earn the ap­proval of Kelly and new de­fensive coordinator brian vanGorder. 
but a second year in vanGorder’s system has paid dividends for shumate and the secondary. 

“I think he understands the game a lot more and his defense really, really well, so I think it obviously helps to speak up when you know you’re 100 percent right, you’re not second-guessing your­self,” Farley said of shumate. “I think also he’s just been play­ing really well, so that gives him more confidence.” 
so far this season, notre dame ranks 12th in the nation in passing yards allowed — though two of its six games have come against triple-option offenses that rarely pass the ball — but have allowed seven touchdowns through the air, 43rd in the ncAA. 
And Kelly is far from satisfied with the unit. 
“I think where we’d like to see continued growth is prob­ably just being a little more ag­gressive,” he said. “most astute football coaches would say that it starts on the back end, right?” 
It’s an assessment Farley agrees with, but he sees this weekend’s matchup with Kessler and Usc as a chance to showcase the aggressive­ness and consistency Kelly is 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 
looking for. 
“I think that each week is an opportunity to play more con­sistently as a secondary, and what better way to do it than go against some incredible competition in Usc or who­ever it may be?” Farley said. “but it really is just becoming more consistent week in and week out no matter who we’re playing and trusting each oth­er that you’re going to do your job because everything does fit when everyone is doing the right thing in the secondary.” 
Contact Greg Hadley at  ghadley@nd.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2015 | The observer 

RECRUITING 
Hayes headlines slew of visitors for rivalry game 

Photo courtesy of Blue and Gold Illustrated, Rivals.com 
Linebacker Daelin Hayes, who decommitted from USC earlier this week, is among 15 official visitors on campus for Saturday’s game. 
Photo courtesy of Blue and Gold Illustrated, Rivals.com 
Defensive end Khalid Kareem backed away from his Alabama pledge Wednesday and is an official visitor this weekend for the USC game. 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports editor 
Usually winning or losing a game during a recruit’s official visit doesn’t factor too much into his decision to eventually attend the school. 
That’s not the case for notre dame this weekend when it welcomes Usc to notre dame stadium, according to Irish re­cruiting analyst Andrew Ivins. 
With the Trojan program reel­ing over the events of the past week, Ivins, who covers notre dame recruiting for rivals.com’s blue and Gold Illustrated, said in order to really make an impres­sion on recruits, notre dame must beat its rival. 
And not just a tooth-and-nail victory like 2013’s 14-10 escape: Ivins said the Irish need to make a statement to the visitors on cam­pus this weekend. 
“I’ve never been one who goes, ‘They’ve got to win or they’ve got to lose,’ because you can spin that both ways to recruits,” Ivins said. “but given the circumstances, Usc couldn’t be in a lower place right now, and you have so many high-profile kids coming from the West coast. … I think notre dame has to win this game, and I think it would say a lot to do it in commanding fashion. Just given the circumstances that you’re go­ing up against a team that has an interim head coach and this is a rivalry game. 

“I normally wouldn’t say that, but this weekend I feel like they have to win if they want to get some momentum on the recruit­ing trail.” 
The Irish have a season-high 15 official visitors — and the po­tential for a couple more to be added in the final hours before the game — and even more on unofficial visits. It will not only be easily the busiest, but also argu­ably the most important weekend for notre dame all season on the recruiting front. 
Among the prospects officially visiting campus, five-star line­backer daelin hayes announced his decommitment from Usc on Twitter on sunday after being pledged to the Trojans for over a year. Ivins said the Ann Arbor, michigan, native’s decision had basically whittled down to Usc and notre dame, but now that he has reopened his recruitment, he has already scheduled visits to ohio state and oklahoma, per his recruit page on rivals.com. 
despite these new visits, Ivins said notre dame is still in good shape with the 13th-ranked prospect. 
“he’s always had an interest in notre dame,” Ivins said. “Then obviously what happened last Los Angeles this past weekend [the firing of Usc head coach steve sarkisian] reopened things up and he decided to separate him­self from the Trojans. 
“ … I think notre dame is in the perfect position to land hayes. he’s going to take the of­ficial visit, [his] mom’s coming. They’ve always had an interest in notre dame. but I don’t think that a commitment is imminent this weekend simply because he wants to look at his other options.” 
Four-star linebacker Jeffrey mcculloch, the no. 5 lineback­er prospect in the country, per rivals, will join hayes at notre dame this weekend. It will be the houston, Texas, native’s first offi­cial visit to any school, and Ivins said the fact he chose notre dame first bodes well for the Irish. 
“he’s got a list of 15 schools that are in the picture, but notre dame is the first that will get an official visit,” Ivins said. “That’s because notre dame has put in the work and continued to try and get him on campus. 
“right now I think he’s as wide-open as you can get. he’s not going to make a decision until January, but this is a pretty-telling sign … that [notre dame is] going to be in it until the end.” 
Ivins said having both high-profile linebacker recruits on campus at the same time shouldn’t be a problem for the Irish. 
“If you’renotredame right now, you’re pointing to [mcculloch] and saying, ‘We’re only going to have six scholarship linebackers coming back next year, and only three of them have played snaps, so there’s definitely going to be room for playing time,’” Ivins said. 
hayes will not be the only re­cruit on campus who recently decommitted from another high-profile program. Four-star defensive end Khalid Kareem of Farmington hills, michigan, backed away from his June verbal pledge to Alabama on Wednesday and will be in south bend over the weekend. 
“The family really likes the aca­demic side of things,” Ivins said. “obviously, if you stack notre dame up with Alabama, it’s not really on the same playing field. 
“Is he a guy who is going to commit right away? I don’t know. I give him a higher chance than hayes because defensive end is an obvious need.” 
Two of notre dame’s biggest targets on offense will also be in the stands saturday. Four-star receiver Javon mcKinley will be making his official visit to notre dame, while the Irish will also be getting a head start on their 2017 recruiting class by welcoming five-star offensive tackle Jedrick Wills to campus for an unofficial visit. 
“When you talk with people inside the Gug, they feel in a way they’ve already won over Javon mcKinley’s mother, and they think that is going to be a deciding factor down the line,” Ivins said. “This is his third visit 
— mom came the first time, he came alone the second time — so I think what notre dame needs to show him is … he can be a dy­namic receiver and notre dame can put guys at the next level.” 
“This will be [Wills’] second unofficial, surprisingly,” Ivins said. “It’s pretty much a notre dame-Kentucky battle right now. … notre dame really likes him, and when [Irish offensive line coach] harry hiestand identifies a lineman he likes, he generally doesn’t miss.” 
Ivins said if he had to guess where the Irish would pick up a commitment this weekend, he highlighted notre dame’s two three-star safety recruits, devin studstill and Ikenna okeke. 
“As I was told today, spots are closing fast, so it’ll be interesting to see if either one of those guys pulls the trigger, if they get pres­sure to pull the trigger,” Ivins said. 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out BlueAndGold.com. Email Andrew Owens at aowens@blueandgold.com and tell him The Observer sent you. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 

PAId AdverTIsemenT 



PAId AdverTIsemenT 
Coach Kelley’s teams almost never punt, always kick onside, and this year have started a new experiment in rugby-style, multiple-touch, down-field play. His State Championship winning ways are rooted in data analytics. 
Arguably today’s most famous high school football coach, he has been featured in many news articles, including the Washington Post, as well on multiple appearances on HBO’s Real Sports with Bryant Gumbel. 
PRESENTS 
A Data in Real Life Event 
NEVER PUNT! 
WINNING FOOTBALL  WITH ANALYTICS 
Join Coach Kevin Kelley for an in-depth  analysis of the Notre Dame vs. USC game 
Featuring South Bend Tribune’s Eric Hansen,  WNDU’s Angelo Di Carlo, Darin Pritchett, WSBT Radio, and  Nitesh Chawla, PhD, founder of Aunalytics and Notre Dame Professor 
Monday, October 19, 2015 at 10 am The Morris Inn, University of Notre Dame 
Coach Kelley is Athletic Director and Head Coach at Pulaski Academy in Little Rock, AR.  His record of 77-17 backs up his belief to NEVER PUNT.   Time Magazine recognized his philosophy as the 33rd Best Invention in 2009. 
Admission is FREE 
LIMITED SEATING   |   MUST HAVE TICKET TO ENTER EVENT 
Tickets available at:  southbendtribune.com/coachkelley 

The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Observer File Photo 
Trojans junior running back Justin Davis runs upfield during USC’s 49-14 win over Notre Dame last season at Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum. Graduate student quarterback Cody Kessler, 6, threw for six touchdowns in the win as the Trojans scored their most points against Notre Dame since a 55-24 win in 1974. 










