the iNdepeNdeNt to uNcover Newspaper serviNg the truth Notre dame aNd aNd report saiNt mary’s it accurately 

volume 48, issue 94 | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2015 | NdsmcoBserver.com 
Notre Dame hosts Junior Parents Weekend 
Parents travel across the country to partipate in various events, spend time with their children 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
News writer 
last weekend, Notre dame welcomed mothers and fathers of members of the junior class to celebrate the university’s annual Junior parents weekend (Jpw). traveling to Notre dame from across the country, par­ents participated in three days of diverse events designed to give them a taste of the Notre dame student experience. 
Junior maria mcguire, chair of the arts and letters college workshop, said the main goal of the 13-person planning com­mittee was to create a memora­ble experience for juniors and their parents that embodies the culture and tradition of Notre dame. 
“i think the overall goal of Jpw is simply showing what Notre dame’s about,” mcguire said. “it’s really special to be able to have this designated time to bring together your Notre dame family and your biological family.” 
the schedule for the weekend was packed with a number of events including a gala, colle­giate workshops, mass and the president’s dinner. 
Junior Jacob schrimpf said both of his parents, michael and margaret schrimpf, at­tended Notre dame as mem­bers of the class of 1989. 
“i think this experience is extra special because my parents both had their own 
see Jpw PAGE 5 




Panelists discuss cyberbullying 

By NICOLE CARATAS 
News writer 
in the latest installment of the saint mary’s Justice Fridays se­ries, panelists called attention to the bullying problems associat­ed with social media, especially in the age of new and accessible technology. 
panelists included Janielle tchakerian, assistant vice presi­dent for student affairs at saint mary’s, st. Joseph county police department legal adviser eric tamashasky and psychologist milene Jeffirs. the panelists said anonymity and the fast pace of change contribute to bullying. 
“the anonymous nature is a very big problem for everybody," tamashasky said. "the only per­son who can fight the anony­mous side is law enforcement.” 
in-school processes for deal­ing with cyberbullies are often inadequate because schools of­ten are not fully equipped to deal 
see paNel PAGE 4 


Early admits visit campus 
By MADISON JAROS 
News writer 

some of Notre dame’s early admission applicants arrived on campus saturday as part of Notre dame’s 13th reilly weekend, a visitation program for the top 1 percent of pro­spective students. 
Junior adam Farchone, who is part of the student plan­ning committee for the event, said the weekend aims to show prospective students the character of Notre dame. the weekend’s events — which included a stadium tour, a visit to the center for the homeless in south Bend and a group mass 
— gave participants a feel for ev­erything the university has to offer, he said. participants will be able to attend university classes today. 
“reilly, as it stands, is a visita­tion weekend for students in the top 1 percent of the application pool from Notre dame,” he said. “But this year, it’s really been ex­panded to just beyond the top 1 percent academically." 
although the program has not changed much over the years, Farchone said the criteria for ac­cepted students has been more holistic this year than it has been in the past. 
"while all the students that are attending reilly will have stellar grade point averages, addition­ally there is an unprecedented focus [this year] on community engagement as well as extracur­riculars in school," he said. "… so while it’s still the top 1 percent of the application pool, it’s more of a holistic view of the applicants, whereas in previous years it had 
see reilly PAGE 5 


Businessman connects catholicism and finance 
By GABRIELA MALESPIN 
News writer 

immaculata law Firm and Julius capital founder michael schierl, a leader in the catholic financial community, present­ed his vision for an ambitious catholic financial system and community on Friday at the mendoza college of Business. 
as part of mendoza's ten years hence lecture series, schierl's lecture focused on his plans and vision to create a self-funded catholic commu­nity capable of implementa­tion on a national level. schierl said this system is based off the marytown community model first implemented by saint maximilian kolbe. 
“in 10 years, we hope to do something enormous for the catholic church in the area of impact investing," he said. "the simple goal we’ve taken upon ourselves is to build a new catholic financial ecosystem." 
with the intent to integrate more than 186 dioceses across the nation, schierl said he hopes to establish a community that integrates senior citizens and 
see lecture PAGE 4 


News PAGE 3 viewpoiNt PAGE 7 sceNe PAGE 8 womeN’s BasketBall PAGE 16 meN’s BasketBall PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. Box 779, Notre dame, iN 46556 024 south dining hall, Notre dame, iN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                Brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: Brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Do you wish that every weekend would be Junior Parents’ Weekend? 


Katie Harris 
junior 
ryan hall 

“only every other weekend, so they can buy me food. is that mean? Just a little.” 
Camden Hill 
junior 
keough hall 

“yes, because my birthday falls on Jpw.” 
Katie DuFour 
junior 
cavanaugh hall 

“yes, it was absolutely perfect.” 
Olivia Fernandes 
junior 
lewis hall 
“yes. my parents rock.” 
Michael McRoskey 
freshman 
dillon hall 
“No! who would want midnight parietals every weekend?” 
Maggie Thomann 
freshman 
pasquerilla east hall 
“No, because it eliminates our social gatherings.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

the observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. the observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
the news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of the observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 

the observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
the observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
Notre dame, iN 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices 
postmaster 
send address corrections to: 
the observer 
p.o. Box 779 
024 south dining hall 
Notre dame, iN 46556-077 
the observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

carolyn hutyra greg hadley Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: haleigh ehmsen Zach klonsinski peter durbin rachel o’grady 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
sara shoemake Jimmy kemper 
Photo Viewpoint 

An Evening of Irish Men’s Boxing Learn to Curl Women’s Basketball TED: “What If...” 
emily mcconville tabitha ricketts 
Traditional Music Joyce Center Compton Family Ice Purcell Pavilion DeBartolo Performing Legends of Notre 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Arena 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Arts Center Dame 85th Annual Bengal 12 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. Irish take on 12:30 p.m. - 7 p.m. 
Corrections 

7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Bouts Semifinals. Thirty minutes of Pittsburgh. Claim unclaimed free 
the observer regards itself as Free live music. instruction followed by tickets by 12:15 p.m. a professional publication and 
60 minutes of curling. 
strives for the highest standards 
Women’s Basketball Men’s Basketball Grotto Trip Film: Maidan Hockey 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Purcell Pavilion Purcell Pavilion Bond Hall DeBartolo Performing Compton Family Ice 
however, recognize that we will make 
7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 8 p.m. - 10 p.m. 10 p.m. - 11 p.m. Arts Center Arena 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Irish take on Louisville. Irish take on Syracuse. Sponsored by Asian 8 p.m. - 10 p.m. 7:35 p.m. - 9:35 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
American Association. Ukrainian with English Irish battle Boston 
we can correct our error. 

subtitles. College. 


Talk highlights racial differences on TV 
By ALYSSA LYON 
News writer 
english professor stuart greene held an open discus­sion on the depiction of black love and family on television as part of the National association for the advancement of colored people (Naacp) lecture series 
for  Black  history  month  on  
thursday  in  o'shaughnessy  
hall.  

Junior preston igwe began the discussion by highlighting "the Fresh prince of Bel air" and the way in which the 1990s series defied typical stereotypes of black families, portraying each family member in a way that is "a lot more real and a lot more genuine." 
igwe said there is a stark con­trast between the "stereotypical black son" and carlton, the son that is overall negative in terms of a woman's role in a black re­lationship. they portray women as angry; they portray women as [people who are] always going to go back to these men who are doing terrible things to them." 

Junior Nora williamson said she thinks it is easier for adults to recognize that these are neg­ative depictions, but less so for younger audiences. 
"i remember watching things like ["love & hip hop"] when i was 12, 13, 14, and i feel like it is especially formative on kids, re­gardless of race. But just watch­ing this when you are little, and if you think that that's what a relationship is like ... that could be a real problem," williamson said. 
Contact Alyssa Lyon at  alyon@nd.edu 
lecture analyzes celtic tiger 
By JENNIFER FLANAGAN 
News writer 
sarah l. townsend, a visiting faculty fellow at the keough-Naughton institute, traced in a talk Friday the literary usage of the term "pig" during the celtic tiger period in ireland. 
townsend analyzed the celtic tiger, a name for the rapid economic growth of the republic of ireland in the late 1990s, in the lecture titled "miracles of development: From irish pigs to celtic tigers," which focused par­ticularly on patrick mccabe’s "the Butcher Boy" and enda walsh’s "disco pigs." 
“the works serve as fascinat­ing barometers of the celtic tiger sentiment by capturing the early dizzying promises while simultaneously convey­ing depression for its excesses, exclusions and violent ends,” she said. 
these pig-oriented narra­tives reveal the mental logic of the celtic tiger and its af­termath, townsend said. the irish works by mccabe and walsh convey well the transi­tion of ireland into the celtic tiger and the subsequent de­pression, she said. 
the authors’ portrayal of characters emphasizes the country'a mentality during the time of transition into the celtic tiger economy, townsend said. 
“mccabe’s and walsh’s texts critique the piggish tendencies that development in ireland caused because of the econom­ic development of the latter 20th century … such as calling out the excesses of celtic tiger society,” she said. 
one example of aligning the transformation of characters to the transformation of the irish people's mentality was marking the characters' de­velopment in terms of piggish consumption, townsend said. 
“development of consumer desires [by the characters] mark the emergence of a so­cialized and mature individual finally able to make and spend like the celtic tiger demand,” she said. 
the characters' ultimate decline by over-consumption echoes the fate of the celtic tiger, which townsend said transitioned ireland from the country with the highest stan­dard of living in the world in 2005 to one with a depressed economy by 2010. 
Contact Jennifer Flanagan at jflanag2@nd.edu 

on the show played by alfonso ribeiro. 
"there is the black son who is a lot of times angry, unintel­ligent, sex-crazed, and then you have carlton who is a gentle young man who is funny and ambitious and is a hopeless ro­mantic," he said. 
one particular scene from the show that igwe described depicts phil, played by James avery, as a compassionate and loving father-figure to his neph­ew played by will smith. 
"he let [his nephew] know it is okay to be vulnerable some­times; it is okay to let it out; it is okay to be angry; it is okay to cry," igwe said. "we all need uncle phil in our lives. we all need to try to be that person in someone else's life. 
"i think he is one of the best representations of how to be a good black father and a good black man." 
Junior ray'von Jones said most other television shows fea­turing black characters depict them in a negative light. she addressed the negative ways in which television portrays black love and particularly sexuality by pointing to "love & hip hop," a television show on vh1. 
"it tells us that black love is dysfunctional," Jones said. "if you watch these shows, you know that there are very few re­lationships in 'love & hip hop' that are successful that go on without cheating and violence." 
she said women are the ones who are particularly shown in an unfavorable way. 
"[according to the show] a black woman's love and sexual­ity can be bought," Jones said. "they portray women in a way 

paid advertisemeNt 


the oBserver | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2015 | NdsmcoBserver.com 

Lecture 
coNtiNued From page 1 
parishes in the process. 
he said he hopes the project, which requires over $1 billion in catholic impact bonds and $10 million in campus invest­ment for parishes and dio­ceses, will create a financial model that can generate fund­ing for high-impact projects in the catholic church. 
in order for the project to become a scalable and repli­cable model, schierl said the project needs to overturn the “scarcity paradigm” that pre­vented dioceses and catholic nonprofits from generating usable capital for high-impact projects. schierl said he looks to mary, as well as biblical stories such as that of the five loaves and the fish, as models for a new paradigm grounded in catholic principle. 
“in order to adopt this goal, we’re going to have to develop a 'mission possible' mentality,” he said. 
the key to this funding par­adigm is issuing bonds and bond structures, which schierl said include catholic taxable bonds and conduit mortgage bonds through parishes and dioceses. 
"catholic taxable bonds are bonds that can provide fund­ing to religious projects and follow catholic principles, as opposed to tax-exempt bonds, which present limitations for funding parishes and other re­ligious institutions,” he said. 

schierl said issuing these kinds of bonds requires taking advantage of the “catholic mu­nicipality opportunity,” which involves taking advantage of the taxing power of catholic dioceses and nonprofits to is­sue taxable bonds. 
“what we have is a se­cured bond immunizing bond holders from diocese bank­ruptcy risk. we have a flex­ible instrument that can be invested in anything," schierl said. “[catholic taxable bonds] are secure; they’re flexible; they’re faithful. By doing a master indenture over the dio­cese and having the blessing of the bishop or the organization that’s sponsoring it, we can en­sure that every loan is faithful to the catholic tradition and doesn’t have anything con­trary to canon law.” 
another fundamental component of this catholic financial ecosystem is the in­corporation of the “flex endow­ment campaign,” which schierl said allows donors to purchase certain types of donor-friendly bonds in order to buy up a lot of death benefit on life policies. 
schierl said the flex endow­ment campaign model im­proves on traditional models by ensuring donors can see the results of their donations, such as parish donations, during their lifetimes and create and insure more usable capital for high-impact projects. 
the dioceses of lexington and phoenix are types of struc­tures that have expanded lend­ing capacity and created more funding opportunities for these dioceses, schierl said. 
“we’re going to need a whole new breed of catholic institu­tions and foundations who are audaciously brave enough to invest in our catholic impact bonds," he said. "rather than a watered down socially accept­able investment screening, why not have a peer play in­vestment opportunity directly in the building of the church?" 
Contact Gabriela Malespin at gmalespi@nd.edu 
Panel 
coNtiNued From page 1 
there is also a level of ambigu­ity when it comes to the apps students download and how they can be used against a per­son, he said. 
the anonymous nature of apps such as yikyak allows students to target other stu­dents without fear of being traced. For apps like snapchat, tamashasky said recipients can download software that allows them to save pictures received without notifying the sender. 
tamashasky also said stu­dents should research apps be­fore downloading them in order to verify app advertisement in­formation and privacy policies. 
the panelists said stu­dents have the ability to watch for signs of bullying in the saint mary's and south Bend communities. 
“the students know what’s going on in their classes; they know what’s going on in their dorms; they know what’s going on in their communities," Jeffirs said. "watch for the signs. see if there are kids out there in pain or too lonely and then reach out and try to make that situ­ation less painful for that one person.” 
Jeffirs said watching out for one another plays a key role in making the online community more safe. 
"as a psychologist, i look at the emotional side of it, the mental health side of it more than the technology side," she said. "i really think students can just watch out, reach out and report. that’s the most important thing, to have the courage to report and to tell ad­ministrators that something is going on.” 
tamashasky said there is an app called “stopit” designed for students to take pictures of online bullying and anony­mously report it to schools. 
the college already allows anonymous reporting of bully­ing through campus security, tchakerian said. 
“what iwant you to take away is how to help a friend who’s go­ing through it, like sharing cor­rect information and knowing who you should be reaching alone. an emotional toll it takes on through it alone’ is the message out to,” tchakerien said. “what “when you are being bul-students. to be supportive of i want you to take.” i see are the students who want lied, whether in person or via students going through that help but don’t know how to get social media or dry erase board and to help [them] go through Contact Nicole Caratas at it or don’t want to go through it in the residence halls, there is it and say, ‘you don’t have to go ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 

paid advertisemeNt 



JPW 
coNtiNued From page 1 
Jpws,” Jacob schrimpf said. “Notre dame is now both their university and my university. having the oppor­tunity to share and celebrate this school has made this a really incredible weekend.” 
margaret schrimpf said Jpw provides a unique ex­perience for junior parents to see how their sons and daughters have grown during their time at Notre dame. 
“i think that by junior year, the kids have had two and a half years to solidify their majors, their friends and their place on campus,” margaret schrimpf said. “they’re in this time where they’ve really established themselves as Notre dame students. as parents, this weekend gives you a chance to see where they’ve been and what they’ve been doing, while also looking ahead to the things they could be do­ing in the future.” 
Junior kate hermeling said her favorite part of the weekend was introducing her parents to her friends and meeting her friends’ parents. 
“you meet such incredible people here at Notre dame,” she said. “it’s fun to see how these people were raised and where they come from.” 
michael schrimpf said he enjoyed the arts and letters collegiate workshop because it showed parents the aca­demic components of his life. 

“it was really exciting to see another aspect of what’s happening here on cam­pus,” michael schrimpf said. “along with the social activi­ties, we get to see the learn­ing and the research which students come here to do. the kids are really doing some amazing and impres­sive things.” 
Jacob schrimpf said he ap­preciated the opportunity to share his Notre dame experi­ence with his parents with­out the craziness of a football weekend. 
“this weekend is really just an opportunity to welcome them into my world, into my day-to-day life,” Jacob schrimpf said. “we’ve had receptions with all the differ­ent groups that i’m a part of, including my dorm. they get to meet all of my friends that they might not get to meet when they’re here for those big occasions. it’s just an op­portunity to enjoy what Notre dame is and what it means to us, and that’s a really cool thing to get to share.” 
mcguire said Jpw reminds juniors that graduation is closer than they think. 
“it’s sad now that it’s over because it was something on the horizon for so long,” mcguire said. “Now the next big event for us is gradua­tion, which is kind of scary to think about because this time has gone by so fast.” 
hermeling said Jpw al­lowed her to show her par­ents how Notre dame has impacted her life. 
“it was a really good time for us to take a moment with our parents, to thank them and show them what Notre dame has done for us,” she said. “it’s a way to show them that the investment they’ve made has really affected ev­ery aspect of our lives — ac­ademically, socially and in many other ways.” 
Contact Katie Galioto at  kgalioto@nd.edu 
Reilly 
coNtiNued From page 1 
been almost entirely based on academic involvement.” 
Freshman and committee member rachel warne said reilly weekend gives high school se­niors, who are choosing between a handful of great schools, the opportunity to see Notre dame as an attending student would. 
“i think that [reilly weekend] is an experience of Notre dame you wouldn’t get to have if you just come visit and go on a tour and kind of walk around cam­pus,” she said. “it’s kind of like the full experience. 
"you really get to see a lot more than you would get to experience if you came with your parents for one day as part of a bigger college tour. so, it’s nice because they get to have this deeper experience with Notre dame, and they get to really understand what it’s all about, rather than kind of just the surface view.” 
although stadium construc­tion for campus crossroads led to some adjustments in the weekend’s events, freshman and committee member katharine Janes said the university was still able to show students all the best things it has to offer. 

“it really makes you think about why is Notre dame really spiritually active, why are ath­letics important, why are aca­demics important and how can we showcase that to prospective students?" she said. "and also, i think that recruiting a student body that really values those things is important, so you’re re­cruiting students who will be re­flective of that mission." 
Farchone said his experience 
paid advertisemeNt 

at reilly weekend as a high school senior was what ultimate­ly convinced him to attend Notre dame. 
“reilly was really a chance to experience the tangible offer­ings of Notre dame, and it was a great way to differentiate the university from other options that i was considering," he said. "it really highlighted for me the community aspect of Notre dame and the familial atmo­sphere, as well as the focus on the faith life and service. 
"there was a moment on my reilly [weekend] when i looked around and thought to myself, ‘these are the people that i want to spend the rest of my life with,’ and i couldn’t envision myself going to any other university besides Notre dame. and that’s what we’re hoping to recreate for these students, to show them that in the face of a secular world, it’s not a disadvantage to have at­tended a catholic university. in many ways it’s actually an advan­tage for your personal well-being and your holistic development.” 
Contact Madison Jaros at  mjaros@nd.edu 



lent is awkward 
Madison Jaros 
scene writer 

i love Notre dame, and i think lent is pretty cool. But as a non-catholic, lent at Notre dame can be a bit awkward. here’s what’s running through my head as the whole school celebrates it: 
1. 
on the “what are you giving up for lent?” board in the coleman-morse center, a ton of people wrote down they were giving up peanut butter. why all the hate for peanut butter? or i guess it would be love for pea­nut butter, if they’re giving it up. either way, i don’t think i could sur­vive if i ever had to give up peanut butter for lent. 

2. 
on that note, having people ask me what i’m giving up for lent is always awkward because i’m not giving up anything. 

3. 
on the plus side, lent is good for awkward people like me because asking someone what they’re giving up for lent is always an easy conver­sation starter. 

4. 
Friends who gave up junk food usu­ally let you take all the candy they have but won’t be able to eat for the next few months. so that’s pretty nice, not going to lie. 

5. 
i respect the fact that the dining hall accommodates students who don’t want to eat meat on Fridays dur­ing lent, but if they’re not going to serve meat, can they figure out how to make a decent grilled cheese? Because that’s basically all i subsist on when Friday comes around. 

6. 
the make-your-own-pizza line is way too long. i guess i’ll just get a salad. 

7. 
Notre dame is the only place where not having a cross on your forehead during ash wednesday is kind of weird. 

8. 
also, fasting on ash wednesday — i don’t get it. one of my friends told me when you fast you eat one large meal and two smaller meals, spread out throughout the day. But i’m con­fused because that’s just how i usu­ally eat every day. does this mean i’m fasting every day? if so, does that mean i’m extra holy? Because that is definitely not even close to true. 

9. 
oh well, at least everything is decked out in purple (my favorite color). 

10. 
i think i may be going to hell. 


Contact Madison Jaros at mjaros@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Erin Thomassen 
the examined life 

some students call their professors their friends. i call my friends my professors. 
i don’t call them professor monika or professor steve to their faces. most of them don’t even know they are my professors. they don’t realize our hangouts are classes and our lunch dates lab periods. this is because i hide my notes. 
you see, i am ashamed of how much i have to learn about being a good friend. throughout high school, i spent my time learning how to write five-paragraph essays and how to kick a ball in a net. i did not neces­sarily succeed; i preferred sassy poems to prose and cartwheels to dribbling. 
But i tried. i spent time trying to write like a ma­chine to please the college Board. i spent time copying amanda Bynes’ fancy footwork in “she’s the man” to score goals. i did not recommend this training plan to many friends, not because Bynes lacks skill, but be­cause i did not have many friends. 
in high school, i did not spend time making friends. in my subconscious cost-benefit analysis of how erin should spend every moment, there were no points given for friendship. my time spent during lunch could be time spent finishing my calc homework. if i fin­ished it then, i could leave my heavy book at school and save my back from carrying an unnecessary load. why would i eat lunch with friends when friends themselves are unnecessary loads? they always text you when you want to sleep and want to hang out on your one day off. what do you accomplish during trips to the mall anyways? 
Friendship. you accomplish friendship. sadly, i failed to recognize this. though i managed to find one best friend i found it “worthwhile” to spend time with in high school, i let myself sink into an abyss of antiso­cial achievement for the most part. every minute was a productive one. i was choreographing my senior solo. i was studying for the extra sat ii i did not need to take. i was successful. i was lost. 
Fast forward to Notre dame where i realized i liked people. yes, these were people, and i liked them. i liked them more than homework. what. i found my­self tempted to hang out with friends rather than read. i liked these people more than fictional characters. woah. 
my new friends were good people. they were inter­esting people. they were people i could learn from, but most importantly, they were people who showed me that learning was not as important as love. 
these people let me borrow books full of Buddhist wisdom. they let me borrow the shoes they were going to wear. they let me eat their apples and don’t ask for them back. they let me drag them to sit in the front of the classroom. (i am still a nerd). 
these people don’t get mad when i’m late (again). they give me their handwarmers at the football game. later, they give me a back massage. 
these friends give up their sunday afternoons to be my confirmation sponsor. they make time for south Quad hugs even when they’re late to class. they even hold my hands when they’re cold in mass. 
these friends let me borrow their stapler for the umpteenth time. they don’t laugh when i eat steamed carrots with my hands and peeled lemon slices whole. they don’t judge my love of drinking plain hot water. or they judge me, but they’re still my friends. 
these friends read my articles even when they don’t have time. they come to my dance shows when i’m in it for a total of four minutes and 23 seconds. they accept my constant need to pee. 
these friends listen to me ramble about unimportant details of my life. they’re quiet at night when i go to sleep early like a grandma. they accept my obsession with the downward dog. 
these friends are teaching me to be a good friend, to love and care for others. i am far from there, but i am learning. the student in me is happy: i still get to learn. the human in me is happy, too: Now, i get to love. 
Erin Thomassen is a sophomore studying mechanical engineering. Send her comments or questions about her sanity at ethomass@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



the oBserver | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2015 | NdsmcoBserver.com 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

inclusion and student leadership 
this coming weekend, we welcome 83 student leaders and advisers from the 15 atlantic coast conference (acc) institutions as part of the 2015 acc student leadership symposium. unknown to many, the athletic conference we belong to includes education and leadership formation components as well. 
as brand new members of the acc, we attended last year’s symposium hosted at the university of miami and were pleasantly surprised when the university of Notre dame was selected six months later as the host for this year. with this honor comes the immense responsibility of con­tinuing the tradition of helping form student leaders in issues of relevance at all our schools and connecting them with each other in order to create resource networks. 
when the two of us sat down at south dining hall one day at dinner to begin discussing pos­sible themes for the symposium, we realized we both had a similar passion for something that has been at the heart of many conversations, debates and sometimes controversy throughout our time at Notre dame: the issue of inclusion. we wanted to create an environment in which student lead­ers who are as equally as passionate as we are could come together, share ideas and develop strategies that would work toward the common goal of ensuring that all students, regardless of their identities, feel welcomed and loved on all our college campuses. therefore, our theme for the conference is “inspiring inclusion, creating community, launching leaders.” 
as students, we hold unique positions in being able to identify the problems of concern that are sometimes hidden from administrators. we hear the conversations our peers have in the dining halls and dorms, we witness the love but some­times the hate in academic and social settings and we relate because we too are going through the development and understanding of our own selves in the process. all of us have the duty to help care for all our brothers and sisters that form our student community on campus, and we hope that by the end of the symposium, the stu­dent delegations will have realized this through the workshops, lectures and other activities we have planned for them. 
we are honored that our university has been given this opportunity to showcase both our abil­ity to lead in areas of inclusion and our ability to learn where we still fail. there is so much we can discover from the shortcomings and suc­cesses of other student leaders, and we are ready to dialogue with them. we hope new ideas will sprout roots both among our own five-member delegation and our planning team committee. 
we share all this with you all, the greater Notre dame community, because we hope the goals of this symposium do not remain contained within only those able to attend it. 
our delegates will be flying in from throughout the country soon, and we expect our Notre dame family will welcome them all with open arms. we also hope all students throughout our campuses become more willing to engage in these tough conversations on their own. our dream is that dialogue like this becomes ingrained within our broader school culture. 
also, please keep your eyes and ears open to new programs that may follow up from this week­end’s event. in the meantime, we invite you to reflect on this question: how can we, as students, and you, as an individual, work toward making our university a more welcoming home for all? 
Juan Rangel and Stephanie Klotter 
co-leads 2015 atlantic coast conference (acc) student leadership symposium Feb. 22 
Compromising our Catholic identity 
the controversy surrounding the university’s decennial core curriculum review caught my at­tention before it crowded my newsfeed. From Facebook to the washington post, it seems the question has caught the attention of the masses as well. 
reconsidering and resituating longstand­ing ideology in a modern context is integral to healthy, institutional development. Furthermore, the likelihood that the university is going to cut theology requirements is miniscule, and nothing has been decided yet. even if Notre dame were to restructure its theology requirements — perhaps integrate other departments, for instance — it is a far leap to conclude this would “compromise” our catholic identity. in my opinion, the communal uproar is unjustified. 
although i do not agree with the dissenters’ con­clusion, i do agree with the sentiment behind their principle objection: such an identity has indeed been compromised, and this is a reality we ought to address. 
instead of launching a crusade over six credits, however, i propose we first fix our attention to a more pervasive threat to our collective catholic identity: the dissonance between student-body values and the university’s mission statement. let’s devote our energy, resources and productive outrage to more significant issues — the ones that engender far more harmful consequences. 
the lack of conscientious career choices upon graduation, for instance, is troubling. as a sec­ond semester senior, i cannot help but notice that most of my peers have not sought employment that facilitates ethical action — even as Notre dame’s “aim is to create a sense of human solidar­ity and concern for the common good that will bear fruit as learning becomes service to justice” (Nd mission statement). it seems it is too easy to prioritize salary and prestige over “service to jus­tice.” we must ask why. 
the state of race relations at Notre dame also deserves attention. let’s discuss the racial harass­ment in 2012, when fried chicken was placed in the mailboxes of the Black student association and african student association. let’s scrutinize the reception of ann coulter in 2014; in spite of her perpetuation of hateful rhetoric and xenophobic ideology, her talk was well attended by enthusias­tic supporters. let’s challenge the students who do not believe in the existence of white privilege, even though they are often the ones who most enjoy it. if it is easy to be racially ignorant at Notre dame, we must ask why. 
and let us bear in mind that the university it­self is complicit in these tacit hypocrisies. For instance, the university maintains its contract with coca-cola, even though the company has profited from offshore labor abuse in colombia. according to we are 9, the university also invests an estimated 7 to 15 percent of its endowment in environmentally destructive fossil fuels, in spite of its ostensible commitments to stewardship and sustainability. unlike many universities of its stat­ure, Notre dame does not have a plan for carbon neutrality. there is still a coal-fired power plant on campus that emits harmful toxins and poses sig­nificant health risks to those in the area, despite student appeals to shut it down. when the institu­tion prioritizes profit or convenience over moral responsibility, we must ask why. 
these are just a few of the matters that merit critical inspection and compromise our catholic identity. let me be clear: i believe both the university and its students are capable of great things, and i do not wish to disregard the progress we have made in recent years — progress often pioneered by students. i applaud the university’s official recognition of a gay-straight alliance and the work students have done to foster lgBtQ in­clusion. i am proud to be a part of a community that accepts and funds undocumented students. i commend student-led campaigns like one is too many and we are 9, committed to prevent­ing sexual violence and promoting sustainability, respectively. i am inspired by the peaceful protest organized in response to ann coulter’s visit last spring and by the “Black lives matter” manifesta­tion this winter. 
this is what we can be: a voice for the silenced, an agent of positive change, an advocate for the marginalized. let’s hold Notre dame and our­selves to a higher standard. let’s face the respon­sibilities commensurate with our privilege. let’s orient our curriculum, students, faculty, staff, administration, communal values and collec­tive energies towards cultivating “a disciplined sensibility to the poverty, injustice and op­pression that burden the lives of so many” (Nd mission statement). perhaps our requirements would be better spent on classes devoted to the vulnerable. perhaps we could better embody our catholic identity through more commitments to the center for social concerns and the catholic peacebuilding Network. 
so if we’re going to talk about the endangered status of Notre dame’s catholic identity, i propose we begin by confronting the aforementioned is­sues. the students who espouse those egregious mentalities completed their two theology require­ments; did that make a difference? if not, what will?
 Tess Gunty 
senior off-campus Feb. 20 




the oBserver | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2015 | NdsmcoBserver.com 

By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene writer 

if you’re the kind of person who adjusts movie times to miss the previews or saunters into football games after kickoff because you couldn’t be pulled away from the tailgate, you most likely did not get to experience the hilarity that ensued at second city redco’s show Friday night at washington hall. 
the touring group from chicago’s premiere impro­visational comedy club that started the careers of tina Fey, Bill hader and amy poehler put on a show that sold out an unprecedented 30 minutes before showtime. 
the show implemented short skits, songs and au­dience-interactive improv. their memorized skits got laughs, but it was the improv that really got the people going. 
with suggestions thrown around by the audience composed almost entirely of Notre dame students, the improv sections were able to relate to specific campus-related topics and events. 
the actors had no connection to Notre dame; how­ever, it was obvious they had done their research. the banter touched on important aspects of campus life: football — “touchdown Jesus is going to catch hail marys,” controversies — *said to football player* “you are getting smarter now, so you aren’t allowed to cheat,” study abroad — “i just feel so assimilated into el salvadoran culture, it’s like every el salvador that closes 
By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene writer 

February is a month when many contemplate getting out of south Bend, as such, this weekly watch is fitting. 
“puzzled love,” a spanish film released in 2010 that is available on Netflix and amazon prime, follows the love story of an american and a spanish student as they study abroad in Barcelona. 
the basis of the plot will be especially appealing to all those who were just accepted into study abroad pro­grams for next year or are longing for their days on the beach or in the arms of their foreign lover. 
the movie starts out with sun (saras gil) and lucas (marcel Borrás) saying goodbye at the airport as sun pre­pares to return to chicago, a classic example of “in me­dias res” styling. there is a countdown that hits zero and then sends the film into rewind, backing the relationship to august with 11 months, 30 days, 12 hours, three min­utes and 22 seconds to go. 
the film plays out in this format, a “500 days of summer”-esque series of flashbacks. however, the 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 

opens an el salvawindow,” monks — “i love praying and lighting candles. one time, i lit a candle, and then there was one set of footprints.” 
they further implemented Notre dame aspects into their show via student participation, writing a song about “melissa the finance and history major who loves south dining hall.” 
the actors were in no way malicious and never shied away from self-deprecating jokes. 
an entertaining installation they used to mix things up in one skit was a bell that forced the actor to change the line he had just said. one of the actors had a typical side-swept, grown-out macklemore-esque haircut — the kind  frequently seen on campus — and described it as “the crop-circle,” “red spot of Jupiter” and finally, “No one get this haircut.” (this should have been a wake up call for those with this transitional style stuck between 2013 and trying to get a man bun). 
the show also tackled some heavier topics. the ac­tors’ approach, an attempted serious discussion with a splattering of one-liners, worked for some topics but diluted others. 
a recurring theme that was met with much crowd appreciation was feminism. in one sketch, a bartender asks a man to go canoeing with her, to which the man agrees and comments on her progressiveness. she then tells him, “yeah, i’m proud to be *the lights dim and turn red and her voice shifts to sound like a monster* a feminist.” putting the term in this light, literally, was 
story starts with the drama and ends in love, following a month-by-month sequence of snapshots portraying the pivotal events in their relationship. 
this format and the basis of the story, a love story abroad with a ticket home dated for a year later, em­phasize the importance of time on sun and lucas’ relationship. 
their time in Barcelona, and therefore their time to­gether, is limited by this inevitable departure. 
there are stutter shots, loud music and long periods of silence surrounding any scene or conversation that implies or addresses the impending end, adding to the anxiety and awkwardness of the aspect. 
towards the end, sun and lucas can’t avoid the pros­pect of time any longer, and almost every conversation centers around it, with sun wanting to end things be­fore it’s too late and lucas hoping to live life to its fullest, avoiding conflict until absolutely necessary. 
the separation of the film into months is also inher­ent in how the film was shot: by 13 different recent film grads in spain. therefore, although there are overarch­ing cinematographic aspects and gil’s and Borrás’ strong a play on the way it is frequently represented as such in the media, evoking laughter and understanding from the audience — which probably contained a viewpoint writer or two who had addressed the issue. the skit end­ed with the man saying he understood and that people react similarly to him when he tells them that he *the lights dim and turn red and his voice turns spooky* “lives with his mom.” 
there was an unfortunately relatable silent skit set to music focused on the power cell phones and social me­dia have over our lives from childhood to parenthood. the skit featured a child annoying her mom while she tried to text, so the mom gave her the phone as a distrac­tion. the skit went on to depict the child’s progression into adulthood, with all memories, from her wedding to the birth of her child, blurred by the bright screen. eventually the pattern repeats itself over as she hands the phone to her kid as a distraction. 
these two problems were addressed well, relatably depicted with subtle but amusing humor. however, the medium was not as suited to a clumsy skit dealing with workplace racism. 
the mix between real issues and humor was balanced well overall, leaning significantly enough to the come­dic aspect that students left the show with new one-liners to work into conversations but also debates and discussions. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
performances work to unify the film, the viewer is able to experience the relationship through the eyes of 13 differ­ent viewpoints, each highlighting different aspects of the characters and their flaws. each director wrote and shot a piece of the puzzle, hence the title. there were few re­strictions besides a basic narrative, allowing each direc­tor to add his or her own style and personality to the film. 
this approach also parallels the steps a relationship takes from beginning to end, an evolution that encom­passes changing surroundings, events and personalities. allowing each snapshot of the relationship to be directed by different people creates a more believable love story through variations in what aspects take precedence at each stage in the relationship. 
this style of filming makes the cohesiveness of the piece even more impressive. the whole film takes the form of a complete circle, starting at the top and rewind­ing 360 degrees. this style, although formulaic and cli­ché in some instances, works to unite the separate works into a believable, true-to-form relationship. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 


By MARC DRAKE 
scene writer 

college students spend a lot of time around books. whether it’s reading a textbook for class, strolling through the stacks of the library in search of a good read and a study space or navigating the ever changing displays of the bookstore, it seems that books are never too far out of reach. this inundation of books often has an adverse ef­fect on students’ desire to leisure read; with so much of the day taken up with lectures and homework readings, taking that time out to find books seems like a virtually impossible task. erasmus Books will have something for everyone, however, from those who claim they are too busy finding renewed interest in leisure reading and the most avid of readers finding a cozy oasis of literature. 
erasmus Books, located at 1027 e wayne st, south Bend, iN 46617, is named after desiderius erasmus, a 15th-cen­tury theologian. the creation of the store, at least in its current incarnation, happened completely by chance. 
“the bookstore was a couple years old; it was started by a high-school english teacher at [st. Joseph high school] in south Bend,” describes philip schatz, the cofounder and owner of erasmus Books. “he hoped that he could still operate a bookstore and be a teacher. it was in a different location than this and also in a house. we found this place and figured it would work for books. …i have to say, it was as much chance as anything. my partner was still teach­ing, i had the freedom to make some choices, and a mutual friend said, ‘the guy that i teach with at st. Joe’s needs to sell all these books and move them to another place, you guys seem like naturals.’” 
capitalizing on the opportunity, schatz moved into the home in 1980 and has been selling books out of the first floor and basement for 35 years. 
upon entering the house, schatz’s personability imme­diately shines through. graciously taking me on a tour of the house, schatz shows me 35 years of history piled into corners and hanging on walls. a display case with a letter from e.B. white hugs the wall as stacks of children’s books pile up underneath. shakespearean plays and a bust of the bard himself share space with books devoted to the his­tory of Notre dame. schatz is a born storyteller, and as he talks about the short project turned into a full-fledged business, erasmus’ emphasis on the local community shines through. 
“there’s always this effort saying, ‘what is there room for? what do i think people will want? what is not work­ing?’” schatz says. all of the books located in the store are previously owned, and schatz explains that many of the first-time book sellers end up coming back again and again to sell books to the store. “i try to favor repeat donors who i know already or who might know what we want to buy. … as often as every day, someone comes with books. when you see piles around here, it means that someone has come and maybe they’ve asked me to call them back, and i have to figure out things and make them an offer.” 
with so many books densely packed into a house, one might think finding books at erasmus would be difficult. however, each section is carefully organized by schatz and regularly attended to in order to keep up with the changing demands of his clientele. 
“the most common are probably histories, all the way from medieval to modern, as well as theology. maybe the classics at the top of the stairs, which are forever giv­en as gifts,” schatz describes. “the things that are least successful, we try to get rid of. around the corner there used to be a bunch of books about pets, animals, dogs, cats, books about how to raise things. and i think that there’s enough of information like that at the library, and so these books weren’t finding a new home.” 
as times have changed, so has the structure of erasmus. originally confined to one particular section of the house, books can now be found in the converted kitchen and in the basement as well. additionally, chairs and tables are set up to allow for individuals to come and read books throughout the store. 
schatz describes the primary customers of the store as community members and Notre dame graduate students. a former Notre dame student himself, schatz says he re­alizes the difficulty of immersing oneself into the south Bend community while balancing the many opportuni­ties Notre dame offers. 
“[when i was a student], what i wouldn’t have predicted is a life in south Bend, and it’s been a very fulfilling life,” he says. “as a student, you never quite get the chance to know the community because the community of Notre dame, st. mary’s, holy cross is its own complicated world, and that’s often quite enough for people to absorb. But i’ve had this time to get to know the community through a busi­ness, and it’s been good.” 
despite the underrepresentation of Notre dame under­graduates visiting erasmus, schatz remains hopeful that college readers will be paying a visit in an effort to build their personal libraries. For bibliophiles and casual read­ers alike, erasmus remains the perfect stop for those look­ing for an alternative to large booksellers. 
Contact Marc Drake at mdrake@nd.edu 

SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Rising draft stocks: Buy or sell? 
Manny De Jesus 
sports writer 
this weekend, about 300 pros­pects participated in the annual NFl scouting combine, which showcases the physical and men­tal abilities of each prospect in front of scouting services, head coaches and general managers. 
predicting how well players will make the jump to the NFl isn’t as easy as it sounds. as we all know, success in college doesn’t guarantee success in the pros. ryan leaf, Jamarcus russell, Jason smith, charles rogers, tim couch and aaron curry. those are just a few of many names that are now considered draft busts. they were highly coveted prospects coming out of college because of how successful they were, but once they entered the NFl, they became nothing more than forgotten names and failed careers. 
the goal of the NFl combine is to make sure teams pick the right guys that fit its schemes and team philosophy. that re­quires hours of studying film, interviewing the prospects and confirming that each players’ fundamentals and techniques are on par with what each orga­nization wants out of its players. if a player doesn’t run as fast as a team needs him to run, it doesn’t matter how successful he was in college. he no longer fits the team’s scheme. it sounds ridiculously meticulous, but it’s necessary if you want to build a championship roster. 
here are a couple of players who improved their draft stock heading toward their pro days and a couple of players who have dropped in many teams’ draft boards. 
Kevin White: receiver, West Virginia 
white caught 109 passes for 1,447 yards and 10 touchdowns in 2014. he was seen as a definite top-three receiver in this draft class, but after his combine per­formance, he might have passed up alabama’s amari cooper as the top receiver available. he ran a 4.35, which tied for third-best among all players. that reassures teams that white’s quickness is elite to go along with a 6-foot-3, 215-pound frame. along with his speed, white displayed his strength on the bench press, lift­ing 225 pounds 23 times, one of the best performances out of all receivers participating. his on­the-field performance was just as impressive, as scouts raved about his ability to run crisp, smooth routes and catch the ball with ease down the field and on inter­mediate routes. although cooper looks like the better overall wide-out to some teams, white seems to have the higher ceiling. 
Vic Beasley: outside line­backer, Clemson 
the fact that this guy is already being compared to von miller by NFl scouts says he has a lot of room to be even better than miller some day. Beasley finished his career at clemson as the all-time leader in sacks with 29 and is known for being a lethal pass rusher. Beasley played running back in high school, so his lateral and closing speed rank with the best in the draft class. he ran a 4.53 40-yard dash, benched 225 pounds 35 times, jumped 41 inches on the vertical jump and jumped 130 inches on the broad jump. all of his results were among the best in the line-backing group that showed up sunday. he displayed elite speed and flexibility in his hips, which is key for an outside linebacker in the pros. he started out as a top­10 linebacker in most experts’ rankings, but he could easily be the first linebacker taken off the board. 
Todd Gurley: running back, Georgia 
gurley started his 2014 cam­paign as the sure-fire contender for the heisman, but after tearing his acl, his draft stock has been dropping with every week anoth­er back impresses NFl teams. i remember watching the georgia back’s highlights running over defenders and out-running some of the fastest defensive backs for 40-yard plus runs. some com­pared his sensational play to that of herschel walker, who had an incredible amount of hype com­ing out of college. 
however, the fact he tore his acl concerns teams because they don’t know if he’ll ever have the same explosiveness he had before. a couple of years ago, south carolina’s marcus lattimore was ranked as one of the top backs in his class, and after he was drafted by the san Francisco 49ers, there was hope for a comeback, but it never hap­pened. what makes things worse is that gurley refused to let NFl teams and doctors take a look at his knee over the weekend, which further raises red flags. in addition, running backs are becoming less and less valuable to teams. you can find a legiti­mate running back in the later rounds of the draft, and with more teams using multiple backs to run their backfields, there isn’t a huge market for featured backs that cost a ton of money. gurley’s stock has definitely dropped the most out of any prospect in the draft. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
WOMEN’S SWIMMING 

Reaney wins individual title at ACC championships 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 

senior emma reaney earned a first-place fin­ish in the 100-yard breast­stroke, powering Notre dame to a sixth-place fin­ish at the acc champion­ships in atlanta last week. 
the irish earned 644 points and achieved 15 Ncaa ‘B’ cut times, while reaney secured Ncaa ‘a’ cuts in both the 100-yard and 200-yard breaststroke, guaranteeing her place at the national champion­ships in greensboro, North carolina, next month. 
irish interim coach tim welsh said he was im­pressed by the effort and 
determination  the  team  
showed  throughout  the  
meet.  

“we’re the Fighting irish, and we spent the meet fight­ing to improve,” welsh said. “it was not easy, but it was a gritty, gutsy performance, and we got better each day, so i was very proud of what they did.” 
reaney, an all-american, successfully defended her acc title in the 100-yard breaststroke. however, she failed to repeat in the 200­yard breaststroke, losing by .21 of a second, and in the 200-yard individual med­ley, in which she was sec­ond to touch the wall but was disqualified due to a stroke violation during the transition from backstroke to breaststroke. 
although reaney failed to match her three titles from last year, welsh said she swam well. 
“her two breaststroke swims, they were both her fastest time of the year; they were both Ncaa ‘a’ cuts, so that was very good stuff,” welsh said. “any time you go the fastest you’ve been all year that’s a good thing. 
“the beautiful thing about emma is that she is such an honest person, and she has such a sense of fair play. the call was the right call; she told us it was was the right call as soon as it was made, and she refused to let anyone have any peeves about it. it was just, ‘that was the right call, i made a mistake, let’s go on.’” 
welsh also said, reaney’s times aside, that Notre dame’s performance relied on the whole team’s efforts. 
“everyone who travelled 
—
 whether that was for an individual event or on the diving boards or in a relay 

—
 everyone who travelled 


scored,” welsh said. “that’s what i mean by gritty and gutsy. it took everyone out there throwing their guts out to help Notre dame and to do well themselves. it was a total team performance.” 
other standout perfor­mances included senior courtney whyte’s seventh-place finish in the 200-yard butterfly, sophomore katie miller’s eighth-place in the 400-yard individual med­ley and junior catherine galletti finishing ninth in the 100-yard butterfly. the irish 400-yard medley relay team finished fourth over­all, while the 200-yard med­ley and 400-yard freestyle relay teams both earned seventh-place finishes. 
on the boards, junior lindsey streepey fin­ished fourth in the 3-meter and seventh in the 1-me­ter, while senior allison casareto finished eighth in the 3-meter and 10th in the 1-meter event. 
the irish will enter the pool one last time this year before the Ncaa cham­pionships, at the Boiler-make-it last chance meet at purdue, starting at 12 
p.m. saturday. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
NASCAR 

Logano gives Penske another Daytona 500 win 
Associated Press 

daytoNa Beach, Fla.— soaked in booze but drinking a coke, Joey logano fretted over how he and his new bride would celebrate his most sig­nificant victory. 
“i don’t how to party,” the 24-year-old said with a sheep­ish grin. 
winning the daytona 500 will provide him the ultimate chance to unleash. 
more than two years after nearly washing out of one of Nascar’s top rides, logano surged to the front of the sport with sunday’s win in “the great american race.” the victory earned logano an au­tomatic berth in the champi­onship race, and ended a rough week for Nascar marked with multiple wrecks, the injury of a star driver and a headline-grabbing suspension. 

despite all the drama leading into the season-opening race, the event itself was one of the more anticlimactic in recent years despite white-knuckle racing over the final 50 miles. logano surged ahead of the pack on a two-lap sprint to the finish and had command when a wreck behind him brought out a caution that allowed him to coast to the finish line. 
then the champagne spray began. after the victory lane party, logano wasn’t sure what he and new wife Brittany should do next. the couple was married in december. 
“when i first started rac­ing, i wasn’t 21, so milk and cookies was my partying. Now i’m old enough,” said logano, who won $1.58 million for first place. “usually Brittany and i sit down and re-watch the race.” 
logano, who has spent seven years trying to live up to im­possible expectations, raced to the biggest win of his career as he continued to reward roger penske for catapulting him into one of Nascar’s top stars. Nicknamed “sliced Bread” when he broke into the sprint cup series at 18 because so many predicted him to be the next big thing, logano found himself searching for a new job after four underwhelming sea­sons at Joe gibbs racing. 
penske snatched him up be­fore the 2013 season, and the move jumpstarted his career. he made the field of four driv­ers in last year’s championship finale, and was in contention until a poor late pit stop. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


MEN’S GOLF 

ND opens spring season 
Observer Staff Report 
after a break of almost four months, Notre dame opens its spring season at valencia country club in valencia, california, today at the Jones invitational. 
the irish will bring a start­ing five of sophomores matthew rushton, liam cox and Blake Barens and seniors patrick grahek and tyler wingo to california for the event, where they will form part of a 15-team field. after a 13th-place finish in the last event of the fall season, the Bridgestone golf collegiate in greensboro, North carolina, the irish will hope to rebound and start their spring season with more success. over the winter break, the irish spent time with 
paid advertisemeNt 


ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Irish split West Coast road trip 
sports psychologist dr. rob Bell, hoping to regain their rhythm. 
rushton returns to the course for the irish after a successful fall season, where he earned five top-25 finishes in his six starts and tied for second place at the rod myers invitational at duke university golf club in october. 
grahek started all six events the irish entered in the fall sea­son as well and earned a first-place finish at the Notre dame kickoff challenge in august. 
wingo has made four starts this year, tying for 33rd at the Fighting irish golf classic in september and shooting a two-under-par 70 during the second round of the Bridgestone golf collegiate. 
cox has made three starts and four total appearances this year, including a 16th-place fin­ish at the Notre dame kickoff challenge. 
Barens started two events and competed in four this year, in­cluding a tie for 10th place at the kickoff challenge. 
the valencia golf course is a tree-lined, bermuda grass course with fast greens and tall grass in the rough, playing at over 7,000 yards with a par of 72. 
the field at the Jones invitational will consist both of local teams such as usc and pepperdine, as well as schools from farther afield like georgia state and south carolina upstate. 
the tournament begins at 
10:30 a.m. monday. the second round will begin with a continu­ous transition when the opening round ends. 

Observer Staff Report  
No. 8 Notre dame split a pair of contests on the west coast this weekend, falling 12-10 to No. 18 stanford on Friday night before de­feating california, 17-7, on sunday. 
the irish (3-1) took an early 2-o lead over stanford (2-0) on a pair of goals assisted by sophomore mid­fielder casey pearsall — sopho­more attack grace muller scored 38 seconds into the game and junior attack rachel sexton doubled the irish advantage four minutes later 
— before the cardinal stormed back with a trio of goals to take a 3-2 lead midway through the first half. 
sexton snagged her second goal en route to a five-goal performance with 13:32 to play in the first half, but three straight stanford goals gave the cardinal a lead they would not relinquish. 
the cardinal were led by fifth-year senior attack rachel ozer’s four goals on the day, while fresh­man goaltender allie dacar made eight saves in the stanford net. 
the irish dominated the stat sheet at cagan stadium, outshoot­ing stanford 37-16 while control­ling 16 of 24 draws. however, the cardinal limited Notre dame’s shots on goal — the irish got just 18 of those 37 shots through to the net 
— and took advantage of their free-position opportunities. 
Both teams took six free-position shots on the day; stanford scored on all six but the irish just two. 
trailing 12-7 with just over 12 minutes to play, the irish rattled off three straight goals but could close the gap only to 12-10. their last goal came on a free-position shot from junior midfielder stephanie toy with 3:28 to play. 
sophomore attack cortney Fortunato, who led Notre dame with 46 goals last season, failed to tally against the cardinal, record­ing just a single assist in the first half. 
it marked the third straight meeting between the teams that stanford has won — the cardinal pulled out one-goal wins in the 2013 Ncaa tournament and in the 2014 regular-season. 
the irish bounced back sunday, however, trouncing california (0-1) in Berkley, california. 
after coming up empty against stanford, Fortunato started a two-goal performance on the right foot sunday, tallying in the game’s first two minutes to give the irish a lead they would not concede. 
Nearing the midway point of the first half with Notre dame up 3-2, sexton continued her strong week­end with an extra-man goal — the irish converted both opportunities on the day — and kickstarted a 5-0 run that blew the game open. 
en route to a five-point perfor­mance, sophomore attack heidi annaheim kept the momentum going with a pair of goals before sexton and muller finished the run. 
after notching just three saves on 14 shots Friday, irish sophomore goalkeeper liz o’sullivan bounced back with a five-save performance sunday, notching her third win of the season. 
annaheim’s three goals off the bench paced the irish alongside toy, who also scored a hat trick, in a game in which nine players scored. 
the irish put 23 of 30 shots on goal and went 5-for-5 on free-posi­tion shot opportunities. they again controlled the draws, winning 16 to the golden Bears’ nine, and were successful on 13 of 15 clears. 
the irish return to action sunday when they travel to durham, North carolina, to take on duke at noon in Notre dame’s acc opener. 


Baseball 
coNtiNued From page 16 
he works very quickly [and] he is typically very efficient with his pitches because he’s getting some contact early in counts.” 
Notre dame was forced to go to its bullpen early saturday against Northwestern (1-6), as freshman starting pitcher Brandon Bielak departed af­ter three innings with the game deadlocked at three. sophomore relief pitcher scott tully entered the game and shut out the wildcats over the next six innings, yielding just three hits. 
“you look at the swings the other team was taking, and i think Brandon was having some trouble locating some of his secondary pitches, so as a result, Northwestern did a good job of being on time to his fastball,” aoki said. “i just felt like even though we were in the game, we just needed something different in there, and scott tully made me look pretty smart and pitched re­ally well.” 
Notre dame took the lead on a fielder’s choice by sophomore third baseman kyle Fiala in the fourth inning and then broke open the game in a three-run eighth inning, which included an rBi double by sophomore second baseman cavan Biggio. 
irish senior starting pitch­er scott kerrigan rebounded from a loss in his season-open­ing start with 6 1/3 innings of shutout ball in Notre dame’s victory over the wildcats (1-5) on Friday. kerrigan struck out five and forced villanova hit­ters into 12 groundouts. 
“i thought [kerrigan] threw the ball very well Friday, and we were able to make plays for him and not put him in tough spots where every pitch was a pressure pitch,” aoki said. 
after scoring two runs in five innings, Notre dame ex­panded its lead with three runs in both the sixth and eighth innings. 
with more than 40 runs scored in the four-day tourna­ment, irish hitters are now av­eraging nearly eight runs per game, a far cry from the 3.74 runs per game the team aver­aged last season. this differ­ence in scoring is largely due to experience and a better ap­proach at the plate, according to aoki. 
“i think we’re much more disciplined,” he said. “i think we make pitchers work a lot harder to get us out than we did a year ago. i think a lot of it is guys maturing mentally and understanding what we need to do and buying into it.” 
Notre dame will look to build on its winning streak when the irish travel to cary, North carolina, for the usa Baseball-irish classic, which begins Friday. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
M Lacrosse 
coNtiNued From page 16 
kavanagh scored three goals to go with three assists and led the team with six points, but corrigan said he was particularly pleased with the play of senior at­tack conor doyle, who totaled two scores and a helper. 
“one of the guys who i’m re­ally happy with right now is conor doyle,” corrigan said. “while conor may not have put up num­bers that would draw everyone’s attention, he’s done all the things we want him to do — he’s been good on ground balls, he’s reading really hard, he’s making great de­cisions with the ball, he’s a threat to score, he’s a threat to feed. 
“so if people think they can fo­cus on matt kavanagh or mikey wynne, they can’t. … conor doyle gets a lot of credit for how well our attack has played because he’s not been forcing things and he’s been playing very unselfishly. that’s really important to our team and our offense.” 

Notre dame’s offense was jumpstarted saturday by the play of its faceoff specialists, se­nior midfielder Nick ossello and sophomore midfielder p.J. Finley, who combined to win 17 of 29 fa­ceoffs. ossello added two assists, and Finely led all players with five ground balls. 
“we’re still figuring out [who will start] there,” corrigan said. “the guy who took the majority of our faceoffs last year [midfielder liam o’connor] graduated, so that’s an area where we hope to continue to get better and smarter both from a coach’s and a player’s standpoint. … But for the start of the year, p.J. has certainly done a good job with the opportunities that he’s had.” 
on defense, sophomore goalie shane doss started in the place of senior conor kelly after replac­ing him early in the second half against georgetown. doss made 13 saves, including six in the fourth quarter, playing well enough to earn him next week’s start against dartmouth but not performing at his full potential, corrigan said. 
“shane played very well in goal,” corrigan said. “he made a num­ber of very good saves, so shane will continue to be our starter. But we need him to do a better job out­side the crease; in our clearing and our overall sense of situations out­side the goals, i think he needs to do a better job.” 

Notre dame plays dartmouth next saturday at arlotta stadium, starting at 1 p.m. 
Contact Greg Hadley at    ghadley@nd.edu 

paid advertisemeNt 



Hockey 
coNtiNued From page 16 
their power-play opportuni­ties saturday, with two goals on five chances. Notre dame took a 2-0 lead in the second period after junior forward sam herr put home a rebound off junior defenseman robbie russo’s shot and then went up 3-1 early in the third period with a goal from junior center vince hinostroza. Jackson said having senior captain and cen­ter stephen Fogarty and senior forward austin wuthrich back was crucial in the success of the power play. 
“i thought [saturday] night, we did a better job moving the puck on the power play,” Jackson said. “getting Fogarty back and even austin wuthrich back on one shift of the power play — they’re both playing in­jured at this point — but they both did a good job, and they helped bring both units back to where they need to be.” 
russo had three assists saturday night, setting up ju­nior forward mario lucia for his first period goal to give Notre dame the early 1-0 lead. it was lucia’s 18th goal on the season and russo’s 15th assist. russo has 27 points this season, but Jackson said his game has con­sisted of much more than oc­casionally igniting the irish offense. 
“i think he’s an all-american,” Jackson said in a postgame press conference. “i think he should be a hobey Baker candidate, in my opinion. i think he doesn’t get the recognition, but it’s not just about the points. he’s de­fended as well as he has been offensively, and that’s a rare quality for a defenseman. you get a guy that’s a point guy, gen­erally they are high-risk defen­sively, but this kid has played as well defensively as he has with the puck.” 

although pleased with the weekend, Jackson said he has been making sure his team knows this upcoming weekend against No. 10 Boston college is extremely important if his team wants to even consider the Ncaa playoffs. 
“this is the time of year where everybody is playing somewhat 

ND SOFTBALL | mary Nutter collegiate classic 
ND wins four in Cathedral City 

desperate,” Jackson said. “i think our guys realize their team life is at stake, and they’re going to have to have a great fin­ish in order to keep the season going. i think they realize the time has passed, and now we have to act, and if we don’t it will be a short-lived playoff life. we want to try and keep on build­ing on what we’ve done the past few weeks.” 
Notre dame will host Boston college at compton Family ice arena this weekend, with games at 7:35 p.m. Friday and 
6:05 p.m. saturday. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at                     ilorton@nd.edu 

By BENJAMIN HORVATH 
sports writer 
No. 24 Notre dame won four of its five contests this weekend at the mary Nutter collegiate classic in cathedral city, california, im­proving its record to 9-5 on the season. 
the irish notched victories against maryland, uNlv, No. 25 texas and No. 8 georgia. 
Notre dame’s win over georgia (12-2) is its second versus a top-10 opponent on the season, mark­ing the first time the irish have achieved that feat since the 2013 season. it is also the first time Notre dame has defeated two top-10 teams on the road or at a neutral site since 2001. 
irish coach deanna gumpf said victories against high-quality op­ponents help her team gather momentum. 
“we’ve beat some really good teams on the road, and that’s not easy to do, so i think what [that] does is build confidence for our team,” gumpf said. 
the irish dropped their first game of the weekend Friday in an 8-4 loss against No. 10 tennessee, extending their losing streak en­tering the tournament to four. 
the irish rebounded, however, with an 8-6 victory Friday eve­ning over maryland (10-5), out­hitting the terrapins 13-6. Notre dame outhit its opponents 21-15 in Friday’s contests. 
gumpf said she was impressed by the way her team respond­ed after last weekend’s tiger invitational at lsu, where the irish lost three out of four contests. 
“it’s something that we had to do — we need to be able to re­spond,” gumpf said. “we’ve been playing some of the best teams in the country, so we really have to focus on bouncing back.” 
on saturday, the irish defeated uNlv (6-7), 8-0, highlighted by a complete-game shutout by soph­omore pitcher rachel Nasland. 
Nasland threw another complete game sunday, allowing just two hits in Notre dame’s 5-1 victory over No. 25 texas (9-6). 
over the course of the week­end, Nasland appeared in all five contests, pitching a total of 20 2/3 innings, striking out 18 batters and earning two wins along with a save. 
gumpf said she was impressed with her pitcher’s performance and durability. 
in addition to Nasland’s com­plete game, Notre dame third baseman katey haus hit her fourth home run of the season sunday, a solo shot that gave the irish a 1-0 lead over texas. 
haus’s offensive output shows she is confident at the plate right now, gumpf said. 
“she’s really confident, and she’s swinging at good pitches,” gumpf said. “she swings hard, and she’s a tough out right now.” 
the irish capped the week­end off with a 5-3 victory over No. 7 georgia on sunday after­noon. Junior pitcher allie rhodes earned her fourth victory of the season, pitching five innings and allowing three earned runs. 
Nasland pitched the final two innings of the contest, earning her first save of the season, sur­rendering no runs and just two hits. 
gumpf said she saw many posi­tives in the weekend’s four con­tests but said there are a number of things for the irish to work on moving forward. 
“we need to make sure our hitters one through nine are giv­ing us quality at-bats, because that’s what puts pressure on other teams,” gumpf said. “we also need to utilize our speed more.” 
Notre dame will play four contests next weekend in the diamond 9 citrus classic in kissimmee, Florida, beginning with a 3:30 p.m. contest against missouri on saturday. 
Contact Benjamin Horvath at bhorvat1@nd.edu 




M Bball 
coNtiNued From page 16 

the first half, to finish with his second straight double-double. irish coach mike Brey said after the game grant doesn’t have to score to make his presence felt. 
“i thought Jerian grant to­night was great because they’re really aware of him, and they kind of almost double off of ball screens,” Brey said. 
all the attention on grant leaves other irish players open, and the senior is more than hap­py to share the ball with them, Brey said. 
“he just made some easy plays, got guys shots and didn’t worry about his numbers,” Brey said. “he was such a man out there, dragging ball screens and kicking back while other guys were making plays. he’s been playing that way all year. he just wants to win.” 
the six players in double fig­ures for the irish matched a sea­son high for Notre dame. that number almost reached seven 
— massachusetts native and se­nior forward pat connaughton finished with eight points and pulled down four rebounds in 31 minutes of play. 
eagles coach Jim christian said the balanced irish offensive attack created headaches for his squad. 
“it’s hard not to be unbeliev­ably impressed with what they do on offense,” christian said. “they’re a very difficult team to guard. they have five guys who can make plays. the floor is stretched out. they put you in so 

W Bball 
coNtiNued From page 16 
Both teams have potent of­fensive attacks. Notre dame is No. 1 in the acc in scoring at 83.6 points per game, while louisville comes in at No. 4 with 
75.3 points per game. however, the cardinals are atop the con­ference in scoring defense. 
a major task for the louisville defense will be lim­iting Notre dame junior guard Jewell loyd, who leads the acc in points per game at 21.07. the irish relied on loyd to pull them out of a one-point deficit at halftime against georgia tech, with 23 of loyd’s 31 points coming in the second half. 
the top-10 matchup between the irish and the cardinals will also be a battle between two of the country’s top freshmen for­wards: Notre dame’s Brianna turner and louisville’s mariya moore. turner is No. 12 in the acc in scoring at 14.6 points per game, and moore is just one spot below with an aver­age of 14.1. 
the game against louisville is important not only because of implications for the acc standings, but also because of the teams’ histories against each other, mcgraw said. in 14 games between the two teams, Notre dame is 10-4 – including 7-0 in the last seven meetings. 
“it’s a big game; they’re re­ally talented,” mcgraw said. “it was a pretty good rivalry when we were in the Big east togeth­er, and i think it will continue to be a great rivalry.” 
mcgraw said the team needs to focus more on toughness and rebounding going into the game. Notre dame is averag­ing 41.9 rebounds per game this season, while louisville averages 43. 
“i think we have to play a little bit tougher and get re­bounds,” mcgraw said. “it’s just a matter of them having a greater sense of urgency.” 
louisville is Notre dame’s ninth ranked opponent of the season and will likely be the last one until the postseason. after monday night, only two games remain on the irish reg­ular season schedule, the first against pittsburgh and the second against North carolina state. 
the clash between the irish and the cardinals begins monday at 7 p.m. in purcell pavilion. 
Contact Renee Griffin at         rgriffi6@nd.edu 


many tough rotations, and they shot the ball really well. you al­most have to pick your poison.” 
after a close first half, Notre dame took a 37-32 lead into halftime, far short of its 16-point lead at intermission during the teams’ first game Feb. 4. the irish pulled away in the sec­ond half, however, eventually stretching their lead to 21. 
Notre dame finished the game shooting 66 percent (35­of-53) from the field, the team’s highest percentage of the sea­son. the irish also shot 75 per­cent in a second half that saw them go 18-of-24 from the field, 4-of-6 from 3-point range and a perfect 10-of-10 from the free throw line. 
“we are really talented on [the offensive] end of the floor,” Brey said. “the last two games we’ve 
paid advertisemeNt 
been, as a whole, in another gear, and i hope we can certainly con­tinue that because it’s coming at the right time of the year.” 
“they made us pay,” christian said. “if we made any mistake or if we got caught in a rotation and they rotated out, that’s not an easy shot to make.” 
in addition to connaughton, auguste and colson also made homecomings saturday after­noon. the three massachusetts natives combined for 28 points, 17 rebounds and a pair of assists in leading their team to victory. 
Notre dame returns to friend­ly confines tuesday night when it welcomes syracuse to purcell pavilion. tip off is scheduled for 8 p.m. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 




CROSSWORD | will shortZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | christopher Brucker 

DOME NUTS | alexaNdria wellmaN 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | the mepham group 


HOROSCOPE | eugeNia last 
Happy Birthday: you have all the right moves and can handle whatever comes your way this year. the experience you gain will send a message to everyone you deal with that you mean business and you have what it takes to make things happen. strengthen your position by speaking up and implementing what you know in order to gain ground and impress superiors. your numbers are 9, 15, 17, 24, 32, 38, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Focus on making the changes that will help you avoid criticism or disputes. a considerate approach to a problem at home or a suggestion at work will help you avoid an emotional meltdown. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): take care of unfinished business. go over your personal paperwork and any legal, financial or medical issues that concern you. dealing with institutions will be met with delays. keep matters simple, direct and moderate for best results. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): get involved in something you feel passionately about and you will discover an option you hadn’t thought of in the past. expressing your ideas and engaging in ventures with like-minded people will lead to satisfaction. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): avoid debates. go with the flow and do whatever is necessary to avoid being singled out or used by someone in a higher position. Focus on your talents and working on your own, mastering what you enjoy doing most. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): make plans, go on a day trip, use your time to learn something new, or take on a challenge and play to win. No matter what you do, you will be entertaining, outgoing and make a lasting impression. romance is skyrocketing. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): you’ll be tempted to spend more than you have. although a smart investment can lead to prosperity, there will be a number of factors to consider. you are best not to get involved in a joint venture based on someone else’s financial assessment. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): you can make positive changes to your personal lifestyle and current relationships. a discussion can clear up matters that have left you feeling uncertain. expand your circle of friends to include some people you have worked with in the past. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): take care of family matters. make domestic changes that will suit your situation and be conducive to expanding a creative project that interests you. a self-improvement project that requires discipline will lead to greater professional opportunities.  


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): make positive changes at home. you will have the discipline to do the work required on your own, gaining knowledge and experience that will ensure a better domestic environment and bring about a positive change in attitude. romance is in the stars. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): problems with friends, relatives or someone in your community will develop. don’t let emotions swell up, leading to an impulsive act. Focus on what you can do to pitch in and stabilize the situation. an unusual solution should not be ignored. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you will make an impression on someone who misjudged you in the past. a work situation will turn in your favor. answering online job postings or reconnecting with someone will lead to positive results. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): don’t reveal your true feelings. if you are too quick to judge someone, you will end up being singled out or accused of meddling. work on your own shortcomings, not on trying to change others. self-improvement will bring satisfaction. 


Birthday Baby: you are opportunistic, sociable and popular. you are helpful and charitable. 
JUMBLE | david hoyt aNd JeFF kNurek 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  the observer p.o. Box 779 Notre dame, iN 46556  
Name address city       state  Zip  


the oBserver | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2015 | NdsmcoBserver.com 
MEN’S BASKETBALL | Nd 87, Bc 70 
Irish pull away from Eagles 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
after almost blowing a 25-point lead in its first meeting of the year with Boston college, there was no such scare saturday afternoon for No. 10 Notre dame, as it cruised to an 87-70 win over the eagles at conte Forum in chestnut hill, massachusetts. 
it wasn’t the usual cast of char­acters who led the irish (24-4, 12-3 acc) to victory over tradi­tional rival Boston college (9-17, 1-13) either. 
several players to reach dou­ble-figure points for Notre dame were freshman forward Bonzie colson, sophomore guard v.J. Beachem and sophomore guard steve vasturia, none of whom average over 10 points per game on the year. colson finished with a career-high 16 points to lead the team, while Beachem and vasturia ended up with 10 points apiece. 
sophomores guard demetrius Jackson (15 points) and for­ward Zach auguste (14) and se­nior guard Jerian grant (10) all chipped in to help the balanced irish attack. grant also dished out 11 assists, seven of them in 
see m BBall PAGE 14 


By ISAAC LORTON 
assistant managing editor 
on the back of a star perfor­mance from freshman goalten­der cal petersen, Notre dame stole the weekend from No. 3 Boston university, with a 2-2 overtime tie Friday night and a 3-2 victory saturday night. 
with the three points this weekend, the irish (14-15-5, 9-6-5 hockey east) clinched a home-ice advantage for the first round of the hockey east tournament and kept alive their hopes of a top-four spot and first-round bye. they currently sit in a three-way tie for third place in hockey east with umass lowell and providence. 
“it was probably our biggest weekend of the year as far as playing team hockey, getting good goaltending, getting good special teams,” irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “we had to play 60 minutes each night, and the guys responded in a real positive way. good timing going into the play­offs, and it helps with preserva­tion. at least we clinched a spot at home in the first round and 
HOCKEY | Nd 2, Bu 2 (ot); Nd 3, Bu 2 
Notre dame ties, upsets No. 2 Bu 
BASEBALL | irish alamo iNvitatioNal 
Bats power sweep in san antonio 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
managing editor 
Notre dame took the irish alamo invitational in decisive fashion this weekend, outscor­ing its opponents 26-5 over three games at Nelson w. wolff stadium in san antonio. 
after winning three of four games in oklahoma last week­end, the irish (7-1) extended their winning streak to six games with an 8-1 win over villanova on Friday, 7-3 victory over Northwestern on saturday and 11-1 triumph over incarnate word in sunday’s tournament championship game. 

irish coach mik aoki said this weekend’s results were impor­tant in maintaining the momen­tum generated from the team’s successful opening series. 
“i would think that prob­ably going into the weekend last week, oklahoma would have been considered the favorite, and i think going into this week­end, on paper, we would have probably been considered the favorite for most of these match-ups,” aoki said. “For us to not have any letdowns, for us to go out there and play at a high level, i think speaks a lot to our team, and i think it certainly helps in terms of our guys feeling good about where we are.” 
in sunday’s tournament final, Notre dame got on the board early, scoring two runs in the first inning and one in the sec­ond against incarnate word (4­4), which the irish defeated 14-1 in their first game of the tour­nament thursday. Notre dame scored in every inning except the third and the eighth against the cardinals, and junior start­ing pitcher Nick mccarty sur­rendered four hits and one earned run for the second con­secutive week. 
“[mccarty] being in that sunday [starting] role is prob­ably a perfect place for him,” aoki said. “he throws strikes, 
see BaseBall PAGE 12 
MEN’S LACROSSE | Nd 17, michigaN 8 
lacrosse begins with historic start 
By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 
two games in, and already No. 2 Notre dame’s offense is setting records. 
with a 17-8 road win over michigan on saturday, the irish (2-0) have scored 31 goals on the season, good for fifth in the country and the most by any squad in program history since 1992. 
despite the big numbers, irish coach kevin corrigan said Notre dame is far from finished developing. 

“we’re getting there,” corrigan said. “it’s too early to get too excited about anything. we’re sure we have a lot of guys who can contribute, and if we can play in the right way, then we should be a pretty talented team.” 
in the first-ever meeting be­tween the wolverines (3-1) and the irish as varsity squads, Notre dame’s offense was in full force, with 10 different players scoring a goal. Freshman attack mikey wynne led the charge, tallying four goals to follow up on his six-goal debut against georgetown on Feb. 14. his five goals per game ranks second nationally and first on the team, ahead of junior attack matt kavanagh, who has led the irish each of the past two seasons. 
“there is no main producer [on our offense],” corrigan said. 
“there are our guys worrying about us playing good offense. if we play good offense, over time a variety of guys will make plays for us and have the opportuni­ties to make plays for us. and if we don’t play good offense, then we’ve got some guys who are talented enough to make those plays anyway. But that won’t result in our team being as effective.” 
see m lacrosse PAGE 13 
put ourselves back in the hunt for a top-four spot.” 
petersen was a large part of Notre dame’s success this week­end, going up against the fourth-best offense in the country that is averaging 3.63 goals per game and has the top two point scor­ers in the nation in freshman forward Jack eichel and senior forward evan rodrigues. 
“he’s got to be our best player at this point in the season,” Jackson said in a post-game press confer­ence. “if you play one of the best offensive teams in the country, you’re going to have to have great goaltending.” 
petersen stopped 78 of the 82 shots he saw on the weekend, in­cluding 44 saturday night. 
“we’ve been seeing great goal-tending. i’ve talked to cal about having the ability to close a game like a closer in baseball, and he did that this weekend, which is a big step for him and for us,” Jackson said. “… these past three or four weeks he’s played some of his best hockey here.” 
the irish took advantage of 
see hockey PAGE 13 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
ND, UL to duke it out for top spot 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
the No. 4 irish will fight to maintain their hold on the top spot in the acc when No. 8 louisville visits purcell pavilion on monday at 7 p.m. 
Notre dame (25-2, 12-1 acc) is on an 11-game winning streak following a 71-61 victory over georgia tech on thursday that remained close until the end. meanwhile, the cardinals (23-3, 11-2 acc) are just one game be­hind the irish in the conference and have won four in a row. 
“that win [against georgia tech] was really important be­cause we have a tenuous hold on first place,” mcgraw said. “we focus on one game at a time, and louisville’s the next game we’re focused on.” 
see w BBall PAGE 14 




