The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 121 | MONDAY, APRIL 20, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Panel discusses ‘The Hunting Ground’ 
Documentary explores sexual assault on college campuses, features Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s 
seeberg, a former first-year stu-and former ndsp officer lt. pat theatre, moderated both panels. to the film and fielded questions. 
By MARGARET HYNDS 

news editor dent at saint mary’s, who com-cottrell. after the 9:30 p.m. showing, one student inquired as to mitted suicide after an alleged The belles against violence student body president emeritus whether the university had a com­cnn’s documentary “The sexual assault by a member of the office (bavo) previously spon-lauren vidal, associate director ment on the recent huffington 
hunting ground” was shown 
at the browning cinema in the 
debartolo performing arts center 
(dpac) on Friday night at 6:30 
p.m. and 9:30 p.m., accompanied 
by a panel discussion after both 
screenings. 

“The hunting ground,” which 
focuses on sexual assaults on elite 
college campuses across the coun-sored a showing of the film april 

9 at saint mary’s, where college 
president carol ann mooney in­
troduced the film and sat on a 
panel discussion afterwards with 
several others from the college 
community 
after the Friday night showings, 
panels of three individuals repre­
senting faculty, staff and students post article detailing a Title iX dis­


crimination lawsuit filed against 
the university. university spokes­
person dennis brown, who was 
not on the panel but spoke from 
the audience, said the lawsuit did 
not have to do with the film’s topic 
of sexual assault. 
“what they were reporting on is 
a discrimination and harassment 
try, prominently features notre dame and saint mary’s. 
in particular, the film high­lights the case of elizabeth “lizzy” notre dame football team. lizzy’s father, Tom seeberg, was inter­viewed in the film, along with two other former saint mary’s students sat down to speak and answer questions from the audience. Jim collins, professor and chair of the department of film, television and of gender studies abby palko and director of the gender relations center (grc) christine caron gebhardt discussed their reactions complaint that was made to the of­fice of civil rights,” brown said. 
see panel PAGE 5 


seniors receive leadership awards 



Saint Mary’s initiates renovations 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
saint mary’s editor 

last Friday, saint mary’s broke ground on the new patricia wiedner purcell athletic Fields to be complet­ed in the fall of 2016. 
mary burke, a 1985 graduate and chair of the board of Trustees, said the fields will be used for three sports — lacrosse, softball and soccer. 
burke said college president carol ann mooney’s strategic plan “The path to leadership,” released in 2012, called for investment in the college’s athletic and recreation program. 
according to burke, paul purcell and patricia wiedner purcell, 1969 gradu­ates of notre dame and saint mary’s, respectively, are the leading donors in the college’s “Faith always, action now” campaign and were a huge part of making the new fields a reality. 
burke said the generous donation has helped to make mooney’s dream a reality, and the groundbreaking is just the beginning. 
“at saint mary’s, we believe in the education of our students’ mind, body and spirit,” burke said. “well-rounded students are what the world needs and saint mary’s women are what this world needs. 
“Today we take an important first step in fulfilling that essential healthy environment for our students.” 
similarly, susan rice, a 1961 grad­uate and co-chair of the campaign steering committee, said the groundbreaking marks a significant benchmark in the focus of saint mar y’s. 
“sister madeleva used to talk about the saint mary’s graduate as the whole woman, and today the college is dig­ging in to demonstrate its lifelong commitment to nurturing the physi­cal health of that whole woman,” rice said. 
see FaciliTies PAGE 4 


ndsp reports sexual assault 
Observer Staff Report 

notre dame security police (ndsp) is investigat­ing a report of sexual assault committed late Friday night, according to an email sent to students at 1:30 a.m. sunday morning. 
The reported assault oc­curred in a south Quad men’s residence hall, the email stated. 
The email was the fourth students received this school year to report a sex offense. The allegations mark the seventh sex offense reported to ndsp or other university officials during this academic year, accord­ing to information released in the ndsp’s clery report daily log. 
The email quoted “du lac: a guide to student life,” notre dame’s official policy book, and warned students of the risks of sexual assault as well as the standards of 
see assaulT PAGE 4 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney alex Jirschele Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: lesley stevenson Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 

Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: brian lach Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, lsteven1@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What was your first screen name? 

Sam Cho 
sophomore 
morissey manor 
“i_luv_pho.” 
Luke Muldoon 
freshman 
Zahm house 
“keenanisajoke123.” 
Mark Dahl 
freshman 
Zahm house 
“dahli_llama_420.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Sydney Sivertson 
freshman 
cavanaugh hall 
“i_love_jmcartneyxoxo.” 
Ben Kennel 
sophomore 
Zahm house 
“xX_legiT_snipeZ_Xx.” 
Joe Walsh 
sophomore 
Zahm house 
“i_am_mac_miller.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Kayla mullen alex carson Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: andrea vale rachel o’grady gabriela malespin megan valley 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
Keri o’mara Jimmy Kemper 
Photo Viewpoint 

Poetry Reading Four: 7 Catholic “Artist Talk” “Calvary” “Pitch Perfect 2” 
Jodi lo austin Taliaferro 
Hesburgh Library Fellowship Snite Musuem of Art DeBartolo Performing DeBartolo Performing 4 p.m.-5:30 p.m. Cavanaugh Hall 5:30 p.m.-7 p.m. Arts Center Arts Center Reading by Colette 8:15 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Featuring Stephen 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 6:30 p.m.-8 p.m. 
Corrections 

Bryce. Student-led worship. Wilkes. European cinema. Movie sneak preview 
in the april 10 edition of The observer, we incorrectly attributed bri o’brien’s quote 
“How Dante Can “Fire Up Some Jet ND Softball “Kant, Aristole and “Lunchtime Labor 
to elizabeth maloney. it should have read: 
Save Your Life” Fuel” Melissa Cook Stadium the Aesthetics of RAPS” 
“as dr. davis pointed out during the april 
DeBartolo Hall South Dinning Hall/ 5 p.m.-7 p.m. Life” Geddes Hall 
9 administration-led panel, students 
5 p.m.-6:30 p.m. Reckers The Irish take on DeBartolo Hall 12 p.m.-1 p.m. 
hold the power to move forward on these 
Lecture and book 5 p.m.-7 p.m. Toledo. 4 p.m.-5:30 p.m. Research, advocacy 
issues,” bri o’brien said. The observer 
signing. Featuring chef Jet Tila. Lecture by Jim Porter. and policy series. 
regrets this error. 



Students explore concept of an ‘SMC Poster Girl’ 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 
in the latest installment of the saint mary’s Justice Friday series, freshman alex shambery and junior angge roncal presented “being an smc poster girl,” a dis­cussion on the pressure to “have it all.” 
The presentation was an open discussion between saint mary’s women about the pressures that come with being a saint mary’s poster girl and how that affects the students as leaders, shambery said. 
The question of who or what an smc poster girl is was opened to the audience. 
“i think it’s trying to tackle everything,” first year morgan matthews, an audience member, said. “it’s being very well-round­ed but not in the best sense. you have to be religious, you have to be studious, you have to be invit­ing, you have to be personable, you have to have a lot of friends and be really incorporated into the community. 
“but that’s not everyone. you have people who want to stay in their own shell, who like to be alone. i think that puts pressure on those who don’t meet those expectations.” 
shambery then asked the audi­ence about the various pressures they have felt while on campus. 
“we go to a single-sex college, all women, and you think that we shouldn’t be led by these pres­sures,” roncal said. “we’re still held to these social standards. a woman is expected to do certain things, but she’s not allowed to complain. she’s expected to act a certain way, and not let her ‘silly’ emotions come into play.” 
The pressures at an all-wom­en’s college are different than at a school with men, because the all-female environment gives wom­en an empowered atmosphere that may add to the pressures, matthew said. 
“i would say that sometimes they portray [saint mary’s] as the place where you go to become a social butterfly and they por­tray [notre dame] as the place where you go to become a ceo,” shambery said. “i think that it­self puts pressure on us because we want to let them know ‘i can be a ceo and i can be a social butterfly’ or ‘no, i don’t want to be a social butterfly. i want to do my own thing.’ i think that that adds pressure to the pressure we already put on ourselves.” 
another audience member, first year courtney weston, said she feels the school itself puts pressure on students. 
“They advocate that you’re going to come here and you’re going to become this great wom­an,” weston said. “you’re going 
paid adverTisemenT 

to have good leadership [skills]. That’s what they promise. so you’re here and now have to be a leader and learn these qualities. what if you don’t want to be a leader?” 
students also named the pres­sure to pick the “right” major as very prevalent on the saint mary’s campus. The pressure among majors stems from so­ciety and the need to find a job right after college, roncal said. 
“it’s no longer based on really enjoying the subject,” she said. “it’s more if it will make you mon­ey or if you’ll be better off.” 
matthews identified diversity as an issue that acts as a source of pressure for some students. 
“you see the stereotypical white, vineyard vine-loving girl. it’s very preppy … i wouldn’t say it’s a pressure, but it’s the fact that if you look like an outcast, you have to fall in with the norms and you have to start dressing preppy and acting preppy.” 
“it’s why everyone has to have the hunter rain boots or the [l.l.] bean snow boots, the lulu lemon workout clothes,” weston said. “it’s something that every­one has, but if you come here not having any of that, you think, ‘maybe i should start having that.’” 
Contact Nicole Caratas at  ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 
alumnus explains benefits of impact investing 
By JEREMY CAPPELLO LEE 
news writer 

in the sixth installment of the Ten years hence speak­er series, Jozef henriquez, notre dame alumnus and head of syndications at the inter-american development bank (idb), gave a lecture on impact in­vesting Friday in the Jordan auditorium of the mendoza college of business. 
“more people are talk­ing about impact investing, and there is one thing they agree on, which is the role of development institutions in development banking,” henriquez said. 
impact investing is an approach unrestricted by investor or asset class that aims to create both finan­cial returns and positive environmental and social impact, henriquez said. 
“you do need [the right] intention to make it impact investing,” henriquez said. “in the traditional case, it’s profit driven. in our case, the intention is to make an impact.” 
in contrast with phil­anthropic giving, impact investing also requires a fi­nancial return on the mon­ey being invested, he said. 
“it’s in this area where impact investments differs from philanthropy. here we need the money back,” henriquez said. “what i like about impact invest­ing is that it starts creating a market-based model to solve some of these global issues.” 
since impact investing is highly-results based, it is important to develop ana­lytic methods to predict the success of the social ben­efits, he said. 
“with the emergence of impact investing, anyone who puts money in these kinds of projects want to see results,” henriquez said. “we’ve had to show our re­sults to shareholders for a long time.” 
“when we look at a trans­action, being able to show the social or environmental results of that project is just as important as showing that it is a strong project.” 
henriquez said the idb has developed its own “development effectiveness model” to predict the suc­cess of potential projects. 
“we look at development indicators, and we run these through a matrix to come up with the objectives of the project … and the outcomes that we’re looking to get.” 
The increasing popularity of impact investing reflects several societal trends, such as a new focus on promoting social good in corporations, henriquez said. 
“companies have woken up to what their role is in society … it’s not just about profits; it’s about your role in society and what your contribution to that is,” he said. 
The rise of a middle class with greater disposable in­come also provides oppor­tunities for growth in the impact investing sector, henriquez said. 
“companies need to find 
“Companies have woken up to what their role is in society... It’s not just about profits; it’s about your role in society and what your contribution to that is” 
Jozef Henriquez 
head of syndications 
Inter-American Development 
Bank 

a way how to channel the resources to the bottom the pyramid,” he said. 
The idb, a multilateral development organiza­tion consisting of 48 mem­ber countries, works with 26 recipient states in latin america, henriquez said. 
“in the structured corpo­rate finance department, we look for companies that are looking to contrib­ute to the socioeconomic development of the latin american-caribbean re­gion and companies that look for ways to mitigate the effects of climate change,” henriquez said. 
in particular, the idb focuses its efforts on sup­porting environmental in­vestments and developing small businesses in the re­gion, he said. 
“by 2015, we want to have enough projects that will improve the lives of 20 mil­lion people,” he said. “we want to support 12 billion dollars in climate friend­ly investments. and we want to support 700,000 micro small and medium enterprises.” 
Contact Jeremy Cappello Lee at jcappell@nd.edu 




student produces handel’s ‘resurrection’ 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news writer 
The basilica of the sacred heart hosted a student-run production of handel’s easter oratorio, “la resurrezione” on Friday in the lady chapel. 
“la resurrezione,” also known as handel’s resurrection, is a narrative detailing some of the events that occurred during easter weekend. Five singers ac­companied by an orches­tra portray the reactions to christ’s death and resurrec­tion of five different charac­ters: an angel, lucifer, mary magdalene, mary cleophas and st. John the evangelist. 
camilla Tassi, the pro­ducer of the performance, adapted the oratorio to make it shorter and provid­ed an english translation to the italian libretto in the programs. 
The production involved a variety of students from dif­ferent musical backgrounds, Tassi said. The five singers represented an assortment of age and experience levels, ranging from a sophomore undergraduate student to a student finishing her mas­ter’s degree in sacred mu­sic. The 15-person orchestra was composed of a select group of both students and professionals. 
“one of the main goals of the performance was to cre­ate a greater collaboration between the undergraduate and graduate music depart­ments,” Tassi said. 
Tassi said her initial in­spiration for the project stemmed from her desire to 
Assault 
conTinued From page 1 
consent. 
“sexual assault can hap­pen to anyone,” the email stated. “anyone initiating any kind of sexual contact with another person must seek consent and not engage in sexual contact unless consent is given. 
“students should maintain caution and awareness of their surroundings to avoid risks. 

create a student-led produc­tion of a classical work. 
“This is the first time this specific work has been heard on campus,” Tassi said. “For us, that’s been really excit­ing. we’re bringing a work 
most  people  have  never  
heard before here to  notre  
dame.”  

according to Tassi, the program received support and advice from the music, romance languages and the­ology departments. 
“it was really beautiful to bring those three aspects together,” Tassi said. “The production created a collab­oration between people who might not normally work together.” 
Tassi said she was very happy with the outcome of the performance and grate­ful for the devotion and enthusiasm of the many students involved in the production. 
“The students had to add this project on top of every­thing else they had going on,” she said. “on top of classes. on top of other required per­formances and projects. i’m so glad they took the time to help make a production like this possible.” 
Tassi said she appreciated the chance to experience the production side of music. 
“Typically, i’m a singer,” Tassi said. “i’ve always seen it from the singer’s perspec­tive. … i wanted to see what it took to put a whole perfor­mance together. it was a lot of work, but it was also in­credibly rewarding.” 
Contact Katie Galioto at  kgalioto@nd.edu 

“on college campuses, perpetrators are more like­ly to assault an acquain­tance than a stranger. being aware of your own safety and watching out for your friends are important steps you can take to reduce the risk of sexual assault. 
“The perpetrator, not the survivor, is responsible for any instance of sexual as­sault. nothing a survivor does or does not do is an ex­cuse for sexual assault.” 
Facilities 
conTinued From page 1 

in order for saint mary’s to prepare the whole wom­an, their athletic facilities and wellness programs must adequately support the students, rice said. 
“Today we are affirming that the beauty of our cam­pus will be strengthened by new fields, a new athletic facility, that will nurture our young women to be that whole woman,” rice said. 
sarah early, a 1971 graduate and co-chair of the campaign steering committee, said saint mary’s had outgrown the current angela athletic Facility originally built in 1977. 
early said 72 percent of the incoming class of 2019 have been involved in high school athletics, which demonstrates the need for up-to-date athletics fields and facilities. 
additionally, early said in the past eight years, three valedictorians have been student-athletes. 
Junior Krista Knapke, president of the student-athlete advisory committee and a member of the basket­ball team, said all students, not just athletes, are excited about the new facilities. 
Knapke thanked donors for making the new facili­ties possible and assured them that “an entire cam­pus of belles thanks you.” 
after the ceremonial groundbreaking, director of athletics Julie schroeder­biek also thanked donors for making the new fields and renovation possible. 
“For so long we have been waiting to put that shovel in the ground for the ex­

“Today we are affirming that the beauty of our campus will be strengthened by new fields, a new athletic facility, that will nurture our young women to be that whole woman.” 
Susan Rice 
co-chair 

Campaign Steering Committee 
pansion and renovation, and today we did that,” schroeder-biek said. 
schroeder-biek said de­spite the obvious facility limitations, all of the ath­letic programs have flour­ished due to the dedication, patience, perseverance, creativity and hard work of student-athletes and ath­letic staff. 
“it’s so exciting to think what our women will accom­plish on these new athletic fields, and one day very soon, the new athletic facility,” schroeder-biek said. 
mooney said to say that paul and patti are liberal with their time and finan­cial resources would be an understatement. 
“we would not be stand­ing here today if it were not for their generosity,” mooney said. 
patricia wiedner purcell said she lost touch with the saint mary’s campus as she was raising her fam­ily but as a member of the campaign steering com­mittee she fell in love with saint mary’s again. 
“all we want to do is make sure [saint mary’s] contin­ues to flourish,” patricia wiedner purcell said. 
paul purcell said saint mary’s has been a huge part of his life because it is where he met patricia. 
additionally paul purcell said the success of the “Faith always, action now” campaign should be attrib­uted to the many women who lead the college, espe­cially mooney. 
“The world desperate­ly needs places like saint mary’s,” paul purcell said. “it is a wonderful place for young women to come in an incredibly formative time of their lives and [the college] creates wonderful christian leaders to go out and do good. we are thrilled to be a part of it.” 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 





Awards 
conTinued From page 1 
release, each of the eight awards acknowledges par­ticular leadership qualities in students “who have made ex­ceptional contributions to the notre dame community.” 
The mike russo spirit award highlights a student’s ser­vice and personal character and was given to former stu­dent body president lauren vidal for her efforts regarding campus safety, mental health awareness and community outreach, the press release stated. 
“having an opportunity to really listen to those around me and speak on their behalf in larger conversations about campus climate or needs fu­eled my efforts each day,” vidal said. “i learned that it is only when you follow the needs of your peers and school, when you put their needs first, that you truly lead in the role.” 
The rev. a. leonard collins, c.s.c., award was presented to former student government chief of staff Juan rangel for his dedication in serving the interests of the student body, according to the press release. particularly, the award recog­nized rangel’s commitment to increasing support for stu­dents of high financial need and undocumented students. 

“i think, especially with us all being college students, it’s really easy to become indi­vidualistic and think about the needs and necessities that we ourselves have — we need to go to office hours and we need to get good grades and we need to find a job,” rangel said. “but there’s so many con­cerns that we have ourselves, that we sometimes forget the concerns of others around us.” 
rangel, who served as the 2014-2015 campus ministry multicultural intern, also co-founded and became presi­dent of the student coalition for immigration advocacy in order to raise awareness about immigration issues and to stimulate outreach to undocu­mented students, he said. 
The rev. Theodore hesburgh, c.s.c., award celebrates a se­nior who has promoted a spirit of diversity and inclusion dur­ing his or her time on campus and was awarded to matthew wong for his service as chair of the diversity council of notre dame, according to the press release. 
“i think [this award] really shows that notre dame is put­ting diversity and inclusion at the forefront,” he said.  “it’s acknowledging students who are taking steps to making notre dame more welcoming, regardless of socioeconomic background, race, gender, eth­nicity — whatever it may be.” 
The blessed basil moreau, c.s.c., leadership award, given to senior grace carroll for her work coordinating this year’s campus ministry Freshman retreat, honors a student “who embodies blessed Fr. moreau’s vision of educating heart and mind, as well as someone who has dem­onstrated significant effort to advancing the catholic char­acter of the university,” the press release stated. 
“i was really surprised to get the award, never expected to get it,” carroll said.  “i’m just doing what everyone around me is trying to do, and that’s just trying to be a better per­son every day.” 
The John w. gardner student leadership award recognized senior christina gutierrez for her commitment to service in the greater south bend com­munity, according to the press release.  gutierrez said she specifically received the award for her work volunteering and fundraising for the monroe park grocery cooperative in south bend and for her service as president of the notre dame chapter of the world hunger coalition. 
“i’ve been blessed to have free time and to have resourc­es to provide to other people who need them more,” she said.  “getting to use that for a greater purpose and for an issue that’s really important to me — hunger and malnutri­tion and healthy eating — and getting to pair that up with meeting people from the south bend community, i think is re­ally cool.” 
The ray siegfried award for leadership excellence, pre­sented to megan heeder for her involvement in the robinson community learning center’s youth development americorps and the center for social concern’s summer service learning program, honors a student who has demonstrated leadership, ath­letic ability and a love for the catholic faith, according to the press release. 
heeder, who participated as a three-sport varsity athlete her freshman through junior years, said she was honored to receive the award because it acknowledged her “some de­gree of success in creating a positive change in the lives of other people.” 
“because if i leave here with­out doing that, then what was the point of being here at all?” she said. 
The denny moore award for excellence in Journalism acknowledges a graduating senior who, according to the press release, exhibits exem­plary character and writing ability and was awarded to former scholastic editor-in­chief, Jonathan warren. 
“i’ve been grateful to work with other students, profes­sors and mentors who have helped me to explore journal­ism as a practice of empathy and service to others.,” warren said. 
The sister Jean lenz, o.s.F., leadership award, to be pre­sented to Khan for his accom­plishments as the 2012-2013 and 2013-2014 president of the muslim student association, distinguishes a graduate stu­dent who promotes a welcom­ing and diverse atmosphere on campus, according to the press release. 
“i was very overwhelmed,” Khan said, recalling the mo­ment he learned he was to receive the award.  “This is un­doubtedly the biggest extra­curricular recognition that i have ever received throughout my career.” 
Contact Clare Kossler at  ckossler@nd.edu 
Panel 
conTinued From page 1 
“it has nothing to do with a sexual assault complaint. The huffington post article paired it with ‘The hunting ground’ as if it was a sex­ual assault complaint, and it was not.” 
in light of the fact that mooney had spoken at the saint mary’s showing, several audience mem­bers expressed their concern that no members of the university administration were sitting on the panel. in response, gebhardt stated she is a member of the ad­ministration as director of the grc and said the panel was construct­ed purposefully. 

“we could have had 20 people [on the panel], and we didn’t necessarily want to do that. [notre dame’s deputy Title iX coordinator] melissa [lindley] is more than willing to address questions, and other folks are here willing to address questions,” gebhardt said. 
Junior brett o’connell asked the panel what they thought could be done about the lack of adequate communication between students 
paid adverTisemenT 

and the administration. (editor’s note: brett o’connell is a sports writer for The observer.) 
“There is a clear adversarial rela­tionship between administration and students, both portrayed in the film and apparently the ques­tion panel that follows the film … i want to engage with how we can broaden the channels of commu­nication between students, faculty, staff and administration in order to allow a more cooperative environ­ment for us to work in,” o’connell said. “what kind of ideas do you guys have that might allow us to not function as adversaries and to really pursue a more creative, more inventive solution as a community of college students, academics and staff?” 
vidal answered that she felt the solution would require work from not only the administration but also from the students. 
“i think that this feels as though i’m an administrator sitting on this panel, but i’m a student,” she said. “i think it starts at the ground level. students need to be willing to have the conversation — to email ad­ministrators, to email the faculty, to come to the student government office. 
“i get caught up in my assign­ments and my daily life, so when things happen — these big conver­sations blow up on our campus — everyone looks retrospectively and thinks, ‘why didn’t we have this conversation sooner? why didn’t we make connections sooner?’ and i think it’s our responsibil­ity to draw those lines of commu­nication, but i would encourage the faculty and administrators to continue to reach out to stu­dents, to open up these town hall meetings and to create more of an environment for conversation. 
“you can’t put the responsibility just on students or just on faculty and staff — i think it needs to be a unified effort, and that’s what to­night is about. it’s about acknowl­edging this very large question, this very large and upsetting con­versation, and opening the floor.” 
many members of the audience said they felt the process for report­ing sexual assaults on campus is unclear and inadequate and lacks enough support for victims or in­formation about their options. 
“when a report is made, there is an investigation, and that is done by a third-party attorney who then does fact-finding related to the vic­tim or the survivor, who makes the complaint, the respondent and the witnesses, and then it comes back to the Title iX office,” gebhardt said in response. “and then melissa [lindley] sits down and says to the victim, ‘what do you want to do? do you want to go forward to the office of community standards? do you want to stop?’ 
“i think it’s really important that students know the choices that they have; for some students, they want to tell their story to somebody confidentially. others, they want to tell their story pub­licly. and i hope we’re creating a culture where students can share their stories through things like ‘a Time to heal’ dinner and Take back the night, but i would say that the reporting process is the way in which, if a students wants it investigated, there will be an investigation.” 
gebhardt later commented that she had not had any students pur­sue criminal charges against their assailants. 
“when i sit down with a survivor or victim, they are notified that they have the option to go through the criminal process, and then of­tentimes they will not want to do that,” she said. “ndsp does send over the reports to the prosecutor’s office, and the prosecutor’s office decides whether it will take it up or not. 
“and i think one of the questions we have to ask is that if people don’t use the criminal process, why do they not use it? do they feel the criminal process is an option for them? we try to make it clear that it is an option for them to pursue. 

“They can do that either simul­taneous with a Title iX, [or] they can put off our Title iX in order to pursue the criminal [process]. i would definitely say that we en­courage that. i have not had any­one take us up on that,” she said. 
one audience member pointed out “The hunting ground” also contains statistics on the num­bers of reported sexual assaults relative to expulsions at several universities, but those figures do not include notre dame. when asked whether she had informa­tion about that statistic at the university, gebhardt said she had not seen the relevant numbers. 
“i don’t have those. That should be in the ndsp clery report that gets sent to you every year,” she said. “… but [the report] doesn’t have the expulsion rate, and i don’t have that information. … i can’t speak on behalf of the university and say [the statistics are] never [available], but i’d be happy to bring that forward and say that some­thing folks were wondering about tonight was about expulsions.” 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, APRIL 20, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

a pack a day 
Clare Kossler 
news writer 

i am shamelessly addicted to gum. college has only worsened my addiction, and i chew a pack a day. but feeding my habit is rather expensive, especially since i buy most of my gum from the huddle, and cheap is one thing the huddle cer­tainly is not. 
indeed, prices at the huddle are strik­ingly higher than market value. a half-gallon of milk costs $3.19 at the huddle, while an entire gallon could be purchased for $2.69 at the walgreens just a few blocks away. a two-liter cola product is $2.25 at the huddle and only $1.29 at walgreens. worst of all, the same pack of orbitz gum that at the huddle costs $1.59 is exactly 79 cents at walgreens. 
These high rates charged by the huddle, made possible by an absence of competitors who cater to on-campus students, seem distinctly monopolistic in character. and unfortunately for the stu­dents of notre dame, the huddle’s steep prices are not the only seemingly needless expense with which students are faced. consider the cost of room and board at notre dame. For the 2014-2015 academic year, room and board fees were about $13,846, which presumably means at least $7,000 was charged for housing alone. on a monthly basis, this translates to $875. now consider the monthly rent in fall 2014 for an apartment at the Foundry, an apartment complex on eddy street locat­ed just south of campus. a two-bedroom corner apartment, complete with a kitch­en, family room and two full bathrooms, costs around $1,900 per month. if four students were to split this amount, the cost per student per month would total $475, significantly less than the monthly cost of a dorm. The disparity in price is made all the more surprising given the fact that an eddy street apartment is bet­ter maintained, generally nicer and much larger than an average dorm room. 
of course, as with any business enter­prise — a classification that undoubtedly applies to notre dame — there are some unavoidable inefficiencies and deficien­cies that result in inflated pricing. but even if i were willing to accept the outra­geously high tuition rates charged by the university, which i’m not, i simply cannot understand why standard market prices do not extend to room and board or the items sold at the huddle. why should it be that students have to pay more for milk from the huddle than for milk purchased just down the street? why should it be that a cramped and poorly-smelling dorm room costs nearly twice the amount as a considerably nicer apartment on eddy street? and why in heaven’s name should the same $1.59 get me only one pack of gum on campus when it can get me two packs anywhere else? 
Contact Clare Kossler at  ckossler@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
A great opportunity 
Today, i am seeking applications for my yacht dance date. on the surface, this is a simple request. you are being asked to put your best foot forward and see if you have what it takes to attend the swankiest, most regal of events this university has to offer with the outgoing st. edward’s president. while this is true, i’d like to call to mind the gravity of this request. 
how often in life do we have opportunities to reach greatness? how often do those opportunities require nothing more than 5-15 minutes of your time, a can-do attitude and a propensity for excessive amounts of fun? almost never. i urge you to seize this opportunity and set yourself up for a night you shan’t easily forget. you owe it to yourself to wine, dine and dance in the greatest city in all of the midwest with the most gen­erous of gentlemen, the men of st. edward’s hall, and their lovely dates. 
a little about myself: i am a junior from a suburb of chicago. i am white, irish-catholic, and i have brown hair. i enjoy sports, music, Tv and inexpensive light beer. i am a below-average golfer, above-average shmoney-dancer and former host of the hit wvFi radio show “caliente railroad.” i’m worthy of your ap­plication, that is a guarantee. 
all applications will be accepted and assessed fairly. so maybe you just broke up with your sig­nificant other and are looking for a solid rebound. The best revenge is living well they say. or maybe you’re the Kanye girl from “The irish bachelor,” who would’ve made the show 100 times more watchable, that dawson eliminated the first show. or while we’re at it, maybe you’re the blonde girl from “The irish bachelor” that had the nerve to not accept the invita­tion to the next round. That’s savage disregard for the way the show works, and i have no choice but to re­spect that. all are welcome. 
you were born to be sailors, every one of you. The dance is april 29 and applications are due this Friday at 11:59:46 p.m. 
yours in any generic boat-related pun, 
Mike Murphy
                          junior april 19 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 



The observer | MONDAY, APRIL 20, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

StaND together against international poverty 
as members of the notre dame community, we pride ourselves in our reputation as the no. 1 un­dergraduate business school in the country and as a top university for non-profit and community service work, serving impoverished communities domestically and internationally. This combina­tion of academic prestige and philanthropy are distinguishing characteristics that shape our sense of community and define the notre dame family. images of students and faculty interacting with people in developing countries are abundant around campus, making it is easy to recognize the vast amount of services provided by our com­munity. while we can photograph this amazing work, what we can’t capture with a camera lens is the close relationship between the economy and philanthropy. 
Today, about 50 percent of american goods are exported to developing countries, making one in every five u.s. jobs tied to trade. This percentage of exports to developing countries is expected to increase due to exports to developing countries growing six times faster than exports to coun­tries with major, developed economies. as these emerging markets continue to grow, the u.s. has a prime position as the world’s third largest exporter, behind china and the european union, and as the world’s largest agricultural product exporter. additionally, for every 10 percent increase in u.s. exports, there is a seven percent increase in the number of jobs at home. yet developing countries’ economies are volatile. conflict, malnutrition and pandemic health issues in developing coun­tries threaten to stagnate economic growth. in countries with high levels of malnutrition, coun­tries’ gdp reduces by two to three percent while malnourished individuals suffer a 10 percent re­duction in lifetime earnings. For every 5 percent decrease in gdp, the likelihood of violent conflict and/or war increases by 10 percent. This in turn threatens our own national security, since less economically stable countries pose a threat to the united states and elicit costly interventions in order to restore peace. by providing funds for pro­grams that promote sustainable, economic devel­opment in developing countries, the united states government creates a good relationship that trans­lates into future trade partners and boosts our own economy in the process. of the top 50 consumer countries of american agricultural products, 43 of those nations were once u.s. aid recipients. 
recent surveys show most americans believe we spend about 10 percent of our budget on poverty focused international assistance (pFia) and fear that up to a quarter of the budget is devoted to pFia. however, the actual amount of money allot­ted for pFia in the federal budget is less than one percent. This money, which is currently hovering around 0.6 percent, is in danger of being cut for the 2016 federal budget. every fiscal year, poverty-focused international development and humani­tarian programs are at risk of great reduction since these programs are part of discretionary spending. it is our duty as taxpayers to let congress know a further reduction of this portion of the bud­get is unacceptable and against the nation’s best interest. 
on Feb. 24, a group of advocacy students met with meredith perks, a regional director for sen. Joe donnelly’s office, to discuss pFia. From this information, we were able to establish a relation­ship with meredith and contribute our voices and resources to donnelly on this issue. we learned donnelly is currently on the arms committee and agricultural committee (which oversaw the 2014 Farm bill), which illustrates to our group he has interest in both the agricultural and security aspects of pFia. although donnelly is not on the appropriations committee that deliberates over pFia and won’t see the proposed budget until it reaches the floor, he appreciates the resources and support notre dame provides him and values the opinions of his constituents at the university. Thus i urge students and faculty of notre dame to stand against a reduction of pFia by expressing to donnelly our desire to maintain this aspect of our national budget. as eloquently explained to us by board members of bread for the world, we pro­vide our congressmen and women with political coverage through petitions, letters and other hard evidence that illustrates our opinions on certain issues. These actions empower our congressional officials to vote the right way despite any pres­sures they may feel from their party or lobbyists to vote the easy way. sign our petition at http:// tinyurl.com/okpkysw to stand together to support poverty focused international assistance and fight against injustice.
   Alyssa Hummel
              senior april 19 

sen. donnelly: lead on clean air and energy 
across the country, states and communities are moving toward safer, healthier futures by embracing clean energy solutions as they transition away from old, dirty power plants. states like michigan and ohio are national leaders in the growing solar industry, and communities here in indiana are rallying to protect clean air and clean water from dangerous power plant pollution. 
we know the consequences of continuing to burn dirty fuels such as coal. From asthma attacks to emer­gency room visits, hoosiers are acutely aware of the public health threats posed by pollution from dirty, outdated power plants. some 650,000 hoosiers suffer from asthma, and one person dies from asthma every five days in indiana. ask doctors and school nurses right here in south bend and they’ll tell you hoosier lungs need to be protected from air pollution. our state needs strong smog standards. 
we can also see power plant pollution’s impact on our climate. carbon pollution from power plants causes climate disruption and is already threaten­ing indiana communities. Just a few short years ago, hoosier farmers lost millions of dollars in crops due to severe drought. residents in Kokomo battled the worst flood on record in 2013. The threats of climate disruption will continue to grow worse unless we act to protect our health, our economy and our communities here at home. 
This year, the u.s. environmental protection agency will finalize the first-ever national protections from dangerous carbon pollution of existing power plants, as well as a number of other critical clean air and clean water safeguards. These new standards will clean up the industries that create the lion’s share of carbon pol­lution in our country and will also help reduce other life-threatening air pollution including mercury, soot and smog. 
as students at one of our nation’s great roman catholic universities, we are compelled by our faith to protect god’s good gifts and all of creation. we are inspired by pope Francis, who this year will publish an encyclical on climate change. we must protect all god’s creation by limiting dangerous carbon pollution and other pollutants which threaten our air and water, our health and our climate. 
with enormous clean energy potential here at home, we know transitioning to clean energy is good for jobs, for our communities and for our health. look across indiana, and you’ll find churches and congregations saving money on energy bills through solar and energy efficiency, new businesses that are employing hoosier workers in emerging technologies and schools that are better able to invest in their students by reducing en­ergy waste. These investments are saving money and creating new job opportunities, especially for young people like us looking to get into these growing indus­tries once we graduate. 
sen. donnelly, now more than ever, we need your leadership in indiana to protect our health, our cli­mate, clean air and water both now and for future gen­erations of hoosiers. we have the solutions we need. as our senator, you must stand with hoosiers across the state, including students here at notre dame, pastors and faith leaders, doctors and nurses and many more, in supporting a stronger, healthier future for indiana that includes cleaner air and water and more jobs to benefit our communities.
          Katie Otterbeck
             senior

                                                                                   Garrett Blad
             senior                                                 Founders of Fossil Free nd april 19 


ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene editor 
Ideally : Kanye West 

obviously. i can picture it now: an outdoor event under Touchdown yeezus — or in the middle of st. Joseph’s lake. however, due to fund­ing, space and a campus unsuited to his trill level, we would be lucky to get T-pain. or maybe not because he is also too trill for us, apparently. 
Realistically : Holograms 

maybe we could get Kanye and T-pain holograms. can the engineers or people in the radiation building work on this? That way we are relying on our smarts and not our trill to get us what we want/need. 
MADDIE DALY 
scene writer 
Ideally : Paul McCartney 

This way i can see him live without paying $300 for a lolla ticket. 
Realistically : Chance the Rapper 
however, the odds of that happen­ing are slim to none, so more realisti­cally, the headliner should be chance the rapper.  he’s nice and close, being from chicago, isn’t too famous yet to be impossible to book, and most im­portantly he writes killer songs with catchy beats. chance is an enthusi­astic performer who would get the crowd on its feet singing along. he’s also super involved in decreasing vio­lence in chicago, so he’s pretty much a great person overall. Fingers crossed he makes it to campus in the next two weeks to headline the sub spring concert. 
MATT MUNHALL 
scene writer 

Ideally: Jaden Smith 
The 16-year-old progeny of will and Jada pinkett smith is the most im­portant teenager of our time and his performance would be amazing and all over the place. he would wear a dress, continuing a recent string of sartorial choices challenging gender stereotypes. he would read from his amazing Twitter feed, a collection of surreal, philosophical thoughts like “how can mirrors be real if our eyes aren’t real.” he would sing some of the woozy, melancholy rap tracks he’s posted to soundcloud, and younger sister willow would come out to sing “whip my hair.” he would probably deliver a lecture on metaphysics. 
Realistically : Chamillionaire 
it’s been nine years since “ridin’” hit number one on the hot 100, so the houston rapper is probably washed up enough to headline a sub concert. 
JOHN DARR 
scene writer 

Ideally : Kendrick Lamar 
coming off his second instant-clas­sic in a row, rapper Kendrick lamar addresses notre dame taboo issues like race, depression and cultural identity. his music runs a gauntlet of groovy, danceable styles that will trick students into displaying normal con­cert behaviors like dancing, clapping along to songs and — gasp — showing general interest in the performance. a huge name in both mainstream and indie music whose music is more rel­evant and popular than ever. 
Realistically: Spin Doctors & Death Grips 
death grips, running out of ideas of how to troll their fanbase, shows up unannounced at the spin doctors’ sub performance to play for a crowd of students who doesn’t know who they are and hates their music. after giv­ing out free cds of a supposed ‘final album’ (which is actually 80 minutes of “blank space” by Taylor swift), they promptly disband again. 
JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

Ideally: Relevant, up-and-coming artist 
you know that band i’m talking about — your favorite one you play on the aux. cord at a dorm party whenever you’re given the chance. you can show all your friends how “hip” and “with it” you are. spotify even sends you emails about their latest ep so you can listen to it before all your snobby scene writ­er friends. They’re a great band, and a college atmosphere is the perfect place to introduce themselves to some pas­sionate new fans. 
Realistically: Washed out, burnt out artist 
This act costs just as much as the relevant, up-and-coming artist but comes with all the additional baggage of a few decades of awful live tours mostly populated by cougars. They’ll probably give you a hard time for at­tending college, and they will defi­nitely be smoking between every song. These guys haven’t played a college gig since they had hair on their heads in­stead of their backs, and they couldn’t care less that you’re only there for that one big hit they had back in 1998. They do care about how you listen to their music though and probably even tried to sue napster back in the day. safe, bland and uninspiring, the washed out, burnt out artist is the perfect choice for sub. 
MIKO MALABUTE 
scene writer 
Ideally : Carly Rae Jepsen 
listen, i’m a very impressionable guy. and when i saw Justin bieber (oh yeah, and ariana grande) jam out to “i really like you,” it’s been on repeat in my headphones ever since. and it doesn’t hurt that it’s an absolute jam. 
Realistically : Soulja Boy Tell ‘Em 
did you just read that and die a little inside? i did too. but you could totally see this one happening, right? i do too, unfortunately. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at  emcaulif@nd.edu, Maddie at mdaly6@ nd.edu, Matt at mmunhall@nd.edu, John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu, Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu and Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu 
KERI O’MARA | The Observer 

The observer | MONDAY, APRIL 20, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By KATHRYN MINKO 
scene writer 

in a world filled with injustice and moral negligence, award-winning director Kirby dick’s documentary “The hunting ground” portrays societal activism against sex­ual assault on elite college campuses. The film makes an immediate call to action by asserting the message of the federal government, which the notre dame student gov­ernment adopted: “it’s on us” — a national campaign that aims to prevent sexual violence in the collegiate atmo­sphere. The documentary opens by focusing on arguably the most joyous part of one’s high school career: receiving college admittance. The lightheartedness of this sequence only emphasizes the helplessness conveyed through the rest of the film. 
dick’s utilization of candid interviews and raw emo­tion resonates with the audience through the entirety of the documentary. Focusing on two university of north carolina sexual violence activists, “The hunting ground” presents victimization in a bright light that universities routinely dim. annie clark and andrea pino, victims of campus rape themselves, advocate for the prevention and national awareness of many universities’ failure to combat sexual assault or support victims. in their work and in the film, clark and pino argue these points reflect a failure to comply with Title iX, which prohibits sex discrimination at federally funded collegiate institutions. The department of education has launched investigations against dozens of universities that allegedly have failed to uphold Title iX mandates, and notre dame and saint mary’s feature among other colleges and universities where assault cases 
By GABRIELA LESKUR 
scene writer 

bioware’s “dragon age: inquisition,” the third install­ment in the “dragon age” series, won multiple game of the year awards at the end of 2014. but did the game deserve such praise? 
ask any gamer their opinion on the matter, and you probably will not find a consensus on whether these ac­colades should have gone to “inquisition.” and i, one humble gamer, cannot give you a definitive answer on that matter. instead, i will provide insight into unique traits of “inquisition” i find not only particularly remarkable for a video game but meaningful even to those who have never held a controller in their hands. 
over the last decade, video games have been on the re­ceiving end of much criticism due to their supposed glori­fication of violence and murder. while there may be some foundation for these claims, not all video games sow seeds of hatred or condition its players for violence. “inquisition,” for example, does quite the opposite. 
bioware has set itself apart by emphasizing in its games not guts and gore but heart and soul. Though “inquisition” certainly contains its fair share of violence, whether fight­ing venatori mages, red Templars or pride demons, the game contains the elements of compassion and care one expects from the studio. 
as the only survivor of a devastating attack on peace talks between warring mages and Templars at a sacred temple, you fell from the sky with a glowing green mark on your hand. This mark is the crux of the game’s plot — it allows were reportedly mishandled. 
Though the film speaks out against sexual assault in numerous ways, shapes and forms, its rapid changeovers from one situation to the next overwhelm the audience. while these may be dick’s exact intent, the severe topics of campus rape and discrimination pack a strong enough punch on a given congregation. That said, we can all ap­preciate the film’s intense mood on such a prominent subject. 
The documentary exposes many elite institutions around the nation, including harvard, north carolina, Florida state university and — of course — notre dame and saint mary’s. highlighting the assault of former saint mary’s stu­dent lizzy seeberg in 2010, the film portrays notre dame as elitist and dismissive of sexual violence and gender inequal­ity. a controversial subject at the time, the lizzy seeberg scandal continues to haunt audiences of “The hunting ground,” who witness interviews with seeberg’s father. moreover, the film slams notre dame because of its athletic administration’s lack of response to sexual assault alleg­edly committed by student-athletes. despite the film’s al­legations, notre dame denies its portrayal of the university. correspondingly, the film states university president Fr. John Jenkins declined to be interviewed. no matter the cir­cumstances, the institution’s inaction by reluctantly pun­ishing or completely refusing to punish perpetrators has led to comprehensive investigation of the university’s policies. 
Though some may contest the arguments made by the film’s many interviewees, the repetition of situa­tions and responses only strengthens the theme of self­ishness and disregard for victims on the part of colleges and universities. emphasized by numerous statistics, the 
you to close rifts in the sky that grant dangerous demons passage into the world. on your way through the game, closing rifts and eventually becoming the leader of a move­ment, called the inquisition, to restore order and find those responsible for the attack on the temple, you encounter in­credible characters and difficult decisions. 
“inquisition’s” plot leads players to understand a new and foreign world along with its many cultures, countries, races, divisions and disputes. while coming to appreciate the gravity of matters in the land of Thedas, players are ac­tually being taught lessons pertinent to life outside of the game. 
There are countless profound aspects of the game i could mention, but one particularly thought-provoking case is that of the mages. mages are individuals who have a special connection to another realm, called the Fade, which gives them magical abilities but also makes them especially susceptible to possession by demons. in “inquisition,” the player encounters many questions on the topic and must search for his or her own individual answers. 
For example, what is the role of magic in the world? should mages be kept in confinement for the protection of all? does the world need to be protected from mages in such a way? can the general population be safe if mages are free? The game’s major quests show the player the com­plexity at the heart of the matter and allow the player to come to his or her own nuanced opinion. Though this situ­ation may seem unique to a world with magic and mages, the scenario is analogous to many we face in our world. The issue of the mages leads players to investigate how they re­spond to those who are different or how they respond to documentary makes its point by conveying disappoint­ing institutional responses. while one in five women has suffered an assault, a mere 22 percent actually report the incident. of that 22 percent, 95 to 98 percent of those sto­ries are completely accurate. universities’ responses, ac­cording to “The hunting ground,” consist of suppressing or completely ignoring the issue, as well as placing blame on the victims. The mass majority of the interviewees in the film convey a common trend of disparaging feedback along the lines of “what were you wearing?” “were you drinking too much?” “did you misinterpret the friend­ship?” “maybe he meant well, and it just shows how much he likes you.” These disgusting responses pique audience involvement by instilling anger and a cry for justice. Furthermore, the film’s portrayal of responses to assaults, specifically among the athletes, incite passion and anger for the subject at hand, and dick’s portrayal of female activism does not disappoint. clark and pino’s determination, in spite of death threats and social media attacks, to seek a legal response from their university, in­spires women of all ages to seek equality. 
Through personal accounts, blunt accusations and raw emotion, “The hunting ground” provides audiences with more than enough incentive to seek social justice and equality. men and women alike have suffered victimiza­tion long enough, and the documentary’s call to action encourages humankind to refuse current university stan­dards and responses. The film serves as a catalyst for soci­etal progression, and college students around the nation should certainly take part in the change. 
Contact Kathryn Minko at kminko@nd.edu 
those society fears. it gives players the opportunity to grap­ple with and see both sides of a complicated social issue. 
This is just one of the many opportunities players have to engage with social issues not unlike those we face in our lives. players must judge criminals and determine what they deem appropriate punishments, choose what type of leader and what type of rule they feel is best for a country and make the final call in situations where a companion’s life hangs in the balance. with the companion characters especially, “inquisition” also effectively humanizes people with vastly different upbringings, races and beliefs by giv­ing each character a rich personal history that sheds light onto the logic behind their choices. 
in these ways, “inquisition” succeeds not simply in en­dearing you to its world and characters but in endearing you to our world as well. when the characters share secret strug­gles and surprise me with their thoughts, i am reminded that every person i encounter holds their own struggles within. when asked to judge and sentence a murderer, i am led to reexamine my thoughts on justice in our american system. i could not help reevaluating my actions in real life after com­pleting quests in this virtual one, and that is certainly a feat worthy of praise. 
as a video game, “inquisition” not only entertains but enriches players by getting them to ruminate on deep problems and care for characters while also having a heck of a lot of fun. That might not merit game of the year on all its own, but without a doubt, it is an incredible accom­plishment for any game. 
Contact Gabriela Leskur at gleskur@nd.edu 

KERI O’MARA | The Observer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Title bout leads may sports slate 
Manny De Jesus 
sports writer 
april is one of the great­est months for sports. we all saw duke beat wisconsin on april 6 in the ncaa championship. The ueFa champions league is in the thick of postseason play. baseball is back with high hopes running for every team in the league. both the nhl and nba playoffs kicked off this past weekend. 
it’s only going to get better in may, because while it isn’t talked about as much as it should be, Floyd mayweather and manny pacquiao will fight in one of the most an­ticipated matchups in boxing history may 2. 
a week from saturday, boxing’s two best pound­for-pound competitors will face off to hopefully end the discussion of who the better fighter is. along with major bragging rights, the unified wba, wbc and wbo titles will be on the line. not only are mayweather’s titles on the line, but if he loses, he’ll forever be remembered for going 47-1. 
pacquiao, on the other hand, knows what it’s like to lose a fight. after pacquio was knocked out by manuel marquez in 2012, many doubted whether the big fight would happen. however, he went on to de­feat brandon rios, Timothy bradley Jr. and chris algieri to put himself back into the conversation of today’s best boxers. 
after years of negotia­tion, the two fighters have agreed to a deal to make this fight, which is expected to give both fighters more than $100 million each, the richest match in boxing his­tory. The two fighters agreed mayweather would receive 60 percent of the fight’s revenue, while pacquiao is going to get the other 40 per­cent. according to sporting news, the fight is expected to surpass $400 million in rev­enue, so they’re both going to be ending the night on a good note financially regard­less of the result. 

even with the fight in place, some fans are upset about the timing. pacquiao is 36, and mayweather is 38. if the fight had taken place in the prime of their careers, it may have been a better contest for the fans. They would have been at their best in terms of speed, strength and intensity. however, mayweather thinks this was the best time for the two to finally meet in the ring, so we get it now. 
in a one-on-one inter­view with stephen a. smith on espn, mayweather un­leashed his feelings about the upcoming fight against pacquiao without any filter. he said he wants to defeat pacquiao flawlessly. he also said he already knows when the night is over, he’ll be holding his arms up high as the undisputed best boxer in the world. 
last Tuesday in his gym in las vegas, mayweather said he and pacquiao are bigger names now than they ever were and that they are at the top of their respective careers. 

even after the fight, not every fan is going to be satis­fied with the results. some will complain about the financial incentives of the fight being the primary mo­tive for the boxers. others will argue this fight was way overdue. regardless of the complaints and questions re­garding the motives behind mayweather and pacquiao in this fight, millions across the world are going to tune into what’s being hyped as the best boxing match of all time. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 

The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE | louisville 10, nd 8 
Irish drop season finale at home against Louisville 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 

no. 11 notre dame was unable to pull out a senior-day win at arlotta stadium on sunday, falling to no. 14 louisville 10-8 to close out its regular season. 
The loss was the second in a row for the irish (9-7, 3-4 acc), reversing the momentum they had before Thursday’s loss to no. 7 northwestern. prior to that defeat, notre dame had won six of its last seven games. 
louisville (10-6, 2-5 acc) and notre dame were tied 6-6 at halftime and were even in shots, ground balls and turn­overs going into the second. 
The irish struggled out of the break, though, as louisville scored three goals and notre dame was held scoreless un­til there was 10:42 left in the game when sophomore attack cortney Fortunato recorded her fourth goal. 
notre dame actually out-shot louisville 11-9 in the sec­ond half, but repeatedly failed to find the back of the net. 
“in the second half, it was just awful shooting,” irish head coach christine halfpenny said. “if we’re go­ing to be honest, at this point in the season, effort’s not go­ing to get you through. we need execution. 
“This isn’t the first game that we’ve seen a lack of ex­ecution. we just seem to have too many lapses, and it’s gotta be fixed. it started against michigan, and we saw it again on Thursday night, and we saw it again [on sunday].” 
Free-position shots and fouls inside the 8-meter were a major factor in notre dame’s comparative inaccuracy. The cardinals went 5-of-7 from the arc while the irish man­aged to go just 1-of-4. 
“we gave louisville way too many second-chance oppor­tunities and we put them on the line, something we haven’t done all year,” halfpenny said. 
halfpenny said the ab­sence of sophomore mid­fielder casey pearsall, who injured her ankle against northwestern, was a blow to the irish offense, as was the team’s lack of concentration. 
“i think that there was a massive lack of focus today,” halfpenny said. “obviously we were without the efforts of casey pearsall, and i think that has to be mentioned. That’d be the elephant in the room if we didn’t talk about that. i think that she’s prob­ably potentially good for a two-point swing, if not more, with what she does as a strong midfielder for our program.” 
halfpenny also attributed the team’s struggles to in­consistencies in production. Fortunato had four goals and two assists, but no other play­er exceeded two points. 
“cortney had six points, so we’re really happy with cortney, but everyone around her has to amp up their con­tribution,” halfpenny said. “[Junior attack] rachel sexton had a really off night, and you can’t have that. [Junior mid­fielder stephanie] Toy didn’t have a point. you can’t have that. everybody has to con­tribute. we’ve been built off of multiple scoring opportuni­ties and doing our jobs, and we didn’t do that [on sunday].” 
The irish will have to im­prove their focus and on-field cooperation if they hope to succeed in the postseason, halfpenny said. 
“i think we’re lacking pas­sion. it’s just that simple,” halfpenny said. “it’s the end of the season, so it’s time to kind of suck it up and move forward, and i think that this is where we have to continue to mature as a team if we want to get what we want, which is to be one of the best teams in the country. 
“when you’re trying to do that, you have to be 100 per­cent focused with your effort, your passion and your execu­tion together. it is a commu­nity effort, and unfortunately there were just too many peo­ple who seemed to be doing it alone [sunday].” 
notre dame’s downturn comes at an inopportune mo­ment, as the game against louisville was the last of the regular season; the acc tour­nament begins Thursday, when the fifth-seeded irish will take on fourth-seeded virginia in charlottesville, virginia, at 1 p.m. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 

SMC GOLF | miaa auTomaTic QualiFiers 
Belles return to action for second round 
Observer Staff Report 

saint mary’s returns to the miaa automatic qualifying tournament for second-round action monday in saugatuck, michigan, at The ravines golf course. 
while the belles qualified for the four-team field with strong performances during the regular season, they sit in last place after carding a 365 in Tuesday’s first round of action at The medalist golf course in marshall, michigan. 
sophomore captain courtney carlson led the belles with an 81 Tuesday, finishing sixth overall, but no other saint mary’s golfer finished in the top 15. 
Freshman Kaitlyn cartone shot a 91 to finish the first day of competition 17th while ju­nior Katie Zielinski tied for 18th with a first-round 94. First-year Kelsey conkright shot a 99 to tie for 21st with teammate and fel­low first-year lydia lorenc. 
olivet, who hosted the first round, shot a 323 to hold the 18­hole lead by a slim margin over hope, who will host the last two rounds and shot a 325 on the first day. 
Third-placed Trine carded a 343 over the first 18 holes to sit 22 strokes ahead of saint mary’s heading into the second round. 
while hope has the two low­est scorers after the first round 
— sophomore britni gielow leads after carding a 76 while freshman megan Klintworth sits in second — olivet has five golfers currently in the top 10, led by third-placed junior Kirstin langer. 
Junior amy worthington leads Trine through 18 holes, as her first-round 82 has her placed seventh. 
The quartet of teams will tee off at 1 p.m. today in saugatuck, michigan, at The ravines golf course. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


SMC TENNIS | smc 8, albion 1 
Belles roll in win against conference foe Albion 
By DAISY COSTELLO 
sports writer 
saint mary’s notched a com­fortable victory over strug­gling conference foe albion on saturday in albion, michigan. 
The belles (11-8, 5-2 miaa) jumped out to an early 3-0 lead through the doubles flights and never looked back en route to an 8-1 win. belles head coach dale campbell said his team was poised heading into saturday’s contest. 
“we were ready to play,” campbell said. “we have a re­ally mature team that focused and played well.” 
between them, the belles’ doubles pairings dropped just 9 games on the way to a dou­bles sweep. sophomore sam setterblad and senior cap­tain Kayle sexton led the way for the belles at no. 1 singles, beating albion’s pairing of senior irene chen and junior margaux Kabodian by a score of 8-4. campbell praised the no. 1 team as playing a pivotal role in sparking the belles’ suc­cess on saturday. 
“i think winning the no. 
elliott and junior andrea 
Fetters followed suit, defeat­ing albion’s no. 2 doubles team 8-2, while junior margaret Faller and freshman maddie minaudo finished off the dou­bles matches with an 8-3 victo­ry at the no. 3 flight. campbell said once again the doubles performance was critical, but she said she knows there can be improvements going into their final week of play. 
“we just want to continue to improve our movement [in doubles], staying ready at the net and being more aggres­sive,” campbell said. 
The only match lost on the day was at no. 1 singles, where Fetters fell to chen in a super­set tiebreak 10-7. Fetters took the first set 7-6 but dropped the second 0-6 to setup the tiebreak. 
The rest of the belles’ singles matches were straightforward results, dropping just 11 games over their five wins. sexton, at no. 2 singles, faced little resis­tance on her way to a 6-0, 6-1 win, while fellow senior Jackie Kjolhede triumphed 6-1, 6-2 at no. 3 singles. elliott, Faller and freshman bailey oppman all also earned singles victories to round out the win for belles. 

1  doubles  court  was  big,”  
campbell said.  
senior  captain  shannon  

saint mary’s is back in action today against north central in 
paid adverTisemenT 

its first non-conference match since a 7-1 win over bethel on april 9. it will be the first ac­tion for the cardinals (13-5, 4-3 cciw) since april 12, when they swept aurora 9-0. 
while forecasted rain may cause monday’s match to be canceled, campbell said the belles’ game plan will stay the same if the game progresses. 
“our focus would be to just play the best we can,” campbell said. “[and to] play hard until the end with all nine matches.” 
The belles — who are ranked third in the conference stand­ings — are on the cusp of se­curing a spot in the miaa tournament with one game re­maining. a win in wednesday’s contest with Kalamazoo would secure the berth for the belles and campbell said that was the major focus this week. 
“The main goal would be to finish strong and try to beat Kalamazoo,” campbell said. “That could improve our seed in the conference tournament.” 
if the match proceeds, the belles will host the cardinals on monday at 4 p.m. 
Contact Daisy Costello at  mcostel4@nd.edu 
TRACK & FIELD 

bamgbose, aragon set school records 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 

notre dame split up its team this weekend and sent ath­letes to atlanta for the georgia Tech invitational and to charlottesville, virginia, for the virginia challenge. 
irish junior sprinter margaret bamgbose stood out at the georgia Tech invitational, finish­ing first in the 400-meter dash with a season-best mark of 51.95 seconds, besting her previous time by two hundredths of a sec­ond. irish head coach alan Turner said he thinks bamgbose can go faster as the season progresses. 
“i think she can definitely get that time down into the low 51s (seconds),” Turner said. “she’s becoming very, very consistent in the indoor season and the out­door season. i think as she gets to the conference meet, acc cham­pionships, the regionals and na­tionals, she’ll be in the low 51s. she’s getting better every time she runs.” 
bamgbose also helped led the irish 4 x 400-meter and 4 x 100-meter relay teams to first-place finishes. The 4 x 400-me­ter team, made up of bamgbose, freshman parker english, se­nior amber lalla and freshman Jordan shead, notched a mark of 3:33.21 in its win. Turner said he is close to deciding the final lineup for the relay in postseason competition. 
“That was our season’s best time,” Turner said. “margaret is a mainstay on the team. she’s always the anchor, she’s pretty consistent. The one person that’s really stepped up is amber lalla. That’s two weeks in a row she’s been in the low 53s. i’m still decid­ing on who that fourth person’s going to be, whether it’s [senior] michelle rotondo, who was on our relay team last year that went to nationals, or freshman Jordan shead or even Jade barber. i have young ladies that i can just plug in and we’re still going to be one of the top teams in the country.” 
The 4 x 100-meter team of bamgbose, parker, senior Jade barber and senior Kaila barber took home the win in 44.81 sec­onds and Turner said he thinks the team can potentially get to the ncaa championships. 
“That time, 44.81 [seconds], is the best time a women’s 4 x 100 team has run since i’ve been here,” Turner said. “we can even go a lot faster. The last exchange between parker [english] and margaret [bamgbose] wasn’t the best. if we just iron that out, we can go about 44.4 or 44.3 [sec­onds]. if you’re running those times, those are definitely going to get you to the ncaas.” 
in addition to running in the 4 x 100-meter relay, Jade barber also won the 100-meter hurdles in 13.04 seconds, and Turner said his goal is for barber to place highly at the ncaa championships. 

“in the outdoor season … she’s been very focused,” Turner said. “For us it was just going back to the basics. we want to make the nationals and be all-american again, but we want to go for a top-three space this year, not just being sixth place, seventh place or eighth place. if she keeps do­ing what she’s doing, she’ll defi­nitely finish somewhere in the top three.” 
For the women’s distance runners, the highlight of the weekend was junior danielle aragon’s fifth-place finish in the 1,500-meter run at the virginia challenge, running a mark of 
4:13.43 to break the school record by five hundredths of a second. 

“[aragon] is as good as any­body,” Turner said. “dannie is one of the top 16 female mil­ers, 1,500-meter runners in the country and her time yesterday is going to move her up big-time on the national list. she’s round­ing out into great shape. i’m real­ly proud of her getting the school record.” 
There were no men’s victo­ries for the irish this weekend, but senior chris giesting placed second in the 400-meter dash with a time of 45.95 seconds and helped the men’s 4 x 100-meter and 4 x 400-meter relay teams to fourth- and second-place finish­es. Turner said he wanted to see giesting race after resting him at the acc/big Ten challenge last week. 
“[giesting] ran his season best in the 400, but he still looked a lit­tle sluggish in the last 50 meters,” Turner said. “if he just finished a little better, he’s challenging his school record, his personal re­cord. he ran a pretty good anchor for us on the 4 x 400, georgia had a big lead on us, about 20 meters and he cut it down to about eight meters at the end.” 
The irish will compete next weekend at the drake relays in des moines, iowa. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 





BASEBALL | nd 2, nc sTaTe 0; nc sTaTe 4, nd 2 (14); nd 7, nc sTaTe 2 
Strong pitching leads Irish to series win over NC State 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
senior sports writer 
it was a marathon of base­ball this weekend for notre dame, which won its third consecutive conference se­ries by taking two games of a three-game set against north carolina state at Frank eck stadium. 
The irish (26-12, 11-10 acc) played 32 innings, 23 of them coming saturday af­ter a gloomy weather forecast for sunday forced them to push the series finale up one day. after winning 2-0 Friday night, notre dame fell 4-2 in a 14-inning affair in saturday’s first game before coming back to record a 7-2 victory over the wolfpack (21-16, 9-11) in the nightcap. 
“This was a series where we didn’t get a ton of hits in it, but guys weren’t sitting there feel­ing sorry for themselves, they weren’t sitting there calculat­ing their batting averages,” notre dame head coach mik aoki said. “we were just sit­ting there trying to do every­thing we can to win. guys that struggled impacted the game by using their legs, impacted the game by playing defense. 
“we got enough timely hits throughout the course of the weekend to come out [win­ning] two out of three, and that’s a good club over there, so we’re going to take it and run with it.” 
after allowing four runs in a three-game sweep of then-no. 7 Florida state last weekend, the irish pitching staff held nc state score­less for the first 16 innings of the series. sophomore right-hander ryan smoyer kept the wolfpack in check Friday night, allowing five hits and striking out two in seven in­nings of work. smoyer, who had primarily served as notre dame’s midweek starter be­fore a recent injury to senior right-hander scott Kerrigan, improved his record to 6-0 on the season. 
“he’s done a really good job, but you could kind of see it coming a little bit,” aoki said of smoyer. “it was one of those deals where early in the year, his fastball command was a little bit off. i don’t think he was actually as sharp this week as he was last week [against Florida state], but he did a good job of competing.” 
sophomore catcher ryan lidge provided both rbis for the irish, which managed only three hits against wolfpack pitching. lidge lined a dou­ble into the right-field corner in the fourth inning, scoring senior right fielder robert youngdahl. he added his second rbi on a single to right field in the sixth to score se­nior left fielder ryan bull. 

The irish began the first game of saturday’s double­header at 2 p.m. saturday. after a 45-minute break be­tween games, they conclud­ed play in the second game shortly after 10 p.m. 
“i told these guys afterward that outside the 25-inning game i was involved with [as head coach of boston college in 2009] against Texas, i thought that was one of the most impressive things i’ve seen a group of young people do,” aoki said. 
notre dame surrendered its first runs of the weekend in the seventh inning of the first game when nc state freshman pinch hitter brock deatherage hit a double to deep left-center field. 
The irish came back to tie the game in the bottom of the ninth after they loaded the bases on three consecutive one-out singles. lidge walked with the bases loaded, and a groundout by junior short­stop lane richards knotted the score at two. 
That would be it for the irish offense, however, as it failed to manage a hit over the last five innings. 
“we had good at-bats all throughout that first game [but] we weren’t quite able to get the one when we needed it to push the run across or something like that,” aoki said. “That’s kind of the na­ture of baseball.” 
nc state pushed ahead in the 14th inning after loading the bases with one out. The wolfpack went up by a run on a sacrifice fly to center field by sophomore catcher andrew Knizner and added an insur­ance run on a walk to junior shortstop ryne willard. 
notre dame’s offensive struggles did not carry over to saturday’s second game, as the irish overcame an early two-run deficit by scor­ing four runs in the second against wolfpack sophomore left-hander ryan williamson. 
richards put the irish on the board with a two-run home run to left field. notre dame added two more runs on a sin­gle to left by sophomore third baseman Kyle Fiala, which scored junior first baseman Zak Kutsulis and junior center fielder Kyle richardson. 
“i think it was a matter of stringing some good at-bats together here and there, and then lane gives us a big boost with one swing of the bat,” aoki said of notre dame’s early scoring. 
The irish held the lead from there, as notre dame’s pitching staff did not sur­render a run after the first inning. irish junior right-hander nick mccarty, who missed his scheduled start last weekend due to injury, re­turned to strike out six and al­low four hits and two runs in 5 
paid adverTisemenT 2/3 innings. 
“i didn’t think nick was quite as sharp as he has been at times during the season, but in fairness to nick, that’s a pretty high bar,” aoki said. “he’s been really pretty good.” 
with an 8-1 record in their last three acc series and a winning record in conference play, the irish feel good about their position at this point in the season, aoki said. 
“we kind of set as a goal that we were going to try to just grind through and win each series, and since we sort of hit that reset button a few week­ends ago, we’ve won three series in a row,” he said. “ … we’ve just got to take it one game at a time and just try to finish.” 
notre dame will return to action Tuesday night, when it travels to indianapolis to face indiana. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 





ND WOMEN’S GOLF | acc championships 
Campbell finishes 11th as Notre Dame places sixth 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
Though it shaved 30 shots off its score from last year, notre dame still finished sixth at the acc championships in greensboro, north carolina, this weekend. 
The irish shot a 12-over-par 876 over the course of two days to finish 39 strokes be­hind tournament champion virginia. irish head coach susan holt said she was pleased with her squad despite the sixth-place finish. 
“we played well,” holt said. “you can’t do anything about it. i’d rather play well and get beat than play bad and know that you maybe had a chance. virginia just ran away with it. it’s just amazing how well they played on that golf course. we had contributions from ev­erybody and had really good scores.” 
holt said she attributes some the irish’s low finish to the fact that the acc is an elite confer­ence for women’s golf. 
“we’re in a really tough conference,” holt said. “The acc golf conference is prob­ably top three in the country. it’s a great conference [with] three teams ranked in the top 10 in the country. i’m a firm believer if you win the acc championship, you’re going to be competing for a national championship.” 
The top performer for the irish in the tournament was junior Talia campbell, who shot a one-under-par 215. campbell’s 11th-place indi­vidual performance was high­lighted by a chip-in eagle on hole 15. 
“Talia’s just been playing great golf, really all spring,” holt said. “she has consistently put up some really solid num­bers on some really good golf courses. she’s hitting the ball better than she ever has and having a lot of opportunities to make birdies. she just needs to capitalize a little bit more. i’m hopeful that she’ll get there.” 
another bright spot for the irish over the weekend was freshman Kari belville, who tied for 26th place with a four­over-par 220. holt said she is happy for belville because the freshman has been close to breaking out all season. 
“she had a really good week of practice last week,” holt said. “she hasn’t been scoring very well the last couple tour­naments, but she’s been really close to playing well. i sat down 
paid adverTisemenT 

and talked to her after wake Forest, and i told her, ‘don’t get discouraged because you are so close.’ she played really good golf on a really challeng­ing golf course. i’ve got to think her confidence is sky high right now, and it should be.” 
The next step for the irish will likely be ncaa region­als, which will take place may 7-9 at warren golf course on campus. There is a selection committee that decides which teams continue on, but the irish are a virtual lock to keep going, holt said. 
notre dame will look to ad­vance past ncaa regionals for the first time since 2011, but it might face an additional challenge. 
“The challenging part about regionals for us is that it’s dur­ing finals week,” holt said. “our kids got a lot going on at that time. we’re trying to get all that done and still get some good practice in. it’s a chal­lenge, but i think they’re up for it. They’re excited to play at home. it should give them a sense of confidence. … you know the course, just go out and play it and execute it.” 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 
M Lacrosse 
conTinued From page 16 

irish (9-1, 4-0 acc) led shots, 48-46, and turnovers, 16-13, while the Tar heels (12-2, 3-1) took faceoffs, 18­15, and saves, 11-9. 
neither team led by more than two goals at any point in the con­test, and they were tied at the end of the first, second and third quarters. 
but in the fourth period, north carolina stonewalled notre dame’s offense and gradually gained an edge. Through the first 13 minutes of the final quarter, the Tar heels outscored the irish 3-1 and took a two-goal advantage. 
“our guys know that until the final horn blows, it’s not over,” corrigan said. “we’ve won a lot of close games and a lot of last-second type games like that over the past few years, and they know, you just keep playing.” 
with 1:26 left to play, junior at­tack matt Kavanagh was doing just that, sprinting off a quick restart towards the goal with no defenders in his path. however, Tar heels ju­nior goalie Kieran burke saved his shot. 
half a second later, though, north carolina junior defenseman evan connell hit Kavanagh high and hard just outside the crease, sending him flying into burke and knocking the net askew. 
“i knew that they had to call something, because one minute i shot it, and the next thing i knew i was on my back with my legs up in the air,” Kavanagh said. 
connell was assessed a two-minute, non-releasable penalty for unsportsmanlike conduct, and notre dame was playing a man-up for the rest of the game. 
From there, the rally was on. Kavanagh scored nine seconds af­ter the penalty to put notre dame 

Softball 
conTinued From page 16 

game as the orange held the lead on three different occasions. 
notre dame responded each time before taking its first lead of the game in the bottom of the sixth inning. after a three-run fifth inning to tie the game, senior third baseman Katey haus drove in her third run of the game on an rbi double to score the winning run. gumpf said she was proud of the way the offense continued to fight throughout the game. 
“i think that three-run inning in the fifth changed the whole game,” gumpf said. “i’m really proud of our hitters. i’m proud of the fact that we got better as the game went on. i just like our com­posure at the plate. They think they’re going to hit the ball, and i like that.” 
on sunday, the irish cruised to a 12-0 victory in the series finale. rhodes took the mound yet again for notre dame on sunday and turned in what might have been her best game of the weekend, pitching a complete-game shut­out, allowing just four hits and striking out seven. 
“we really needed a leader,” gumpf said. “we needed that leader [sunday] on the mound, within one, then sophomore mid­fielder sergio perkovic tied things up with 33 seconds left. 
sophomore midfielder p.J. Finley won the ensuing faceoff, and corrigan called a timeout with 20 seconds remaining to strategize his team’s final possession. 

“we drew up a play,” Kavanagh said. “it was supposed to go behind and then to sergio, but they had good pressure behind, so we re­versed it, and when it got to [gradu­ate student midfielder Jim marlatt], he made a great feed.” 
marlatt, who already had three assists on the day, including the last two for notre dame, found Kavanagh in the middle of the Tar heel defense. Kavanagh turned and whipped a shot into the lower right corner of the net with 7.6 sec­onds left, sending the crowd into a frenzy. 
“They’re not afraid of the mo­ment,” corrigan said. “Those guys stepped up, and they have the wherewithal to know what a good risk is and what a bad risk is, but the courage to take the risk that needs to be taken at a time like that.” 
after the irish weathered one last shot attempt from north carolina, they celebrated an undefeated conference run. and even though the acc tournament and ncaa championships loom, corrigan still took time to appreciate the win. 
“i’m not going to worry about [the things we can do better] at the moment,” he said. “we’re going to enjoy the heck out of this moment and of this day, but tomorrow, we gotta get back to work.” 

The top-ranked irish play fourth-seeded, no. 6 duke in the semi­finals of the acc tournament in chester, pennsylvania, on Friday. 
Contact Greg Hadley at  ghadley@nd.edu 

and [rhodes] really was our leader this weekend. i think she con­trolled hitters and rarely gave up a hard-hit ball. i can’t take anything away from syracuse because you can’t take them lightly. although the scores may not have reflected it, that’s a good team, and they hit the ball. i’m so proud of her.” 
offensively, the irish picked up where they left off the day be­fore. Koerner led the team with three hits and four rbis, while arizmendi added three rbis and freshman shortstop morgan reed drove in two more. sophomore Kimmy sullivan put the final touch on the game when she hit her first career home run, a pinch-hit, two-run effort in the fourth inning. gumpf said her offense’s success came from its ability to put pressure on syracuse’s defense. 
“our quality at-bats were on fire,” gumpf said. “even when we didn’t get hits, we were hitting the ball hard. That just puts their entire defense on their heels, and when you put a defense on their heels, good things will happen.” 

The irish now prepare to host non-conference rival depaul on Tuesday, with the first pitch sched­uled for 4 p.m. at melissa cook stadium. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, APRIL 20, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Football 
conTinued From page 16 
safety max redfield. 
“c.J. prosise was impressive with not only his ability to break into the second level, but he showed his toughness in lowering his pads and playing physical,” irish head coach brian Kelly said. “he’s really round­ing into a — he’s a guy that you’re going to fear. when you turn on the film, you’re going to look at him and go, ‘he scares me.’” 
Though he played almost ex­clusively as a running back in the game and said he mainly practiced with the backs this spring, prosise said he’ll continue to cross-train in the upcoming months. 
“in the summer, i’m just going to push it as hard as i can, work as hard as i can,” he said. “i’ll be playing both, and i’ll be working with receivers. when we go in to through with receivers, i’ll be with receivers, and with running backs when we’re taking steps or doing handoffs, i’ll be with the running backs.” 

Kelly said if prosise continues to show the strength he’s exhibited throughout the spring, culminat­ing with the leading performance saturday, he could challenge his fellow running backs, juniors Tarean Folston and greg bryant, for a starting job. 
“i’m not going to paint him into any particular position or catego­ry,” Kelly said. “if he’s the best run­ning back, he’s going to start. if he’s the best wide receiver, he’s going to start. 
“so it’s my job, it’s our job to get the best 11 players on the field, and right now, it’s hard to make the case that he’s not one of the best 11.” 
prosise and the offense got out to a quick start saturday, holding a 28-9 lead at halftime thanks to a rushing touchdown on the game’s first drive by golson and passing scores from Zaire to sophomore receiver Justin brent and junior receiver will Fuller, the latter a 68­yard long for the afternoon. 
right before he midway break, 6-foot-5.5, 315-pound senior offensive lineman ronnie stanley provided the highlight of the game, pulling in a 14-yard pass from golson and trucking 5-foot-11, 190-pound junior cornerback cole luke along the sidelines, sparking a postgame debate over whether luke tackled stanley or vice versa. 
“as we were going back and forth on academics and he was re­ally committed to coming back to notre dame for a lot of reasons, the number one reason for him com­ing back was to get that football to­day,” Kelly joked. 
golson began the game with the first-team offense, while Zaire took reps with the second team. The quarterbacks switched after each had completed two drives, and both were on the bench by the fourth quarter. 
Zaire completed eight of his 14 attempts for 137 yards and the two scores. golson connected on seven of his 15 passes and threw one in­terception, a pick by redfield over Zaire that ended with a defensive touchdown on a fan-submitted play that featured both quarterbacks. 
subsequently had to remind the media his comment was sarcastic. 
The two quarterbacks will un­doubtedly be the biggest storyline for Kelly, and it’s something he’s learned to deal with. 

nonetheless, having two capa­ble quarterbacks is a good problem to have. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

“we really wanted to center this game, particularly in the first half, around the quarterbacks and re­ally wanted to put them in a posi­tion where they could utilize their skill set, and i thought we did that,” Kelly said. “ … i thought they both competed at a high level in the first half, and i think we all say they’re all capable of playing champion­ship football.” 
The tide started to turn towards the defense after redfield’s pick-six, however. it held the offense score­less on three consecutive posses­sions to put points on the board under the scoring system altered for the spring game and took the lead midway through the fourth quarter on a safety from sopho­more defensive lineman daniel cage. 
The offense mustered up one final score on a late touchdown pass from sophomore quarterback montgomery vangorder to sopho­more tight end nic weishar, but it was not enough to earn the win. 
The irish return to the field for their season opener against Texas on sept. 5. 
Contact Mary Green at  mgreen8@nd.edu 


Plamondon 
conTinued From page 16 
through the air, each player could showcase his talents. 
golson finished 7-for-15 for 83 yards with an interception, adding 39 rushing yards to go along with a score on the ground. Zaire’s final line was 8-for-14 for 137 yards with two touchdowns, while he picked up 40 yards with his feet. 
The chief takeaway is that both players looked comfortable run­ning the offense. we already knew golson was capable of managing games, as he’s had 23 career starts. but his pocket presence, some­thing irish head coach brian Kelly said he was stressing this spring, was markedly improved. 
Zaire looked fluid working with his receivers. Kelly has mentioned this spring that his decision-making ability has sometimes left coaches scratching their heads, but saturday, Zaire looked like he had way more than one career start to his name. 
although some may look at the game statistics and say Zaire had far and away the better game, the box score is not necessarily a tell-all. Zaire’s stats were slightly in­flated by a 68-yard bomb to junior receiver will Fuller, while golson’s interception was the result of a fan-submitted trick play that called for him to launch a deep pass to Zaire. 
but that’s not to say Zaire did not look good. as evidenced by his deep throw to Fuller, Zaire cer­tainly has a good arm. many have questioned his strength and ac­curacy in comparison to golson’s, but he proved a lot of people wrong with his display saturday. Furthermore, as we already knew, Zaire is the better runner and a dangerous one at that. he ended the day with 40 yards on four car­ries, including a 13-yard scramble down the left sideline where he juked out sophomore defensive lineman Jay hayes. in addition, Zaire had a 25-yard gain wiped out by a holding penalty committed by sophomore receiver Justin brent. 

For all his strengths, Zaire did show some areas that still need improvement. when rolling to his right, the lefty struggled throwing across his body. all of those passes either sailed high or were thrown at the feet of his receivers. 
golson, on the other hand, looked more comfortable during those types of throws. he was also more effective running the ball than in the past, but overall lacked the flashy game-changing plays Zaire displayed. 
in the end, both golson and Zaire made an argument for why they should start when the irish host Texas the first week of september. both will play in some capacity, but it won’t be the two-quarterback system employed by Kelly for notre dame’s music city bowl win over lsu. he joked that might be the situation in the postgame press conference but 





CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

DOME NUTS | aleXandria wellman 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: you’ll be torn between the changes you want to make and what your budget will allow. you’ll need to be cautious and look for hidden expenses before you agree to any proposal you are offered. stick to facts and refrain from letting your emotions sway you. don’t let a past personal connection turn into a costly affair. your numbers are 3, 11, 13, 22, 29, 37, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t feel guilty for taking a little “me” time. you deserve a chance to pamper yourself or to be treated to something that makes you happy. a shopping spree will lift your spirits and lead to a great bargain. love is highlighted. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take in as much information as you can. what you discover will help you find unusual ways to use your skills. it’s in your best interest not to overreact or let stubbornness cause you to miss an opportunity. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): do your research before getting involved in a joint venture or risky investment. Try to be frugal when it comes to money matters. expect a visitor or a change in the dynamics of your home environment. love will be unpredictable, but exciting. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): do your best to help others and you will avoid criticism. your empathetic nature will win favors from those who recognize your talent and expertise. something that starts out as an act of kindness will turn in to a profitable enterprise. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): letting your emotions swell up regarding your professional objectives will also cause problems in your personal life. look for positive changes you can make that will broaden your outlook and help you overcome any setbacks. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Travel plans or getting involved in a cultural event in your community will give you a better understanding of the way others live and do things. implement the ideas that you feel will improve your life. protect your reputation. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22):accept the inevitable. put your energy into home, financial and health improvements that will encourage a better future. make a commitment and follow through with regard to self-improvement and important relationships. Travel and romance are highlighted. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): don’t overdo it. you are better off doing one thing superbly instead of trying to do too much. put less pressure on yourself and focus more on working as a team player with someone you feel close to. explore the unfamiliar or unusual. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): look at your options. you can make headway if you bring about positive alterations to the way you live. a financial opportunity is apparent and will have an impact on your current lifestyle choices. love is on the rise. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take charge. be ready to stop anyone who is offering negativity or criticism. you can make positive changes at home that will suit your needs and make you feel comfortable about moving forward with your dreams. romance is highlighted. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): watch what you say. you’ll face opposition and interference if you aren’t willing to meet someone halfway. put effort into fixing up your home or doing something special for someone you love. positive and loving gestures will bring good returns. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): update your resume and search for a position that interests you. Finding out what your options are will help give you peace of mind. don’t limit what you can do because someone is giving you a hard time. 


Birthday Baby: you are creative and persistent. you are confident and aggressive. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | MONDAY, APRIL 20, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL | gold 36, blue 34 
Striking gold 

Notre Dame has Prosise leads Irish 
Defense wins as two good choices 
ground game at quarterback 
By MARY GREEN 

Brian Plamondon 
assistant managing editor sports writer 
The blue-gold game might not count for anything, and there’s still 

sure, it was just the spring game. an entire summer and fall camp 
and after all, it technically left to determine starting positions, 
counted as notre dame’s 15th and but it seemed everyone was excited 
final practice. about one player after saturday’s 
315-pound senior offensive game at labar practice complex. 
tackle ronnie stanley wouldn’t no, that player wasn’t a quarter-
be catching passes if things really back, and his name wasn’t everett 
mattered. golson or malik Zaire. 
nevertheless, there are still instead, it was a player who came 
things we can take away from to notre dame as a safety, lined up 
saturday’s annual blue-gold with the receivers the past two sea-
game, the most obvious of which sons and lit up the spring game as a 
is confirmation notre dame has running back — senior c.J. prosise. 
two skillful quarterbacks who prosise collected 64 yards on 12 
could both ably lead the team carries out of the backfield to lead 
come september. although a the offense, which wasn’t able to 
quarterback controversy is never suppress a second-half rally from 
ideal, if it’s the biggest question fac­the defense and lost the intrasquad 
ing notre dame this offseason, it is game, 36-34. 
a good one to have. prosise had cross-trained with 
graduate student everett golson the receivers and running backs 
and junior malik Zaire split first throughout the spring and flashed 
team reps and, more importantly, the gains he made in the backfield 
were live in the first half, unlike saturday, including a game-long 
springs past. with both signal-call­15-yard rush in the third quarter 
ers possessing the ability to hurt that ended with a big hit on junior CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer teams on the ground as well as 
Senior C.J. Prosise catches a punt during the Blue-Gold Game at LaBar Practice Complex. The receiver-see FooTball PAGE 14 turned-running back rushed for 67 yards on 12 carries in Saturday’s spring practice finale. see plamondon PAGE 14 
ND SOFTBALL | nd 10, syracuse 1; nd 7, su 6; nd 12, su 0 
irish stretch win streak to 23 
By BEN PADANILAM 
sports writer 
no. 25 notre dame continued its winning ways this weekend, sweeping a three-game series with syracuse at melissa cook stadium to extend its winning streak to 23 games. 
The irish (37-11, 16-5 acc) used a strong performance at the plate and in the field to outscore syracuse (17-25, 1-13 acc) by a 29-7 margin over the three games. 
irish junior allie rhodes held the orange to two runs in 12 2/3 innings on the mound for notre dame to pick up the win in all three games. 
in the first game of saturday’s doubleheader, the irish cruised to a 10-1, five-inning victory. notre dame’s offense tallied eight hits on the day and scored in every inning of the run-rule win. senior center fielder emilee Koerner and junior micaela arizmendi led the way for the irish in the opener; Koerner had two hits, including a solo home run in the first inning, and three rbis, while arizmendi had a two-run home run of her own in the first inning. 

irish head coach deanna gumpf said she loved her team’s approach against orange starting pitcher ju­nior Jocelyn cater. 
“i thought that we were very ag­gressive on [cater],” gumpf said. “when she missed a pitch, we hit it. we did a great job of attacking her when she messed up, so that was perfect.” 
on the mound, rhodes picked up the complete-game win, strik­ing out six en route to allowing just one run on six hits. gumpf said she was happy to see rhodes attacking the syracuse hitters. 
“she did such a great job in game one,” gumpf said. “she just con­trolled hitters really well today, and she set a tone. i liked that, and i liked the way that she attacked them.” 
The second game of saturday’s doubleheader was a much closer contest. syracuse sophomore first baseman sydney o’hara hit two home runs and had five rbis in the 
see soFTball PAGE 13 
MEN’S LACROSSE | nd 15, norTh carolina 14 
ND secures conference crown with late comeback 
By GREG HADLEY 
editor-in-chief 

at first, Kevin corrigan tried to get his players off the field and into the locker room, where he could discuss all the areas they could still improve, as quickly as possible. 
but the fans would not leave. They kept snapping pictures with the irish, getting autographs and trading high-fives. so the irish head coach smiled and took in the chaos. 
in the span of 75 seconds saturday, the record crowd of 4,522 at arlotta stadium went from desperate to delirious, as no. 1 notre dame scored three un­answered goals to rally past no. 2 north carolina, 15-14, and clinch the acc regular season title. 
when the final horn sounded, that crowd stormed out onto the field, celebrating notre dame’s closest win in a season full of them. 
“i don’t know if i can remem­ber a game where there was less scripted action than that one,” corrigan said. “you spend a lot of time working on some scripted things, and then you play a game like that and it’s all about guys making plays, both ways. 
“That’s a tremendous lacrosse game, and that’s a really good team.” 

in notre dame’s second 1-vs.­2 matchup of the year, the top-ranked squads were essentially even in most major categories; the 

see m lacrosse PAGE 13 




