The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 23 | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Jenkins marks 10 years in office 
Tenure as president defined by efforts to expand infrastructure, international outreach 
By JACK ROONEY 
managing editor 

when university president Fr. John Jenkins was officially inau­gurated on sept. 23, 2005, notre dame — and the world — were much different places. 
hurricane Katrina had just slammed into the gulf coast. pope benedict Xvi was in his sixth month as pope, following John paul ii’s death in april. The notre dame class of 2019 was in third grade. 
at notre dame, construc­tion on duncan and ryan halls had not yet begun. Jordan hall of science would not open for another year. and brady Quinn was the starting quarterback for an irish team that would eventually fall to ohio state in the Fiesta bowl. 
amidst all this, Jenkins stood at a podium in the Joyce center, at the outset of his presidency, and laid out an ambitious vision for the university in the 21st century. 
“with respect and gratitude for all who embraced notre dame’s mission in earlier times, let us rise up and embrace the mission for our time: to build a notre dame that is bigger and better than ever — a great catholic university for the 21st century, one of the pre-emi­nent research institutions in the world, a center for learning whose intellectual and religious 
see JenKins PAGE 5 

Photo courtesy of Matt Cashore 
With University Presidents Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh and Fr. Edward Malloy sitting behind him, current University President Fr. John Jenkins speaks at his inauguration on Sept. 23, 2005. 


Faculty analyzes pope’s visit 
By JENNA WILSON 
news writer 

as the eyes of the world turn to the u.s. for pope Francis’s first trip to the country, notre dame fac­ulty will also be in the spotlight. during the papal visit, several fac­ulty members will offer commen­tary and analysis for nbc, msnbc and cbs television networks. 
according to a university press release, university president Fr. John Jenkins will appear on msnbc’s “hardball with chris matthews” to offer commentary and analysis about the pope’s vis­it, tentatively scheduled for 7 p.m. Thursday. Jenkins will also attend the pope’s welcoming ceremony at the white house, concelebrate with Francis the canonization mass of Junipero serra at the basilica of the national shrine of the immaculate conception and attend the pope’s address to congress, the press release stated. 
professor Kathleen sprows cummings will provide cov­erage for nbc and msnbc. 
cummings is an associate pro­fessor of american studies and the william w. and anna Jean cushwa director of the cushwa center for the study of american catholicism. 
“This [papal visit] is a chance to think about what the pope means to american catholics and what the pope meant to american catholics over the course of his­tory,” cummings said. 
cummings will first broadcast 

see pope PAGE 3 


Task Force has first meeting 
Observer Staff Report 

The saint mary’s presidential Taskforce on sexual assault held its first meeting last Friday, followed by college president carol ann mooney sending an email Tuesday to the college community regard­ing the topics discussed at Friday’s meeting. 
in order to keep the community updated in a more timely man­ner, mooney said she will plan to send an email summarizing each meeting. 
mooney said in Tuesday’s email that the taskforce had reviewed current procedures for reporting sexual assault, and it was noted that the code of student conduct is being revised this fall to incorpo­rate changes in the law. 
additionally, three subcommit­tees were established to report to the main group at each meeting of the taskforce. 
The first committee, focused on education of sexual assault, will be chaired by assistant director of alumnae relations shay Jolly. other members include junior michaela gaughan, junior Julianne olivieri and professor of history and gender and women’s studies Jamie wagman. 
The second committee will be focused on procedures at saint mary’s and chaired by professor of psychology bettina spencer. other members include librarian ula gaha, junior caylin mccallick and senior bridget venard. 
The third committee is the support committee, chaired by director of campus ministry regina wilson. other members in­clude sophomore lydia lorenc and senior bri o’brien. 
college counsel rich nugent will act as a general resource for com­mittees, according to the email. 
The next meeting will be af­ter fall break, but the date is to be determined. 
Full meeting minutes will be available in the college’s portal after they have been officially ap­proved by the taskforce at its sub­sequent meeting, mooney said in the email. 


ndvotes ‘16  hosts first event 

Photo courtesy of Rosie McDowell 

South Bend Mayor Pete Buttigieg addresses students on the  importance of civic participation at Geddes Hall. 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
associate news editor 

is civic engagement more american than apple pie? ndvotes ’16, which is fo­cused on promoting partici­pation in the 2016 elections, didn’t make students choose at its inaugural event, where both voter registration forms and slices of apple pie were up for grabs. 
Task force co-chairs roge Karma and sarah Tomas morgan, both sophomores, said the event on Tuesday afternoon in geddes coffee house, featuring a speech by south bend mayor pete buttigieg, was focused on promoting three tiers of student engagement. (editor’s note: roge Karma is a viewpoint columnist for The observer.) 
“students can register to vote or for absentee bal­lots, they can learn how to get involved with political clubs and organizations on campus, and with mayor pete’s talk, they can learn how to get involved in local 
see voTe PAGE 4 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 FooTball PAGE 16 men’s soccer PAGE 16 




ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green 

Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 

News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 


Assistant Managing Editors 

(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 


Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What’s the top song on your playlist right now? 


Amy Harmon 

Renee Reyes 
junior 
sophomore 
le mans hall 
holy cross hall 
“‘red eye’ by Kid cudi.” 

“‘locked away’ by r. city.” 

Emma McCarthy 
junior le mans hall 
“‘wildest dreams’ by Taylor swift.” 



Katie Slisz 
junior 
le mans hall 

“‘hide away’ by daya.” 

Jocelyn Powers 
senior le mans hall 
“‘uma Thurman’ by Fall out boy.” 



Jordan Myers 
freshman 
regina hall 

“‘stitches’ by shawn mendes.” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
margaret hynds Kit loughran Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Jp gschwind rachel o’grady megan valley victoria llorens 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
erin rice adam ramos 
Photo Viewpoint 

Mapping the Relief Lecture and Book Football Pep Rally Vigil Mass Volleyball vs. Florida 
rosie biehl bianca almada 
Effort in Nepal Signing Compton Family Ice DPAC Leighton State Hesburgh Library McKenna Hall Arena Concert Hall Joyce Center 11 a.m.-12 p.m. 5 p.m.-6:30 p.m. 5:45 p.m.-6:30 p.m. 30 minutes after 1 p.m.-3 p.m. 
Corrections 

Panel discussion as An evening with author A home game weekend conclusion of football Irish take on the 
The observer regards itself as part of digital week. Sam Quinones. tradition. game. Seminoles. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Reading Series Reading Series Men’s Soccer Pain Management Women’s Soccer vs. 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Geddes Coffeehouse Breen-Phillips Hall Alumni Stadium Jordan Hall of Science Florida State 
however, recognize that we will make 
7:30p.m. basement 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 11 a.m.-12 p.m. Alumni Stadium 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
MFA students Katy 7:30 p.m. Come cheer on the Part of Dooley 1 p.m.-3 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Cousino and Chris Undergraduate Irish as they take on Society lecture series Notre Dame faces off 
we can correct our error. 

Holdaway read. students read. Virginia. featuring Paul Christo. with the Seminoles. 


Professor examines moral implications of robots 
By CHRIS CARBONARO 
news writer 
at a lecture last night, philosophy professor don howard was intro­duced by a robot. 
To kick off notre dame’s second annual digital week, howard deliv­ered a lecture discussing the ethical issues regarding the widespread implementation of robots. after a screen attached to a mobile stand projected the face of a man named elliot who introduced howard, the professor said something which quickly proved difficult to refute. 
“There is a revolution underway that is going to transform our world more rapidly and more radically than even the internet and infor­mation revolution did. This is the robotics revolution,” howard said. 
This will be even more wide­spread than the industrial revolu­tion, he said. both individuals with jobs in the service industry and those requiring higher education are being threatened by mechani­zation. howard said this could lead to the unemployment of hundreds of thousands of people. 
“already we’re seeing the almost total displacement of human driv­ers by wholly automated transport,” he said. “personally, i think this is the single biggest ethical problem facing us today in connection with robotics.” 
with this advent of wide­spread robots and their increased 
Pope 
conTinued From page 1 
from nbc studios in new york, offering commentary while the pope is in cuba and travels to america. Then she will broadcast live from the rooftop over saint paul’s cathedral in new york city before traveling to philadelphia to offer live coverage during the pope’s visit there. 
cummings said she will offer historical perspectives on the dif­ferent places Francis is visiting, along with comparisons between pope Francis’ visit and prior pa­pal visits. she is also currently writing a book on the canoniza­tions of american saints and will offer analysis on the canoniza­tion mass of Junipero serra. 
cummings said she began to offer national commentary two-and-a-half years ago, when anne Thompson, notre dame graduate and nbc news chief environmental affairs corre­spondent, wanted a woman to comment on pope benedict’s resignation. cummings said she was contacted by Thompson, a university trustee, to offer com­mentary on that issue and thus began her career as a television commentator. 
cummings said her current coverage, which will have her away from campus for a week, is the longest consecutive time she has offered commentary for a capability, howard stressed caution is of the utmost importance when implementing these machines. 
“in the past, we have made some really huge mistakes with technol­ogy,” howard said. “we failed to anticipate what the downstream, long-term consequences of a car­bon fueled economy were going to be, and now we pay the price for that failure.” 
however, howard said the ethi­cal implications of this sort of re­placement are not all negative. 
“driver error is the ultimate cause behind most fatal accidents,” howard said. “in theory, we could save 30,000 lives in the u.s. alone and 1.2 million lives globally every year if we replaced human drivers with self-driving cars.” 
This benefit is impossible to dis­count, howard said. another simi­lar, near future use for robots could include using teleprompters like the one used to introduce howard earlier to actively engage bedridden students in the classroom, he said. howard said he expected schools and universities like notre dame to begin implementing similar sys­tems soon. 
“what is a robot?” he asked. “not all robots have humanoid features. … we cannot let uncertainty about the consequences of new technolo­gies simply stifle technological de­velopment because, as we all know, there are many examples of new technologies which are, for the most 
major news network. 
“notre dame is the most prom­inent catholic university in the united states. we, as a univer­sity, grapple with the questions that most interest the pope, like what it means to be a catholic to­day. notre dame is a place where we’ve been asking those ques­tions since we were founded in 1842,” cummings said. “Fr. Ted hesburgh used to say that notre dame is ‘the place where the church does it’s thinking,’ so it would make sense that two of the three major television networks are featuring notre dame faculty during the papal visit.” 
cummings is not the only member of notre dame’s teach­ing faculty slated to appear on television during the papal visit. professor candida moss, profes­sor of new Testament and early christianity in the theology de­partment, is cbs’s papal news commentator, offering commen­tary across the network. moss is scheduled to appear on several cbs news shows, including “cbs This morning” and “cbs evening news,” as well as cbs radio and cbsn, the 24-hour live stream­ing news service, she said in an email. 
“i tend to approach Francis’ words from the perspective of a biblical scholar and a histo­rian. i try to understand how he grounds his ideas biblically and doctrinally and also how to think about him in comparison to his part, for the good of human kind.” 

howard urged those attending the lecture to rethink what they consider to be robots. by doing so, their greater capacity for good might be revealed. rather than create ro­bots and then discuss their ethical implications, howard said the two processes should be intertwined. 
“i think that we need to build a world in which engagement with ethics is an everyday part of the world,” he said. 
howard also said it is ultimately humans who determine the ethical implementation of robots. nobody else is going to ensure this is done fairly. 
“why are most humanistic robots white or asian?” asked howard. “and why do so many of those robots have attractive female features? have you ever seen an african-american robot?” 
according to howard, humans need to carefully watch themselves to ensure this robotic revolution happens in an ethical manner. it is not the machines which we need to fear. any concerns regarding an emotionally complex or sentient robot should be distant thoughts, howard said. 
“whatever you do, don’t turn to hollywood for advice,” he said. “There is no robot apocalypse in the offing.” 
Contact Chris Carbonaro at  ccarbonaro@nd.edu 
predecessors and contempo­raries,” moss said. 
moss said her commentary will include a mix of theology, history, politics and public affairs. 
“generally, we spend our time analyzing about the signifi­cance and meaning of what pope Francis has said so far. but the schedule is only a guide, and we don’t know exactly what he will say or do,” she said. “on sunday night, he started going off-script in the cathedral in havana. it was pretty exciting, and we had to scramble to translate what he was saying and decide what to say about it.” 
moss said she began doing news coverage for cbs when pope benedict resigned, after a booker for “cbs This morning” saw one of her documentaries and asked her to come on the show. since then, she has made regular appearances on cnn, Fox and nbc but spends most of her time at cbs. 
“when they called and asked me to be their papal news commentator, it was a natural fit and something i was very ex­cited about,” moss wrote. “i think teaching at a catholic university makes me aware of the expecta­tions and excitement surround­ing the pope’s visit and conscious of the responsibility i have as a representative of notre dame.” 
Contact Jenna Wilson  at  jwilso35@nd.edu 
panel adresses Trump, election 
By DEVON CHENELLE 
news writer 
vantage point radio, an npr production based at notre dame, recorded “are we ready for president Trump: a panel about the 2016 elections” at the debartolo performing arts center on Tuesday night. 
The panel discussed cur­rent developments in the primary elections and con­sisted of three notre dame professors: luis Fraga, the arthur Foundation professor of Transformative latino leadership, dianne pinderhughes, professor of africana studies, david campbell, the packey J. dee professor of american democracy and chair of the political science department, alongside moderator agustín Fuentes, professor of anthro­pology at notre dame. 
The panel first discussed the republican primary field, one of the largest in recent memo­ry and with an unusually wide variety of backgrounds pos­sessed by its candidates. 
The current primary field is historically unusual for reasons beyond its large size and mix­ture of different backgrounds, campbell said. historically, the democrat field tended to be the more fractious one, while the republicans exhibited greater order and cohesion, campbell said. 
“in the past, republicans have had a tendency to co­alesce around a front-runner and to nominate someone who has run before. … in this cycle, it’s exactly the opposite,” campbell said. 
The strategy of the republicans in terms of appeal­ing to minorities has shifted this cycle, as they have begun to accommodate some varia­tion in the population, dem­onstrated by the relatively high diversity of the republican field this primary, pinderhughes said. 
Touching on recent incen­diary comments made about muslims by republican can­didates, pinderhughes said the attitude of many minorities towards the republican party has grown more negative over the past few electoral cycles, and this may have a negative impact on the electoral pros­pects of the gop. 
“in general, republicans are seen as so far to the right they’re kind of out of the realm of con­sideration. … The republicans are positioning themselves way out beyond the possibility of being able to sustain their hold on the presidency for some time to come,” he said. 
The notion that, at least for the next five or so years, the republicans could win general elections by relying only on white voters may also be ob­viated by increasing turnout from minority, and particu­larly latino, voters, campbell said. 
The democratic field at­tracted less attention, with its much smaller and Trump-less slate providing less fodder for discussion. 
“The democrats … theirs are actually all elected offi­cials, and with experience, so they’re a very different field,” pinderhughes said. 
The panel discussed the members of the democratic primary, with the majority of the attention split between hillary clinton and bernie sanders, all members seem­ingly agreeing when Fraga said it was basically a two-person race. 
hillary clinton is likely to remain a significant con­tender thanks to her tremen­dous resources and high rates of name recognition, even though sanders has tapped into democratic constituents clinton did not, Fraga said. 
“bernie sanders … has generated attention the way that obama did in 2008,” pinderhughes said. 
late entrants to the democrat field were unlikely though not impossible, campbell said. 
“in the case of Joe biden, he would face a huge set of obsta­cles entering the race as late as he would be,” campbell said. 
The panel’s comments on Trump were similarly skeptical. 
while Fuentes said Trump has been in control of the race, campbell said while his large lead in the polls may seem imposing, at this stage of the race, we shouldn’t put too much stock in polls but rather in endorsements. 
“he is his own man, and in­imitable. … in a sense, he’s sort of a perfect storm,” campbell said, rejecting the notion of a comparison to Trump. 
pinderhughes said Trump is good at hitting the sensi­tive spots of american public life, though she doubts Trump believes everything he says. concurring, campbell said Trump doesn’t seem to have a coherent ideology, and his supporters appear not to care. 
“except for the position of immigration, where his posi­tion has been very clear,” Fraga said. 
Though the panel expressed skepticism on the odds of a Trump electoral victory, Fraga made one final point that drew no objections. 
“nighttime television will blossom if we have a Trump presidency,” Fraga said. 
Contact Devon Chenelle at dchenell@nd.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

have a significant impact on of everybody else in your work for what we think is the responsibility to be engaged Vote politics. community or your country greater good.” in your country,” he said. 
conTinued From page 1 

“all of you are qualified by about what the right things Tomas morgan said the The combination of a foun­virtue of what you’re doing to do are?” task force has a variety of dation in catholic social elections and campaigns,” with your lives right now. a students should become events planned for the rest teaching and willingness to Karma said. student who is spending all more active in their home of the semester, including a learn and engage with issues 
Karma said the task force of their time and attention, communities, as well as the talk on virtuous discourse, distinguishes notre dame wanted to streamline the has a full-time job that con-south bend community, a panel discussion exploring students, Karma said. voter registration process sists of learning everything buttigieg said. election demographics and “one of the coolest things for students to promote par-you can about yourself and “The next time you hear a panel of student leaders about notre dame is that ticipation in the upcoming the world around you,” he ‘why don’t they?’ make it discussing a contemporary people aren’t afraid to have elections. 
into ‘why don’t i? why don’t issue. those discussions about is­“all they have to do is fill 
we? why don’t you?’ and see “These are all sort of get-sues,” he said. “i noticed that 
“Most important 

whether the conversation ting into the election season. even when i went back to my it out and give it to us, and 
social change and 

becomes different,” he said. we wanted to talk about pre-dorm during the gop debate, the right hands so that they we make sure that it gets into 
political change “This is a place where tal-liminary things,” she said. everyone across majors were get their absentee ballot on 
starts with young ent can meet purpose, and “as the election evolves, the interested in it.” time,” he said. 
i hope you choose a public candidates drop out or [join Tomas morgan said the doc-
people. ... That’s 

purpose to apply your tal-the race], we’ll evolve with ument “Forming consciences at the event, buttigieg 
true of some of the 
spoke briefly on the im­

ents to.” it.” for Faithful citizenship,” is­portance of young voter 
best changes that The ndvotes ’16 task “we’re trying to engage sued by the united states participation. 
have in modern force is comprised of rep-on a lot of different lev-conference of catholic “most important social 
resentatives from clubs els,” Karma said. “based on bishops, has influenced the 
times, with 

and organizations across that, we’ll be able to gauge university’s culture of civic change and political change 
the civil rights 

campus, Karma said, in-for next semester where we engagement. people,” he said. “That’s true actually starts with young 
movement and the cluding bridgend, college want to be, which of these “we think with the csc of some of the best changes 
end of apartheid democrats, college events turned out the best. and the rooney center for that have happened in mod-
republicans, the student it’s not like an experiment, american democracy, these 
in South Africa.” 

coalition for immigration but it’s trying as many dif-are the parts of campus we ern times, with the civil 
Pete Buttigieg 

advocacy and greend. ferent things as we can and want to draw from,” Tomas rights movement and the 
mayor 

“it’s all these clubs, student seeing what the results are.” morgan said. “i think vot­end of apartheid in south 
city of South Bend 

government, coming togeth-Karma said the task force ing really is, as the catholic 
buttigieg said he believes er electing basically ambas-is partnering with both the bishops say, in this founding there is a crisis of engage-said. “There will not be an-sadors to this ndvotes task rooney center for the study document, a moral obligation. ment in the political process other time in your life where force,” he said. “it’s not like of american democracy and it’s something you shape of the country, as many vot-you will be this immersed in a club acting in its own in-and the center for social your conscience for. and ers are disillusioned by the moral inquiry about the way terests — it’s all these differ-concerns (csc). that’s something the csc has role of money in politics or things ought to be and the ent groups who all have the “it kind of creates this hy-always helped students to do.” do not find candidates who way you ought to live your common goal of voter reg-bridization of the catholic are speaking on relevant life. who better to call on the istration, civic engagement, responsibility to be civical-Contact Catherine Owers at matters, but students can conscience and the intellect in mind, coming together to ly engaged and the secular cowers@nd.edu 
africa.” 

paid adverTisemenT 



Jenkins 
i’m most proud of making prog-John w. “Jay” Jordan donated a it would be. it is an intense job — to come together and solve all ress by keeping all those as-university-record $75 million there are a lot of things on your the others. difference must be 
conTinued From page 1 

pects of the university moving for the establishment of a sci-plate. but it’s just remarkable acknowledged, and in some cas­
forward.” ence and technology research to be associated with a univer-es, even cherished.” 
traditions converge to make it in addition to maintaining program. sity like notre dame, that people going forward, Jenkins said a healing, unifying, enlightening balance between notre dame’s in recent years, building proj-love so passionately and they ex-he feels he still has work to do. force for a world deeply in need,” many facets, Jenkins has also ects, most notably the campus pect so much of, and they want in January, the board of trustees Jenkins said in his inaugural ad-instituted a variety of new pro-crossroads project, have be-to succeed.” elected Jenkins to a third five-dress, 10 years ago wednesday. grams that constitute a vision come another defining char-That intensity of the job has year term as president. while he 
“This is our goal. let no one for the future of the university. acteristic of Jenkins’ tenure. in been brought into focus several declined to say whether or not ever again say that we dreamed as part of his inaugural cer-addition to campus crossroads, times throughout Jenkins’ ten-he would continue to serve as too small.” emonies, Jenkins established the the university is currently build-ure, and his time in office has president after that term expires, 
no, 10 years into his presi-notre dame Forum, the first of ing two new residence halls and not been without controversy. Jenkins said he plans to continue dency, with at least another five which focused on religion and several new class buildings, This was perhaps most clear in to make notre dame an example to come, Jenkins said he is proud faith in a plural world and fea-including Jenkins hall, which 2009, when president barack for the world and a leader in the of the progress the university tured former nbc news anchor will house the Keough school of obama delivered the com-church. has made during his tenure. Tom brokaw as the moderator. global affairs, the university’s mencement address. in the face “i think we need to continue in a recent interview with the since then, the Forum has con-first new school in nearly a of the controversy surround-to make progress,” he said. “i do observer, he said, from a person-tinued each year and provided a century. ing obama’s views on abortion, think … our catholic mission is al standpoint, he is most proud yearlong conversation on a dif-The new buildings, research Jenkins responded by reiterat-something we need to continue of working to keep notre dame ferent issue each academic year, programs and academic initia-ing the university’s commit-to talk about, especially at this balanced and stable through ranging from global health and tives during Jenkins’ time as ment to the sanctity of all time. it’s a challenging time, challenging times. immigration to education and president have kept notre dame human life and creating a Task but i think there’s no institution 
“i think the challenge with women in leadership. at the forefront of american Force on supporting the choice placed like we are to speak to re­notre dame is to try to keep bal-during his tenure, Jenkins has higher education, but com-for life. ally serious issues in the world anced a number of aspects of the consistently emphasized notre ing into the job, Jenkins said he citing pope John paul ii’s idea about the environment, about university — one is excellent ed-dame’s research efforts for both didn’t have any real expectations that a catholic university should economic inequality, global ucation, comparable to the best students and faculty. Jenkins of what it might hold. foster “a fruitful dialogue be-solidarity. universities, another is research, oversaw the creation of the office “i don’t think you can, for a job tween the gospel and culture,” “so if we can play that role — another is catholic mission, an-of vice president for research in like this, appreciate the many Jenkins welcomed obama visit that role, that i don’t think it’s too other is residential life. athletics 2007 and announced significant aspects before you come in,” he to campus as an opportunity to strong to say, we are uniquely po­is important [too],” he said. increases in research funding said. “you can know about them respectfully encounter opposing sitioned to play — that will be a 
“i think what i’m most proud the following year. abstractly, but i don’t think you views. great thing, and it will go beyond of is that we … have been able Jenkins and his administra-can really appreciate them. so “more than any problem in the me and go into the future.” to make progress on all those tion continue to prioritize re-i don’t know if i had any really arts or sciences, engineering or fronts and keep that balance to-search today, with construction good sense of what the demands medicine, easing the hateful di-Editor’s Note: Editor-in-Chief gether. i think if we lose aspects under way for mccourtney hall, and pressures of the job are. visions between human beings Greg Hadley contributed to this of that wonderful mix of things an interdisciplinary research “so i think i’ve acquired that, is the supreme challenge of this report. that make notre dame, we can facility on the east side of cam-and it’s both more rewarding age,” Jenkins said at the time of lose the spirit of notre dame, pus set to open in June 2016. in than i thought it would be and obama’s visit. “if we can solve Contact Jack Rooney at and i don’t want to do that. so, may 2014, alumnus and trustee more challenging than i thought this problem, we have a chance jrooney1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Safety vs. tradition 
Annmarie Soller 
photographer 

is the world more dangerous? is the world more careless? or is the world more fearful? i am currently in a business law class, and lately discussions have covered what makes a company liable. 
we looked at the case of mcdonald’s coffee causing third-degree burns on the lap of an 81-year-old woman. she won the lawsuit, in case you were unaware. mcdonald’s has since augmented their warnings. 
i work at starbucks, and from my en­counters with hot coffee splashes, i am not surprised that all of our sleeves have warnings on them and that i am required to warn customers about the heat. but mcdonald’s and other coffee companies alike did not significantly reduce their cof­fee temperatures. 
we also discussed whether the university should be liable if a student is hurt falling off a bench in the football stadium or if a bench breaks (one bench in the sophomore section splintered during the Texas game). a student could be seriously harmed if dropped during celebratory push-ups. a student could also be injured dancing the irish jig. There is a risk that someone could throw marshmallows stuffed with rocks during the senior day marshmallow fight. 
should the university make more of an effort to control these risks and protect students and fans? is the university act­ing negligently by allowing students to participate in unsafe activities? should the university be fearful of being sued? a balance needs to be found between safety and tradition because these tradi­tions have become an integral part of our culture. 
The Fisher roof-sit was cancelled this year due to an incident that happened last spring when a student died after falling off the roof of the Joyce center. i think it is respectable that the university cancels events which place students on roofs this year, but my concern is for future years. 
The Fisher roof-sit was a signature event for that hall. The men of Fisher would sit on the flat part of their roof next to the big green “F” and shout at everyone who passed by in an effort to raise money for those without roofs. while the residents in neighboring south Quad dorms may have found the event annoying, it was a clever and effective charity event. 
should this event be cancelled indefi­nitely? or should some extra precautions be taken to let the event continue on? 
There are many warning labels that seem ridiculously obvious, but they are there be­cause a company does not want to be held liable. it is reasonable that the university does not want to be held liable for injuries. 
however, if a line is drawn here between safety and tradition, i wonder what tradi­tion may be the next to go. 
Contact Annmarie Soller at asoller@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
a conversation with Trump 
Louis Bertolotti 
mr. 2016 

The following are chronologically ordered quotes from Donald Trump’s remarks in the second Republican presidential debate held last week at the Ronald Reagan Library. Some wording has been changed for the sake of brevity and context. 
i’m donald Trump. i say not in a braggadocious way, i’ve made billions and billions of dollars deal­ing with people all over the world, and i want to put that talent to work for this country so we make our country great again, so that we have a great life altogether. 
well, first of all, rand paul shouldn’t even be on this stage. he’s number 11, he’s got one percent in the polls, and there’s far too many people here anyway. look, at least i never attacked rand on his looks, and believe me, there’s plenty of subject matter right there. 
as far as temperament, i think i have a great temperament. my temperament is very good, very calm. 
i’m now a politician for about three months. obviously i’m doing pretty well. i’m number one in every poll by a lot. 
i’ve been successful all over the world. everything i’ve done virtually has been a tremen­dous success. 
i can make our country rich again, and i’m not sure that anybody else in the group will be able to do that. i would do so much better than scott walker. i’m using facts. 
i did a very good job in business. The business people are very, very impressed with what i’ve done. 
i turn down so much money. i could have double and triple what Jeb bush’s got right now from spe­cial interests and donors. i turned down last week $5 million from somebody. 
as a businessman, i got along with hilary clinton. i got along with everybody. it was my ob­ligation as a businessman to my company, to my employees, to get along with all politicians. and i did a damn good job doing it. 
right now, we get along with nobody. i will get along with others, and we will have a much more stable world. we won’t have the kind of problems that our country has right now with russia and many other nations. 
nobody ever mentions north Korea, where you have this maniac sitting there, and he actually has nuclear weapons. somebody better start thinking about north Korea and perhaps a couple of other places. but certainly north Korea. 
i will take care of women. i respect women. i will take care of women. i think carly Fiorina’s got a beautiful face, and i think she’s a beautiful woman. 
well, i have to tell you, i hear phenomenal things about your wife, Jeb. i hear she is a lovely woman … but i won’t apologize to her because i’ve said nothing wrong. but i do hear she’s a lovely woman. [Trump said earlier that bush has a soft spot for il­legal immigrants because his wife is mexican.] 
First of all, i want to build a wall. The bad dudes in this country who are from outside will leave if i get elected. First day, they’re gone. 
and, most people apologized to me about giv­ing me heat for bringing up illegal immigration. right now, we don’t have a country, we don’t have a border, and we’re going to do something about it. … This is a country where we speak english, not spanish. 
The head of the yale business school wrote a pa­per recently that said that carly’s tenure at hp was one of the worst tenures for a ceo that he has ever seen in the history of business. she can’t run any of my companies. 
i’ve made over $10 billion. atlantic city is a di­saster, and i did great in atlantic city. i got a lot of credit for that. 
hugh hewitt [conservative talk radio host] said today that donald Trump is maybe the best inter­view there is anywhere that he has ever done. 
as president, i will have the finest team that anybody has put together, and we will solve a lot of problems. 
i will know more about the problems of this world by the time i get elected. you look at what’s going in this world right now run by people that supposedly know, and it’s blowing up around us. 
i’m a very militaristic person, but you have to know when to use the military. 
Jeb, your brother gave us barack obama because his administration was such a disaster in those last three months that abraham lincoln couldn’t have been elected. 
autism has become an epidemic. Twenty five years ago, 35 years ago, you look at the statistics, not even close. it has gotten totally out of control. 
i am totally in favor of vaccines. but i want smaller doses over a longer period of time. Just the other day, two-and-a-half years old, a child, a beautiful child went to have the vaccine, and came back, and a week later got a tremendous fever, got very sick, now is autistic. 
“humble” would be my secret service codename. 
if i become president, we will do something real­ly special. we will make this country greater than ever before. we’ll have more jobs. we’ll have more of everything. 
if i’m president, many of the things that we dis­cussed tonight will not be forgotten. we’ll find solutions. and the world will respect us. They will respect us like never before. and it will be actually a friendlier world. 
and i have to say, it has been a great honor to be here tonight. 
Louis Bertolotti is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters. He is majoring in political science and history and is from the great state of New Jersey. He can be contacted at lbertolo@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Does life matter? 
Kate Hardiman 
annult coeptis 

in the era of the 24-hour news cycle, it is sur­prising that the majority of americans remain unaware of the videos aired this summer that ex­posed planned parenthood’s alleged harvesting and trafficking of fetal organs. seventy percent of citizens surveyed had neither seen nor heard of the shocking footage released by a pro-life, non-profit group called the center for medical progress, according to an august yougov poll. 
media coverage of the videos has been lost in the midst of donald Trump’s endless inflamma­tory remarks and updates on the ever-changing contents of hillary clinton’s email server. 
notre dame students, and all who work to promote a culture of life, should be aware of and appalled by the content of these videos. The center for medical progress recorded planned parenthood officials and individuals from tissue procurement companies discussing abortion in frank and gruesome terms. 
officials were captured on camera discussing the routine harvesting of fetal body parts and the sale prices for procured organs. 
The first video showed planned parenthood’s senior director, dr. deborah nucatola, calmly discussing the most effective ways fetal bodies can be “crushed” so as to leave lucrative organs intact for sale. similarly, a planned parenthood official in the second video described the pro­cess of haggling over prices for embryonic livers and joked, “i want a lamborghini.” The fifth video in the series educates viewers that “in­tact” fetuses, those from late term abortions who could have been born-alive infants, sell for the most money. 
eight other videos have been released to date, bringing the cmp’s total to 11 and their project to a close. 
planned parenthood has repeatedly denied participating in the sale of fetal organs, euphe­mistically calling the harvested parts “dona­tions.” They claim the only money exchanged funds transportation and other overhead costs. executive vice president dawn laguens even went so far as to state, “the opportunity to do­nate fetal tissue has been a source of comfort for many women [who have chosen abortion].” 
reluctant to comment on the videos un­earthing the sale of intact fetuses, planned parenthood instead sought a restraining order against the center for medical progress, at­tempting to preclude further video releases. The order alleges invasion of privacy and illegal, undercover filming. in other words, the organi­zation attacked the method by which the videos were procured rather than addressing their trou­bling contents. 
The practice of undercover filming is legal, albeit ethically questionable, and has been used by groups on both sides of the political spec­trum. “mother Jones,” a left-wing magazine, published secretly recorded videos of candidate mitt romney conversing with donors at a private dinner prior to the 2012 election. 
in an address to the organization on april 26, 2013, president obama said, “Thank you, planned parenthood. god bless you.” accompanying the president’s praise of planned parenthood has been a steadily increasing stream of government — i.e., taxpayer — fund­ing, to the tune of $528 million in 2014, accord­ing to the organization’s latest annual report. 
racial, political and advocacy groups continu­ally make statements today about what type of lives matter. we hear that black lives matter, all lives matter and blue lives — those of policemen 
— matter. worthy of the same attention in our discourse is a question of similar import: does life itself matter? 
The coverage of and reaction to these vid­eos suggest the answer to this question may not be as obvious as it appears. Those who re­fuse to acknowledge the depravity of planned parenthood’s actions must at the very least real­ize that our culture has become desensitized. 
human beings have been reduced to the price of their parts. The time has come for our nation to evaluate the practice of abortion. if our “shin­ing city upon a hill” fails to protect innocent hu­man life, who will? 
Kate Hardiman is a junior majoring in the Program of Liberal Studies and minoring in philosophy, political science and economics. She hails from Pittsburgh and is a proud member of Breen-Phillips Hall. Contact her at khardima@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
poetry: meter, feet ... and toes? 
Ray Ramirez 
The crooked path 

i really enjoy poetry, though this was not al­ways true. in college, i was blessed to learn a po­etic trick or two. one of the first things to know is not to take poetry so seriously. sure, a lot of it seems heavy and emotional, but the poet has worked hard to make it that way. 
let’s take emily dickinson. here’s a portion of a real crowd pleaser, “because i could not stop for death”: “because i could not stop for death- / he kindly stopped for me- /The carriage held but just ourselves- /and immortality. we slowly drove- he knew no haste /and i had put away / my labor and my leisure too, /For his civility.” 
so far so good, and while i don’t want to spoil it for you, let’s just say it continues in this same grave tone. 
now for the technical poesy: many of dickinson’s most popular poems were written in stanzas with abcb rhyme schemes, alternat­ing lines of iambic tetrameter and trimeter (four and three metrical feet, respectively; the ‘feet’ are unaccented and accented syllables marching heel-and-toe through the poem). 
one commonly known result is that many of her poems can be sung to the melodies of famil­iar songs such as “o little Town of bethlehem” and “amazing grace.” go ahead and give it a try 
— i’ll wait. unfortunately, these melodies continue the same dirge-like tone of the poem. 
To make the poem more entertaining, the tune should contrast with the words of the poem. many of dickinson’s poems work well with “The yellow rose of Texas,” and take on a whole new feel in the process. now the protagonist in the poem is not trudging along a road while death stops its slow-moving coach — death now waves a big, “howdy, and c’mon in,” and the ensuing trip feels like a welcome adventure. 
you can also get the same jaunty experience with the theme from “gilligan’s island.” does this ruin emily dickinson for you? i think not — and it might help you appreciate the meter and cadence of poetry all around you. 
other poets, including some of my favorites, are more challenging. The heroic rhyming cou­plets of alexander pope do not bend easily to popular music. 
The first lines of many of pope’s couplets are remembered as famous quotations: “Fools rush in where angels fear to tread,” “hope springs eternal in the human breast,” and “a little learn­ing is a dangerous thing.” 
The second lines usually resolve the thought and close the rhyme (e.g., “hope springs eternal in the human breast; /man never is, but always To be blest”). 
The challenge for singing this poetry is that the iambic pentameter — five metrical feet — that dominated poetry for hundreds of years since shakespeare spun sonnets is simply not how we speak today or how we sing. 
First, let’s grab a snippet of pope’s work from “an essay on man”: “all nature is but art, un­known to thee; /all chance, direction, which thou canst not see; /all discord, harmony not understood; /all partial evil, universal good; / and spite of pride, in erring reason’s spite, /one truth is clear, whatever is, is right.” 
The “yellow rose of Texas” won’t cut it here; clearly, we need a songwriter of equal wordi­ness. any number of tunes might do, but when it doubt, look to the boss for your dreams and vi­sions — bruce springsteen. 
alexander pope would be pleased to know that his poetry works well with “born To run,” with a bit of crunching and stretching of words, à la springsteen. i leave it to you to see if other springsteen melodies fit. 
as for the excerpt from pope, just because it rhymes does not mean that it is true. good po­etry, like a really good song, is persuasive in its beauty. 
writing during the age of reason, pope clearly wanted to make the case that just because we cannot see the order and divine purpose in the universe, it does not mean it is not there — we just are simply not astute enough to see it. we know that conclusion is not correct. otherwise, we would be comfortable accepting the igno­rance, crimes and prejudices of earlier genera­tions instead of working to overcome and correct them. 
so draw life lessons from poets or songwrit­ers carefully, and think of what they are really saying while you marvel at the technical skill in constructing their art. 
John Keats declared, at the close of his “ode on a grecian urn”: “‘beauty is truth, truth beauty,’ 
— that is all / ye know on earth, and all ye need to know.” 
if that were truly so, then you could save your­selves at least four years of work, drop the micro­phone now and walk off the stage. 
i suggest Keats might be correct, but here’s the catch: discovering what is beauty and what is truth is a journey of discovery you will be on for the rest of your life. in any event, Keats cannot be taken seriously unless you can set him to a popular tune. 
postscript: The “last supper” painting that hangs in south dining hall’s west dining room inspired this verse: “all gathered to feast before Friday’s woes, /seated and somber, with some extra toes.” polydactylism as a sign of the divine? 
Ray Ramirez is an attorney practicing, yet never perfecting, law in Texas while waiting patiently for a MacArthur Genius Grant. You may contact him at  patrayram@sbcglobal.net 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

As ’90s babies, we all are very fond of the TV shows we grew up with. And with the spin-off of “Zoey 101” recently re­leased for our nostalgic pleasure, our col­lective imaginations here at Scene came up with the best childhood TV shows we would love to see revisited, if only for one more time. 
KELLY McGARRY 
scene writer 

Spin-offs based on shows from the “Zoey 101” era and anything prior to that are rampant. Any show that I would speculate having the “next” spin-off has actually already had one that failed so badly that I wasn’t even aware it hap­pened. “That 70’s Show” was followed by “That 80’s Show,” “The Cosby Show,” was followed by “A Different World,” even “Full House” has a spin-off “Fuller House” in the works. Notice a trend in these spin offs —they all fail miserably. Not only that, but they have the effect of deprecating the original show. I would only wish a spin off on a show that was horribly lame to begin with. A perfect candidate would be “Friends” but lo and behold, “Joey” has al­ready been attempted. 
MIKO MALABUTE 
scene editor 

Give me “Rocket Power.” I remem­ber back when I was even more naïve and silly than I already am, I fully be­lieved that I could shred and catch some gnarly waves just like the squad from the show. Fun fact, I even begged my mom to buy me some inline skates just so I could maybe tear up the neighborhood streets with my awesome skating skills. If you know anything about me, you could guess what happened next: I went down a hill too fast and totally wiped out. Thus, while my ill-fated shredding career had to come to a premature end, I think that a “Rocket Power” spin-off would help me live vicariously through the main characters. Although on sec­ond thought, perhaps the entire spin-off 
would be how those kids eventually grew 
up and matured. I could learn something from that, too. 
ADAM RAMOS 
scene writer 
Although a bit crude, “Ed, Edd n Eddy” always had an interesting ap­peal. Created by adult cartoonist Danny Antonucci on a dare to create a children show, “Ed, Edd n Eddy” found success in a wide range of demographics. Even to­day, revisiting old episodes is an experi­ence as poignant as it is funny. A spin off of “Ed, Edd n Eddy” where the boys, along with the rest of the show’s characters, are all grown up would be intriguing to say the least. Maybe the boys finally hit the jackpot with one of their wild schemes and have some sort of “Entourage”-esque camaraderie, that’s a show I couldget be­hind, well, as long as Rolf is still around. 
KATHY MINKO 
scene writer 
Though it may be crude or offensive, society would definitely benefit from a “Hannah Montana” spin-off. That’s right. A show picking up where it left off after Miley and Lilly graduated from Stanford — anyone else curious about how that happened? To reach its ulti­mate success, though, the show should portray each character how they are now. Who wouldn’t love to see a per­manently blonde — and permanently pixied — Miley Ray Stewart/Hannah Montana? Would she twerk in front of her tween friends? Are Lilly and Oliver still together? Does Jackson ever make something of his life? Is Billy Rae still singing Achey Breaky Heart by his lonesome? These are important ques­tions that — though they might not be appropriate for Disney — should be an­swered to ease their loyal fans’ anxious thoughts. 

ERIN RICE | The Observer 


By ADAM RAMOS 
scene writer 

in a recent music video, quirky com-edy-rapper extraordinaire lil dicky managed to create the classic ostenta­tious rap video with a $0 budget for his appropriately named single “$ave dat money.” while the concept may sound a bit cliché, dicky’s uncanny ability to be both relatable and intriguing helps transcend what the song represents on the surface. with the help of up-and­comers Fetty wap and rich homie Quan, lil dicky is challenging the pil­lars of modern mainstream rap in the most hilarious way. borrowing man­sions, yachts, nightclubs and even a brand new mclaren and documenting the whole process throughout, the lov­able lil dicky awkwardly dances his way to the one of the best music videos of the year. lil dicky is no longer just a gimmick rapper; it’s time we recognize how multifaceted of artist he really is. 
what works so well in “$ave dat money”, and ultimately in lil dicky’s 
By ADRIAN SANCHEZ 
scene writer 

if imitation is the greatest form of flattery, then are nostalgic homages a form of epochal narcissism? on “prom King,” the closest thing american pro­ducer ryan derobertis has known to a proper debut album, he answers this question with a rotund “yes.” granted, derobertis, who formerly worked under the lawsuit-inducing moniker saint pepsi, has had a long history cre­ating flamboyant house music out of fragments of dated disco and pre-mil­lennial r&b grooves, particularly in what is arguably his cult masterpiece, “hit vibes,” an ingeniously arranged collage of sound in which these nos­talgic sounds intersect with a sort of self-indulgent ecstasy by way of mel­ancholy: an attitude that intersected tangentially with that of vaporwave (a micro-genre that took this nostalgia for a dystopian ride) and substantial­ly outlined the ever-dynamic genre’s new direction. 
it should not come as a surprise, then, how excited i was listening to this new album by derobertis, who debut album, “professional rapper” as a whole, is the balance of artistry and comedy. unlike comedians bo burnham or “weird al” yankovic who use music as a channel for their com­edy, or rappers like childish gambino or big sean who use comedy to accent their rap, dicky has found a perfect blend. neither element — comedy nor musicality — is the focal point of the album, both aspects adding distinct strengths to “professional rapper.” both elements broadening dicky’s audience, contributing to his almost overnight success. 
dicky spits in the title track of his al­bum, “well, i wanna be the dude that came in and made the stand up rap / with the random rap and the man like that for the people that was anti-rap / yeah the fans of rap started recogniz­ing anti-rap is ironically one of the real brands of rap left.” bravo dicky, record companies no longer domi­nate the world of rap; anyone with an iphone can have their voice heard, and lil dicky recognizes that here. rap is 
in the meantime rechristened him­self skylar spence. but even before the first listen, i admit i was already feeling a bit cautious: why the new alias? at face value, it may seem an unimportant detail, if anything an improvement over his previous, clear­ly parodic name. but one has to rec­ognize that, for that very reason, the name “saint pepsi” worked as a sort of metonymy for the themes of his music: it was simultaneously nostalgic and satirical, an endearing joke cracked over an entire generation of which he himself is a member. Just the name for an outsider artist. but now, as skylar spence, signing himself to a record la­bel and starting to play live shows, he emerges from his neon-lit cocoon of cultural commentary, dashing forth into a spotlight that shines too bright, to the point of being blinding. 
This is how “prom King” feels. This time around, his music sounds en­tranced by the glossiness of early mil­lennial pop, but it forgets itself in the process and, instead of producing an homage, embraces the aesthetic so en­tirely that it results in an album that genuinely feels like it is a decade-old not the same genre it was 10 years ago. rap is a music genre, and like all oth­er genres, it should not be defined by backgrounds and experiences. The ar­chetypal testosterone-fueled rap is re­placed with self-conscious reflections and witty anecdotes in “professional rapper,” and the rap game is better for it. 
yet many have criticized lil dicky’s brand of comedy for only apply­ing to a small demographic — males aged 18-30. however, when look­ing at “professional rapper,” it be­comes clear the comedy presented is honest enough to be appreciated by most. while songs like “classic male pregame” work best in the afore­mentioned demographic, most of the laughs throughout the album stem from causalities all humans experi­ence. relationships with parents is a pillar for dicky’s comedy, devoting three tracks to simple conversations he shared with his parents throughout his rise to fame. lighthearted plays on words are also found in almost every 
already; it’s the kind of album one listens to while cringing, being cru­elly reminded of those embarrassing, awkward middle-school years. and in the strangest way, “can’t you see” does sound like the ill-fated follow up to “Fireflies,” as if the final attempt of owl city to stay relevant in a new decade. but there is another reason why “can’t you see” is arguably the most important song on this album (though, in my opinion, the worst): it is a literal admission of the narcissism that seems to pervade the entire work. lines like, “i’m in love with my own reflection,” and “in the heat of the mo­ment / i felt that i could kiss myself,” would in any other context sound pa­rodic, in the way that over-romantic lines like, “baby, baby / it’s you that i need,” sounded comically shallow when slowed-down ad absurdum on “hit vibes.” but in the context of “prom King,” these confessions of narcissism sound frighteningly honest. 
To precisely express how this al­bum fits into the discography of derobertis, an analogy to the fine arts might be of help. when marcel duchamp created the sculpture song on the album, ranging from the topical to the elaborate. 
while it may have been the comedy that piqued my interest, it is lil dicky’s production and talent that has kept it. Full fledge pop hits in songs like “lemme Freak” and “molly” are ap­pealing, but it’s dicky’s ability to spit gripping verses over a minimal beat that demonstrates his true range in skill. The album is by no means the best rap album of the year, but it’s certainly refreshing in its vulnerabil­ity and musical variety — a jovial di­version in a genre so saturated by the opposite. 
“$ave dae money” is as much fun as it is funny. lil dicky is a charming guy, and anyone who watches the music video will understand that. even if rap may not be your favorite genre, give lil dicky a shot, as ridiculous as that sounds. after all, $aving money is a value we can all get behind nowadays. 
Contact Adam Ramos at                             aramos6@nd.edu 
“Fountain” (read: flipped a parisian urinal on its side and called it art) he humorously challenged the entire conceptual framework through which art was considered in his time. “hit vibes” was derobertis’ “Fountain.” “prom King,” on the other hand, is as remarkable a piece of art as is the ac­tual urinal that sits in your residence hall bathroom: not particularly ugly, not particularly special, useful but entirely unessential. ultimately, and unfortunately for the skylar spence project, not noteworthy in any par­ticular way. 
Contact Adrian Sanchez at      asanch11@nd.edu 
“Prom Night” 
Skylar Spence 
Label: Carpark Records Track: “Affairs” If you like: Chvrches 


ERIN RICE | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Kelly provides needed drama 
Ryan Klaus 
sports writer 
as college football settles into its first month of the 2015 season, some fans might be getting the irritating feel­ing something has been missing over the course of the first three weeks. more specifically, with former heisman Trophy winner Jamies winston now playing on sundays, the never-ending saga of controversy that de­fined his college career — as much as his actual athletic performance — is noticeably absent from weekly college football discussions. 
while it has been extremely refreshing to see college foot­ball headlined by articles mainly about football this year, i know many fans out there are probably feeling lost (or at least espn would think so) without the drama and immaturity winston and his predecessor, Johnny manziel, brought to the table on a weekly basis. Thankfully, for those drama enthusiasts, there might just be a new candidate to follow in their footsteps developing in front of our eyes: ole miss junior quarterback chad Kelly. coming off one of ole miss’ biggest wins in school history on the road against alabama on saturday, Kelly seems poised more than anyone to take over the position of the childish headline-generating­quarterback that has domi­nated the sport for the last half-decade. 
Kelly’s collegiate career story has so far been an en­tertaining one, to say the least. a top prospect out of high school, Kelly originally wound up at clemson, where he infamously announced to the Twitter world his depth chart position before stepping foot on the practice field. he was eventually kicked off the team after an argument in spring practice that culmi­nated with him being escort­ed away by university police. 
Kelly responded to the clemson fallout by becom­ing a national champion 
— in junior college, that is. however, his performance at east mississippi gave sev­eral high profile schools the confidence to award him a second chance, which is how he ended up at ole miss. unfortunately, within months of his return to division i, Kelly got into a scuffle that resulted in another arrest and charges of, among other things, assault and harass­ment. perhaps unsurpris­ingly, ole miss gave Kelly a second, second chance, and he finally made his first division i appearance in early september. 
before even taking a snap this fall, Kelly had mastered the art of immaturity winston and manziel have made look way too easy in recent years. but in order for him to reach their overall level, he must combine that with impressive on-field performances. while it might be a little far-fetched to give him the heisman right now, Kelly’s numbers through three games have been unde­niably impressive, headlined by his nine touchdowns, com­pared to just one intercep­tion, and quarterback rating of 205.7. Though ole miss’ first two of three contests were against inferior oppo­nents, beating alabama on the road defines a quality win in college football’s current landscape. 
on paper, Kelly is the per­fect candidate to replace manziel and winston’s previous headlines in the coming weeks (and years). Quarterback on a top-10 team? check. owner of a continuous amount of head-scratching moments that can only lead us to believe there will be more such moments to come? check. beat alabama on the road thanks, in part, to a fluky and ridiculous touch­down pass that will never be duplicated? check. and while Johnny manziel gets rap songs written about him, chad Kelly writes them about himself. it also certainly does not hurt headlines that Kelly is the nephew of all-time great quarterback Jim Kelly. 
of course, i really hope i am wrong about Kelly. hopefully, his success at ole miss can coincide with an ability to change his character and avoid trouble in the future. or, as an alternative, maybe he or ole miss just will not end up being good enough to warrant excessive media cov­erage (i.e., maybe the college football gods will finally give us a break). nonetheless, for those seeking out the unnec­essary drama that has sud­denly evaporated from college football, your best bet moving forward has to be Kelly. while the defense ain’t seeing him, as he so eloquently raps on instant-classic, ‘chad Kelly,’ i ask that all college football fans brace themselves to see a lot of him moving forward. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
northwestern is 3-0, Fitzgerald adding polish 
Associated Press 
northwestern coach pat Fitzgerald is happy to be 3-0, though he sees no cause for cel­ebration yet. 
The wildcats are ranked no. 17 entering saturday’s home game against ball state. Their 16-6 win over then-no. 21 stanford to open the sea­son looks even better after the cardinal beat a sixth-ranked southern california last week, and the wildcats are coming off a 19-10 road victory over a duke team known for its offense. 
Fitzgerald can’t be blamed for keeping his emotions in check. it was just two years ago the wildcats started 4-0 and led ohio state by 10 points in the second half of their big Ten opener before the season went off the rails. The wildcats lost seven straight and ended up 5-7. 
Fitzgerald said Tuesday he hasn’t used the 2013 freefall as a cautionary tale. 
“The guys who lived through it in the locker room understand why that happened,” Fitzgerald said. “we lost our focus and had things happen to us — the hail mary (at nebraska). The guys who are older understand why that happened. right now at this point, with the maturity and leadership to this point, i haven’t had to go back there.” 
First-year starting quarter­back clayton Thorson has been solid, and Justin Jackson looks as if he’ll go over 1,000 yards a second straight season. but the story of this team is a defense that has allowed a nation-low total of 16 points. 
“i think we’re a team that’s working hard to improve,” Fitzgerald said. “we haven’t played three phases of clean football in our first three games. we’ve been fortunate enough to find a way to win. i think we’re far from the team we’re capable of.” 
sTar sparTan 
it seems the nation is just starting to notice michigan state senior receiver aaron burbridge, who had his third straight 100-yard game and caught three touchdown passes against air Force. coach mark dantonio knew it was a matter of time. 
“he’s always been a very, very good player,” dantonio said. “sometimes it takes opportu­nity. people expected him to be that his sophomore year, be that guy. but other guys have good years. Three are in the nFl now. so we’ve had playmakers at that position, and we’ve gone with six guys. he’s getting more opportunities now.” 
other big Ten notes: 
— redshirt freshman david blough is replacing junior austin appleby as purdue’s starting quarterback. appleby threw six interceptions and lost a fumble the first three games. “The no. 1 goal for our foot­ball team is to not turn the ball over,” coach darrell hazell said. “we’ve done that too many times in the first three weeks so we felt we needed to make a change right there.” 
— 
michigan cornerback Jourdan lewis said this week he and his mates could be the best secondary in the country. coach Jim harbaugh didn’t tamp down lewis’ enthusiasm. “it’s an ascending group for our team,” he said. 

— 
wisconsin’s paul chryst said running back corey clement’s status for saturday night’s game against hawaii remains uncertain. clement has been battling a groin injury since the week of the opener. 

— 
rutgers hosts a Kansas team that’s lost 30 straight road games, and interim head coach norries wilson said his linemen must play better than they did last week at penn state. “we’ve been emphasizing the line of scrimmage,” he said, “to make sure they don’t tee off on us.” 

— 
illinois Qb wes lunt’s 61-percent completion rate doesn’t reflect how well he’s playing, coach bill cubit said. “without the drops, he’s throw­ing for like 72 percent.” 



MLB | braves 6, meTs 2 
Braves stall Mets’ push toward NL East title 6-2 
Associated Press 
new yorK (ap) — rookie right-hander matt wisler stopped his nine-start winless drought and the atlanta braves stalled the new york mets’ push toward the nl east title with a 6-2 victory Tuesday night. 
david wright homered as the mets lost for the fifth time in seven games. They held their 6 1/2-game lead over washington, whose loss to baltimore cut new york’s magic number to six for clinching the division. 
down 4-1, the mets loaded the bases with one out in the eighth. edwin Jackson, atlanta’s fourth pitcher of the inning, gave up a sacrifice fly to pinch-hitter michael cuddyer and got wilmer Flores on a grounder to protect the lead. 
pinch-hitter adonis garcia lined a two-out, two-run double in the ninth off mets reliever Tyler clippard. 

Jace peterson led off the atlanta fifth with a home run and hector olivera launched a three-run shot later in the inning off logan verrett (1-2). 
verrett pitched in place of all-star Jacob degrom, who was pushed back for extra rest. This was verrett’s third spot start of the season — he gave matt harvey breaks with the first two outings and threw well both times. 
wisler (6-8) struck out a career-high eight and left after a leadoff walk in the eighth. The 23-year­old, who beat the mets in his big league debut June 19, had been 0-7 in his last nine starts. 
The mets had won five in a row against atlanta, and wright put them ahead again with a solo homer in the first. but other than daniel murphy’s two doubles, new york rarely dented wisler in finishing 0 for 8 with runners in scoring position. 
olivera’s tiebreaking homer came after an intentional walk to nick markakis with two outs. 
The braves won for just the eighth time in 35 games. They have the second-worst record in the majors after trailing the mets by only 1 1/2 games a few days before the all-star break. 
Trainer’s room 
braves: markakis started after missing two games because of stiffness in his upper back and neck. ... c christian bethancourt is still day to day after bruising his left wrist on a play at the plate sunday. 
mets: 3b-2b Juan uribe is “still pretty sore” after bruising his chest on a diving stop sunday night, manager Terry collins said. collins said it didn’t sound as if uribe was available. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


MEN’S GOLF | FighTing irish gridiron golF classic 
Irish crowned co-champions at home course 

By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
notre dame and saint mary’s (california) tied as co-champions of the 2015 Fighting irish gridiron golf 
classic  on  monday  and  
Tuesday at the  warren  golf  
course.  

The host irish and gaels each posted a 2-under-par 850 to finish as co-champi­ons in the three-round tour­nament. The teams’ scores stand as the second lowest scores in the tournament’s history. notre dame and saint mary’s are now two-time tournament champions after winning the 2009 and 2011 titles, respectively. 
“For us, our goal was to play our hearts out, get the best out of each round that we could and add it up when we finished,” irish head coach James Kubinski said. “as it turned out, we posted the second lowest total (850) in school history. 
“i’m proud of the effort we put together this week. we ended up 10-0-1 for the tournament, which is a nice boost of momentum for our young team.” 
individually, the younger members of the irish squad saw success on the course. Junior blake barens posted his best finish career finish at 3-under-par 210 (71-70­69), earning him the second-place title, while freshmen miguel delgado (72-70-69­
211) and ben albin (73-72-67­
212) both finished in the top seven overall, at sixth and seventh place, respectively. 
barens saw a solid front nine Tuesday to secure a birdie at the par-3 ninth hole and make the turn at an even-par 35. he went on to birdie holes 10, 12, 14 and 16 for a back nine score 34. These five birdies contrib­uted to barens’ 16 tourna­ment birdies, the most in the event’s field. 
it was albin, though, who had notre dame’s best round of the day, with seven birdies. he notched two sets of consecutive birdies at holes one and two and five and six, to land him at 4-un­der after the first six holes of the final round. 
senior cory scuipider carded a birdie at the 10th hole in his final round to finish the day with an 82 to tie for 64th (76-76-82-234) and seven birdies on the tournament. 
after the first day of play, the irish led the field with a two-round score of 569 (288-281). Junior matthew rushton’s second-round 2-under-par 69, and barens’ and delgado’s one-under 70s helped push the irish one stroke ahead of saint mary’s after the opening 36 holes. 
“we built a small lead [throughout the tournament] but, in all honesty, i’m not sure any of the teams knew exactly where they stood,” Kubinski said. “There are no scoreboards out there in col­lege golf. There’s live scoring online, but players aren’t on-line while competing.” 
Kubinski said his team’s familiarity with the course helped contribute to the players’ low rounds, though the course setup was fair for all competitors. 
“For our guys, playing at home lends itself to the ob­vious familiarity with the course and a certain com­fort level,” Kubinski said. “comfort leads to confi­dence. we decided to set our golf course up this week with a goal of being challenging but fair. we achieved that goal. 
“The majority of our field was over par, but the guys who played outstanding golf were able to post numbers under par.” 
The irish jump right back into tournament ac­tion at the two-day Tar heel invitational on oct. 3 and 4 at north carolina’s Finley golf course in chapel hill. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 




WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

Weasels shut out Chaos 
Pasquerilla West 18, Cavanaugh 0 
By ALEX BENDER 
sports writer 
pasquerilla west emerged victorious with an 18-0 win over cavanaugh on Tuesday night at riehle Fields. 
The energy the teams brought to the field was evi­dent early, when pasquerilla west came up with a turn­over that junior running back Tess wemhoener quick­ly converted into six points. 
right before half, the purple weasels added to their lead thanks junior quarterback hannah butler’s well-placed pass to junior receiver monica busse as she crossed the goal line. 
pasquerilla west contin­ued to dominate on defense as the second half kicked off, forcing a couple turnover on downs and notching another interception. 
during this stretch of the game, pasquerilla west was able to add another touch­down. This time the weasels punched it in with a short pass to junior receiver allie griffith. pasquerilla west senior captain maddie bray said she was pleased with her team’s performance dur­ing the game. 
“i’m really happy with how this game went,” bray said. “our [quarterback] hannah butler looked very impres­sive in her first game at the position, and the defense looked strong throughout the entire game. 
“i see us going nowhere but up from here.” 
it wasn’t all negative for cavanaugh, as the chaos forced a turnover that came from a pick by junior ally anton. despite the loss, cavanaugh captain Katie Kaes was encouraged by her team’s performance and improvement. 
“we saw a lot of positives from this game,” Kaes said. “i’m happy to see us improv­ing each time we step on the field, and we’re looking for­ward to our next game.” 
pasquerilla west plays lyons in its next matchup, while cavanaugh takes on walsh. 

Contact Alex Bender at  Contact Tobias Hoonhout at  
abender@nd.edu  thoonhou@nd.edu  
Lewis 0, Pangborn 0  Farley, Howard  

By TOBIAS HOONHOUT 
sports writer 
it proved to be a wild, 0-0, draw between lewis and pangborn on monday night, as both teams let costly turn­overs, penalties and failed opportunities cost them a chance to win. 
in the first half, senior cap­tain and quarterback mary gallagher led pangborn deep into the red zone, before lewis sophomore emily obaditch intercepted gallagher’s pass to hold the score at 0-0. 
The lewis offense, led by senior running back and captain hannah skrbis, sus­tained a drive into pangborn territory. however, pangborn’s defense stifled the chicks on fourth down to get the ball back. 
gallagher said her defense was the key to her team’s end result. 
“The defense came up huge,” gallagher said. “i would name individuals that played exceptionally well, but i would end up naming all seven defensive starters. 
“They came to play, and it showed.” 
pangborn moved sopho­more Katherine clarke to the quarterback spot in an attempt to switch things up in the second half. 
however, the phoxes still saw no success offensively. both teams continued to trade turnovers, penalties and three-and-outs, as the game evolved into a chess match between defenses. 
as the fourth quarter be­gan, lewis strung a drive together with complex looks that gave the pangborn defense trouble and gave skrbis and the offense sev­eral big gains. The chicks made it deep into the red zone, but on third-and-goal, pangborn junior makenna siebenaler came up with a huge interception to keep the game scoreless. 
in the final minute, lewis started what seemed to be a game-winning drive, until another interception, this time by sophomore Jacklyn cooney, gave the phoxes a chance to win. 
The lewis defense, though, held strong until the very end, defending a fourth-and-down pass in the end zone to keep the 0-0 draw. 
pangborn looks to revamp its offense against Farley on sunday. 
Observer Staff Report 
The Farley and howard game was cancelled due to a player’s injury. 
The game has been re­scheduled for Tuesday at riehle Field at 7 p.m. 

NHL 
Kessel, Letang lead Penguins over Hurricanes 
Associated Press 
phil Kessel scored twice in his pittsburgh debut and Kris letang had a goal and three assists to lead the penguins to a 7-3 win over the carolina hurricanes on Tuesday night. 
nine penguins recorded at least one point in the win, including sidney crosby with a goal and two assists while centering a line with Kessel and chris Kunitz. olli maatta had a goal and an as­sist and evgeni malkin, patric hornqvist and Kunitz all had two assists. 
marc-andre Fleury allowed three goals on 25 shots in 40 minutes and matthew murray stopped all six shots he faced. 
Justin Faulk, James wisniewski and Jeff skinner scored for carolina. 
Blue Jackets 3, Blues 1 
in columbus, ohio, sergei bobrovsky stopped all 24 shots he faced in nearly 40 minutes to lead a blue Jackets split-squad to a 3-1 win over a st. louis blues split-squad. 
ryan Johansen, sonny milano and gregory campbell scored for the blue Jackets. anton Forsberg stopped 11 of the 12 shots he faced. 
dmitrij Jasken scored st. louis’ lone goal. starting goaltender Jake allen made three saves in the first pe­riod, and Jordan binnington stopped 13 shots the rest of the way. 
in st. louis, alex steen’s goal late in the second pe­riod led the other blues split-squad to a 5-2 win over the blue Jackets split-squad. 
paul stastny, vladimir Tarasenko, alex pietrangelo and spencer asuchak also scored for st. louis. brian elliott made eight saves in 20 minutes, while pheonix copley turned stopped 13 of the 14 shots he faced in 40 minutes. 
boone Jenner and Justin Falk scored for columbus while curtis mcelhinney stopped 31 shots. 
Flyers 5, Rangers 3 
in philadelphia, steve mason had 29 saves to lead the Flyers to a 5-3 win over the new york rangers. 
shayne gostisbehere scored twice in the third pe­riod and yevgeni medvedev, brayden schenn and sam gagner also scored for the 
Flyers.  
mat  bodie  scored  twice  
for  new  york,  and  oscar  
lindberg had one.  
magnus  hellberg  made  

nine saves on 11 shots in 28 1/2 minutes for the rangers, 
and antti raanta stopped 14 of the 17 shots he faced. 
Following the end of regu­lation, the teams played a scoreless 3-on-3 overtime session. 
Bruins 2, Capitals 1 
in boston, david pastrnak scored twice, including the game-winner in over­time as the bruins beat the washington capitals 2-1. 
malcolm subban, broth­er of montreal defensemen 
p.K. subban, made 17 saves in nearly 30 minutes. Zane mcintyre only allowed nate schmidt’s goal while facing 10 shots. 
washington starter Justin peters stopped all 15 shots he faced, while reserve philipp grubauer surrendered both of pastrnak’s goals on 17 shots he faced. 
Panthers 3, Stars 2 
in sunrise, Florida, nick bjugstad’s power play goal midway through the third period was the difference in the Florida panthers’ 3-2 win over the dallas stars. 
Jonathan huberdeau scored twice for Florida and roberto luongo stopped all 15 shots he faced in the first two periods. mike mcKenna allowed two goals on nine shots in the third. 
Jason demers and Tyler seguin scored for dallas, and Jack campbell stopped 32 shots. 
Maple Leafs 2, Canadiens 1 
in montreal, Jake gardiner had a goal and an assist to lead the Toronto maple leafs to a 2-1 overtime win over the canadiens. 
william nylander also scored for the maple leafs. antoine bibeau made 13 saves in about 30 minutes. garret sparks stopped all seven shots he faced in his 30 minutes. 
michael mccarron scored montreal’s lone goal. carey price stopped all 11 shots he faced in his 30 minutes before Zachary Fucale allowed two goals on 16 shots. 
Wild 1, Jets 0 
in winnipeg, manitoba, niklas backstrom made 28 saves to lead the minnesota wild to a 1-0 overtime win over the Jets. 
matt dumba scored the game’s lone goal 4:12 into overtime with a wrist shot that beat winnipeg reserve goalie connor hellebuyck, who had stopped the first six shots he faced. starter ondrej pavelec stopped all 19 shots he faced in the first two periods. 
Predators 2, Lightning 2 
in Tampa, Florida, mattias ekholm’s goal 3:50 into overtime gave the nashville predators a 3-2 win over the Tampa bay lightning. 
cody bass and viktor arvidsson also scored to help nashville rally from a 2-0 def­icit in the third period. carter hutton made 26 saves for the predators. 
erik condra and Jonathan drouin scored for the reign­ing eastern conference champion lightning. 

paid adverTisemenT 




M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
before the half when he took senior tri-captain and midfielder connor Klekota’s pass inside the far post. 
it was a michigan state er­ror rather than the irish at­tack that resulted in notre dame’s final goal of the con­test. spartans sophomore defender brad centala tried to push the ball out with a header but instead sent it fly­ing inside the post, handing the irish their fourth and fi­nal goal. 
“we really didn’t change anything tactically,” hodan said. “but we moved the ball much faster today.” 
Though hodan didn’t per­sonally manage a goal, he consistently moved the ball throughout the match. hodan almost had notre dame’s third goal in 37th minute when he 
paid adverTisemenT 

maneuvered past spartan de­fenders and opened a 50-yard run down the right side. his second opportunity came in the 70th minute but his shot was placed left wide. 
with recent losses to Xavier, 1-0, and no. 2 north carolina, 4-2, the irish now prepare to face acc rival no. 4 virginia with a solid win under their belts. last sea­son, the cavaliers knocked the irish out of the round of 16 on nov. 30 and later went on to win the 2014 ncaa title. The matchup marks the first battle between the two most recent college cup cham­pions, as the irish won the ncaa title in 2013. 
The former ncaa champi­ons stand similarly statisti­cally at this point in the 2015 season. The irish slightly lead the cavaliers with 1.75 average goals per game, compared to virginia’s The 
1.43. both notre dame and virginia average similar shots per game at 12.9 and 13.1, respectively. 
“virginia is a very good team and ended our season last year,” hodan said. “we will have to be ready to go and ready to battle.” 
no. 14 notre dame plays host to no. 4 virginia at alumni stadium on Friday at 7 p.m. The game will be broadcast on espn3. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 




The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Football 
conTinued From page 16 
certain we wouldn’t have,” Kelly said. “we still have a long way to go. we have a lot of games, a lot of big games. we’re going to have some more injuries. 
“ … Those comments reflect probably more about the depth of our team and the ability to contin­ue to move forward and continue to win. so i think that that’s prob­ably the crux of it, was depth and quality depth that allows you to continue to win.” 
Run game development 
For the first time since 1996, the irish offense has run for 200 yards in each of its first three games. leading that attack is se­nior running back c.J. prosise, who stepped into the starting role after junior Tarean Folston’s acl injury. 
while prosise has carried the bulk of the load for notre dame, Kelly said he hopes to bring fresh­men running backs Josh adams and dexter williams along at a quicker pace in practice this week for game play. 
“we’re going to get there, and we need to accelerate it because 
c.J. is getting a ton of carries, and we certainly can’t afford to lose him. he’s a horse right now,” Kelly said. “but those guys need to con­tinue to learn during the week so we can get them in. we want to get them in the game but we can’t afford to have key mistakes during the game, as well, and we had some key mistakes, especially in the red zone that we’ve got to clean up, and we clean them up during the week.” 
incorporating junior mike mcglinchey and sophomore Quenton nelson into the starting offensive line helps the run game by adding a new element, Kelly said. 
“They bring a nasty attitude and a toughness to that group, where you’re now met with [junior steve] elmer, [graduate student nick] martin and [senior] ronnie [stanley], that have a lot of game experience,” Kelly said. “you have two tough guys now that kind of mold that group into an experi­enced and tough group. 
“so i think they bring a lot to the group. The brains of the op­eration is still in those veterans. it’s still in those three guys that have played a lot, and they kind of set the tone for the group: the at­tention to detail, holding them to high standards. but there is now a toughness to that group that i think — those guys are hard work­ers and play hard and play tough.” 
Correcting Kizer 
while Kelly said he was im­pressed with the “big-picture stuff” in sophomore deshone Kizer’s performance against georgia Tech — throwing for 242 yards and a touchdown — the head coach said he’d like to see his quarterback work on more funda­mentals in the next week, espe­cially ball security. 
“i was a little bit concerned with the ball being a little bit loose at times,” Kelly said. “ball came out one time, a screen situation, where it was intentional ground­ing, but we’ve got to eat that. i think there was another time on a run where the ball came out at the end of a run.” 
Kelly said he also wanted Kizer to tighten up his footwork, accu­racy and cadence in practice. The head coach said saturday he at­tributed notre dame’s four false starts against georgia Tech to the team still getting used to Kizer’s longer cadence. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 






CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER |ericcarlson and John roddy 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: explore different options, but be secretive regarding your intentions. Try not to get into overly emotional discussions if you want to come out on top. change is heading your way, and the manner in which you handle matters will determine how well you will do. diplomacy and research will ensure your success. your numbers are 4, 10, 17, 21, 28, 37, 40. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t let emotions block your ability to get things done. share little, but listen to what’s being said. The information you acquire will be valuable at a later date. put more into upgrading, updating and improving your appeal and social life. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): protect against injury and the challenges you aren’t yet ready to deal with. put more time into preparation and expanding your knowledge and experience. Try to be clear about what you are and what you are not capable of doing. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): make alterations to the way you live. it’s important to put your personal affairs first and to nurture the relationships that are important to you. don’t deny yourself a treat that will boost your confidence or your appearance. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): choose your words carefully. emotions must not be allowed to take over, causing a rift between yourself and someone you love. look for practical solutions and you will find a way to move forward. don’t be afraid to do things differently. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): hold a discussion with someone who can offer you insight into a vocation or destination that you might like to experience. do your best to bring about a change to your current position or location. romance is encouraged. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): don’t get caught up in who does what or why. look at what you are doing and make sure to give it your all. it’s how you play the game that will lead to victory. Fairness and honesty will be what impresses onlookers and competitors. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Keep the peace. if someone tries to goad you into an argument or is being pushy, remove yourself from the situation. getting out and doing something you enjoy will be satisfying and help you avoid discord. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): a unique opportunity will spark your imagination. make arrangements to discuss your options with someone you have worked with in the past. a chance to start a new venture is apparent. a day trip will help you make a decision. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): don’t be lured in to something that appears too good to be true. do your homework and background checks to ensure that you aren’t being fed false information. a change in your attitude or appearance will result in compliments and added attention. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): look at the practical side of any situation before you make a commitment. a hasty decision will leave you at a loss. look for the less obvious mistakes or details involved in any agreement, settlement or personal documentation before signing. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): make minor changes to contracts, health issues or concerns you may have regarding your finances and budgeting. working toward a stable and secure lifestyle will bring about positive changes that will ease stress and improve your important personal relationships. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): make an effort to meet others halfway, but make sure you are doing so for the right reasons and that your plan is realistic. a partner will challenge you if you overspend, overreact or are overly indulgent. 

Birthday Baby: You are a dreamer and a peacemaker. You are creative, persistent and convincing. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 





make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 
form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city state Zip 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Kelly talks safeties, improvement to run 

By MARY GREEN 
assistant managing editor 
Though he didn’t see the field in last week’s win against georgia Tech, junior safety max redfield should be ready to go for saturday’s game against massachusetts, irish head coach brian Kelly said in his Tuesday press conference. 
redfield broke his thumb in the season opener against Texas and struggled with tackling with a cast on his hand the next week against virginia, starting both those games alongside senior elijah shumate. sophomore drue Tranquill took redfield’s starting spot against georgia Tech’s triple-option offense but later suffered a season-ending acl tear. 
“a lot of that was predi­cated on his ability to tackle with his hand,” Kelly said of redfield. “he feels really good and confident that he can do that. we believe that that’s going to be the case. 
“we’ll test him a little bit this week. we’ll make sure that he tackles. but all indi­cations are that he’s going to be able to play at the level that he played with at Texas and he did at the end of last year. so if he does, we’re a pretty good football team with him back there.” 
Kelly said notre dame has moved freshman safety mykelti williams up from the scout team for practice this week in response to Tranquill’s injury. 
“i think we are still kind of evolving there,” Kelly said of the safety position. “ … [se­nior] nicky baratti is going to have to play more of a role. and mykelti williams, we’ll bring up to our defensive team and get him some reps and some work, as well. and then there’s still some other thoughts as to some other players that we’ll work into some different roles.” 
Tranquill’s absence brings notre dame’s season-ending-injury count up to six players. Kelly said his team’s depth has allowed it to remain undefeated three games into the season de­spite those setbacks to its starting roster. 
“i don’t know if we’d have been able to do some of the things that we are doing with the number of injuries that we have currently had back in 2012 — matter of fact, i’m 
see FooTball PAGE 14 

MEN’S SOCCER | nd 4, michigan sTaTe 0 
notre dame shuts out michigan state 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
The irish shut out michigan state to rebound from a two-game losing streak Tuesday night at the demartin soccer complex. 
no. 14 notre dame (5-2-1) took to the net right away to shut out the spartans, 4-0. michigan state (3-3-1) and notre dame had 12 shots each, but the irish managed seven shots on goal to the spartan’s four. 
“it definitely is nice to get another shut out and get back our confidence defen­sively, which will hopefully continue to grow,” senior tri-captain and midfielder patrick hodan said. 
The irish scored the game-winning goal less than 90 seconds into the match. sophomore forward Jon gallagher brought the ball down the left side, deliver­ing a cross toward gradu­ate student tri-captain and defender max lachowecki in the middle of the field. 
lachowecki lunged for a div­ing header and directed the ball into the right corner of the net, putting the irish up, 1-0. 
lachowecki’s goal marks the second fastest goal to start a game by notre dame since 1995. 
“it was one of our best performances of the year,” hodan said. “The most im­portant thing was that we set the tone early and played smartly.” 
and the irish continued to set the tone early. Just 13 minutes after lachowecki, gallagher found the back of the net himself to put the irish up, 2-0. senior defend­er michael shipp came down the right sideline to set a pass to gallagher. spartan senior goalkeeper Zach bennett managed a save but gallagher got the rebound to net his fifth goal of 2015. 
in the 44th minute, fresh­man midfielder Thomas ueland put the irish up 3-0 
see m soccer PAGE 13 


MACKENZI MARINOVICH | The Observer 

Irish junior defender Matt Habrowiski blasts a ball downfield in Notre Dame’s 1-0 loss to Xavier on Sept. 15 at Alumni Stadium. Habrowiski has one goal on the 2015 season. 



