The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 22 | tuesday, september 22, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Conference reveals sustainability efforts 
University unveils plan to end coal use, reduce carbon footprint in response to Pope’s encyclical 
By JACK ROONEY and MEGAN VALLEY 
managing editor and news writer 
in advance of pope Francis’s historic visit to the united states this week, notre dame is acting on the pontiff’s message of sus­tainability and care for the environment. 
after Tuesday morn­ing’s town hall meeting in washington hall, university president Fr. John Jenkins and executive vice president John affleck-graves held a press conference to discuss the university’s new initia­tive to end all use of coal by 2020 and to reduce the university’s carbon foot­print by more than half by 2030. 
The initiative, announced in a press release monday, comes as a response to pope Francis’s may encyclical “laudato si,” Jenkins said. 
“we have had efforts in sustainability … and we made really very good prog­ress over the past decade, at least,” Jenkins said at the press conference.“but this summer, when pope Francis promulgated his encyclical ‘laudato si’, i went to John [affleck-graves] and i said, ‘John, let’s look at it. can we take a further step? can we do a bit more to respond to the pope’s encyclical, to re­spond to the challenge of the environment?’” 
according to the press re­lease, notre dame will also invest $113 million in re­newable energy including geothermal, solar, hydro­electric and biomass sourc­es. affleck-graves said the university will keep its op­tions open with these tech­nologies, including possibly installing solar panel fields 
see Town hall paGe 5 



week displays innovations 
By JP GSCHWIND 
news writer 
showcasing the newest innovations in educational technology and their ap­plications in the classroom, the second annual digital week begins Tuesday. The week includes a wide va­riety of lectures and work­shops and is sponsored by the the office of digital learning, the hesburgh libraries center for digital scholarship, the center for research computing and the office of information Technology’s Teaching and learning Technologies unit. 

elliott visconsi, associ­ate professor of english and chief academic digital offi-in welcoming interactive cer, said digital week is an workshops, programs and important program for both talks,” visconsi said. the notre dame community although digital week fo­and the general public. cuses on newly developed 
“The concept of digital technologies, visconsi said week is to involve not that the subject matter is only faculty and stu-accessible for everyone. dents, but also the public “The whole idea is to lower the barriers to en­try so that everybody feels welcomed, so that there’s something for everybody, so that there’s opportuni­ties whether you’re fright­ened by technology or are 

see digiTal weeK paGe 4 




Family donates $5.5 million for new stadium 
Observer Staff Report 
robert h. and mary ellen harris have made a gift of $5.5 million to the university for the construction of the harris Family Track and Field stadium, a sept. 17 press release announced. 
robert harris graduated from the university in 1969 with a bachelor’s degree in chemistry and is the presi­dent and chief executive of­ficer of harris Frc corp. 
“we are grateful to bob and mary ellen harris for this generous gift that will enable us to make a major advancement in facilities for notre dame student-athletes in track and field,” director of athletics Jack swarbrick said in the re­lease. “The creation of locker rooms and other team space surrounding the outdoor track will provide a first-class home for our men’s and women’s squads. 
“in addition, we hope the future improvements to this facility will make it an­other wonderful resource for the greater south bend community, much as the compton Family ice arena has become.” 
The new building will house a number of “team support areas,” the release stated, including “student­athlete and coach locker rooms, team meeting and event operations space, a nutrition station and a satel­lite athletic training area.” 
The facility will be built on the west side of the nine-lane outdoor track and field 
see sTadium paGe 5 







ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 

Asst. Managing Editor: mary green 
Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 


Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
If you could live in a dorm of the opposite gender, which would you pick and why? 



Abby Lesko 
senior 
off campus 
“sorin — the quint.” 



Brian Hermann 
senior 
dillon hall 

“cavanaugh because it’s close to Zahm.” 

Alex Gray 
freshman 
alumni hall 

“ryan because it’s the closest to alumni.” 



Joe Nelson 
sophomore 
dillon hall 

“ryan. The life of luxury is the life for me.” 

Bridget Moroney 
freshman 
lyons hall 

“Fisher. all my guy friends are from Fisher.” 



Lydia Costello 
freshman 
lyons hall 

“i’d choose carroll for the novelty of it and the view” 

Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
catherine owers Zach Klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
andrea vale hunter mcdaniel nicole caratas molly murphy 

Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
eric richelsen miko malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 

Mapping the Relief Lecture and Book Football Pep Rally Vigil Mass Volleyball vs. Florida 
emmet Farnan austin Taliaferro 

Effort in Nepal Signing Compton Family Ice DPAC Leighton State Hesburgh Library McKenna Hall Arena Concert Hall Joyce Center 11 a.m.-12 p.m. 5 p.m.-6:30 p.m. 5:45 p.m.-6:30 p.m. 30 minutes after 1 p.m.-3 p.m. 
Corrections 

Panel discussion as An evening with author A home game weekend conclusion of football Irish take on the 
The observer regards itself as part of digital week. Sam Quinones. tradition. game. Seminoles. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Reading Series Reading Series Men’s Soccer Pain Management Women’s Soccer vs. 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

Geddes Coffeehouse Breen-Phillips Hall Alumni Stadium Jordan Hall of Science Florida State 
however, recognize that we will make 

7:30p.m. basement 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 11 a.m.-12 p.m. Alumni Stadium 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 

MFA students Katy 7:30 p.m. Cheer on the Irish Part of Dooley 1 p.m.-3 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 

Cousino and Chris Undergraduate as they take on the Society lecture series Notre Dame faces off 
we can correct our error. 

Holdaway read. students read. Virginia Cavaliers. featuring Paul Christo. with the Seminoles. 

ndsmcobserver.com | tuesday, september 22, 2015 | The observer 

Ambassador speaks on US-Chile relations 
By MATTHEW McKENNA 
news writer 
chilean ambassador to the united states Juan gabriel valdés spoke with Kellogg institute director paolo carozza about the evolv­ing relationship between the united states and chile, and the implications of this change on the respective countries, in a public conver­sation on monday evening in the remick commons. 
valdés said when he thinks about the relationship be­tween the u.s. and latin america since the end of the military dictatorships in chile, argentina, uruguay and brazil, he sees several countries that have learned to stand on their own. 
“The first thing that comes to my mind is to say that latin america is more inde­pendent, more autonomous, and at the same time, much more diverse,” valdés said. 
democracy in latin american has progressed remarkably in the face of cultural and societal differ­ences, he said. 
“even if some countries have different goals, while being very diverse, they have become more stable and more democratic, with an enormous increase in par­ticipation,” valdés said. 
until recently, chile had never conceived of the pos­sibility of relationships with iran or various asian coun­tries like those they have to­day, he said. 
“There was an explosion into national relations,” valdés said. “embassies were opened, and economic changes developed.” 
valdés said it is not entirely clear whether the improve­ments in latin america are a direct result of a withdrawal of american involvement, or if the benefits are simply a result of a region being al­lowed to develop in a way that posses no threat to na­tional security. 
“if somebody would have told me in the ’70s that a latin american country could decide to experiment without having, as a result, any sort of problem with the united states, i would have been extremely surprised,” he said. 
The u.s. is still get­ting used to the fact latin american countries have changed, valdés said, but there has been significant progress under the current 
“My impression has been that the Obama administration has been extremely wise, and in some cases even astute, in the way in which they have managed relationships with countries in which the situation was not an easy situation.” 
Juan Gabriel Valdés 
Chilean ambassador to U.S. 
administration. 
“my impression has been that the obama adminis­tration has been extremely wise, and in some cases even astute, in the way in which they have managed relation­ships with countries in which the situation was not an easy situation,” valdés said. 
valdés said latin american countries such as chile are now able to choose to be al­lies with the united states under their own power, and this element of choice strengthens the relationship. 
“we have chosen to be friendly with the united states, and that’s an excel­lent position. it allows us to change the way we look at our relationship,” valdés said. 
chile and the united states are in similar economic and political positions, and this means there’s a lot both countries can learn through cooperation, he said. 
“There is a degree of dis­trust of the elites in both countries,” valdés said. “This anti-elite movement is threatening in a very serious way the way we conceive of representative democracy.” 
“in chile, this feeling is especially visible because over the past 50 years we have been able to produce a ruling class,” he said. 
valdés said the income distribution in chile is one of the worst in latin america. 
“if you listen to economists, they will tell you that they have data that shows that the difference in income is shortening,” valdés said. “i can tell you that maybe from the point of the data that is true, but from a sociological per­spective, it has no meaning whatsoever. if you go to any part in the north of chile and go into some of the vil­lages, you would see some people are very poor.” 
“There is a perception that the society is increas­ingly different and unjust, and that some ugly faces are showing up in the middle of the debate,” valdés said. “These are the same faces that we sometimes see in chile.” 
chile is very much aware that democracy has to be defended, he said. 
“if you are lax in the man­agement of your democracy, then phantoms from the past can come back,” valdés said. “we have a system to­day that is very much stable, but we know there has to be a consensus to be cautious.” 
Contact Matthew McKenna at mmcken12@nd.edu 

author examines language of destruction 
By LUCAS MASIN-MOYER 
news writer 
arthur binard, a bilingual author, translator and antinu­clear activist, delivered a lec­ture monday afternoon in the laFortune center ballroom that examined the terminol­ogy Japanese and americans use to describe the bombings of Japan during world war ii. at the end of the war, there was a general feeling of eu­phoria in the united states, but in Japan, the feeling could not have been more different 
— hiroshima and nagasaki were leveled by nuclear weap­ons, and the Japanese people dealt with the crippling ef­fects of the destruction of two large cities. 
binard, who has lived in Japan for more than 20 years, said he set about to discov­er how the language both the american and Japanese people use in discussing this event shape their perspective on the event itself. The inter­est started for binard with a trip to the hiroshima peace memorial museum, he said, and a talk from a survivor of the atomic bomb. 
when describing the bomb, binard said the survivor used the word “pika,” a word which roughly translated to “shiny” or “bright,” to describe the explosion. binard said he had never heard this word before and, “pika gave a strong sense of the event.” 
as a result of describing the bomb in terms of light, and not as the mushroom cloud with which he had tradition­ally associated it, binard said he began questioning the narrative of the bombing that he had been taught in school. using the mushroom cloud 
“Using the mushroom cloud puts us above [the incident]. [In Japan,] nobody talked about the mushroom cloud.” 
Arthur Binard 
speaker 
as the main descriptor of the bomb has profoundly impact­ed americans’ views of the event, as they are detached 
from the destruction itself, he said. 
“using the mushroom cloud puts us above [the in­cident],” binard said. “[in Japan,] nobody talked about the mushroom cloud.” 
binard said he discovered that the Japanese almost ex­clusively used “pika” in de­scribing the bombing, and this new narrative, not of the necessity of the bomb but the destruction that it cre­ated, made binard shift his perspective on the use of the bomb. 
“i should have been with them all along,” binard said, “but i wasn’t before because i didn’t have ‘pika.’” 
This discovery led binard to further examine how the use of language impacts our view of the nuclear bomb and nuclear power. in his exami­nation, binard said he found examples in both Japan and the united states where the use of language seemed seemed to tame, in the minds of the general population, the negative effects of the nuclear bomb and nuclear power. 
according to binard, the language used to describe an event impacts public percep­tion of the event and when examining an event, one must alway consider how it is described. 
“all the language you use always has some perspec­tive,” he said. 
Contact Lucas Masin-Moyer at lmasinmo@nd.edu 




The observer | tuesday, september 22, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


SMC students receive accounting awards 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
saint mary’s editor 
last  week,  five  saint  
mary’s  students  received  
awards  for  dedication  and  

excellence in accounting. The awards, presented by the department of business and economics, highlight the success of students in respective courses, but also on the character and devel­opment of the students. 
Junior Kaileigh moore was presented the bridget anderson/Kpmg award last monday at the depart­ment of business admin­istration and economics’ accounting awards ceremo­ny. The bridget anderson/ Kpmg award is a $2,000 award given to an account­ing junior for excellence in the principles of accounting sequence. 
senior diana matuszak was presented the ernst & young award, a $1,000 award given to the account­ing senior judged most likely to succeed in public accounting. 
matuszak said she made it a goal during her sopho­more year to earn one of the accounting department’s awards. 
“[The award] is a great ac­complishment,” she said.“i feel very proud that my hard work is paying off.” 
earning the award has shown matuzsak that there is more to success in the ac­counting world than grades alone, she said. 
“Though i do work very hard for good grades, [suc­cess in accounting] is about detection and ability to work well with others also,” she said. 
matuszak said this past summer she had an intern­ing in public accounting within the audit sector for grant Thorton in chicago. 
while the ernst & young award is given to a student “most likely to be success­ful in public accounting,” matuszak said accounting is all about being able to work well with others, while also being good at what you do. 
senior bailey benoit earned the crowe horwath award, a $1,000 award presented to an account­ing senior for outstanding achievement in personal and corporate tax. 
senior alexandra vizard was given pricewaterhousecoopers award, a $1,000 award given 


digital Week 
conTinued From page 1 
an early adopter and can’t wait to be teaching with holograms, and everywhere in between,” 
“The Teaching and Learning team will present ideas for designing and redesigning courses ... [and] showcase mobile apps, some [of] which have been developed by our students.” 
Peggy Rowland 
senior director 
teaching and learning 
technologies 
visconsi said. 
peggy rowland, senior direc­tor of Teaching and learning Technologies, said digital week offers an excellent op­portunity to learn about the intersection of technology and the university’s educational mission. 
“The Teaching and learning team will present ideas for de­signing and redesigning cours­es, screen capture to support student learning, showcase mobile apps, some [of] which have been developed by our students and we will also show how to enhance classes with digital media,” rowland said. 
according to rowland, the events of digital week have important implications for possible future programs and initiatives on campus. 
“Faculty presentations and keynote addresses will stimu­late future strategic directions we take in providing the envi­ronment and tools in the class­room and in any space that learning takes place,” rowland said. 
to an accounting senior for excellence in accounting leadership. 
senior sophia wilk was presented the deloitte award, a $1,000 award given to an accounting senior for excellence in intermedi­ate accounting. wilk said it was an honor to be rec­ognized by one of the larg­est accounting firms in the country. 
“[The award] encourages me to stay motivated to achieve success in my pro­fessional and academic goals,” she said.“by achiev­ing this award, i believe i have represented what saint mary’s college allows every student, opportunity to suc­ceed and grow through ser­vice in the community.” 
over the summer, wilk said she did not have a typical accounting internship, but rather served at samaritan 

Tracy bergstrom, co-professor don howard on director of the hesburgh monday, “newsroom ethics” libraries’ digital initiatives by Tim wallace of The new and scholarship program, york Times on Tuesday,“back said many of the events on to the Future: philology in wednesday and Thursday will a digital age” by martin be housed in the center for mueller, professor emeri­digital scholarship and will tus of english and classics at emphasize geographic infor-northwestern university, and mation systems and the digital “evidence-based approaches humanities. to curriculum reform and 
digital week will in-assessment” by melanie clude four major keynotes: cooper, professor of science “robot ethics” by philosophy education at michigan state 
paid adverTisemenT 
counseling center, a non­profit organization in south bend. 
“The experience allowed me to live out what i have learned at saint mary’s, that i can grow as an individual and professional through community service while expanding my knowledge through academic pursuit.” 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
university. 
while much of the program­ming addresses developments happening on campus, visconsi said the scope of digital week extends beyond the university. 
“The goal is to share what’s going on at notre dame but also to learn what’s happening beyond notre dame,” visconsi said. 
Contact JP Gschwind at  jgschwin@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | tuesday, september 22, 2015 | The observer 

town Hall 
“it will cost us,” Jenkins seriously and taking the and the notre dame stadium said. “it will cost us; how-steps we can,” Jenkins said. Turbomachinery Facility 
conTinued From page 1 conTinued From page 1 

ever in the long run, i’m “again, we want to join with in south bend’s innovation hoping that some of these the holy Father, the pope, in park. facility in the southeast cor­somewhere on campus. fuel sources can be cost his call to take these issues “This [facility] not only is ner of campus, and construc­
“we would like, in the effective. about nurturing the envi-going to help with our re-tion is expected to begin by end, to have a fairly diversi-“i think in a way, it’s the ronment seriously.” search, but it will also help the end of the year. fied strategy so that we have pope calling us to take the at the afternoon town hall the economic engine in our alan Turner, the irish track a little bit of each of those long view. often we take meeting, Jenkins gave an community,” affleck-graves and field head coach, said in and eventually get to a stage the short view, and if you overview of changes to cam-said. “it’s a wonderful col-the release the new building 
take the long view, and if pus life, including sustain-laboration to help with the will contribute to the success you’re innovative, there’s ability, and affleck-graves city and its businesses and of the track and field teams. 
“It will cost us; some pain up front, but in announced campus facil-the people. in this facility, “For so many years, we however in the the long run, it’s more sus-ity updates. vice president what they’re going to do is haven’t had any outdoor long run, I’m tainable, and, we think, cost for human resources John test gas turbine engines.” meets, and we really don’t 
effective.” mcQuade also explained the affleck-graves said the have great space for locker 
hoping that some 

The new initiative “is a changes being made in the university is addressing rooms and team meeting ar­
of these fuel 

continuation, but a kind health insurance of staff and several faculty-raised facil-eas, so just having added sources can be cost of augmentation” of the ity issues, including a lack space and a place to call our university’s efforts to reduce 
of short-term parking and own is going to make a world 
effective. I think 
“This [facility] 
its environmental impact, elevators in need of repair of difference for our pro-

in a way, it’s the 
not only is going 
Jenkins said. affleck-graves at Flanner and grace halls. gram,” Turner said. 

Pope calling us to 
said notre dame has de­

to help with our he said the university will take the long view. creased its coal use from 
research, but it be adding short-term park-about 85 percent of campus’s 
ing lots near o’shaughnessy 
Often we take the 
will also help 
total energy use in the mid-hall and galvin life science 

short view, and 
the economic 
2000s, to 15 percent now. a 

center, and the elevators if you take the large part of the strategy go-
engine in our in both Flanner and grace long view, and if ing forward, affleck-graves 
community.” halls will be fixed over the you’re innovative, said, is conservation. 
course of several months. 
John Affleck-Graves 
“we’ve been working very “The good news is we can 

there’s some pain 
University Executive  
hard since the early 2000s replace each of the six el-

Vice President 
up front, but in on the concept of ‘it’s the 

evators,” he said. “The bad the long run, it’s responsibility of everybody news is that it’s much more more sustainable, to honor the planet and to faculty. complicated to fix than i 
leave the planet in a better Jenkins spoke on the need thought. each elevator has 
and we think, cost 

state than we got it,’ and a for the university to become to be replaced and they have 
effective.” 

big part of that is conserva-more efficient in order to of-to redo the shaft and it takes Fr. John Jenkins tion,” he said.“we estimate fer more support to students three months per elevator. University President we can decrease our carbon and their families. we have a plan to do this 
footprint by 15 to 20 percent “notre dame costs a lot of over nine months total in 
just by conservation efforts, money for the families who each building.” where we can be fully re-so we’ve worked hard on send their children here,” staff health insurance newable,” affleck-graves those. and then there are a he said. “it is extremely im-will be undergoing changes, said.“but that’s probably go-variety of other issues that portant that we are efficient mcQuade said, with the ad­ing to take 40 to 50 years to we’re looking at.” and conscientious in run-dition of a new high deduct-get to be a fully renewable Jenkins will be in ning this place. we work ible plan and a switch to campus.” washington, d.c. on very hard in providing fi-active enrollment. 
Jenkins said this proj-wednesday and Thursday for nancial aid, but we still have “it’s not like all the plans ect will carry significant pope Francis’s visit, and said to be conscious about this. are going to dramatically costs, but he and affleck-he hopes the university’s re-… you read that higher edu-change,” he said. “but it is graves said they ultimately newed and more aggressive cation is bloated and inef-imperative that you be in-think the investment in approach to reducing its car-ficient, complacent, it’s not formed about your health sustainable energy will bon footprint will resonate run effectively, and i cannot care choice because we are pay for itself. eventually, with other universities and believe that’s true for notre adding plans, and it’s abso­the university hopes these the general population as a dame.” lutely critical to us that the technologies will decrease way to heed the pope’s call affleck-graves said the right people choose the right notre dame’s carbon diox-to care for the planet. university is planning two plans.” ide emissions by 47,500 tons “i hope it affects other off-campus building proj­per year, or the equivalent universities, but i hope it ects: a boathouse for the Contact Jack Rooney at to taking 10,000 cars off the also gives an example just to men’s and women’s rowing jrooney1@nd.edu road, according to the press the population at large, just teams at viewing park, set to and Megan Valley at  release. about taking these issues be completed in december, mvalley@nd.edu 




InsIde Column 
good kid south bend city 
Lucy Du 
graphic designer 
i was born and raised in china for 13 years. i spent those years slaving to one homework assignment after another or counting down to the next exam in one of the three subjects i ever had in school: chinese, math and english. everything changed a month before my 14th birthday. 
i got on a plane and flew to John F. Kennedy airport to move in with my mother in Queens, new york. i can’t say that i fell in love with new york city at first sight, considering i got a good stretch of traffic on a highway before i saw the new york i was expecting, but i was excited to be in the infamous city. This is the “city that doesn’t sleep,” the “concrete jungle where dreams are made of.” The streets are supposed to make me feel brand new and the lights were going to inspire me. and they did! The city became as much a part of me as i was a part of it. i was having the time of my life. but about six years lat­er, i was all packed up and leaving for south bend, indiana. 
while i was anxious to start my col­lege career and all, i was not happy about leaving new york. i am a new yorker: i jaywalk all the time and i hate tourists, i walk to the exact spots in the subway station where the train doors open and my closet is a spectrum of navy, grey and black. how could i sur­vive four years of this small midwest­ern town? and it wasn’t just me who felt like this. notre dame students in gen­eral have a feeling of dislike towards south bend as a city. we call the locals “townies” and we make fun of it all the time. Thinking back now, i want to slap myself in the face for being such a brat. after spending three years in south bend, i have grown to love this small community of people. one of the most important reasons for this affection is the fact that i feel like i grew with south bend. 
i still remember doing a south bend tour as a freshmen and meeting the young, newly sworn-in mayor, pete buttigieg in the college Football hall of Fame thinking why would such a young politician want to dedicate all his time to this city. but walking through down­town south bend today, having wit­nessed all the change its gone through, i can’t help but feel a warm affection. while i learned to dispose of my pre­emptive judgments about things i do not know, south bend proved itself to be a wonderful place filled with won­derful people. 
Contact Lucy Du at ydu5@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Politics needs reason 
Neil Joseph 
viewpoint columnist 

as i sat in my room and watched the republican de­bate this past wednesday, i couldn’t help but think about the real people behind the personalities on my television screen. as a political science major and someone who may want to pursue politics in the future (i promise i’m not that bad of a person), the snapshots of the people that i saw were not one bit encouraging. even though i really believed that deep down the candidates on that stage were all reasonable and well intentioned (with a few exceptions for Trump), the conversation on that stage didn’t do anything to persuade me of that. These debates and this entire campaign season has done nothing to make me feel better about politicians or politics in our country — a sentiment that much of our country holds. 
To be clear, i don’t only lack faith in republicans. it’s everyone in politics. we’ve seen so many examples of un­willingness to compromise, untrustworthiness and unpro­ductivity. in the past few years, we’ve seen a government shutdown, an enormous change to healthcare in our coun­try that was rammed through without any sort of biparti­san support and a lack of action on the issues that threaten the future of our nation. we have one front-running candi­date who disregards rules and another who disregards the simple notion of respecting people. nothing can get done in congress, our president can’t (and doesn’t) dream of getting republicans to support him on anything and people such as donald Trump are front-runners because of our coun­try’s dissatisfaction with politics. how did we get here? 
There are so many problems within politics that there isn’t a certain action or inaction that has created this sys­tem. but so many things can be fixed. First of all, we need reform. real reform in many different places. our politi­cians are influenced by so many more things than the one factor that should influence them: their constituents. Today, politicians are influenced by their donors, lobbyists and their desire to get reelected. These aren’t the people whom they were elected to represent, and these influences need to be curbed. This isn’t necessarily because politicians are naturally greedy or people who are easily influenced, but rather because this is what our system today perpetu­ates, and it needs to change. 
in order to successfully implement any change, our leaders need to recognize that the greatest things our coun­try have accomplished haven’t been pushed through with­out compromise. From the founding of our governmental system to the civil rights act of 1964, our country has been great because of our leaders’ ability to compromise for the good of all. in spite of this, no politician wants to be seen as a compromiser; rather, every one wants to be someone who “stands by their principles.” For example, every single republican candidate on wednesday wanted to highlight their similarity to ronald reagan’s conservatism, economic policies and foreign policy, yet none of them mentioned his/her ability to get so many things done with bipartisan support (such as the Tax reform act of 1986). until we get back to celebrating and replicating those victories where republicans and democrats worked together, our politi­cians will continue to argue and posture but get nothing done. 
our political system is also in shambles because of ev­eryone outside of politics. Too many citizens today fail to recognize that the majority of people in washington are there because they want to do what is best for our nation. Furthermore, just as our politicians have become increas­ingly polarized, so have our own interactions — it seems to be what drives conversation. we saw this in the debate this past wednesday, as cnn continually pitted one candidate against another, seeking argument and conflict instead of real solutions to the problems that face us. once the media and citizens seek facts, answers and real ideas instead of rhetoric and entertainment, our politicians will be held ac­countable and driven to action. 
even though all of these changes seem to be good, they can understandably seem unrealistic. but as citizens in a democratic nation, nothing can happen without our voices. we cannot let our politicians continue to refuse to do what’s good for the best of our country out of self-preservation. until we demand that our politicians seek reform, not reelection, we will not solve the issues that threaten our future. as we head into 2016 and beyond, we all must look past the rhetoric and start striving for real change that will keep pushing our nation down the path to greatness. 
Neil Joseph is a junior in Stanford Hall majoring in       political science and economics. He can be reached at     njoseph2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the       author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
edItorIal Cartoon | emily KoyKKa 



The sigh 
Michael Fliotsos 
retained reflections 
double-fisted triple-shot espresso starbucks runs from laFun, vacancies at the bookstore basketball courts despite picture-perfect weath­er, crowded section study lounges … ah yes, the first round of exams and paper deadlines must be right around the corner. From the three­papers-due-on-wednesday dilemma to the psy­chology, statistics and orgo trio of testing terror, it is difficult to not experience secondary anxi­ety for my underclassmen friends whose sched­ules are far less forgiving than that of a typical senior year. reflecting on the challenges to come for many throughout the coming weeks, i am reminded of an important event in my notre dame experience that helped put a similarly hectic situation into clarifying perspective and changed my outlook on challenges in my life. 
it was approximately 9:00 p.m. on a rainy wednesday night during the fall of my sopho­more year. i was on the sojourn from Jordan hall of science to duncan hall, a journey of already formidable length that was compounded by pouring rain and soaked socks as a consequence of poor planning (and even poorer rain boots). Facing the impending doom of two yet-to-be­completed lab reports, a pre-lab, an exam on Friday and a mountain of arabic homework left over from what should have been a more pro­ductive weekend, i was walking back from my beloved home-away-from-home after fruitlessly editing uneven proton nmr graphs using soft­ware available only on the computers in Jordan. To put the futility of my situation into context for non-science majors: you know you’re really in hot water when the graduate T.a. at office hours who is pursuing a ph.d. in chemistry and reads these graphs daily says she does not have a clue why your graph “is really, really messed up.” i was frustrated, tired, wet and done with everything school-related. 
on the journey back home, i asked a question that i have posed many times since: “why?” back then, i was still grappling with the fact that many of my friends at other colleges seemed to have significantly less work to do than i; they went out more, studied less, got better grades and were seemingly having a much easier go at this whole college business than i. while i was certainly grateful that i was able to attend a school as wonderful as notre dame and ulti­mately knew the value of the education i was receiving, there was certainly a nagging at the back of my mind that i could have gotten a edu­cation elsewhere that wouldn’t have been nearly as stressful, difficult or rainy. 

as i got onto south Quad by o’shag, a new song came up on the playlist — “The house That built me” by miranda lambert. seeing that my mind was preoccupied with these aforemen­tioned thoughts (and that the track is one of my favorite songs), i didn’t pay close attention to the lyrics and continued my walk without a second thought. as i started strolling along the sidewalk closest to god Quad, i passed the clear­ing where the golden dome is completely visible and, like i have done hundreds of times before, i stole a glance to my right. 
This time, however, my brisk walk slowed to an eventual halt. i turned such that i was facing the dome, looked up through the drizzling rain and to the sultry crooning of miranda lambert, inhaled deeply and sighed an unusual sigh. 
it is difficult to describe what that sigh sound­ed like, but i can definitely tell you how it felt. 
it was the release of the frustrations i encoun­tered throughout the day, week and semester. it was the resolution of so many personal uncer­tainties and doubts, insecurities and fears both big and small. above all, it was the answer to the question i kept asking myself. “why notre dame, michael? i’ll tell you why — you belong here, and being here will help you accomplish even your wildest dreams.” 
granted, the above revelation (after years of contemplation, after all) is far more eloquent than the amalgam of thoughts swirling through my head at the time. however, that’s the best way i can describe the overwhelming flood of reassurance and dissipation of self-doubt that occurred for me that wednesday night two years ago. 
as i walked away from that priceless view of our lady, i listened to ms. lambert’s words with new meaning. This place — the people, the classes and the problems — is the metaphori­cal house that is continually challenging me to be the best i can be for the sake of both others and myself. it is the place i know i can call home more truthfully than anywhere save my actual hometown. it is, as clichéd as it sounds, where i belong — and where i know i belong no matter what. 
as students at notre dame, we have to deal with unique challenges and struggles that are as varied and multi-faceted as we are. everyone has an “i’m-in-over-my-head” moment where they ask some variation of the question “why?” and while i am not claiming to have a cure-all answer to that question, i can share the pro­cess that helped me arrive at my own inner peace. it was thinking about the point of it all on a 15-minute-long trek through the rain on a wednesday night under the gleaming gold of our lady that helped this writer understand the value of self-assessment and reflection in tackling the most formidable of challenges. hopefully your method of reflection involves less wetness, a lot less organic chemistry and more of something else. whatever that some­thing may be, looking at the grand scheme of things every once and a while can put even the most seemingly insurmountable of days in a perspective that gives you the comfort and con­fidence to march on. 
Michael Fliotsos is a senior science-business major currently living in Duncan Hall. He would sincerely   appreciate emails with feedback or suggestions for      future topics at mfliotso@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
letter to tHe edItor 

engage in political life 
“in the catholic Tradition, responsible citizen­ship is a virtue and participation in political life is a moral obligation.” 
This call to political responsibility by the 
u.s. catholic bishops is the foundation for the ndvotes ‘16 movement. ndvotes ‘16 is a student-led nonpartisan campaign sponsored by the center for social concerns and the rooney center for the study of american democracy to promote voter education, registration and mobilization. ndvotes ‘16 fosters conscientious engagement in political and civic life among students. The ndvotes task force was designed by students, of students and for students because, whether we like it or not, politics affect each and every one of our lives in more profound ways than we even imagine. Thus, we owe it to our country, our re­spective faiths and ultimately ourselves to par­ticipate in the political process. at ndvotes, our goal is to make political participation both excit­ing and accessible to all students — regardless of their religious affiliation, academic interests or personal background. 

beginning this fall, the ndvotes ‘16 movement will take shape through a series of campus-wide events open to all notre dame students. The events will focus on voter registration among students, promoting virtuous discourse on our campus, and creating discussion around critical election-year issues. some topics that we will ex­plore include civic participation, voter disenfran­chisement and political speech. 
Today, on national voter registration day, ndvotes ‘16 will join other voter registration movements across the country by registering students at a table in laFortune student center throughout the day. south bend mayor pete buttigieg will help us launch the ndvotes ‘16 campaign at geddes hall at 5:30 p.m. we invite you to join us from 4-7 p.m. to register, request your absentee ballot and start the civic engage­ment dialogue. 
with ndvotes, it doesn’t matter if you have registered to vote, have been following politics or have ever had any previous interest in the politi­cal process. we invite everyone, from the political science senior who is writing his or her thesis on campaign strategy and has voted in every local, state and national election since 2012 to the first year engineer who doesn’t know too much about politics (yet) but wants his or her voice to be heard in the political process. 
ndvotes is led by representatives of bridgend, college democrats, college republicans, graduate student union, greend, hall presidents council, right to life, The roosevelt institute, student bar association, student coalition for immigration advocacy, student government, young americans for Freedom and women in politics. 
Sarah Tomas Morgan 
co-chair, ndvotes ‘16 
Roge Karma 
co-chair, ndvotes ‘16 



By ERIN McAULIFFE 
senior scene writer 
lady gaga released a psa in the form of a music video for “Til it happens To you” last week. The song was featured in “The hunting ground,” the docu­mentary — screened at notre dame 
— that addresses campus rape culture and its consequences. The music video, purposefully released within The red Zone (the weeks after student orienta­tion and before Thanksgiving break, when students are statistically at high­est risk to face sexual assault) does not gloss over the problem. 
“The following contains graphic con­tent that may be emotionally unset­tling but reflects the reality of what is happening daily on college campuses,” the video opens. 
Through gaga’s reach and the song’s subsequent accessibility, pop music is used as a vehicle to empower and pro­vide self-worth while not shying away from controversy: a topic addressed by scene last week. 
The song was co-written by lady gaga and diane warren, both grammy award winners. catherine hardwicke, best known for her work with “Twilight,” directed the video. 
The video was shot in black-and­white, a trend recently utilized by art­ists like run The Jewels and Kendrick lamar in their own social commen­tary-style videos, in which they ad­dress the likes of racial injustice and police brutality. 
in “Til it happens To you,” the all-too-realistic attacks, committed both by strangers and acquaintances, are hard to watch. 
shots of the survivors’ arms, legs and backs with sayings like “believe me” written in marker call out colleges’ continued failings in dealing with cam­pus rape cases. The schools’ proceed­ings, addressed extensively in “The hunting ground,” all too frequently place the blame on the victim, cover up cases (especially when associated with sports teams) and question whether the victim is to be “believed.” 
The placement of these sayings on the survivors’ bodies is representa­tive of how they have come forward in vulnerable conditions to call out these gross shortcomings and take back own­ership of their bodies. The juxtaposi­tion of the sayings “i am worthless” and “i am worthy” in the video signifies the struggle and internal conflicts sur­vivors go through during this process. 

at saint mary’s this past Thursday, andrea pino and annie clark, the co-founders of end rape on campus (eroc) who were featured in “The hunting ground,” addressed their own struggles in dealing with their sexual assaults and their university’s response. Their talk, “a culture of commitment: everyday activism and supporting all surviors,” is one exam­ple of the steps notre dame and saint mary’s are taking to address campus rape culture, especially since notre dame witnessed three reports of sexual assaults or battery within the first two weeks back on campus. 
“what we call ‘everyday activism’ is the radical notion that everyone can play a part in ending violence and op­pression by resisting rape culture, sup­porting survivors and challenging our institutions,” pino said. 
lady gaga, a survivor of sexual as­sault herself, took this idea of everyday activism to heart in a scale and medium that are, importantly, not so everyday. “we hope u feel our love & solidarity through the song & perhaps find some peace in knowing u r not alone through this film [sic],” she tweeted. 
The music video demands respect for and support of survivors. 
“believing survivors is radical,” pino said at her saint mary’s talk. “it seems to be the only crime in which no one is believed; it’s always alleged. it seems as if sexual assault never happens. 
“when someone comes forward and tells you they’ve been sexually as­saulted the first thing you should say to them is you believe them, the sec­ond thing you should say is they’re not alone and the last thing you should say is it’s not their fault. These are often­times the three things survivors never hear.” 
gaga’s video ends with survivors be­ing led out of dorm rooms arm-and­arm with fellow students offering their support. The staggering statistic that one in five female college students will be sexually assaulted during their four years on campus flashes across screen, followed by the number for the national sexual assault hotline, end­ing the music video with a resource and message we all need to hear. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at                          emcaulif@nd.edu 


ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 


By ADAM RAMOS 
scene writer 
Jon stewart ended his iconic tenure on “The daily show” this past month, after a memorable 16 years, which is why it came as no surprise last night when “The daily show” took home the emmy in all three of its nomina­tions. while i have the upmost respect for “The daily show” and i was just as sad as anyone when Jon stewart left his desk for the last time back in early august, i would be remiss if i didn’t say that John oliver’s “last week Tonight” got a little bit snubbed. with superb writing, enthralling exposé pieces and its track record of enacting social change, “last week Tonight” is my choice for the best variety show of to­day, and the emmys just didn’t reflect that for me. congrats though stewart, we are all going to miss you. 
By KELLY McGARRY 
scene writer 
The award that threw me off most was “game of Thrones” for best writ­ing. i’d be the last one to bash “game 
By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
scene writer 
“honeymoon,” lana del rey’s third major-label album, closes with a cover of the nina simone classic “don’t let me be misunderstood.” it’s a sentiment that seems a few years too late — since “video games” surfaced online four years ago, del rey, no matter how good her intentions, has been constantly mis­understood. her critics have been very vocal in bringing claims against her: her image manufactured, her voice bor­ing, her lyrics repetitive, her ideology anti-feminist. 
instead of altering course, del rey has only retreated further into the richly-rendered universe she’s built in her mu­sic. entering into her world is somewhat like stepping into norma desmond’s mansion in “sunset boulevard”: a glam­orous old hollywood fantasy divorced from reality. like dylan and springsteen before her, del rey is fascinated with american iconography, frequently walking the line between kitsch and glamour. symbols that repeat across her discography are littered throughout the lyrics on this album: jazz music, ciga­rettes, neon signs, guns, long stretches of Thrones” — the acting, the visuals, the entire presentation is incredible. however, most of the writing credit should go to the book series author george r. r. martin. it takes a ton of work to convert a book series into Tv 
— and i respect that — but i don’t think the way that was done this season was really award-worthy. The deviations from the book took away from the sto­ry. we’re all obsessed with “game of Thrones,” but the series writing doesn’t really measure up to that of the shows that came up with their own material. 
By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
scene writer 
when Jon hamm went to accept his award for outstanding lead actor in a drama series, he didn’t walk up the steps to the stage, as winners at award shows usually do. no, hamm — who finally won for his performance as don draper on “mad men” after hav­ing previously been nominated in the category seven times — crawled on stage on all fours. it was the sight of an an exhausted marathon runner dragging himself across the finish line 
of highway. 
on “honeymoon,” she employs this imagery to evoke her persona’s complex relationship to romance and fame. it’s an album of california noir in the vein of films like “chinatown” and “inherent vice” that explores the dark, twisted un­derbelly lurking under the bright, flashy facade of hollywood. There she is on the cover, leaning against a celebrity sight­seeing bus and staring off into the dis­tance through cat eye sunglasses. This idyllic southern california image is too good to be true, of course; as she sings on “god Knows i Tried,” “i’ve got noth­ing much to live for / ever since i found my fame,” and that sense of melancholy pervades throughout the album. 
del rey’s only real radio hit was cedric gervais’ house remix of “summertime sadness” and ever since she’s been com­mitted to making music that resists be­ing co-opted into the edm world. she promised this album would harken back to the uptempo trip-hop of “born to die,” and a few of the tracks — most notably, “high by the beach,” which sounds like an underwater cover of lil wayne’s “lollipop,” and the evocative “Freak” — are underpinned by trap drums. 

and receiving a participation medal: the bare minimum recognition by the emmys for one of the all-time great Tv performances. 
By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

The emmys nearly made up for its past shortcomings sunday night, fi­nally honoring Jon hamm for his mag­nificent turn as don draper in amc’s “mad men,” as well as broaden the field by selecting Jeffrey Tambor as outstanding lead actor in a comedy series for his both stately and vulner­able performance as the transitioning head of the complicated pfefferman clan, maura, in netflix’s “Transparent.” however, with Julia louis-dreyfus’s victory in outstanding lead actress in a comedy series, amy poehler lost the category her sixth year in a row for her role of leslie Knope in “parks and recreation.” as the show ended its run this past spring, this was the last year the emmys could have awarded for her inspiring characterization at the heart of the show’s unrelenting charm. nevertheless, poehler brought 
mostly, though, “honeymoon” delves deeper into the lush, woozy palette she established on the psych-rock-leaning “ultraviolence.” The title track intro­duces this languid pace, its cinematic strings swelling at a glacial pace and del rey elongating every syllable, and it continues throughout the rest of the record. True to her obsession with hollywood, many of the songs sound inspired by film scores. The beautifully sparse “Terrence loves you” borrows the melody from nancy sinatra’s bond theme “you only live Twice,” while also interpolating lyrics from david bowie’s “space oddity” and adding a muted horn section. “salvatore” evokes the sicilian scenes from “The godfather,” as del rey sings of a summer romance with an italian man. 
The album’s climax arrives with the six-minute-long “The blackest day,” a ballad on which she mourns a breakup by listening to billie holiday. “getting darker and darker / looking for love,” she croons, “in all the wrong places / oh my god.” it’s perhaps the bleakest moment on “honeymoon,” the summa­tion of all of the narrator’s destructive relationships. yet, by the track’s end, she sings, “i’m on my own again” — still her charisma and upbeat attitude to much of the award show’s proceed­ings, from her red carpet interviews for her site “amy poehler’s smart girls” to her staged bits from the audience. shrugging off of her fourth loss in as many years to dreyfus, poehler echoed her show’s underdog sentiment, prov­ing that winning — especially at the emmys — isn’t everything. 
By MIKO MALABUTE 
scene editor 
The undisputed best moment of the entire emmys awards didn’t involve an award or anything. Tracy morgan wasn’t even supposed to be there, as he recalled how Jimmy Kimmel said on stage last year, “we’ll see you back here next year, Tracy morgan.” morgan absolutely stole the show, showing the strength, humility and courage to return to the stage following his life-threatening accident. it was a relief and a blessing to hear him admit that he’s starting to feel like himself again and even crack jokes the way we know only he can. This man is a legend, and we are lucky to see return to his element. 
melancholic, but perhaps ready to con­sider a new approach to love. 
even if “honeymoon” never reaches the dizzying heights of “ultraviolence,” it is perhaps the best execution of del rey’s artistic vision to date. on the al­bum’s interlude, she reads the T.s. eliot poem “burnt norton” over an ambi­ent soundscape. “what might have been and what has been,” she recites, “point to one end, which is always pres­ent.” even as she references the past — simone, dylan, holiday, sinatra, bowie 
— she directs it toward one end, creat­ing a gorgeous, coherent work that is en­tirely her own. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at          mmunhall@nd.edu 

“Honeymoon” 
Lana Del Rey 
Label: Interscope Tracks: “The Black Days” If you like: Bob Dylan 



ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 


sports autHorIty 
upset shows golf’s potential 

Zach Klonsinski 
sports editor 
The most spectacular upset of the weekend wasn’t ole miss getting literally handed a victo­ry over alabama in Tuscaloosa. in fact, it didn’t happen on a football field. 
it didn’t even occur in the united states, actually. 
no, the best upset in the american sporting world last weekend happened far from american soil, on a golf course in st. leon-rot, germany. 
in what can only be de­scribed as one of the great­est comebacks in sports 
— let alone golf — history, the american ladies playing in the solheim cup won eight and a half of the possible 12 points during sunday’s final round of play, the singles matches, meaning they overcame a mas­sive deficit and won back the cup from the europeans by half a point. 
in case the massive come­back wasn’t enough, though, it all began with a controversial moment early sunday morn­ing that became the bitter and emotionally-charged turning point of the tournament. 
many sports fans are fa­miliar with the ryder cup, in which the best male golfers from the united states take on the best of the europeans. it’s an underrated and extremely exciting event that takes place every other year. Teams and fans go all-out for one of the only team events in profes­sional golf. The atmosphere resembles that of a football game (the real and american hybrid) except there are a doz­en of them going on all over the course at the same time. 
well, the women have their own version of the ryder cup, too, called the solheim cup. This year’s event took place at golf club st. leon-rot in germany over the weekend. entering the final day of play, the u.s. found itself trailing. big. 
afew matches from saturday night had been suspended due to darkness and needed to be finished up before singles ac­tion could begin. 
That’s when american rookie allison lee picked up her ball on the 17th hole. 
in match-play format games, which both the ryder and solheim cups use, teams can concede short putts to the oth­er pairing or player as a show of sportsmanship. 
This is what lee thought the european team had done. she had just missed a birdie putt, and it rolled about two feet past the cup. lee then scooped up the ball with her putter. 
she had a good reason to believe the hole was conceded, as one of the european play­ers, charley hull, had already begun walking toward the 18th tee. however, the other european, suzann pettersen, said they had in fact not con­ceded the putt. Therefore lee had incurred a penalty stroke and the europeans had won the hole to go 1-up in the match. The pairings then halved the 18th, and the americans found themselves staring into the side of an even higher mountain. 
after the match, a fierce debate broke out on the 18th green between the two sides, and both lee and hull came away with tears streaming down their faces. 
american captain Julie inkster seized the moment and rallied her team, which came out on fire to begin the singles portion and never looked back, capturing the solheim cup for the first time in the last three contests. 
it was a great sporting mo­ment, made all the sweeter listening to the silence from the stunned european masses as the americans celebrated victory after victory on sunday. none of that annoying ‘olé, olé, olé’ chant the europeans shout non-stop. 
and it was precisely the kind of event golf needs more of. 
outside of a few specific venues and tournaments (the four majors — especially at augusta — st. andrews, etc.), watching golf is extremely dry and boring. and this is coming from someone who played golf throughout high school and has a golf course superinten­dent for a father. 
golf could use more team events where players work to create the atmosphere of one of the larger sports. look no further than the stadium­esque 16th hole at the Tpc of scottsdale, home of the phoenix open, dubbed the loudest hole in golf as play­ers walked through a tunnel underneath the stands to ap­proach the tee and are com­pletely surrounded by, frankly, people who know nothing about golf and a lot about hav­ing a good time. 
it would anger golf’s pur­ist core, but as the ryder and solheim cups have shown us, golf has the potential to be in the same realm as any of the top sporting events in the country. 
Contact  Zach Klonsinksi at  zklonsin1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
InterHall 

Interhall season opens with lopsided wins 
pasquerilla east 28, mcGlinn 0 
By MOLLY MURPHY 
sports writer 

pasquerilla east came out on top sunday in its 28-0 victory against a young mcglinn squad. The pyros got off to an unfortu­nate start to the season when a key defender was injured only a minute and thirty seconds into the first quarter, but the team quickly recovered to take con­trol of the game. 
The pyros’ win rested on the arm of sophomore quarterback hana Jenks, the reliable hands of junior receiver and captain noelle gooding and the quick feet of sophomore running back sydney boll, as well as a tight defense that made two key in­terceptions to put their offense in scoring position. 
gooding said her team did well to overcome injuries and get the win. 
“i think we did a great job,” gooding said. “we obviously started off pretty rough with a huge injury on our team’s de­fense, but we came back totally and played great.” 
gooding also credits a coach­ing staff headed by irish junior quarterback malik Zaire for the win. Zaire said the pyros need to keep improving. 
“we’re getting better,” Zaire said. “but we’re trying to be the best team in the league, so we’re working for that.” 
mcglinn struggled to gener­ate offensive momentum and riddled by defensive fouls, but senior captain megan Fabry said her team is optimistic about its season. 
“we’re a really young team,” Fabry said. “we have a lot of new players and players com­ing back from abroad from last year, so i think it’s just a matter of time before we start clicking, and i think we’re really going to be unstoppable after that.” 
The shamrocks will be look­ing to use lessons learned this sunday to improve as they face lewis at 5 p.m. sunday at labar practice complex. pasquerilla east will hope to improve to 2-0 as it faces badin at 4 p.m. 
Contact Molly Murphy at mmurph40@nd.edu 
Farley 35, badin 12 
By JACKIE BREBECK 
sports writer 

Farley started off strong in its defeat of badin on sunday in a high-scoring, intense battle, 35-12. 
returning junior quarterback lizzy moulton led the Farley of­fense to the win, throwing long, accurate passes and rushing aggressively. on the defense’s part, there was fierce play all across the board. 

Farley senior captain ali buersmeyer said her team achieved its goals of performing cohesively and maintaining a strong shape. 
“going in, we really wanted to organize and connect on passes and have good forward momen­tum,” beursmeyer said. “we definitely did that today. i was also proud of how our defense adjusted to the changes [in the lineup] after half time. all in all, there was great play on both sides of the ball today.” 
despite the large difference in the final score, the bullfrogs looked to be within reach for most of the game, moving the ball on offense both through the air and on the ground. 
badin came close to the end zone on multiple occasions but struggled in the red zone, hav­ing one touchdown taken back as a result of a penalty and an interception. 
Farley looks to continue its success sunday when it faces pangborn at labar practice complex at 4 p.m., while badin hopes for more progress and a win when it meets pasquerilla east at labar, also at 4 p.m. 
Contact Jackie Brebeck at  jbrebeck@nd.edu 
dillon 31, o’neill 0 
By BRENNA MOXLEY 
sports writer 
dillon earned a 31-0 victory over o’neill in it season opener, but not without cost as the big red lost a player to injury for the remainder of the season. 
dillon’s defense started strong, as sophomore Jack myers intercepted the ball from o’neill junior quarter­back Keenan bailey on the first pass of the game. The big red failed to convert the turnover to points, however, later fumbling the ball on their own one-yard line. 
after the recovery, o’neill responded with a fumble of its own, which led to the first touchdown by dillon. From there on out, it was smooth sail­ing for the big red. 
dillon added three more touchdowns as it pulled away from the angry mob, and a difficult 35-yard catch made by sophomore receiver Jeff melsheimer came in between rushing scores from junior running back paddy Toole and junior running back Tyler dale. dillon freshman quarterback michael cahill also added three points in the kicking game with a field goal. 
The big red lost sophomore david durkin due to a broken leg, but sophomore captain John walsh said the team was prepared to perform without him. 
“we lost a key player today,” walsh said. “durkin broke his leg, but the rest of the team looked good because we are so well coached. we are looking forward to week two.” 
The angry mob was unable to put up any points on the scoreboard, but junior cap­tain Keenan bailey responded positively. 
“i’m proud of my freshmen,” bailey said. “The foundation looks good; however, the score­board does speak for itself.” 
o’neill returns to action sunday at 1 p.m. for a matchup with Keenan at riehle Fields, while dillon has a bye week to prepare before facing stanford on oct. 4. 
Contact Brenna Moxley at  bmoxley01@saintmarys.edu 
ryan 28, lyons 0 
By TORI LLORENS 
sports writer 
calm and collected, ryan easily bested lyons on sunday for a 28-0 victory and strong start to the season. 
after catching three touch­downs from freshman quarter­back Jennifer moore, wildcats senior captain and receiver erin clark said she was happy with her own performance and the outcome of the game as a whole. 
”it was a really strong start to the season,” clark said. “a lot of girls really stepped up. The first years who had never played in a game before just went in and hit the ground running, and a lot of the upperclassmen showed re­ally good leadership today.” 
clad in yellow with black face paint, freshman mia dicara made an impact on the lyons offense. despite the loss, she said she had hope moving forward. 
“we did a lot of learning throughout the game, but thought it was a pretty positive experience for us,” dicara said. “i think we’re going to work a lot on getting together as a team and working as a team and working on our plays.” 
see inTerhall paGe 11 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


Interhall offensive line, scrambled winning ways at riehle Fields late in the fourth quarter, barely said there is work to be done. 
around the pocket and eventu-on sunday at 1 p.m., where it will avoiding a shutout. “it feels good to get the win,” 
conTinued From page 10 

ally found freshman receiver face o’neill, while Keough looks on the other side of the ball, andrews said. “and our defense 
in moving forward, clark said lukas cepkauskas wide open for to enter the win column when it the defense, led by junior captain played really well, but our offense she still sees areas for improve-a 60-yard touchdown down the meets stanford at riehle Fields at and defensive end steve Treacy, is still working some things out.” ment, especially in light of the field. The big third-down play the same time. was simply not able to win the both teams will be looking to high number of penalties the drew the praise of junior captain battle at the line of scrimmage. shake the rust off going forward wildcats drew. michael Koller after the game. Contact Joe Everett at  “miscommunication up front as the gentlemen face carroll 
“little things really,” said “i think we played well,” Koller jeveret@nd.edu really killed us,” Treacy said. “The on sunday at 2:15 p.m. at riehle clarek. “Just making sure the said. “our freshmen played re-scheme we had didn’t really work Fields, while Fisher has a bye week defense is keeping up commu-ally well today, and the offense out for us, but we made some before facing sorin on oct. 4. nication. Today, we had a couple really stepped up as a whole, be-morrissey 20, duncan 0 adjustments and played a re­plays where we hurt ourselves, cause normally we don’t have a ally good second half. we played Contact Tony Zappia at  
By MAUREEN SCHWENINGER lost yards here and then. Just strong offense.” sports writer tough, and i’m proud of that.” azappia@nd.edu perfecting that stuff so we’re Keenan’s defense was certain-The highlanders look to review not giving the other team any ly up to the task of stopping the morrissey came out in full force their zone blocking schemes be-free yards. working on timing. Keough offense, as the Knights against duncan this past sunday fore facing off against Knott this Walsh 18, breen-phillips 6 sharpening up some things. consistently found their way into in a 20-6 finish. sophomore cap-sunday at 1 p.m. at riehle Fields, 
By MONTANA GIORDANO 

Timing is everything.” the backfield to disrupt plays tain and quarterback declan while morrissey will continue its sports writer 
lyons next faces pasquerilla early, taking advantage of their Zidar said it was the manor’s first title defense against alumni in west at labar practice complex opponent’s shaky offensive line. step in retaining the interhall the same location at 3:30 p.m. walsh’s defense was just too at 6 p.m. sunday, while ryan will Keaough junior captain and title. much for breen-phillips to han­face breen-phillips at 5 p.m. on quarterback matthew mooney “i think we played well — ran Contact Maureen Schweninger dle sunday night at the labar the same day, also at labar. said the offensive line was his well, but the defense was great,” at mschweni@nd.edu practice complex. The wild 
team’s biggest weakness. Zidar said. “expanding the play-women defeated the babes, 18-6, Contact Tori Llorens at  “we struggled blocking peo-book is really the next step.” to earn a week one victory in their vllorens@nd.edu ple up front today,” mooney The manor featured a run st. edward’s 3, Fisher 0 quest to a playoff return. 
said. “we got in a lot of third-game which seems to have only walsh junior co-captains 
By TONY ZAPPIA 

and-longs, and that stalled the improved since last year. despite sports writer courtney davis and moira Tripp Keenan 7, Keough 0 offense.” Zidar saying last week he planned said they were excited about their senior anibal Torres led to emphasize the passing game, st. edward’s emerged victori-team’s performance. 
By JOE EVERETT 

sports writer Keenan’s relentless defense all the team elected to run the ball ous sunday, defeating Fisher, “i’m really proud of how we day long, constantly breaking on 25 out of 27 plays. 3-0, in a defensive struggle which played today,” Tripp said. “we 
on a balmy afternoon at into the backfield and harassing senior running back hunter saw more turnovers than points have a pretty young team, and stepan Fields, Keenan began its Keough and mooney, who was white finished the day with over scored. they seem to learn things pretty march back to the champion-intercepted in the fourth quarter 100 rushing yards. he was met however, what this matchup quickly.” ship sunday with a 7-0 shutout of to seal the win for Keenan. with little resistance and scored lacked in points it made up for in walsh’s stingy defense and the Keough. however, mooney said he all three morrissey touchdowns. drama. performance of freshman quar-
The first game of the season was pleased with the team’s although white lost the ball in a early on, Fisher attempted to terback catherine moseley led for both teams was a defensive performance. second-quarter fumble, duncan wear down the st. edward’s de-the wild women to the victory. struggle throughout, with nei-“we played a really good team was unable to capitalize on the fensive line with the power run, “our freshman quarterback, ther side finding a consistent today, but i think our team turnover. but having its only drive of the catie moseley, did a great job to-offensive rhythm. The deadlock competed against them well,” The highlander offense was first quarter thwarted on fourth day,” davis said. “she definitely was broken in the third quarter, mooney said. “our defense left to play catch-up all game, hit-down, Fisher opened up the play-had the biggest impact on the however, when Keenan senior played great; the difference was ting nine of 18 passes and strug-book and mixed passes and runs game.” quarterback aaron digenova, just one big play.” gling to get its run game on its for the remainder of the game. The babes offense struggled with the help of a tenacious Keenan looks to continue its feet. its lone touchdown came Fisher’s junior captain to move the ball and was held 
shannon massey said his team scoreless for the first three quar­paid adverTisemenT 
could have used more practice to ters. dropped passes and poorly better its offensive woes. executed handoffs plagued the 
“To be honest, we just didn’t babes. have enough practice time to breen-phillips sophomore cap-install everything we wanted,” tain megan resnik credited the massey said. “we played hard; mistakes to her team’s youth and we just didn’t have enough time.” inexperience. 
st. edward’s offense also strug-“we are a very young team, and gled early as relentless blitzing this is the first time a lot of these forced the gentlemen to begin girls have played flag football,” running an option attack. resnik said. 
The game remained locked at despite the loss, resnik said 0-0 well into the fourth quarter. she took some positives out of her however, in a game with few young team’s performance. successful long passes, it was ul-“i was impressed how we grad­timately a lengthy completion ually got better, which usually is which set up st. edward’s sopho-the opposite of what happens,” more kicker brandon ryan to resnik said. “we started to pick kick the go-ahead field goal with up the speed of the game as the five minutes remaining. game went along.” 
“i was really glad we got the The wild women look to pol-kick, especially since we hadn’t ish up their game as they head practiced it that much,” st. into next week’s matchup with edward’s junior captain phineas cavanaugh at 6 p.m. at labar andrews said. practice complex, while the 
Freshman cornerback brian babes will look to rebound after ball sealed the game for st. sunday’s loss, when they take on edward’s with an interception in ryan on sunday at 6 p.m. the end zone on Fisher’s ensuing drive. Contact Montana Giordano at 
summing up the win, andrews mgiorda2@nd.edu 




The observer | tuesday, september 22, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


smC sports 

Belles put together strong start to week 
don’t get the result. Today, upcoming conference sea-
By MICHAEL IVEY, SEAN 
we were not going to be de-son,” belles head coach Kim 
KILMER, RYAN KLAUS and 
nied and came back from an moore said. “i really feel we 
BENJAMIN PADANILAM 
sports writers early one-goal deficit.” have a strong team that can Tomorrow, however, the compete with the top teams soccer belles face a tough matchup in the miaa. i expect our 
saint mary’s looks to earn when they host the Knights team to ride the momentum its second straight victory (6-2, 4-0 miaa), who come we have from our previous when it takes on calvin to-into the contest with a six-o’brien tournament and morrow afternoon at the game winning streak. during continue with their consis-Junior irish airport Fields. this streak, calvin has out-tent play.” 
The belles (1-5, 1-3 miaa) scored its opponents, 13-3. moore said she is expect-earned their first win of the They have been led by the ing big things from juniors season Thursday in a de-strong play of junior forward ali mahoney and courtney cisive 4-1 game over Trine. carly veenstra, who leads carlson, as well as freshman The four-goal effort against the team with five goals and Taylor Kehoe. the Thunder (1-5, 0-4 miaa) two assists on the season, all “i expect our number one bucked a slow start to the of which have come during player, ali mahoney, to con-season which has seen the the Knights’ winning streak. tinue her stellar play and be belles score just one goal in after playing three games that consistent base for our the first five games of the in six days last week, The team this conference sea-season. belles’ match with calvin son,” moore said. “i also ex-

The belles trailed in the is its first since Thursday. pect some good things out of game early after conceding nuber said the time off has Taylor Kehoe and courtney a goal in the 11th minute, been beneficial for the team. carlson. They have been when Thunder sophomore “we needed the time to get practicing very well, and i midfielder gigi Jarratt scored healthy,” nuber said. “senior hope that confidence contin­her first goal of the season. [midfielder] Kathleen ues on to next week and the however, belles junior for-lueking has not played in the rest of this season.” ward liza Felix scored in last two-and-a-half matches, moore said she believes the 27th minute to bring the and she is key for us. we have her team’s previous tourna­game to a tie going into half-a few players who are play-ments this season have given time. in the second half, the ing through some injuries so it much needed experience belles scored three goals in these six days [have] really for the conference schedule. the final 14 minutes of play, helped the team.” “our team is always look-as junior defender emily The belles will kick off ing to improve,” moore said. rompola scored twice off against the Knights tomor-“we are always working on and put up one of our best tournament. saint mary’s corner kicks, and junior mid-row at 4 p.m. at the Junior our flaws so that we can turn team scores of the year.” will return to conference play fielder Kate vasile found the irish airport Fields. our weaknesses into our when it hosts Kalamazoo on back of the net in the 90th strengths. i feel that our pre-Volleyball Tuesday. That game is the minute. Golf vious events have been great after a stretch of tough first in a string of four con-
Following the game, belles saint mary’s will compete preparation going into our competition last week, saint ference games for the belles. head coach Ken nuber said in the first miaa confer-first miaa jamboree. mary’s only dropped one he was proud of his team’s ence jamboree of the year “one lesson we learned set in two victories at the Cross Country efforts. wednesday at the medalist is that we have the players milikin tournament over the saint mary’s returned to 
“we played well today to golf course in marshall, on this team that can play weekend. action Friday in the spartan earn our first conference win michigan. This is the first of with a lot of the good teams in their first match at the invitational on the campus of of the season,” nuber said. five conference events over in division iii. we should tournament, the belles beat michigan state. “very proud of the players. i the next three weeks. The be able to compete with the webster, 3-1 (25-21, 23-25, Junior brittany beeler feel we have done enough to first jamboree will be hosted likes of hope, olivet and 25-18, 25-18). The belles put once again led the belles. have three wins already this by olivet. Trine. we are looking to start together a .258 attack per-beeler finished with a time season, but sometimes, you “i am very excited for this off strong this wednesday centage and were able to of 24:25, which was good 
close out close sets after for 99th place overall. The they struggled to do that last spartan invitational did not week at home against miaa include team scoring, but the foes adrian and calvin. invitational hosted over 300 senior outside hitter Katie runners from all levels of col­hecklinski posted 12 kills, lege running. nine digs and three aces, beyond beeler, the belles while junior outside hitter received solid performances meaghan gibbons led the from freshman aubrey penn, team with 16 kills. who finished in 129th with a 
against rose-hulman, time of 25:03, as well as se­the belles again continued nior allie danhof and sopho­to finish tight sets. The first more anna mcclowry, who two sets were close before finished in 146th and 174th, the team shut the door in respectively. the third to complete the The race was won by sweep (25-23, 25-22, 25-18). michigan state junior hecklinski again had a solid rachele schulist. schulist game, earning 15 kills to go finished with a time of 21:01. along with 14 digs. The belles The belles are set to re­posted a .250 attack percent-turn to action next saturday age, which was very similar at the miaa jamboree. The to the .258 they posted in event will be hosted by hope their first game. Junior set-and take place at the west ter clare mcmillan added 22 ottawa golf club in holland, assists, while sophomore de-michigan. fensive specialist mcKenzie Todd also tallied 14 digs for Contact Michael Ivey at  the belles. mivey@hcc-nd.edu, Sean 
For their efforts, hecklinski Kilmer at skilmer@nd.edu, and gibbons were named Ryan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu to the all-conference team and Benjamin Padanilam at at the conclusion of the bpadanil@nd.edu 




ndsmcobserver.com | tuesday, september 22, 2015 | The observer 



paid adverTisemenT 
Volleyball 
conTinued From page 16 
we’ve worked on is mak­ing sure we’re placing our arms over the net more. we just want to make sure ev­eryone is doing their job, doing our serves well. i don’t think we had many serve errors, and our de­fense was really good.” 
despite the strong start against ball state, notre dame stumbled during its second game against south dakota, losing 3-2 (25-23, 20-25, 25-14, 19-25, 15-6). in the games the irish won, their attacking percent­ages were high, and when they lost, their attacking rates were .125, .161 and .000. 
The coyotes had a total of 64 kills in the five sets and most of their players con­tributed to their success offensively. sophomore setter brittany Jessen had a total of nine kills, 12 digs and 47 kills to help lead south dakota to the five-set win. 
“not too sure what hap­pened [against south dakota],” Fry said. “i don’t know if we weren’t focused, but we definitely learned quickly from that loss and used what we learned against purdue.” 
notre dame was able to win a set against no. 22 purdue, but it didn’t do enough to win the match, losing three sets to one (25-12, 24-26, 28-26, 25­16). The irish made it in­teresting with a win in the second frame, but despite giving the boilermakers a tough third set, notre dame wasn’t able to put away a second straight set to take the lead. purdue then won the final set convincingly to take the match and win the boiler box challenge with a 3-0 record. 
“They had a really good hitter on the right side,” Fry said. “we were back to working hard against purdue, and they’re a real­ly good team. we were able to take a set against them. even though we lost, we played well and got better as it progressed.” 
Fry led the team with 15 kills in their game against purdue. Kuhn also added another 13 kills. at the end of the tournament, Fry was given all-tournament hon­ors for her performance over the weekend. 
“i don’t like to be an indi­vidual type of player,” Fry said. “i like the aspect of a team. it was awesome i was awarded that, but i’m more focused on the team.” 
notre dame will have a chance to redeem itself Friday as it opens confer­ence play against louisville at purcell pavilion at 7 p.m. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 



The observer | tuesday, september 22, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


and just made the one mis-vangorder’s defensive 
carolina, a measure of defensive 
m soccer 

Football take in the red zone on the scheme, did not see the field stability will need to be restored 
conTinued From page 16 

conTinued From page 16 interception, which was obvi-during notre dame’s 30-22 in order to give the irish offense a 
ously a big one.” win over georgia Tech on 
chance to establish a lead. 
and three scores on the The irish had a high number saturday. 
and bounce right back to where Klekota said he believes the 

ground saturday, and while of illegal procedure penalties Kelly said the absence was we were last week.” game will allow the irish defense to 
his 91-yard score garnered saturday, which Kelly attrib-the result of two factors: as the no. 2-ranked team in the play to its strengths. The spartans 
the majority of the headlines, uted mostly to unfamiliarity redfield’s broken thumb and nation with conference and na-have struggled to establish their 
Kelly said the senior’s ability to with the new signal-caller. tailoring a defensive plan to tional championship aspirations, offense recently as well, manag­
fight for a couple extra yards is “it still is a little louder counter Tech’s triple-option every opportunity for the irish to ing only one goal in their past three 
also impressive. at home with the new con-attack. prove themselves will be an im-fixtures, a trend the irish defense 
“he’s tough to bring down,” struction,” Kelly said. “but “you know, we had made a 
portant one. Their ranking is likely hopes to continue. 

Kelly said. “his lower-body it is mostly getting used to decision that [senior safety] to take a dip in the coming days “we like to use every game as 
strength is really so much deshone. he kind of elon-elijah [shumate] would be 
— they’ve dropped two matches a chance to show our strengths,” 

more than people think. he gated his cadence sometimes playing, chiefly be middle of since the last round of rankings Klekota said. “it’s a great game to 
runs through tacklers and he’s with some pressures and the field for us,” Kelly said. were posted. show our style but by no means will 
difficult to bring down. movement in front of him, “and then obviously, when with that in mind, a win versus we use their lack of scoring in their 
“sometimes we’d like to fin-and the guys just weren’t used we went to the two-safety 
a scrappy michigan state team that recent past as a reason for good 

ish his runs off with his pads to it, quite frankly.” look, it was [sophomore] has garnered their share of top-25 defense. They are a good offensive 
a little bit lower. i thought he at the end of the day, Kelly drue [Tranquill] and [gradu­votes would go a long way towards team and it just hasn’t fallen for 
was better at it on saturday, said, each of Kizer’s mistakes ate student matthias Farley’s] setting the team back on the right them yet. it’s our job to go out, work 
but he’s very difficult to bring was correctable. position. path. Klekota emphasized the im-hard, and do everything right de­
down. he’s a big kid.” “all of them are things he “ … [redfield] was in a portance of a road win as a means fensively. if we do, i think we have a 
can learn from and grow backup position because of 
of avoiding a downward spiral in good shot at getting a good result.” 

Kizer’s starting debut from,” Kelly said. “and so the option, and then his hand the loss columns and the rankings. a good result is especially vital 
in his first game as notre i thought from a first-time — he obviously didn’t play 
“obviously the game is impor-considering the strength of the 

dame’s starting quarterback, start, beating a nationally-very well the week before with tant because a win gets us off this competition the irish look to face in 
sophomore deshone Kizer ranked team, i thought it was it, so that’s what put him in a losing streak,” Klekota said. “we the coming weeks. six of the irish’s 
went 21-of-30 for 242 yards a good way for him to get his backup position.” do not want to make losing a habit, nine remaining regular season fix-
and a score, but also tossed an first start.” Kelly said redfield, who and this game is a great opportu-tures feature teams either current-
interception in the end zone wore a cast on his hand nity for us.” ly ranked or receiving top-25 votes 
to cut short a potential irish Folston injury update against virginia after break-so great an opportunity, in fact, in the most recent polls. The irish’s 
scoring drive in the second The man prosise started the ing his thumb during the the irish haven’t even begun to strength of schedule carries a great 
quarter. season behind on the depth game against Texas the previ­think about the matchup with the deal of weight, but the team needs 
Kelly said he was pleased chart, junior running back ous weekend, would be evalu­
defending champion, virginia, to win a majority of those high-pro­

with the sophomore’s first Tarean Folston, underwent ated this week, and could that awaits them when they return file matchups to maintain its place 
start, but also noted there surgery Thursday in Florida return to the starting lineup home. in the national rankings. 
were areas for improvement. and returned to campus against massachusetts. “To be honest, no one has men-as far as Klekota and the team 
“he did some pretty good saturday night to begin re-“i think we’ll probably have 
tioned uva yet because michigan are concerned, though, the future 

things,” Kelly said. “you know, hab. Folston tore his right acl a conversation with him, see state is such a big game,” Klekota does not matter beyond Tuesday 
said. night. The irish face off against 
i like the way he manages the during notre dame’s 38-3 win how he feels,” the irish head 

offense from a protection over Texas on sept. 5. coach said. “and then go to a win over michigan state is far michigan state at 4 p.m. at the 
standpoint, gets us into the work Tuesday and see how he from assured, though. The irish demartin soccer complex in east 
right protections. run game, redfield absent saturday is out on the field.” will have to shore up their de-lansing. 
fense in order to prevail over the 
reads were pretty good. Junior safety max redfield, 
spartans — after giving up four Contact Brett O’Connell at  
“could be a little more ac-a usual starter in irish de-Contact Alex Carson at  
unanswered goals against north boconne1@nd.edu paid adverTisemenT 
curate throwing the football. fensive coordinator brian acarson1@nd.edu 




ndsmcobserver.com | tuesday, september 22, 2015 | The observer 

CrossWord | will shorTZ 



Just add Water | eric carlson and John roddy 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
sudoKu | The mepham group 


HorosCope | eugenia lasT 
happy birthday: you’ll face some emotional situations, but in the end, the outcome and rewards will help to ease any discomfort you encountered along the way. a change in your financial situation looks promising. Focus on personal papers, legalities and health. protecting your interests and keeping up to date on issues will help position you for a better future. your numbers are 8, 15, 23, 26, 38, 42, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): aries (march 21-april 19): work hard, say little and avoid discord. put more into your performance and the way you present what you can do. subtle changes will make a difference to the outcome of a situation that revolves around a personal relationship.  

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don’t go overboard when dealing with personal or physical challenges. a realistic attitude will help you reach your goals and get along with others. Talking to an expert will pay off. an unexpected offer will be made.         

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): be sensible regarding investments and expenditures. do as much of the work yourself as possible if you want to make home improvements. negotiations will be tough and could result in some last-minute changes to your plans. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): a unique situation will develop due to a discussion with someone you look up to or respect. listen carefully and make a personal decision based on your gut feelings and your ability to deal with whatever results unfold. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): use your strength, courage and wherewithal to get things done on time. your ability to react quickly to whatever situation you face will help you achieve what you set out to do. a personal change will lead to compliments.      

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Keep the peace. do things that will help you gain knowledge and allow you to view your position and options thoroughly before you make a decision that will affect your personal life. don’t overreact regardless of what others do or say. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): gather information and get involved in projects or events that you deem worthwhile. The people you connect with will change the way you view your personal life. don’t let anyone bully you into settling for less. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): look for unique, unfamiliar or unusual ways to solve problems, help others and take care of your personal and professional interests. choosing to take the road less traveled will separate you from anyone who tries to steal your thunder. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): refuse to let what others do or say daunt you. put everything you’ve got into the pursuits that suit you best. a personal change will increase your happiness and boost your standard of living. romance will lead to a closer bond with someone special. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): make up your mind based on the research you do on your own. don’t feel the need to make a hasty decision to accommodate someone who is pushy. an unusual opportunity to make a personal gain is apparent. emotional issues will surface. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take care of financial, medical and legal issues. don’t let anyone bribe or push you into something that isn’t a good fit for you. be diplomatic and you will be able to bring about the changes that will make your life better. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): expect to face an unusual roadblock. don’t trust anyone to take care of your responsibilities for you. put your energy into taking action and honoring your promises. leave nothing unfinished and you’ll avoid criticism. don’t complicate your life. 

Birthday Baby: you are courageous, proactive and tenacious. you are hardworking and dedicated. 
Jumble | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 


make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


men’s soCCer 
Notre Dame hopes for rebound after two losses 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writer 
The no. 2 irish seek to end their first losing streak of the season on Tuesday as they head to east lansing, michigan, to face off against big Ten upstart michigan state. 
after suffering a disheartening loss at the hands of no. 3 north carolina, giving up four consecu­tive goals en route to a 4-2 defeat, the irish (4-2-1, 1-1-0 acc) will seek to end their road stretch on a high note before returning home later this week. 
senior midfielder connor Klekota expressed excitement about heading up to east lansing, hoping for a chance for the team to prove itself capable of right­ing the ship following their first multi-loss streak of the season. 
“The great thing about our schedule is we have opportunities each game to win a big contest,” Klekota said. “[michigan] state is a top team and the game gives us a quality chance to prove our­selves again to the country AMY ACKERMANN | The Observer 
Senior midfielder Evan Panken pushes the ball forward in an  see m soccer paGe 14 exhibition against Valparaiso on Apr. 29 at Old Alumni Field. 

nd Volleyball 
Irish win one of three at Purdue 
By MANNY De JESUS 
sports writer 
The notre dame volley­ball team traveled to west lafayette over the weekend to compete in the purdue boiler box challenge, in which it finished 1-2. 
The irish (5-7) started off on the right foot Friday night, beating ball state 3-0 (25-16, 25-18, 25-19). sophomore middle blocker sam Fry, sophomore out­side hitter sydney Kuhn and freshman middle blocker meg morningstar led the irish throughout the match. The three of them helped notre dame achieve a .313 attacking rate, their highest percentage of the season. in addition to leading the team with 10 kills, Fry had a team-high five blocks. Kuhn provided eight kills and sev­en digs, and morningstar added another seven kills for the offense. 
notre dame finished their first set against the cardinals with a 12-point win, which ended with a serve error committed by ball state. The second set was much more competitive between the two teams af­ter being tied up at 10 points apiece. The irish eventu­ally pulled away from the cardinals, going on a 9-2 run that gave them the win in the second set. in the fi­nal set, the irish played ex­ceptionally well on offense, posting 14 kills, which was too much for the cardinals to handle. The irish walked away with the sweep after a kill from morningstar se­cured the final point. 
Fry said the team’s focus leading up to the weekend was primarily on their de­fensive efforts. 
“we worked on our block­ing,” Fry said. “Throughout the past tournaments, that was part of the game that we wanted to work on. working with the girls in the middle is sort of what i focused on. one of the techniques that 
see volleyball paGe 13 
nd Women’s GolF 
nd takes fifth at schooner classic 
Observer Sports Staff 
in a weekend dominated by thunderstorms, notre dame set a school record for a 36-hole event when the rain-shortened schooner Fall classic finally came to a close late monday. 
at the end of the first round of the event saturday, the irish were slotted in fourth, led by freshman emma albrecht and junior Jordan Ferreira, who both shot rounds at even par. as a team, the irish were two over par. 
weather was not a factor in the first round of the classic, but it caused several problems during sunday’s second round, which was delayed multiple times before ultimately being cancelled. 
play resumed on monday morning and notre dame picked up right where it left off saturday. as a team, the irish were three under par, which was the third-lowest gross score in notre dame history. combined with monday’s first round, notre dame finished with a score of 567 (one under par), which was just the third time the irish have ended a tournament under par in school history. 
as a result of their 36-hole team totals, notre dame fin­ished in fifth place overall at the schooner Fall classic. 
notre dame’s impressive team totals included individual performances that stood out as well. in particular, albrecht broke Katie brophy’s 36-hole school record by shooting an aggregate 139 (three under par) in just her second collegiate tournament. 
oklahoma state won the tournament by seven shots when play was com­pleted monday afternoon. Kansas sophomore yupaporn Kawinpakorn won the individ­ual portion of the tournament with an overall score of 131 (11 under par). 
notre dame will have this upcoming weekend off before returning to action oct. 5 at the chip-n-club invitational. university of nebraska will host the tournament in lincoln, nebraska. 
Football 

 Prosise runs his way into program record books 
By ALEX CARSON 
associate sports editor 
when he ran away from a pack of chasing georgia Tech defenders for a 91-yard touch­down saturday, c.J. prosise wrote his name into the notre dame stadium record books 
— but it wasn’t in the way irish head coach brian Kelly and his staff originally thought prosise would when he arrived on cam­pus as a freshman. 
The senior running back began life at notre dame as a defensive back before switch­ing to the offensive side of the ball as a receiver in 2012 — this year, he transitioned into the backfield after a strong spring practice at the position. 
“i’m glad our defensive coaches didn’t think he could backpedal very well, which kind of looks silly right now, doesn’t it?,” Kelly said during his sunday teleconference. “so much for our evaluation process.” 
prosise amassed 198 yards 
see FooTball paGe 14 





