The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 49 | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
NOTRE DAME FORUM 
Keynote address explores religious liberty 
Former Notre Dame law professor weighs in on constitutional nature of religious freedom 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
associate news editor 
John h. garvey, president of The catholic university of america and former notre dame law professor, delivered the keynote address of the notre dame law review symposium on Friday af­ternoon and addressed the recent shift in focus in the religious liber­ty debate. This year’s symposium is titled “religious liberty and the Free society: celebrating the 50th anniversary of ‘dignitatis humanae’” and is part of the 2015­16 notre dame Forum. 
The ideas of religious liberty as “freedom from” and “freedom to” are not in opposition, but parts of the same idea, he said. 
“we can’t talk about religious liberty without invoking both of them,” he said. liberty, in the con­stitutional sense, is always a right against state interference, a ‘free­dom from.’ liberty is also always a right to do something, a ‘freedom to.’ The right to speak, to assemble to practice religion, to get married, to have sex.” 
garvey said there have been two phases in the modern debate over religious liberty. 
“The first phase [was] in which the opponents of religious free­dom focused on freedom from state interference. The argued that religion is an important social and theological good which deserves our utmost respect, but neverthe­less, in this particular case the state 
see Forum PAGE 5 




Mooney responds to Planned Parenthood controversy 
which represented 10 services campus visit from the planned 
Observer Staff Report 
offered by planned parenthood parenthood project oct. 15 
saint mary’s president carol not related to abortion or pro-during the college’s pro-life ann mooney responded to the viding contraception. week. The planned parenthood campus controversy surround-religious studies profes-project focuses on abortion, ing planned parenthood in an sor and chair of the depart-one service that planned email to students Thursday. ment of gender and women’s parenthood provides, davis 
on oct. 29, saint mary’s studies (gws) stacy davis told said. Feminists united club hosted the observer last week that the a display of 1,852 flags, each of display was in response to a see mooney PAGE 5 


GRC promotes inclusion 

By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
members of the notre dame community are coming together for stand against hate week, which aims to raise awareness of the prevalence of hatred both on and off campus. 
maureen mcKenney, assistant director for lgbTQ initiatives for the gender relations center (grc), said stand against hate week was originally oriented around the lgbTQ community but has evolved in recent years 
LUCY DU | The Observer 
see sTand PAGE 5 


smc seniors host dad’s weekend 

By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 
saint mary’s senior class in­vited their fathers to a variety of events at saint mary’s and notre dame this past weekend 
for the annual  senior  dad’s  
weekend.  
class president  coco  craig  

said the tradition of inviting fa­thers to campus has been part of the saint mary’s experience for decades. 
craig said she spoke with a professor and alumna of saint mary’s who said when she went to saint mary’s, dads would come to spend the weekend with their daughters. 
“There’s always been an event for at least 50 years where dads would come to bond with their daughters,” she said. 
see smc dads PAGE 3 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 9 irish insider wiThin 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney cristina guiterrez Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: mariah villasenor Controller: marisa aguayo Systems Administrator: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 

If you could give yourself a hashtag, what would it be? 

Ashley Hodge-Ahimbisibwe 
sophomore pasquerilla east hall 
“#confused.” 
Hiba Kahouli 
sophomore pasquerilla east hall 
“#hardrocker.” 
Roxana Rodriguez 
sophomore pasquerilla east hall 
“#coffeeeveryday.” 


Sarah Cruz 
junior pasquerilla east hall 
“#pizza.” 
Victoria Madison 
sophomore 
pasquerilla east hall 
“#neverusedatwitter.” 
Natalie Mesa 
sophomore pasquerilla east hall 
“#strugglebus2015.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

haleigh ehmsen alex carson Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
selena ponio rachel o’grady margaret hynds 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
lucy du matt munhall 
Photo Viewpoint 

Workshop Tai Chi in the Veteran’s Day Staff Mass Hot apple cider and 
emily Kruse claire radler 

Brownson Hall Galleries Memorial Ceremony Log Chapel donuts 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Snite Museum of Art Clarke Memorial 10 a.m. Fieldhouse Mall Learn how to craft 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Fountain Staff chaplain Fr. Jim 1 p.m.-3 p.m. 
Corrections 

a compelling grant Relax in the Transitory 5 p.m.  Bracke will preside. Part of StaND Against 
The observer regards itself as proposal. Waterscapes exhibit. Follows 24-hour vigil. Hate Week. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Lecture Lecture Baraka Bouts Finals Iron Sharpens Iron Trumpets under the 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

DeBartolo Hall Eck Visitors Center Joyce Center Coleman-Morse Dome 
however, recognize that we will make 

5:30p.m.-6:30 p.m. 4:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. 6 p.m. Center Main Building 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 

Dr. Richard Jackson Marie Reimers will Women’s boxing 10 p.m. - 11:30 p.m. 4:10 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 

will discuss healthy discuss end-of-life tournament benefitting Weekly praise and A home game weekend 
we can correct our error. 

communities. issues. Holy Cross missions. worship service. tradition. 


students celebrate asian cultures at fair 
By WEI LIN 
assistant managing editor 
The sounds of samulnori drums echoed throughout laFortune student center on sunday, ringing from the ballroom, which was trans­formed into a fair where three cultures came togeth­er to celebrate the languag­es, cultures and diversity at notre dame. The language programs of the department of east asian languages and cultures held its fifth an­nual “celebrate asia!” event to celebrate the unique cul­tures of china, Japan and Korea. 
“celebrate asia!” is spon­sored by the department of east asian languages and cultures and the liu institute for asia and asian studies. 
students got their creative juices flowing by hand-de­signing Korean fans called “buchaes” and practicing calligraphy in chinese, Japanese or Korean. some got competitive in “wuzi qi,” a traditional chinese board game that resembles connect Four. others tested their motor skills by play­ing “ti jianzi,” a game that involves keeping a weighted shuttlecock in the airborne using their feet. 
yongping Zhu, associ­ate professor and chinese program coordinator, highlighted the importance of this event. 
“we believe that language and culture cannot be sepa­rated,” he said. “students will learn the languages bet­ter once they know the cul­tures. … Through this event, students will not only learn the culture in their target languages but also other re­lated east asian cultures.” 
speakers  together,  and]  
‘celebrate  asia!’ is one of  
them.  

as for next year, Zhu said he already had some ideas to further improve the event. he said each program re­places an activity or two each year to meet the stu­dents’ interests. while most booths exhibit traditional cultures of the countries, the planning committee is looking to increase the num­ber of activities that better represent modern east asia. 
professional special­ist noriko hanabusa said the event could make the Japanese program and Japanese culture more vis­ible on campus. 
“unlike chinese and Korean, [the] Japanese pro­gram is facing serious chal­lenges: we have very few native speakers or heri­tage speakers of Japanese on campus and in the south bend community,” hanabusa said. “ … so, it is difficult for students taking Japanese to use the language in the real-life context. we are actively planning to 
paid adverTisemenT 

“The focus in our language classes is practicing the skills of languages, and we do not have enough time to talk about various cultural aspects. The event could introduce some unique culture on hands-on activities which I think is very important.” 
Noriko Hanabusa 
professional specialist 
market. 
Qinfeng wu, an interna­tional graduate student, said his favorite aspect of the event was the ability to introduce so many parts of the asian culture in a fun way and in a short amount of time. 
“it’s like a crash course, very efficient in raising peo­ple’s interests in asia,” wu said. 
wu noted some of the lim­itations of such an event. he said the activities repre­sented only very small por­tion of the chinese culture but also said that the fun activities kept the students engaged and is a good com­plement to the classroom lectures. 
dennis Zheng, a student enrolled in second-year chinese, said the event did a good job not only in repre­senting and highlighting his culture, but also in show­casing the cultures of other east asian countries. 
“as a chinese american, i also caught a glimpse of how the Korean and the Japanese cultures engaged in recreational activities as compared to the chinese,” Zheng said. “ … This event highlights expression of culture through recreation­al activities.” 
Contact Wei Lin  at wlin4@nd.edu 
have extracurricular activi­ties and events to get [these 

Japanese or Korean lan­guage class were required to attend this class as part of the course requirements. a pamphlet listing all the ac­
“The focus in our lan­guage classes is practicing the skills of languages, and we do not have enough time to talk about various cultur­al aspects. The event could introduce some unique cul­ture on hands-on activi­ties, which i think is very important.” 
hanabusa said the faculty members of all three pro­grams spent a lot of time planning to make “celebrate asia!” an annual occasion and that it is a testament of the three programs’ ability to communicate. 
in attendance were lan­guage students, inter­national students, asian americans and students who just wanted to learn about the east asian cul­tures. students in a chinese, tivities and a brief descrip­tion of each was provided to every participant. students received stamps after visit­ing each booth, and eight stamps were required to re­ceive the credit for attend­ing the event. 

a number of participants brought friends outside of the language classes; some came for the culture, activi­ties and fun, others came for the food. 
The event offered east asian food not found in the dining halls. The chinese program ordered en­trees from Jw chen’s. The Japanese program provided a variety of sushi from the local martin’s supermarket. The Korean program of­fered sweet rice cake des­serts from nearby oriental 


SMC Dads 
conTinued From page 1 
more than 425 people were registered for the weekend, craig said, which was about 50 more people than expected. 
craig said the weekend start­ed with registration and a wel­come reception with snacks and beverages. she said that different vendors from the area had stands at the reception and a percentage of everything the vendors sold went to the class. 
saturday started with a tour of notre dame stadium, which included the north tunnel en­trance, the locker room and the “play like a champion Today” sign, craig said. afterwards, students and their fathers were free to spend the rest of the day on their own, an opportunity which most people took to dine at south bend restaurants and watch the notre dame football game. 
The saturday night dinner was held at the century center in downtown south bend, craig said. 
“president [carol ann] mooney spoke at the dinner,” craig said. “we also had a silent auction during the dinner. … it can range from sports game tickets to any kind of goodie basket.” 
craig said the weekend is a chance for students to spend time with their fathers while at school. 
“[students] have personal time that they wouldn’t nor­mally have at school to hang out with your dad,” craig said. “They also get to meet everyone else’s family and their fathers. it’s a really fun experience that usually people don’t get to do while at school.” 
craig said it is important to have dads’ weekend as part of senior year at the college. 
“at that point, you can show your dad all of the activities you do on the weekends and all of the fun places you like to go,” craig said. “at the same time, you have your friend group. you know your friends and by that time, you can bond with ev­eryone. all the dads can bond together and all the daughters can bond together. basically, everyone can have quality time together.” 
Contact Nicole Caratas at ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 




Mooney 
conTinued From page 1 
mooney said in the email that before fall break, the college student pro-life group, belles for life, invit­ed the nationwide planned parenthood project to cam­pus with the aim of bringing to light facts about planned parenthood that are con­trary to the consistent life ethic taught by the catholic church. 
after the planned parenthood project visited campus, Feminists united wanted to respond by having an event at which they would display flags representing the non-abortion services provid­ed by planned parenthood. 
“The student affairs office rightly took the position that a saint mary’s student group cannot advocate for planned parenthood because planned parenthood acts contrary to church teaching,” mooney said. 
after extended discussion between student affairs and concerned students, mooney said the students were grant­ed permission to set up a display of unmarked flags standing for the number of non-abortion services pro­vided last year by planned parenthood. 
“student affairs insisted that not only were the flags to be unmarked, but there was to be no sign indicating that the flags had anything to do with planned parenthood,” she said. “These constraints were placed on this student organization because rec­ognized student groups at saint mary’s are not permit­ted to advocate for positions contrary to catholic church teaching.” 
at the display, a small group of faculty members decided to distribute a fact sheet concerning the num­ber of sTi/sTd tests and treatments, cancer screen­ings, contraceptive services, pregnancy tests and prenatal services provided by planned parenthood last year, mooney said. 
“The academic administra­tion told the faculty members that the fact sheet could be only that, a fact sheet, and not an advocacy piece,” she said. “The distribution of the information by the faculty members was, understand­ably and unfortunately, seen as being part of the stu­dents’ display and the whole was perceived as support for planned parenthood.” 
mooney said the difference between what the student group wanted to do, but was not permitted to do, and what the group of faculty did may not be readily apparent, but there is a difference. 
“The student group want­ed to stage an openly pro-planned parenthood event; they wanted to advocate for an organization that oper­ates, in a number of ways, in contravention of church teaching,” she said. “The faculty distributed infor­mation about what planned parenthood does. 
while some may believe that student affairs and academic affairs could have been more transpar­ent, mooney said, both acted in good faith and con­sistent with the dual roles the college plays in education — which involved free access to information — and in the formation of young people in the catholic tradition, which prohibits students group from taking advocacy position inconsistent with church teaching. 
mooney assured students the college remains faithful to its mission and catholic identity. 
Forum 
conTinued From page 1 
should prevail because its con­cerns are especially weighty.” 
we are currently in the second phase of the debate of religious lib­erty, he said. 
“people are arguing that the reli­gion which we are free to practice is a more limited one than we might suppose,” he said. “in this phase, it is not a matter of weighing pri­vate concerns against public ones and finding the public ones more weighty, but the private concerns simply don’t count as ‘religious,’ so we don’t get to balancing them against the concerns of the state.” 
garvey said freedom has two as­pects, and that assertion of rights is just the beginning, not the end, of a legal argument. 
“because it’s a right to act, people can invoke it in any number of in­stances and ways and cases,” he said. “what it does is force the gov­ernment to justify its interference, but sometimes government’s rea­sons will be important enough that they win and you lose. That doesn’t mean that you don’t have a right, it just means that your right was de­feasible — it didn’t win in this case. in constitutional law we describe this process about making judge­ments on defeasible rights as part of balancing private rights against public concerns.” 
The government balances pri­vate rights against public concerns whenever it makes a law, he said. 
“but when the private actor has a right, the government must of­fer an especially good reason for interfering. so the right protects us from state interference, and we might describe this handicap as the ‘weight’ or the ‘value’ of the right we’re talking about,” he said. “For a long time the practice was to ascribe a great weight or value to claims of religious freedom and to rule in favor of the state only if could show, what the lawyers say, is a compelling reason for the pro­hibition or restriction it wishes to impose.” 

in 1990, the supreme court con­siderably limited the protection it would offer in cases on religious liberty in the case of employment division v. smith. 
“it was a case that allowed a gov­ernment agency to discharge two members of the native american church for ingesting peyote,” he said. “The court was willing to assume that taking peyote was a religious act, just like taking wine at a mass or a seder. The native american church, in the court’s mind, deserved just as much protection as catholics and Jews. … but the court said the First amendment ruled against laws prohibiting the free exercise of religion, but just the laws that singled out religion for special bad treatment.” 
however, laws that aren’t direct­ed specifically at religions and are generally applicable, like those that state no one may ingest controlled substances, can have indirect ef­fects on religion, garvey said. 
“but these effects are unintend­ed and the state doesn’t need to of­fer any special defense of them,” he said. “we would, the court said, be ‘courting anarchy’ with a demand like that, and the danger of anar­chy, the court said, ‘increases in direct proportion to the society’s diversity of religious beliefs and its determination to coerce or sup­press none of them.’” 
in recent years, the attacks on religious freedom have centered on the very meaning of religion, rather than the state concerns that might outweigh them, garvey said. instead, the debate focuses on who is considered a religious actor and what is a religious activity. 
“The obama administration has asserted, for example, that for-prof­it corporations are not religious ac­tors,” he said. 
garvey said the university’s law­suit against the hhs mandate is an example of the conflict over whom can be considered a religious actor. 
“my own university, and yours, sued the department of health and human services in 2013 to challenge the regulations under the affordable care act. The regu­lations require a certain group of plans to cover sterilization pro­cedures and prescriptive contra­ceptives, including some that can induce abortions,” he said. “we think, your university thinks, it interferes with religious freedom because it requires it to provide services that we view as sinful. The regulations exempt what they call ‘religious employers’ from the re­quirement. These institutions that are viewed as religious employers don’t have to provide coverage and their employees don’t get it. 
“but ‘religious employer’ is de­fined very narrowly — it includes churches and religious orders, but not catholic universities like notre dame or the catholic university of america, not catholic charities. nonprofits like us are classified as simply ‘eligible organizations.’ we get an accommodation of sorts, we don’t have to provide the man­dated services ourselves, but we are required to contract with an insurance company, or if we, like you, self-insure, a third-party ad­ministrator, who will provide the objectionable coverage.” 
fishing.” 
garvey said this shift is a re­flection of growing cultural in­difference towards religion. 
“i think the culture itself less about religion, and because it does, the proponents of religious freedom find themselves ask­ing for protection of an activ­ity that is unimportant,” he said. “if we don’t care about religion, we won’t care about religious freedom.” 
The only really effective re­sponse to the contemporary as­sault in religious liberty is prayer, garvey said. 
“i don’t mean this in a despair­ing or pious sense. i mean to say that the practice we’re defend­ing has to matter to us, above all things. if it does, our institutions will protect it. if it doesn’t, the case is lost.” 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 
Stand 
conTinued From page 1 
to become more inclusive and holistic. 
“it was originally and intention­ally around support for lgbTQ students within our community,” she said. “when it came here, we broadened it to really being about promoting the message of human dignity for all.” 
stand against hate week is sponsored by the gender relations center (grc), as well as campus ministry, multicultural student programs and prismnd. 
Free T-shirts will be distrib­uted at north dining hall, south dining hall and laFortune student center on monday from 
11:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m. mcKenney said the T-shirts should be worn Friday. 
Tim brown, former notre dame football and nFl player, is this year’s keynote speaker. Tuesday at 7 p.m. in debartolo hall 141, brown will talk about faith, masculinity and racism in his keynote speech and sign books afterward. 

“Tim [brown] is coming back to notre dame to talk about many of the same topics in his book “The making of a man,” such as faith, how he defines himself as a man, the intersection of masculinity and faith, but also some of his ex­perience with racism within the nFl and how that shaped him as an individual,” mcKenney said. 
wednesday night, there will be an ethics and leadership work­shop called “making choices for social Justice.” The workshop will be from 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. in the coleman-morse lounge. mcKenney said a large part of the workshop will be devoted to talk­ing through hypothetical situa­tions and examining how ethics determine actions. 
“it’s being run by art munin, who is a diversity consultant and administrator at illinois state,” she said. “he brings different diversity workshops around the country, specifically for college students. The purpose of the workshop is to challenge those who attend to consider ways in which values and ethics drive the decisions they make and why they make them.” 
There will be a documentary screening Thursday at 7 p.m. in debartolo hall 140. “Forget us not” explores the persecution of the non-Jewish victims of the holocaust. 
mcKenney said the week serves as a reminder that hate and dis­crimination affect those in our community in many different ways. 
“it’s really a way for students to dialogue about ways in which hate and discrimination have a negative impact on people within our community but also the com­munity at large,” she said. “we use hate and discrimination as a very broad category: class, race, religion, socioeconomic situation, sexual orientation, gender identity 
– really any aspect of one’s per­sonhood is how we define it.” 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 

INSIDE COLUMN 
It’s not just about the chicken 

Selena Ponio 
news writer 
after a long day of accomplishing less than i intended, i like to drown my feel­ings of inadequacy in a warm hodgepodge of chicken poppers, mashed potatoes and vegetables submerged in a pool of gravy. 
my wildest dreams came true last saturday night. i stood in the popper bowl line behind a male student about 6-feet tall of medium build and watched the lady make his bowl. i saw her bury his plate with the goods along with six pieces of the best part of the meal: the chicken pop­pers. my eyes lit up as i witnessed what i thought was the standard popper bowl. 
To my dismay, when i stepped up to receive my popper bowl, i found a single scoop of mashed potatoes and a moun­tain of peas and corn masking only four chicken poppers. i was disappointed at my measly serving and at the fact that this lady (very wrongly) assumed i could only eat two-thirds of the serving of chicken poppers the man before me received. 
i thought maybe i was being irrational until i turned to look at the popper bowl of the male student who was in line behind me. he opted for both types of chicken: grilled and popper. i, once again, mis­takenly assumed he would receive less of one type since he asked for both types of chicken. north dining hall continued to prove me wrong as the lady gifted him six pieces of chicken on top of the pile of grilled chicken already on his plate. 
as i dealt with my annoyance at the fact that this man housed an entire farm on his plate while i tended to a garden of canned vegetables on mine, my friend came up to me with the same complaint. her popper bowl consisted of only four pieces as well. 
we laughed about it for a while and real­ized next time we would have to just ask for extra chicken in order to receive the male standard of six poppers. however, this seemed ridiculous. 
adopting this worker’s mentality that a woman eats a third less food than a man does on average, should my meal plan cost approximately 66 percent of a male student’s? wouldn’t it be easier to enforce a default number of poppers across the board, indiscriminate of personal as­sumptions of how much chicken someone can eat? is it too radical of an idea to ask someone how much chicken they would like? 
maybe this was an isolated experience and maybe it was just this one worker. or maybe i’ve been stressing about this inside column for so long that i used it as an excuse to magnify any sort of con­flict in my life. maybe i’m hangry from the two chicken poppers i missed out on. whatever the reason, i will say this: 
it’s not just about the chicken, you guys. 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

‘You do you, bro’ 

Charlie Ducey 
english, channeled 

comedy central’s “south park,” now in its 19th season, has made a name for itself largely through lowbrow vulgarity and gratuitous violence that constantly pushes the envelope of acceptability. one need look no further than the preponderance of animated feces, vomit and entrails in “south park” to cast doubt on the cultural value of such a program. however, a biting social commentary has always lurked beneath the (“poorly”) impersonated celebrities and the obscene antics of fourth-graders in the fictional colorado town. This season’s fare has been especially cutting, acute and, in this col­umnist’s opinion, mostly correct. 
Those who view “south park” as little more than “smut and vulgarity, chiefly for the sake of smut and vulgarity,” (to quote “south park” character Kyle broflovski in his assessment of another bit of culture) may be interested to learn of the show’s reception in more sophisticated circles. universities have offered courses on the emmy award-winning comedy, the city university of new york among them. books have been published on such topics as “philosophy in ‘south park’” — books, indeed, that one can find for sale at notre dame’s hammes bookstore. some commentators have gone so far as to pin “south park” as a high caliber, conserva­tive-leaning critique of hollywood liberalism, as evidenced, perhaps, by the show’s frequent thumb­ing-of-the-nose at famous actors and their social agenda. nearer to the truth would be the observa­tion that “south park” creators Trey parker and matt stone see no boundaries in the realm of social criti­cism, attacking positions popularly held by pundits of the right and the left. but before one gets the im­pression that “south park” promotes some nihilistic chaos in which nothing is sacred and everyone is wrong, it might be worth taking a look at the newest season’s oddly consistent stance. 
while previous seasons of “south park” jumped around from one theme to another, operating in what is known as an “episodic” framework, this sea­son has moved more toward a developmental story­line, or “serial” framework, that is highly unusual for an animated comedy. The season begins with the installment of a new principal at south park elementary, pc principal, whose hardline stance on political correctness (pc) and proper nomenclature cause him to beat one student into a coma after he perpetrates “micro-oppressions” against italian­americans. his offense? saying the word “capeesh.” 
building on this newfound obsession with being pc, the citizens of south park desperately petition for the only thing that can save their town from association with the Trump-like bigotry of teacher­turned-political activist mr. garrison. That thing is a whole Foods grocery store, harbinger of all things cheery and politely pc. 
whole Foods persists in subsequent episodes, including the utterly hilarious episode “safe space,” in which local dad randy marsh spearheads a campaign to create safe spaces in which the nega­tive comments and the demands of personal re­sponsibility are filtered out to leave only “people who support me, surrounded by more people who support me.” The episode ends with reality, as an embodied character in the show, being hanged from the gallows as crowds clap. 
The main point of these first episodes is fairly clear: when political correctness is promoted in a very superficial sense that accommodates hyper­sensitivity over all else, reality ends up distorted and personal responsibility thrown to the wayside. viewers see this in the presentation of pc principal as an overgrown frat boy who sees no problem in hosting ragers and bitterly scolding 10-year-olds but will blow a gasket if someone so much as suggests that caitlyn Jenner is anything but “stunning and brave.” in this highly exaggerated pc landscape, re­sponsibility doesn’t matter. all that does is personal feelings and safe spaces to house them. 
“south park’s” criticism, however, seems targeted more broadly at a mindset best summarized by the mantra: “you do you, bro.” The problem with this formulation is twofold. First, it forwards a disinter­estedness towards one’s neighbor — whether some­one is experimenting with hard drugs or pursuing self-destructive ends is essentially written off as “none of your business.” all that matters is that the individual has made he/she/their own choices, that he/she/they is/are authentic or, to employ a com­mon phrase, “true to oneself.” but authenticity does not account for responsibility, nor does it support interaction with others. This is the second flaw of this mantra. it roots everything in the single indi­vidual, basing morality and destiny in whatever the individual chooses. it’s right because you choose it to be. you should become whoever you want to be­come. but what happens when two individual choic­es, two independent expressions of self, conflict? 
“south park” explores this, too. in the episode “craig x Tweak,” the self-identity of fourth-graders craig and Tweak is jeopardized when a group of manga-drawing students is given license to display the pair as a gay couple because the group chooses to do so, and who can override their choice? The community passively accepts this portrayal and applauds Tweak and craig for their bravery of “com­ing out” and even pays them as a reward. by going along with the hypersensitive, “you do you” mind­set, south park as a town has set aside its critical self-analysis, as all dissenting opinions are cast aside and a pleasant filter that affirms the self – any self you choose – is substituted for the difficulties of reality the responsibility it brings with it. luckily, “south park” as a show has kept its actual critical awareness in tact. 
Charlie Ducey is a senior studying the languages of G. 
K. Chesterton (English) and Edith Stein (German). Please contact him with questions, comments, complaints, appraisals, invitations, prognostications and
 prestidigitations at cducey@nd.edu The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The president is not a celebrity 
Jordan Ryan 
words of wisdome 
last week, the women of abc’s “The view” had some not-so-nice things to say about republican presidential candidate carly Fiorina. 
michelle collins, referring to Fiorina’s visage at the most recent republican debate, said “she looked demented! her mouth did not downturn one time.” Joy behar, professional as always, add­ed that, “i wish [Fiorina’s face] was a halloween mask. i’d love that.” collins had to add more gas to the fire by responding, “smiling Fiorina? can you imagine? it’d give me nightmares.” while we have grown accustomed to the tired, obnoxious and quite misinformed comments of the ladies of “The view,” these ad hominem attacks crossed a line. each presidential candidate, republican or democrat, deserves respect from the press and the public. 
This lack of respect for presidential candidates should not come as a total surprise. president obama has dramatically transformed the role of the president in the media. not only is he the leader of the free world, but he is also a common feature of late-night talk shows. in his first term alone, president obama was fawned over as a guest on shows like “The colbert report,” “late night with conan o’brian,” “late night with Jimmy Fallon,” “The Tonight show” (five times), “The daily show” (seven times), and “late night with david letterman” (seven times). let’s not forget about his appearances on daytime shows. he famously denied a meeting with israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu in order to make an appearance and be served softballs on the very same “The view.” he has been featured on mTv and sportscenter. The holder of the high­est office in our country has abandoned what was left of the dignity of the office in the course of being interviewed by comedians such as Zach galifianakis and dancing to beyoncé on the ellen degeneres show. These all seem far from presidential. 

unfortunately, this has changed the future of the relationship between the president, presi­dential candidates and the media. by appearing on entertainment programs that employ crude humor and gross insults, candidates drop them­selves to that level of childishness. They become willing participants in the jokes as well as the butt of them. candidates feel obligated to subject themselves to the immaturity and unprofession­alism of these shows in order to connect with millennials. but what our generation is hearing is not the least bit substantive or helpful in differ­entiating candidates. 
in 1960, on a late-night talk show, JFK elo­quently stated how communism was a great danger to america. unfortunately, this kind of dialogue is impossible to achieve in today’s me­dia. democratic political consultant Jon macks, who spent 22 years writing for Jay leno, said, “if a candidate goes on and says, ‘let me tell you about my three-point plan, mr. Fallon.’ That’s a disaster. They want to hear personal stories about who these people are.” presidential candi­dates are seen as Kardashian-like in the eyes of the american public. They want to hear gossip, not platforms. 
many argue this is the way to connect with mil­lennials. even if this is correct, it does not change the fact that many millennials fail to demon­strate a depth of caring and understanding about politics. The blame should not be shouldered by politicians alone. millennials have created an environment where the circus gets attention and the theater of serious debate remains vacant. 
americans need to take our political future more seriously. while presidents do not generally hold the power to legislate, they do have the most power to navigate. The president is not a celeb­rity, so don’t treat him like one. To the women of “The view,” show some class. To the american people, start to take these matters seriously. They affect you in more ways than you know. watch Fox. watch cnn. read a newspaper. Find more substantive information about policies, plat­forms and proposals. if you have not paid atten­tion yet, start now. These are serious issues; it’s time for us to be serious people. 
Jordan Ryan, sophomore resident of Lyons Hall, studies political science and peace studies along with minors in Constitutional studies and business economics. She can be reached at jryan15@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Why are we still using the box? 
have you ever peed outside? weird question, we know, but it’s a fairly common “criminal” occurrence. Thankfully for us, indiana is not one of the 13 states where public urination warrants a sex offense charge. 
once you’re caught, you’re stuck with that stigma for the rest of your life and put on the megan’s law database. you probably would have a tough time find­ing new friends when the neighbors find out you’re a registered sex offender. That is unless you had a chance to get to know your neighbors personally be­forehand so they don’t have the chance to stereotype. seems reasonable, right? 
now, imagine you’re a senior in high school who is applying to college but has to categorize yourself as a criminal on an application because you were issued a citation for drawing graffiti on the wall of your school gym. like the sex offender stigma, it is really hard not to have people judge your worth as a person quickly as soon as they discover one attribute regarding your past. 
basically, that’s how college applications work these days, especially at the schools that use the common app like saint mary’s and notre dame. There’s a box you must check if you have a criminal history. even those that don’t use the common app, like holy cross, usually require the same overarch­ing question along the lines of “have you ever com­mitted a criminal offense other than minor traffic violations?” 
Today, a question like this, addressing solely felo­nies, is usually found on job applications, and there is a movement called “ban the box” to end this practice. recently, president obama has declared by executive order that federal job applications will no longer re­quire people to answer this question. it varies state by state, but many private and public sector employers are also now getting rid of the box on their applica­tions. That’s not to say people can’t know whether they are hiring a murderer, because background checks are easy and accessible. 

The banning of the box is simply to prevent the stigma from being a barrier during the first meeting/ interview. studies have shown that waiting to look at the criminal history of an applicant allows the em­ployer to get to know them before prejudices can have an effect, giving the applicant a much better shot at getting hired (“The new Jim crow”). 
we believe notre dame, saint mary’s and holy cross should all address this issue. because their applications require this question, they should either get rid of it or include a special response section for people who have checked yes to explain their history. having the boxes on job applications is one thing, but when they are on college applications, that’s another. 
There really is no good reasoning behind “the box”; colleges started requiring the question after the virginia Tech shooting in 2007. according to an ar­ticle from vice, colleges felt they had to do something about campus safety (even though the shooter at virginia Tech had no criminal history) by identifying “threats” before they are actually threats. however, recent research shows that 4 percent of people who commit crimes in college had a criminal history re­cord before college. Furthermore, no research shows colleges that screen for criminal histories are any safer than those that do not. 
education is a chance for young people to over­come their pasts and better prepare themselves for the future. we are not saying to turn a blind eye to criminal pasts; we are merely saying they should have an equal chance, without prejudice, to go to college based on their merit. if applicants truly are dangerous, only after the application should their criminal record come into play. The punishment was their criminal sentence and shouldn’t carry over into one’s chances of getting into college. 
many youth detention centers, like the st. Joseph county Juvenile Justice center in south bend, do a great job rehabilitating their inmates and getting them the education they need, even prepping some to go to college. when you think about it, if someone has a criminal record, they likely do not have the merits needed to attend a four-year university. but for those who are qualified, why should they face more obstacles if they are trying to get an education? They are not their “box.” 
Drew Martin 
junior Knott hall 
Frankie Wamsley 
junior duncan hall 
Seamus Ronan 
senior off-campus 
Mercedes de la Rosa 
junior pangborn hall 
Shannon Montague 
senior pasquerilla west hall 
“bend the box” 


The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By ADRIAN SANCHEZ 
scene writer 
classical music for dummies. or mil­lennials — whichever you prefer. 
it’s the closest thing to a social state­ment that can be extracted from Keith rankin’s latest release under the giant claw moniker: the lp “deep Thoughts,” a collection of 10 ultra-modern musical movements for whom perhaps “lunge” is a better name. nothing this blunt could be considered a movement – and, just as likely as not, blunt force trauma is ex­actly what rankin has hoped to achieve with his recent output, beginning last year with the dizzying plunderphon­ics of “darK web” and apotheosized here by the pointillist synths that rain throughout the album before a wide canvas of negative space. 
i don’t mean to say the confounding lack of subtlety on this album is itself politically charged. rather, i believe it functions purely as a means to an aes­thetic end that – as the cover art styl­izes so well – is all about plasticity. but isn’t that just what music as a form of artistic self-expression tries hardest 
By KELLY McGARRY 
scene writer 
The gauge of a quality rock band is the ways they find to surprise the audience in live performances. even their biggest fans, who have listened to every album and seen multiple live performances, have exciting and new experiences with each show. That’s exactly what you get with the avett brothers, who performed at the morris performing arts center on Thursday night. The playful or sen­timental folk songs that fill their many albums are easy-listening for all occa­sions, but their live performance brings in unexpected dimensions. 
The event title — “an evening with the avett brothers” — indicates something refined. in a way, it was, but there was also rawness in the performance. The beauty of the violin, cello and double bass were offset by the classic simplicity of the banjo. Fog blurred the ceiling de­signs of the luxurious venue. The seated to avoid? Fair enough – it must be why giant claw is listed among a growing faction of “anti-music” producers, who discard method in favor of madness. but i actually find the label inadequate, mainly because it presupposes that this is music in the first place, at least as we think of it. i myself would call it “sonic art,” insofar as it is less about the gross product and more about the exploration of new ground. 
you’ll find that on paper the album is just as puzzling as it sounds in life. plainly put, half of the tracks here sound purely like classical tunes digitized into midi files and fed through the drum loop of a toy piano’s “demo” button. but, in a sinister way, that seems to be the entire point. in fact, i would say the relationship between wendy carlos’ “switched-on bach” (with which this lp in fact shares many sonic traits) and classical music is the same as that be­tween “deep Thoughts” and music as a whole. in other words, if you thought carlos’ digitization of classical music in the ’60s was a blasphemy to the arts, you won’t like “deep Thoughts.” but if you thought it was a brilliant reimagining of 
spectators’ quiet appreciation contrast­ed with those compelled to dance and stomp. both leading members, seth and scott avett, have ditched their long locks for sleeker looks, but no aspect of their personalities was held back, espe­cially seth’s energy and spunk. 
The brotherly connection of front-men seth and scott is an obvious com­ponent of the band’s chemistry. scott addressed the importance of family in his solo performance of “murder in the city,” emphasizing the lines “There is nothing worth sharing / like the love that lets us share our name.” This fa­milial connection extended to all of the band members in Thursday’s per­formance in the fluidity of their move­ments and jams. 
i have noticed a common structure in many good performances. The band performs a few well-written songs es­sentially as recorded to engage the au­dience, and the avett brothers have a large discography from which to old ideas in a medium full of potential, then this album’s aesthetic is right for you. 

i ascribe to the latter faction. i find that, just as “switched-on bach” was less about the music itself (and had it been, it would have constituted a quite unorigi­nal work) and more about the idea and its potential, “deep Thoughts” shirks the more straightforward beat-oriented schema of “darK web” in favor of a far more abstract artistic creation. instead of being a product of its time, it leaps a century ahead through the intestinal tract of fiber-optic cables and stares the future directly in the face. 
but this album is less prescient than it is philosophizing. neither i nor rankin 
– i hope – believes this is what music will truly sound like 100 years from now, just as carlos did not expect that elec­tronic renderings of baroque composi­tions would be the radio hits of today. both cases, rather, constitute a mere contribution to answering a question that continues growing plump like a snowball rolling toward an inevitable demise: what is the fate of music – its past and present – in the chaotic future 
pull heartfelt numbers. it seems as though there’s a distinct point in the show where the band stops playing what the audience came expecting and moves onto showcasing what they want to play. The avett brothers are known for bluegrass music, but they don’t lean too heavily on that genre when it comes to a live performance. while they stayed true to their folk roots, they weren’t afraid to emphasize rap and rock-and­roll styles. heavy jam sessions, like the jaunty-yet-disturbing “satan pulls the strings” and the emotional “vanity,” were the highlights. 
The main focus was on the two broth­ers: seth on guitar and scott on the banjo, sharing vocals with beautiful harmonies. but the talent and energy of cellist Joe Kwon did not go unnoticed. The band also took the opportunity to showcase their touring violinist Tania elizabeth, and she surprised the audi­ence with a violin and vocal solo. 
The band even performed an acoustic before us? indeed, perhaps its demise? 
spoiler: The question is unanswer­able. otherwise, what was there to pre­vent composers of the romantic period from composing jazz? what was there to prevent cavemen from dropping their sick neanderthal mixtapes? 
if you aren’t a poptimist, you may simply think that music as we know it is coming to an end. and that’s certainly possible. but though the idea may have a cataclysmic ring to it, it may simply mean it is to give way to something bet­ter, entirely new. 
Contact Adrian Sanchez at asanchez11@nd.edu 
“Deep Thoughts” 
Giant Claw 
Label: Orange Milk Records Track: “Deep Thoughts 008” If you like: Jerry Paper, Vektroid 

song they’ve prepared for their up­coming album. The song was called “i wish i was” and was filled with clever metaphors and innuendo. it was playful yet emotional and may be a good indi­cator of what’s to come from the avett brothers. 
bringing it at together with the sin­cere ballad “i and love and you” dur­ing the encore, the avett brothers pulled off a performance that was ex­tremely relatable and human. it was clear from the performance that the band shared all parts of themselves. They weren’t trying to fit into one par­ticular mold. They’ve had success as a bluegrass group, a genre true to them­selves because of their origins, but in­stead of clinging to the stereotype they explored all aspects of their talent and personality. The result was a sincere, affecting performance. 
Contact Kelly McGarry at kmcgarry@nd.edu 

LUCY DU | The Observer 


NOTRE DAME 42, PITTSBURGH 30 | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2015 | NDSMcOBSERvER.cOM 
Golden connection 
Panthers struggle to stop Kizer, Fuller as Irish cruise in Pittsburgh 

Emphatic victory against Pitt proves ND’s merits 

Alex Carson 
Associate Sports Editor 
PITTSBURGH — could you have asked for anything more? 
Forget the last five minutes, after most of the 68,400 fans at Heinz Field had already vacated their seats, and look at the reality of Saturday’s Notre Dame win: 
The No. 5 Irish completely dominated a quality opponent on the road. 
That alone is a reason for Irish fans to celebrate. 
There were a lot of differ­ent ways Notre Dame could’ve come out and played today. They could’ve been overconfident after being ranked fifth by the college Football Playoff com­mittee Tuesday night, or they could’ve come out sluggish — with a noon kickoff on the heels of a tough game at Temple the week before, few would have been surprised. 
But they came out and played like a team with business to take care of. 
see cARSON PAGE 3 
By ALEX CARSON 
Associate Sports Editor 
PITTSBURGH — DeShone Kizer accounted for all six Irish touchdowns Saturday as No. 5 Notre Dame used a strong first half to roll to a 42-30 victory over Pittsburgh at Heinz Field. 
The Irish (8-1) could not have asked for a much better start, as the sophomore quarterback hit junior receiver Will Fuller for a 47-yard touchdown on the game’s third play from scrim­mage, putting Notre Dame ahead 7-0 after just 71 seconds. 
“It gets us comfortable, it allows us to set our identity against Pitt,” Kizer said about getting ahead from the start. “It also helped us out with under­standing that our game plan was completely right … as a team, we saw exactly what we needed to see early.” 
The duo connected twice more for touchdowns — one on a 46-yard connection where Fuller carried his defender into the end zone, the other a 14-yard, jump-ball touch­down pass — as Fuller was on the receiving end 152 of Notre Dame’s 262 passing yards on the day to move into second on the all-time receiving touch­down chart at Notre Dame, passing Jeff Samardzija and Golden Tate. 
Fuller, however, didn’t seem too focused on the accomplishment. 

“All I worry about is getting Ws at the end of the day, so whatev­er it takes to do that is what I’m gonna do,” he said. 
Fuller entered the game as one of two dynamic playmak­ers at receiver, but Pitt junior Tyler Boyd was largely held in check through the air until the end of the game; he only hauled in three passes for 84 yards and a score, one that came on a 51­yard pass in the final five min­utes of the game. 
Pitt (6-3, 4-1 Acc) threat­ened to tie the game late in the first quarter after a pair of big plays: a 37-yard, career-long 
see cOMFORTABLE PAGE 2 
Irish offense rolls as Adams steps up with Prosise out 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
Sports Editor 
PITTSBURGH — While the clock wound down on the first quarter Saturday, the largest part of Notre Dame’s rushing attack this season slowly walked up the tunnel towards the Irish locker room. 
As senior running back c.J. Prosise gingerly made his way off the Heinz Field turf in Pittsburgh, taking with him a season total of 975 yards and 11 touchdowns on the ground as well as another 291 yards and a score receiving, No. 5 Notre Dame turned to true freshman running back Josh Adams to fill the void. 
Adams proved he was more than up to the task, torching a Pittsburgh defense that had only allowed 138 yards per game to opponents’ rushing attacks this season before kickoff Saturday. The Warrington, Pennsylvania, native finished with 147 yards on 20 carries, helping the Irish to 175 yards and one touchdown on the ground. 
see ADAMS PAGE 3 
PLAYER OF THE GAME 
DESHONE KIZER 
IRISH SOPHOMORE QUARTERBACK 
While there were plenty of Irish players who put on a good show Saturday, it’s hard to put anyone here other than Kizer. The quarterback threw for five touchdowns and added another on the ground in his best start yet. 

QUOTE OF THE GAME 
“Just another day at the office, I would say.” 
Junior receiver Will Fuller after his three-touch­down performance that moved him into second Notre Dame’s all-time touchdown reception lead­erboard, passing Jeff Samardzija and Golden Tate. 


REPORT CARD 








QUARTERBACKS 
Despite somehow finding a way to overthrow Will Fuller not once, but twice, DeShone Kizer put in as good of a performance as Brian Kelly could ask for Saturday against Pittsburgh. He accounted for all six Irish touchdowns, five through the air and one on the ground, and didn’t turn the ball over, leading Notre Dame to a perfect 4-for-4 red zone mark. 
RUNNING BACKS 
A week after struggling at Temple, the Irish run game bounced back against Pitt. Before he went down with an injury at the end of the first quarter, c.J. Prosise already had 57 all-purpose yards, and Josh Adams filled in with 147 yards on the ground and a receiving touchdown on a sweep. 
RECEIVERS 
Will Fuller showed Saturday why he’s considered one of the best playmakers in college football. He got behind the defense at the right times for big touchdowns, and the rest of the corps had another solid performance to keep the other Panther defensive backs occupied. 
OFFENSIVE LINE 
conceding four sacks is a bit of a concern for the offensive front, but against Pitt’s scheme, that’s not out of the ordinary — the Panthers average nearly three per game. The offensive line had what Brian Kelly called its “most consistent” performance this season, allowing Josh Adams to have a solid day. 
DEFENSIVE LINE 
Romeo Okwara got to Nate Peterman for two sacks Saturday, and Sheldon Day added one of his own on a productive day from the front four. Peterman was rarely settled in the pocket, and it showed as he struggled to complete passes. 
LINEBACKERS 
While he didn’t record a sack, Jaylon Smith put some pressure on Peterman, and James Onwualu had a good game. It felt like Joe Schmidt was on the cusp of a big play all day long, but he couldn’t pull through with one. 
DEFENSIVE BACKS 
Matthias Farley’s performance, a bit of a mixed bag, was a microcosm of the secondary’s as a whole. Farley was out of position on a key jet sweep but then responded with an interception. The secondary generally limited Tyler Boyd’s influence, which in itself was a win. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 
Tyler Newsome probably had his best game yet with three punts of 50 yards or longer, and Justin Yoon converted all six extra points. The return game didn’t do much, but it also didn’t need to with the way the offense was performing. 
COACHING 
credit the coaching staff for putting together a game plan that got the Irish on the board quick and exploited Pitt’s man-to-man defense at the right times. Notre Dame stuck to its strengths, which was spot on. 
OVERALL GPA: 3.63 (A-) 
Behind the strength of a good first-half performance, Notre Dame’s win over Pittsburgh on Saturday was rarely in doubt. The Irish jumped ahead early, and when the Panthers scored, Notre Dame mounted solid touchdown drives to further extend its lead. While some may find concern with the final five minutes, on the whole, Saturday was still Notre Dame’s best performance of the season. 
PLAY OF THE GAME 
MATTHIAS FARLEY’S SECOND-QUARTER INTERCEPTION 
The Irish defense had just given up a big play, and the Panthers looked set to cut Notre Dame’s lead from 14-3 to 14-10. But the graduate student cornerback had other ideas, stepping in front of Nate Peterman’s would-be touchdown pass to preserve the 11-point advantage. 

Comfortable 
cONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 

rush from Boyd was followed by a 26-yard gain by redshirt junior quarterback Nate Peterman put Pitt inside the Irish 10-yard line. However, the defense held firm, forcing the Panthers to turn to junior kicker chris Blewitt, who knocked home a 22-yard field goal to cut Notre Dame’s lead to 7-3. 
It was the closest the Panthers got. 
Notre Dame standout running back c.J. Prosise exited the game at the end of the first quarter with an injury and did not return, but Irish head coach Brian Kelly said he expected the senior to return soon. 
“It’s kind of one where he’s going to have to continue to be evaluated,” Kelly said. “Shoulder, neck, upper-body [injury]. … He’s doing pretty good right now, but we’ll evaluate him, and he’ll be a day-to-day situation.” 
With Prosise out, freshman running back Josh Adams en­tered to take the majority of the carries the rest of the way, but the Irish offense did not miss a beat. Adams ran for 25 yards on the first play of the second quarter to move Notre Dame into scoring position, and after a third-down conversion, Kizer hooked up with junior receiver Torii Hunter Jr. for a 12-yard touchdown pass. 
While Hunter finished with three catches for 37 yards, his contributions weren’t solely seen on the offensive side — Kelly and the Irish coaching staff sprung a surprise when Hunter entered the game on defense, as a nickel-back, in the second quarter. 
“I’ve been working on it the last couple weeks, working on the fundamentals and stuff like that, and I guess they thought I was ready this week, and they put me in a couple plays just to get a feel for it,” Hunter, who played cornerback in high school, said of his defensive cameo. “I’m sure my reps will increase if I keep progressing.” 
Hunter’s snaps at nickel made him the first Irish player to play both sides of the ball in Kelly’s tenure and the first since safety Tom Zbikowski took snaps on Senior Day in 2007. 
After each team twice traded three-and-outs, the Panthers were the next to mount a serious threat at putting points on the board. Pitt picked up a first down on 4th-and-1 from midfield on the ground before Peterman hit senior J.P. Holtz for his third, and final, completion of the half to move into scoring position. 

Irish graduate student cor­nerback Matthias Farley, start­ing at safety due to senior Elijah Shumate’s one-half suspension incurred last week at Temple, had other plans — he jumped in front of Peterman’s touchdown-bound pass at the 1-yard line to intercept it, preserving Notre Dame’s 14-3 lead. 
“What I love about Matthias is he just keeps playing,” Kelly said. “He has one play where you want him to be in better position, then in the next play he makes a great interception. 
“ … That’s just the kind of kid he is.” 
While the Irish weren’t able to pick up a first down on the ensu­ing drive, a successful series of plays, boosted by a 55-yard punt from sophomore Tyler Newsome, saw Notre Dame gain 20 yards of field position. 
“Tyler really bounced back af­ter a subpar performance against Temple,” Kelly said. “ … Three plus-50s today, I thought he was outstanding.” 
Those 20 yards quickly became important. After Kizer threw in­complete on first down, Adams gained 24 yards on second down to move the Irish across midfield. It set Kizer and Fuller up to con­nect for their second big touch­down of the day with 1:35 left in the half, pushing Notre Dame ahead, 21-3. 
“I knew that we were going to have some opportunities to go deep on them like everyone else does,” Kizer said. “And [Pitt head coach Pat Narduzzi] just kind of counts on his front six to eight to get in and get some pressure and get to me. But there was a couple of times they didn’t get to me on time, and I was able to air it out.” 
While Pitt’s offense started clicking better in the second half, the Irish offense had an answer whenever the Panthers cut their deficit from 18 to 11. 
Panthers freshman safety Jordan Whitehead joined Hunter as a two-way player Saturday when he carried the ball in the first half, and he matched his counterpart’s scoring total 3:41 into the second half when he ran from 10 yards to cut Notre Dame’s lead to 21-10. 
But the Irish responded. Adams carried for a 23-yard gain to push the Irish across midfield, and a 19-yard connection between Kizer and Hunter got Notre Dame in the red zone. From there, Fuller did the rest. 
“I put the ball up there, and he comes down with it,” Kizer said of the junior receiver. “ … You’ve just got to get the ball in the playmak­ers’ hands and allow the good things to happen.” 
Whitehead one-upped Hunter when he scored on a jet sweep with 2:06 left in the third quarter to cut the Panthers deficit back to 11, but once more, Notre Dame answered. 
After a sack on the final play of the quarter dropped Notre Dame to a 2nd-and-16, Notre Dame came out of the gates to start the fourth. Kizer hit junior receiver corey Robinson and Hunter on back-to-back plays to pick up the first down, and three plays later, Adams got his touchdown, a five-yard reception off a sweep. 
Notre Dame’s defense forced its first stop of the half with a three-and-out, and the Irish put the game away when Kizer notched his rushing touchdown from the 2-yard line, putting Notre Dame up 42-17 with 5:47 left. 
The touchdown pushed the Irish to 4-for-4 on the day in the red zone, a week after Kizer threw two interceptions inside the 20­yard line. 
“I made sure that I was gonna make some better decisions down there, unlike Temple,” Kizer said. “ … When you get down there and you put up points, it allows you to have a sense of confidence for the next time you get down there.” 
Boyd’s presence was finally felt a few plays later when a miscom­munication between Irish senior cornerback Keivarae Russell and junior safety Max Redfield left the Panthers receiver wide open deep, as his 51-yard touchdown got Pitt on the board once more. 
With the Irish up 42-14 with 
1:44 left in the game, Panthers redshirt senior defensive line­man Ejuan Price recovered a fumble by freshman quarterback Brandon Wimbush for a touch­down, but a failed 2-point con­version and onside kick recovery, Notre Dame’s second of the game, meant the contest ended without further drama. 
Notre Dame will return to ac­tion next Saturday when it hosts Wake Forest for Senior Day at Notre Dame Stadium. Kickoff is at 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 



Adams 
cONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
After the game, Adams said seeing the Irish cycle through options at the quarterback and running back positions all sea­son keeps everyone ready to go if their number is called, as his was Saturday. 
“I think we’re all prepared for something like that,” Adams said. “God forbid someone goes down, but we all have the men­tality that we need to do our job, we need to stay focused just in case.” 
Adams was holding the game ball in his hand while speaking with the media after the game. 
“That felt good,” Adams said, describing the moment Irish head coach Brian Kelly handed him the honor. “Anytime any­one gets the game ball, that means we did well as a team, and that means whoever got the game ball, that guy contributed. So it just felt good to be able to help my team out and be able to get in there, play hard and play for my teammates.” 
Adams said the award did not belong to just him, however. 
“Our offensive line is just in­credible, and they make it easy on me,” Adams said. “I just have to go in there and do my job because they’re really in there fighting in the trenches for me, so I have to do the best I can. And with all the running backs, they’re a big part of our success, so we just have to congratulate 
Carson 
cONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
It took three plays for the Irish to score, and Pittsburgh’s offense didn’t punch it in the end zone until the second half — when Notre Dame had already built a sizeable enough lead to put Pitt head coach Pat Narduzzi’s clock-draining team out of serious contention. 
And when the Panthers at­tempted to claw back in the game, Irish sophomore quar­terback DeShone Kizer stepped up, leading touchdown drives to stretch Notre Dame’s advantage back to 18. 
Nitpick the little things all you want — the blown coverage on Panthers junior Tyler Boyd’s 51-yard touchdown reception, the seemingly-haphazard on­side kick recoveries, etc. — but remember those are the little things. 
Don’t listen to the talk about that: This was Notre Dame’s most complete performance of the season. 
Sure, the one against Texas was maybe a little sexier on the scoreboard, but at least this one was against a team with a beating pulse, one that will be bound for a bowl game, one that’s still in with a (slim) them for working so hard for us, and we just have to do our job as a unit.” 
In a storyline that has become all too familiar to the Irish this season, a starting skill player went down and the team had to rely on his backup, but Adams said the team has embraced this mentality. 
“It was just next man in, and I just did my best to do what I could to help the team,” Adams said. “Practice how you play, and just practice hard all week.” 
Graduate student offensive lineman Nick Martin said the change didn’t affect the offen­sive line’s mindset that much either. 
“We put a lot of pride up front in doing that,” Martin said of paving the way for Adams. “We know if we block ... who­ever gets the ball can go run well. c.J.’s a great back, unfor­tunate that he went down, but next-man-in-mentality. 
“At first we didn’t really know [Prosise] was out as an offen­sive line. Obviously after a few plays we did, but next-man-in. That’s what we want. People are recruited for this system, and that’s what we do.” 
Martin said the line had full confidence in Adams’ ability to pick up where Prosise went off, saying the two are very similar in their running styles. 
“Both unbelievable running backs,” Martin said. “ … They’re pretty good at going north-south and making plays.” 
Sophomore quarterback 
unbeaten Iowa and a 7-point loss against 8-1 North carolina. 
The Panthers hadn’t been anywhere near dominated by anyone this year, and yet, the last five minutes were a mean­ingless afterthought, played in front of closer to 6,000 people than 60,000. 
When senior running back 
c.J. Prosise went down with an injury in the first quarter, the Irish didn’t flinch. They could’ve struggled offensively without their star playmaker. 
With freshman Josh Adams in the game at running back, the Irish did the complete opposite, scoring 35 points the rest of the way in a rout of Pitt’s subject secondary. 
Notre Dame was smart, chipping away on the ground and underneath before taking smart, calculated risks — if you can even call them that — against a Panthers defense hell­bent on playing man coverage. 
When opposing teams are foolishly hell-bent on covering junior receiver Will Fuller one­on-one all game with less talent, they deserve to pay the price. The Irish made Narduzzi and his staff pay — mightily — for the error. 
Notre Dame still sits with a loss, and nothing it can do the next three weeks will rectify DeShone Kizer also said Adams and Prosise resembled each oth­er coming out of the backfield. 
“[Prosise is] a little more pa­tient than Josh, but at the same time Josh does some things that 
c.J. doesn’t do,” Kizer said. “Josh is an explosive guy that hits the hole and goes hard while c.J. is the type of guy who sees a hole collapse, he’s able to adjust in that way. 
“There’s not a whole lot dif­ferent about them. They kind of have the same style of running.” 
Kelly said Adams has all the tools as a freshman and just needs to add more strength to compliment his physical abilities. 
“[Adams is] a big, physical kid,” Kelly said. “Keeps his feet moving, as you saw, and he’s very difficult to tackle. Again, leg drive, physical characteristics of this kid are such that he’s only going to get bigger, faster and stronger. It’s going to be exciting to watch him develop.” 
But perhaps the highest praise Adams received following the win Saturday came from some­one who has the job of tackling him in practice. 
“I call him Eric Dickerson,” junior linebacker Jaylon Smith said about the freshman run­ning back. “He’s very elusive, and it’s going to be even scarier next year when he adds strength to it. 
“The sky’s the limit.” 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
their case for the playoff, Irish head coach Brian Kelly had a simple response: win three more games. 
But if chairman Jeff Long and the playoff committee were looking for vindication of their decision to slot the Irish fifth in the country despite that loss, they sure got it. 
In Will Fuller, the Irish have the best playmaker this side of the Mississippi, and in DeShone Kizer, Notre Dame has a quar­terback capable of getting him the ball when it’s the right time. 
With a pair of matchups on the horizon against offensively inept Wake Forest and Boston college teams, Fuller alone should be enough to get Notre Dame to 10-1, playing for its playoff lives against No. 11 Stanford on Nov. 28. 
If you’ve got concerns about this squad, relax. 
The Irish have completed a five-game sequence against five damn good football teams. And they’re a dropped pass and a couple rain-soaked yards against the No. 1 team in the nation away from having run that gauntlet. 
Let things take care of themselves. 
Because this team looks ready to hold up its end of the bargain. 

SCORING SUMMARY 





1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  TOTAL  
7  14  7  14  42  
3  0  14  13  30  

NOTRE DAME 7, PITTSBURGH 0 
Will Fuller 47-yard pass from DeShone Kizer (Justin Yoon kick) 
13:49 remaining 
Drive: Three plays, 75 yards 1:11 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 7, PITTSBURGH 3 
chris Blewitt 22-yard field goal 
2:48 remaining 
Drive: Eight plays, 75 yards, 3:16 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 14, PITTSBURGH 3 
Torii Hunter Jr. 12-yard pass from Kizer (Yoon kick) 
12:48 remaining 
Drive: 10 plays, 75 yards, 5:00 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 21, PITTSBURGH 3 
Fuller 46-yard pass from Kizer (Yoon kick) 
1:35 remaining 
Drive: Three plays, 70 yards, 0:22 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 21, PITTSBURGH 10 
Jordan Whitehead 10-yard run (Blewitt kick) 
11:19 remaining 
Drive: Eight plays, 77 yards, 3:41 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 28, PITTSBURGH 10 
Fuller 14-yard pass from Kizer (Yoon kick) 
7:53 remaining 
Drive: Eight plays, 75 yards, 3:26 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 28, PITTSBURGH 17 
Whitehead 3-yard rush (Blewitt kick) 
2:06 remaining 
Drive: 13 plays, 75 yards, 5:47 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 35, PITTSBURGH 17 
Josh Adams 5-yard pass from Kizer (Yoon kick) 
12:30remaining 
Drive: Nine plays, 50 yards, 4:36 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 42, PITTSBURGH 17 
Kizer 2-yard rush (Yoon kick) 
5:47remaining 
Drive: 10 plays, 62 yards, 5:32 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 42, PITTSBURGH 24 
Tyler Boyd 51-yard pass from Nate Peterman (Blewitt kick) 
4:44 remaining 
Drive: Three plays, 76 yards, 1:03 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 42, PITTSBURGH 30 
Ejuan Price 32-yard fumble recovery (Peterman pass failed) 
1:44 remaining 
Drive: 10 plays, 62 yards, 5:32 elapsed 
STATISTICS 

RUSHING YARDS  
175  
175  
PASSING YARDS  
262  
223  

chance to win its division. that situation. Regardless of Contact Alex Carson at 

With five minutes left, Notre how it all plays out, the Irish still acarson1@nd.edu Like us on Facebook. Dame led Pitt 42-17 on the don’t control their own destiny. The views expressed in this road, a Pitt squad that entered And Notre Dame knows this. column are those of the author fb.com/ndsmcobserver Saturday with two losses When asked after the game and not necessarily those of 
— a 3-point defeat at No. 9, what the Irish can do to make The Observer. 


THE OBSERvER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2015 | NDSMcOBSERvER.cOM 



EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 

Irish graduate student cornerback Matthias Farley comes down with a second-quarter interception during Saturday’s 42-30 win over Pitt at Heinz Field. Down 14-3, the Panthers were driving to cut into Notre Dame’s lead, but Farley’s interception of Panthers redshirt junior quarterback Nate Peterman at the 1-yard line kept the Irish two scores ahead. 
After receiving a surprise No. 5 ranking from the College Football 
Playoff committee Tuesday, Notre Dame headed back on the road Saturday at Pittsburgh. Sophomore quarterback DeShone Kizer 
PUTTING AWAY 

made sure it wasn’t a difficult trip, tossing five touchdowns and rushing for a sixth, as the Irish distanced themselves from the 
THE PANTHERS 

Panthers in a dominant win at Heinz Field on Saturday. 





The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Miko Malabute 
scene editor 
“scene Takes on” is a brand new feature in which our staff takes a look at and offers their different takes on some of the most devoted fan bas­es across pop culture. in this edition, i take on all of the dedicated fans of a certain film series from a time not so long ago, in a galaxy far, far away — the ever-popular “star wars” series. 
Fans of the films are some of the most diverse and atypical among sci­ence-fiction fanbases i have ever en­countered. whereas the following of other sci-fi franchises, such as “star Trek,” have an esoteric, closed-off feel to their fandom — and membership requires a certain level of proficiency in Klingon, or at least the ability to do the “live long and prosper” hand sign — “star wars” fans, in general, don’t truly care if you know the intricacies of their intergalactic universe. it doesn’t matter if you speak mandalorian or even care what lightsabers are made out of, you can still be a fan. 
“star wars,” as opposed to “star Trek,” doesn’t need the witty dialogue or even the plausibility of the phys­ics of the latter; just ask anyone who has watched the prequel trilogy — they’ll mention how much they cringe at hayden christensen’s dialogue de­livery or how the Force might as well be the equivalent of harry potter’s magic. but they don’t care at all about those kinds of things, because what they do care about are three things: the transcendent story and themes to which anyone can connect, the supe­rior musical score and, most impor­tantly, the action. Thus, it doesn’t take someone with a deep understanding of the laws of physics — or, more rele­vant, how a franchise can violate them 

— to appreciate the films. The series thus becomes so much more popular and inviting, which explains its perva­siveness across the wide spectrum of society. effectively, “star wars” is kind of like the cool, popular kid in high school of the science-fiction genre. 
unfortunately, it is because the film series is so cool and popular that the fanbase is a tad bit unbearable. “star wars” fans seemingly like to think that they are the bad boys of science-fiction. as previously mentioned, with the lightsabers, blasters and all the Force one could handle, it’s easy for the franchise to simply draw casual fans in without asking them to think too hard. but “star wars” fans love to assert dominance over each other and prove they are bigger fans than each other; precisely because one doesn’t need to understand how lightsabers are built or how the Force works to ap­preciate the films, fans will cram this knowledge into their minds just to prove how much more fanatic they are than the “casual fan” (as if that term had a negative connotation attached to it). 
For those who have yet to give it a chance, the “star wars” franchise is cool, and it is easy to join the fanbase because of how transcendent the qual­ities of the film series are. Just try not to be too intimidated by the other long­time fans studying the Jedi archives in hopes of one day mastering the Force. it just comes with the territory. 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LUCY DU | The Observer 


CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

Across 35 1964 Pontiac 60 The Who’s 1 City square debut “___ Get Fooled Again”
6 Thing on a 36 ___ tube cowboy’s boot 37 Sandra of 61 Parisian 10 Arrow-shooting “Gidget” girlfriends Greek god 62 Barely made, 
38 Craft with a 14 Overhauled paddle 
with “out” 15 Man, in Roma 40 Columbo and 63 Caustic alkalis 16 “See for others: Abbr. 64 “I came, I saw, I 
yourself!” conquered,” e.g.
41 “Ta-ta” 17 Almost round 
42 Graduation cap 18 ___ platter attachment Down (order at a 
43 Really strong 1 Government 
Polynesian investigation
restaurant) 47 Sound heard 
before an MGM 2 Prying bar, e.g. 
19 Word before 
film 3 “Honesty is the 
Susan or 
Sunday 48 Weekend NBC best policy,” e.g. staple, for short 4 Large-tubed
20 Help for newbies 49 Be a thespian pasta
23 Prior to, in verse 
5 Former German 
52 First woman
24 Swiss river to 
chancellor
to sit in the
the Rhine 
Konrad
British House of
25 Med. care 
Commons 6 A-one
options 
56 Six-sided solid 7 Rain cats and 
26 There’s no such 
dogs
thing as this, 57 Home of Lima according to a and Toledo 8 Officials on a diamond
saying 58 Not straight, as a 31 Evening event street 9 Not as gentle 34 Kiev’s land: 59 The Bruins of 10 Broadway’s 
Abbr. the N.C.A.A. “Billy ___” 11 Stop, Yield or ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE No U Turn 12 Move like molasses 13 Wild blue yonder 21 Identify 22 Verbal hesitations 26 Rap’s Dr. ___ 27 Elizabeth I or II 

28 Hawaiian instrument, for short 
29 Oklahoma tribe 30 Christmas song 31 River deposit 32 Latch ___ 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  
26  27  28  29  30  
31  32  33  34  35  
36  37  38  39  
40  41  42  
43  44  45  46  
47  48  49  50  51  
52  53  54  55  
56  57  58  
59  60  61  
62  63  64  

Puzzle by Robert Cirillo 

33 Like a car or 42 Wee 52 Word that can home, to State 44 Stop working, as follow the starts Farm a car battery of 20-, 26-, 43-
and 52-Across
37 Prefix with 45 Farm bale functional 46 Broad ties 53 Chips ___! 38 Arrange for 49 Heart chambers 

transport to the 54 Number of “lives” 
50 Quiet places 
airport, perhaps a cat has
along a shore39 Donkey 

51 Meeting for 55 Kind of wrestling 41 Nocturnal rodent Romeo and hunter on a farm Juliet 56 Pool ball striker 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 
p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FOR SALE 
Executive family home in the country on 10 acres, finished pole barn, 5 bed 3 ½ bath Edwardsburg schools , 68620 Leet Rd. Niles, MI 269-684-0885 $354,90 
FOR RENT 
IVY QUAD 3 BR 2 BA Garage washer/dryer, granite, furnished, walk to campus grocery. Ideal for family, grad students. Available 6/1/2016 Tom 215 913-9191 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: it’s time to put the past behind you and pull everything you do into one dynamic package. make yourself comfortable with the changes you make by ensuring that your motives are clear and your plans stem from what you truly want, not what someone else wants. doors will open for you if you ask for help. Trust in yourself and follow through. your numbers are 5, 12, 20, 28, 33, 39, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t let work matters get you down. emotions will surface, causing stress and tension. do your best to keep the peace and to work with your loved ones instead of against them. invest in your future. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): spend time with someone you enjoy being around. Taking a walk down memory lane, attending a reunion or just getting together with someone you haven’t seen for a long time will revitalize you and spark new ideas and plans. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t let anyone ruin your plans. Focus on the people you love and practice moderation. spending quiet time discussing plans that are cost-efficient and fun for all will help you bypass a scene filled with indulgence, stress and overreacting. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take care of personal responsibilities or household chores before someone questions what you are doing. emotions will flare up if you fall behind and don’t have time to spend with friends, family or your partner. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t complain or waste time when you should be out enjoying time with someone who makes your heart thump. sharing experiences with your romantic partner, children or close friends will lead you to make positive changes and enjoy more fun times together. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): gravitate toward the people who appreciate you. problems with an elderly relative or a domestic responsibility will get your dander up. Try not to argue. Just do what’s expected of you so that you can move on to the things you enjoy doing. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Keep smiling. refuse to get involved in matters that can only lead to trouble. Take pride in how you present who you are and you will not be overlooked regarding a job, position or partnership that interests you. believe in yourself. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): The help you offer other people will be well received and rewarded. get involved in organizations that are geared toward improvements, networking and allowing you to mix business with pleasure. Favors will be granted.  

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): refuse to give in to someone using emotional tactics. make personal or professional changes that will help eliminate stress. don’t limit what you can do because someone is standing in your way. Take what’s yours. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): listen carefully, size up whatever situation you face and take action based on what’s best for you. an opportunity that can help you advance must not be ignored because someone is using emotional blackmail to deter you from following your heart. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Figure out how much financial maneuverability you have when it comes to home improvements, planning a vacation or taking time off to follow a dream. love is on the rise, and making decisions that will benefit your relationship are encouraged. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): stick to the truth and avoid going overboard when it comes to physical or financial matters to avoid repercussions and loss. minor mishaps can be expected if you are not cautious or if you choose to get into a senseless battle. 

Birthday Baby: you are responsive, persistent and competitive. you are a willful leader. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 



Print answer here: 

(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: EVOKE MADLY MIFFED DRENCHSaturday’s 
Answer: When the Rebel Alliance took on the Empire in softball, they played on a — FORCE FIELD 

To
 receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable to and mail to: The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 
address 
city     state Zip 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 
The mid-major dream dies again 

Alex Carson 
associate sports editor 
we’ll have to wait another year to see if college football’s doomsday scenario ever plays itself out. 
This could’ve been the year. even with the fluky number of undefeated teams left at this stage of the season — seriously, well done to the conferences for back-loading each contender’s schedule — there still seemed to be a path possible. 
but alas, the great dream died saturday. 
a lot would have hd to go right for no. 13 memphis to make the college Football playoff, there’s no doubting that, but it seemed like it could have been in the cards. 
everything the Tigers needed for their résumé was there. not only could the Tigers have had a big nonconference win over a power Five school, they could have had a big nonconference win over the sec champion, mississippi. 
and not only did the Tigers have another power Five win (well, i don’t think you can re­ally call Kansas a “power Five” school, but that’s beside the point), they were on course for a slew of quality confer­ence wins. in the resurgent american athletic conference, the Tigers would’ve had to run the table with navy, houston and Temple, all before likely having to down the owls once more in the conference title game. 
For anyone, but especially a “mid-major” team, that was a tough november slate. 
but it all so gloriously fell apart saturday. 
ole miss, ranked 18th, had what looked like a pretty pedes­trian showdown with arkansas. sure, anything can happen in the best conference in the universe™, but the razorbacks have just been bad this season. 
Then the rebels gave up 45 points, allowed a fourth-and-25 conversion in overtime and lost 53-52 when arkansas converted a 2-point try. 
That alone — memphis’ result against navy notwith­standing — was probably enough to toll the death knell for the Tigers’ dreams. 
The idea was this: an 11-2, conference-champion ole miss squad wouldn’t have had a case for inclusion over a 13-0 memphis team that had defeat­ed the rebels. and if the pac-12 champion also had two losses, there was at least an argument to be made that they should be amongst the four teams in the college Football playoff. 
but that died when mississippi inexplicably lost a shootout to a team coached by 
bret bielema. 
That’s bad. 
of course, the Tigers pro­ceeded to pour gasoline all over the situation by falling behind against navy, eventually get­ting blown out to the tune of a 45-20 score. 
at home. 
There have been a lot of in­stances of fun runs by small schools coming to an end in a disastrous way over the years, but this may be the biggest disaster since boise state kicker Kyle brotzman blew 26- and 29­yard field goals at nevada while the broncos were still relevant in college football. 
and that’s the thing — dur­ing the 2000s, there were plenty of teams who could’ve benefit-ted from a playoff system. boise state was consistently putting together good teams, while Tcu, utah and hawai’i each popped up with bcs-crashing teams. 
of course, two of those schools are now in power con­ferences, and the rainbow warriors just fired head coach norm chow midseason. so they’re not looking too hot right now. 
but in the modern-day setup, it’s hard to find too many vi­able candidates for a four-team playoff that come from out­side the power conferences 
— notre dame and, to a lesser extent, byu could certainly get there as independents, but it’s compelling to put together a scenario that sees anyone cur­rently affiliated with a smaller league getting there. 
rule out anyone who isn’t from the aac from this dis­cussion instantly. Just do it. There’s never going to be a deep enough field of good teams in any other “group of Five” conference to impress the com­mittee, which seems to value strength of schedule and qual­ity wins pretty highly — look at how they (rightly) treated marshall last year. 
so then that takes us to a few select schools that could get the job done. 
one year, one of them may just do it. cincinnati seems like a good candidate, as are ucF and connecticut, if the huskies could ever get their stuff together. 
but until then, we wait for our saviors to break through. 
because memphis, you were far too beautiful to be our great hope. 
sweet dreams, Tigers. 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NFL | panThers 37, pacKers 29 
newton’s 4 Tds lead panthers past packers 
Associated Press 

charloTTe, n.c. — cam newton was determined to protect the carolina panthers’ house on sunday at all costs. 
That meant the fifth-year quarterback tearing down a large green bay packers ban­ner before the game that was hanging over the inside wall of the stadium — and later taking down the packers by throwing for three touch­downs and running for an­other in a 37-29 win. 
newton threw for 297 yards as the panthers (8-0) took an important step toward se­curing home-field advantage throughout the nFc playoffs. every other nFc team has at least two losses, including the packers (6-2). 
carolina has now won 12 straight regular-season games, including seven straight at home. 
“There was a green bay banner in bank of america stadium — and that just doesn’t match,” newton said. “... we take pride in having an edge and playing in bank of america stadium and playing in front of the carolinas every week, and it’s something that i feel it was my due diligence to protect” the stadium. 
carolina led by 23 points in the fourth quarter before aaron rodgers rallied green bay and nearly gave the packers a chance to extend the game into overtime. 
rodgers threw for 369 yards and four Tds, but couldn’t take advantage of one of newton’s few mis­takes: an interception with 
3:38 left in the game that gave the packers the ball at the carolina 22. down by 8, rodgers fourth-and-goal pass from the carolina 4 was intercepted by linebacker Thomas davis. 
it capped a frustrating day for the packers. rodgers was so annoyed he threw his tab­let on the ground on the side­line after watching the replay. 
“we had an opportunity for a pitch-and-catch touch­down, and i got scared by something,” rodgers said. “i can’t explain. it was a mis­take for me, and something i’ll think about on the ride home. i don’t know who was in my face; all i know is i had randall (cobb) wide open for a touchdown.” 
earlier in the game, Julius peppers refused to give the ball back to newton after the quarterback scored a touch­down, instead electing to toss the ball down the field in the opposite direction. newton retrieved the ball and gave it to a fan. 
and, down by 37-14 in the fourth quarter, ha ha clinton-dix began jawing at peppers, who was seated on the bench. peppers stood up and talked back before 
b.J. raji stepped in, shoving clinton-dix backward. 
“it doesn’t concern me,” packers coach mike mccarthy said. “it’s foot­ball. Things happen on the sidelines. it’s a product of us not playing to our standard. sometimes things like that happen. i have no concerns.” 
it was the second straight game the panthers nearly surrendered a commanding fourth quarter lead. carolina lost a 17-point lead on monday night to indianapolis be­fore rallying to win 29-26 in overtime. 
“we make it tough, i don’t know why,” panthers tight end greg olsen said. “it’s al­most like we like torturing ourselves.” 
coach ron rivera said the panthers can’t put them­selves in that position. 
“when you have somebody down you have to make plays and put them away,” rivera said. 
carolina outscored green bay 24-0 in the second period to open a 27-7 halftime lead behind three newton scores. 

NFL | viKings 21, rams 18 (oT) 
Vikings beat Rams in OT, lose Bridgewater to injury 
Associated Press 

minneapolis — angered by a hit to Teddy bridgewater’s head that knocked the quar­terback out of the game, the minnesota vikings kept their composure and steered their feelings toward another steely victory. 
Then they let the st. louis rams have it. 
adrian peterson rushed for 125 yards and a touchdown on 29 carries, helping set up blair walsh’s 40-yard field goal in overtime that gave the vikings a 21-18 victory over the rams on sunday. 
“we’re a disciplined foot­ball team. we do things right. That’s why we are the least-penalized team in the league because we play by the rules,” said vikings coach mike Zimmer, who had a hard time holding back. 
in a predictably grind­it-out game between simi­larly constructed teams, the vikings (6-2) ended Todd gurley’s streak with 125-plus yards rushing at four straight games. gurley gained 89 yards and a touchdown on 24 attempts for the rams (4-4), who took the overtime kick­off at Zimmer’s deferral but quickly went three-and-out. 
marcus sherels tiptoed along the sideline for a 26-yard return of Johnny hekker’s 63-yard punt, and peterson ran the ball well into walsh’s range to give the vikings their seventh straight win at home. 
greg Zuerlein made four field goals for the rams, in­cluding a 53-yarder with 17 seconds left in regulation to make up for the 48-yarder that went wide right a few minutes before. 
“it wasn’t pretty, but it doesn’t have to be,” vikings left guard brandon Fusco said. “as long as we have more points than the opponent at the end, that’s all we care about.” 
with green bay’s loss at carolina, the vikings forged a tie for the nFc north lead, taking momentum into a tough second-half schedule. bridgewater greeted his team­mates as they ran through the stadium tunnel after the game, clapping and slapping their backs. 
on a 5-yard scramble early in the fourth quarter, bridgewater slid to protect himself when cornerback lamarcus Joyner dived at him shoulder-first. bridgewater appeared to be out cold, be­fore walking slowly off the field and eventually jog­ging to the locker room for evaluation. 
asked if he felt the rams played dirty, Zimmer said simply: “yes.” 
“if we were out on the street,” he said, “we probably would’ve had a fight.” 
Zimmer’s postgame hand­shake with rams coach Jeff Fisher was rather icy, but both Fisher and Joyner expressed regret about the play and wished bridgewater well. 


WOMEN’S TENNIS | illinois midwesT blasT 
Irish see mixed results in team competition 



paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame had a rare fall-season opportunity to compete as a team this weekend, as it took on illinois, missouri and purdue at the illinois midwest blast in urbana, illinois. 
The three-day event allowed the irish to compete in both sin­gles and doubles, where they had varying levels of success against the field. 
notre dame opened Friday with a pair of doubles matches, falling 2-1 to purdue before beat­ing missouri by the same margin in its second contest. 
Junior Jane Fennelly and sophomore allison miller won 8-6 at no. 3 doubles against the boilermakers, but the irish lost at both no. 1 or no. 2 singles. senior Quinn gleason and sophomore brooke broda fell 8-3 at no. 1 doubles, while junior mary closs and senior Julie vrabel dropped an 8-4 decision at the no. 2 flight. 
The irish rebounded in their next match against the Tigers. gleason paired up with closs to win 8-1 at no. 1 doubles and vrabel partnered with freshman rachel chong to secure the win at no. 3 doubles, 8-4. 
To cap off Friday, notre dame contested a singles match with illinois, tying the Fighting illini 3-3. 
gleason, ranked 93rd nation­ally, won a tight three-set match 7-5, 5-7, 7-5, while broda and Fennelly won at nos. 4 and 6 respectively to secure a split with the hosts. 
saturday’s play yielded more mixed results for notre dame, which beat purdue 5-1 in a sin­gles contest before falling 3-0 to illinois in doubles play. 
only miller dropped a sin­gles flight, at no. 2, against the boilermakers, and the remainder of the irish squad won in straight sets, led by gleason’s 6-2, 6-2 vic­tory. closs, vrabel and chong each picked up their first singles victory of the weekend, at nos. 3, 4 and 6 respectively. 
it was a different story for the irish in doubles, however, as they failed to record a win. closs and gleason fell 8-5 at no. 1, while broda and miller dropped their own 8-5 decision at no. 2. 
The tournament closed sunday with notre dame de­feating missouri, 5-1, in singles action. 
once more, miller was the only irish player to see defeat, as she fell in a tightly-contested no. 2 singles match 12-10 in the third-set tiebreaker. 
gleason completed a perfect singles tournament with a 6-2, 6-0 win, while closs also secured a 3-0 singles weekend with a 6-2, 6-2 triumph at the no. 3 flight. 
notre dame will close its fall season when it heads to lakewood ranch, Florida, to compete in the lakewood ranch invitational this weekend, with play at the three-day event start­ing Friday. 



paid adverTisemenT 


MEN’S SWIMMING | virginia 237, nd 131; nd 214, piTTsburgh 150 
Irish top Panthers, fall to Hokies in tri-dual meet 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 
notre dame finished second in a three-team meet over the week­end hosted by virginia Tech at christiansburg aquatic center in christiansburg, virginia. 
The irish faced two confer­ence opponents, the hokies and pittsburgh. The irish fell to virginia Tech, 237-131, and defeated pittsburgh, 214-150. 
in the 200-yard freestyle re­lay, the team of freshman daniel speers, junior Kevin bradley, soph­omore Justin plaschka, and fresh­man Tabahn afrik finished second in 1:22.63, while the relay team of freshman daniel Fujan, senior michael hudspith, junior Trent Jackson, and sophomore robert whitcare finished in 1:25.27 to place fourth. 
in the 400-yard individual medley, bradley led the irish in fourth place with a final time of 4:01.55, while in the 200-yard back­stroke, whitacre won in 1:48.04. 

“The 200 back was a good event for us on Friday night,” irish head coach matt Tallman said. “rob whitacre had a great race. i don’t think we struggled anywhere. we had some decent swims that we came up on the short end related to scoring points, but our times were right where we expected to be at this time of the year. 
“we were a little sharper on saturday. Thursday was a long day of travel and it took us a little while to get into the meet.” 
in the 200-yard butterfly, grauslys won in 1:49:69 and bradley finished second in 1:51.83, while in the 400-yard freestyle re­lay, the team of bradley, speers, plaschka, and afrik took home the win in 3:00.85. 
“our 400 free relay should be one of our strengths this season,” Tallman said. “we have more than four capable guys for that event this year and are excited for the results at the end of the season. Justin is a big part of that relay and his indi­vidual events are very important. he knows the impact he has on our team and that he is capable of big things this season.” 
The irish are back in action in two weeks when they will compete at the boilermaker invitational from nov. 20 through nov. 22. 
“The purdue invite will be a good test for us,” Tallman said. “There will be quality competition led by the host. we will be up for the chal­lenge and hope to continue im­proving toward our end of season goals.” 
Contact Michael Ivey at  mivey@hcc-nd.edu 

WOMEN’S SWIMMING | virginia Tech 208, nd 162; piTTsburgh 188, nd 182 
Notre Dame struggles  with conference foes 
emma gaboury finished first and 
Observer Staff Report 

second with scores of 316.70 and 
notre dame participated in a 301.75, while sophomore annie 
two-day meet this past weekend crea took fourth place with a 
in christiansburg, virginia, host-284.55 score. 
ed by virginia Tech, where it lost The 1-meter diving competi­
to both the hokies, 208-162, and tion was less kind to notre dame, 
pittsburgh, 188-182. however, as gaboury and streepy 
while the irish did not find suc-only managed third- and fourth­
cess in the pool at the end of Friday place finishes for the irish. 
and saturday’s competition, they notre dame was able to grab 
did find success on the platform, just one win in the pool, as fresh-
taking the first two spots in the man alice Treuth took first place 
3-meter diving competition. in the 200-yard backstroke, taking 
seniors lindsey streepey and top honors in 1:58.79. 
paid adverTisemenT 


The irish relay teams were stymied over the two days by virginia Tech, finishing second to the hokies in four of the five relay events. Junior catherine mulquin, senior catherine galletti, fresh­man Tayde revilak and fresh­man ella moynihan finished just three hundredths off the win in the 200-yard freestyle relay, while the 200-yard medley relay squad — featuring mulquin, ju­nior danielle margheret, galletti and revilak — finished less than a second behind virginia Tech’s first-place squad. 
The trend continued in the 800-yard freestyle relay, where notre dame’s 7:32.51 time wasn’t quick enough to take first, fin­ishing four seconds off the pace, and wrapped up in the 400-yard freestyle relay, where the irish finished 1.18 seconds behind first 
— though this time the panthers’ squad took the win. 
The relay squads weren’t the only ones to see themselves fin­ish second in events Friday and saturday, as the irish got a quartet of second-place individual finish­es: revilak placed second in the 100-yard butterfly, mulquin did the same in the 100-yard freestyle, while galletti (50-yard freestyle) and moynihan (200-yard free­style) garnered runner-up finish­es as well. 
after competitions on three consecutive weekends, notre dame will have next weekend off. 
The irish are set to return to ac­tion nov. 20 at the boilermaker invitational, a three-day event that will be held at purdue in west lafayette, indiana. 



M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
gormley, but the forward’s header was blocked and cleared. The irish came close several more times, as a shot from senior midfielder evan panken and a hodan free kick both went wide before a wild scramble in the virginia six-yard box saw ueland beat caldwell, but not the virginia defender who waited on the line. 
notre dame continued to have most of the ball in opposing terri­tory in the second half, but it was the cavaliers who had the first seri­ous chance after the break. opoku broke free of the irish defense and hit a shot that had hubbard beaten to his near side, but it bounced off the post and out of play. 
when gallagher and Farina returned to the game in the 59th minute, the irish put the pres­sure back on the cavalier de­fense. Farina flicked a pass into gallagher’s path, but caldwell got just enough of the forward’s shot to see it wide. minutes later, the ball fell to Farina inside the box, but his powerful shot was tipped over. 
gallagher had another chance as the ball dropped to him at the penalty spot, but he couldn’t make clear contact, and the onrush­ing caldwell got his hand to the shot. Klekota was the next irish player with a chance to beat the cavaliers goalkeeper, after a skill­ful touch to take the ball down and beat his marker, but caldwell took the ball from his feet. hodan had a look at the goal from the corner of the box, but despite an impressive shot, caldwell got one hand on the ball and pushed it wide. 
with just over seven minutes left, the irish could have been forgiven for thinking they would never beat caldwell. aubrey un­leashed a powerful curling free kick placed perfectly into the top right-hand corner of the goal, but virginia’s goalkeeper dived the length of the goal to tip it over the bar. From the resulting corner, Klekota had a chance from point­blank range, but again caldwell answered. clark credited caldwell for keeping the game level, but also his defenders for preventing any attacks at the other end. 
“it was always in doubt,” clark said. “when it’s 0-0, and they’ve got so many talented players, the game is always going to be in doubt until the goal went in. i would have liked to have seen more goals, but you’ve got to give plaudits to their goalkeeper. Their goalkeeper had some fantastic saves. he had sev­en saves and some of them were really top-drawer saves, so great job from their goalie. 
“but it was great for us that we stayed focused throughout the whole game, because it’s very easy when you are having a lot of the play to keep the back door bolted, as i always say. so i think the back four did a very good job, aubrey and habrowski and our midfield and our fullbacks deserve a lot of credit. hubbard only had one save to make, so i think that was just as important.” 
with just three minutes left, hodan’s corner was met by the high-rising aubrey, who head­ed the ball low where neither caldwell nor the cavaliers defend­ers could reach it. The goal proved to be the winner, but clark said he knew his team needed to stay focused. 
“i just immediately thought about getting back,” clark said. “There were three minutes left, so i just thought about getting or­ganized for those three minutes, that’s me. i don’t get over-excited until the final whistle. once the final whistle goes and you’ve won the match, you can relax, but up until then, you’re always working. it’s always a difficult time. The minute or two after you score a goal, you’ve got to really keep your focus because that’s a time — if you look at statistics — that teams often lose a goal. They score a goal, and then they’ll be so excited that suddenly they’ll lose a goal. so you’ve got to be very careful that that doesn’t happen. 
“That was the lesson: to keep focused.” 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 

Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
overtime, netting the win­ning goal with a couple min­utes left to play in regulation to seal the 4-3 victory. 
“we were telling the guys on the bench to stay positive, and once we killed the five-minute major we said to at­tack and try and get it back in regulation,” gross said. “i saw the forward covering me was puck-staring, and Jake [evans] had a wide open lane coming up the slot, so i went to the back door and he made an unbelievable pass to me.” 
sophomore goaltender cal petersen recorded 31 saves Friday, with 17 coming in the third period alone to secure the irish victory. 
when the irish returned to the ice saturday night, the game unfolded quite differ­ently. notre dame struggled throughout the game to gen­erate scoring opportunities, with its lone goal coming from senior center Thomas dipauli near the end of the second period. 
“we were flat, and it’s up to us to try to figure that out,” Jackson said. “They had more jump, they had more juice and we didn’t. we were really sloppy with the puck, which is always an indicator to me that we were not men­tally sharp. 
“we missed the net a lot. i think we had 14 shots miss the net and 14 shots that were blocked.” 
dipauli, responsible for the only irish goal of the night, said he was disappointed with the complacency the irish showed right out of the gate. 
“i think we had a comfort level that is just not accept­able when we play such a good team like minnesota,” dipauli said. “obviously they got yelled at [Friday] because they came out fly­ing tonight and we just came out a little too comfortable. we’re a young team, and i think this is going to teach us a valuable lesson.” 
The gophers responded to dipauli’s tying goal with three third-period goals to earn a 4-1 victory. minnesota freshman goaltender eric schierhorn finished the night with 28 saves, com­pared to petersen’s 22. 
The irish will look to re­bound this weekend as they host northeastern on Thursday and Friday at compton Family ice arena. 
Contact Daisy Costello at  mcostel@nd.edu 




W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
she didn’t get that last rebound,” mcgraw said. “of course, she didn’t play as much in the second half, but she’s somebody that is going to be the glue to our team.” 
in the second half, the irish offense performed more consis­tently. mcgraw said that playing without pressure was the key to the reduced turnover count. 
“in the second half we were re­laxed, went out and played more freely,” mcgraw said. “i know we had 11 turnovers at halftime. i didn’t keep count in the second half, but i knew we did better there.” 
a key to the second-half performance of the irish was the performance of freshman guards marina mabrey and arike ogunbowale. mabrey was the top scorer on the day, with 22 points, while ogunbowale added 14. mcgraw said she was particularly impressed by their performances. 
“both freshmen played really well,” mcgraw said. “it was great to have them both out there. arike came into the game and gave us a huge lift in the first half. she did some really good things and drove the ball well. Then, in the second half, marina came alive.” 
For mabrey, it was her first action playing alongside her sis­ter, senior guard michaela, since they were in high school. The pair linked up effectively in the fourth quarter, with michaela assisting her younger sibling for a score three times, including a lob pass to make the score 88-43. The freshman said the play was one the sisters had worked on for years. 
“we actually used to do that one a lot in high school, so i was expecting her to throw it,” mabrey said. “after the play she said ‘i knew you were going to catch that.’ i was ready for it.” 
notre dame was able to give every healthy player on its ros­ter time on the court, including junior forward Kristina nelson, who hadn’t seen action for a year due to a shoulder injury. nelson chipped in with eight points and four assists, and mcgraw said she was impressed with how she played in the wake of the injury. 
“she’s been playing that way in practice,” mcgraw said. “she’s got a really soft touch around the basket, she’s got that mid­range jumper, she can pass. defensively she tried to take a charge, which i think was great to see.” 
ogunbowale put the finishing touches on the scoreline, bring­ing notre dame into triple digits with nine seconds left. despite the early mistakes, mcgraw said the game was a good tune-up for the irish. have done a little better. i thought notre dame begins regular 



“i thought we did some good we rebounded the ball well, and season play at purcell pavilion things today,” mcgraw said. “we we got the break going. it was a on sunday, when it will face struggled a bit on offense when good first game for us. we have a bucknell. lindsay went out of the game, i lot of things to work on, and this think that’s something we have game showed us some of those Contact Daniel O’Boyle at to work on. defensively, we could things today.” doboyle1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


MEN’S SOCCER | nd 1, virginia 0 

Late goal lifts Notre Dame to semis 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
with 85 minutes played in the latest clash between no. 9 notre dame and no. 17 virginia, the irish appeared to have no way past cavaliers sophomore goal­keeper Jeff caldwell in an acc quarterfinal that seemed des­tined for overtime. 
but as senior midfielder patrick hodan whipped in a late corner kick, junior defender brandon aubrey rose above all others and forced caldwell to pick the ball out of his net, as he scored the game’s only goal and sent notre dame (10-3-5, 4-2-2 acc) past the cavaliers (9-4-3, 4-2-2) and into the next round. 
The irish came out slowly, struggling to keep the ball and having difficulty containing cavaliers freshmen derrick 
etienne  and  edward  opoku.  
despite  an  early  opportunity  
with a  hodan free kick that  

curled wide to the right, notre dame struggled to truly get go­ing until irish head coach bobby clark made his usual first-half substitution, bringing freshman forward Thomas ueland and junior forward mark gormley on for sophomore forwards Jon gallagher and Jeffrey Farina. clark said the change allowed his team to begin to take control of the game. 
“They pressed us fairly hard to begin with,” clark said. “it took a while to get a rhythm at the beginning. Then i thought the two young strikers came on and did a great job. The energy they gave us in the last five minutes of the first half and the first 15 minutes of the second half was terrific. They gave us so much en­ergy and they did a fantastic job. sometimes when they don’t get a goal you might think they just came on, but they really pressed and harried and worked. it was very good.” 
The 32nd-minute substitu­tions had an impact almost im­mediately, as a well-executed free kick maneuver allowed hodan to find senior midfielder connor Klekota, who flicked the ball to 
see m soccer PAGE 14 
HOCKEY | nd 4, minnesoTa 3; minnesoTa 4, nd 1 
nd splits series with minnesota 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
it wasn’t a perfect perfor­mance for no. 3 notre dame, but the irish still had no trou­ble dispatching wayne state in their sole exhibition game at purcell pavilion on saturday, emerging victorious, 101-52. 
notre dame started with some mistakes, turning the ball over only seconds after sophomore forward brianna Turner won the tipoff and again on its second posses­sion. The irish soon got on the scoreboard thanks to a free throw from junior guard lindsay allen, and allen’s dis­tribution helped notre dame extend its lead, as she added five first-quarter assists, bring­ing the score to 18-8 at the end of the first period. irish head coach muffet mcgraw said her team’s early mistakes could be attributed to nerves. 
“in the first half, you’re in your uniform for the first time; you’re excited to be out there,” mcgraw said. “i think we were all trying a little too hard. There were some easy shots available that we weren’t look­ing for. we were trying to force it inside because we thought we had an advantage in there, we kept talking about getting the ball inside, and we passed up some shots because of that.” 

The irish offensive mistakes continued early in the second quarter, particularly when allen was off the court, but the team cut down on them towards the end of the half, al­lowing the irish to take a 46-25 lead into the half. 
defensively, the irish looked more convincing and forced the warriors to shoot from 3-point range. most of the warriors’ offense came from the perimeter shooting of se­nior guard brittany streetman, who made five 3-pointers in the first half and seven of her nine total attempts, all in the first three quarters. graduate student guard madison cable played a key part in the irish defense, with six rebounds and four steals in the first half. she ended the game with nine boards as well as 12 points, narrowly missing out on a double-double. mcgraw said cable’s defensive performance was a sign of her importance to the irish this year. 
“it was disappointing that 
see w bball PAGE 15 
FOOTBALL 
Kelly gives prosise update 
By ALEX CARSON 
associate sports editor 
no. 5 notre dame is hopeful of having senior running back 
c.J. prosise back in the mix saturday when it hosts wake Forest on senior day, head coach brian Kelly said. 
“he’s going through the concussion protocol,” Kelly said. “he landed on his shoul­der and kind of whiplashed his neck. he got down to the ground and a player landed on him. 
“he was better today. he’ll go through a physical condi­tioning tomorrow. if he obvi­ously passes that, then we’ll move to the next stage. but we’re hopeful that if he takes the steps necessary, we’ll have him back out on the practice field this week.” 
prosise, who left the game at the end of the first quarter with the injury, had started the game brightly, gaining 57 all-purpose yards, including notre dame’s first 29 of the contest. 
The senior running back is just 25 yards shy of reaching the 1,000-yard mark for the season and has been involved in the receiving game as well, notching 291 yards through the air on 25 receptions. after scoring at least one touch­down in six consecutive games, prosise has now failed to score in consecutive games, struggling against Temple on oct. 31 and exiting after just five carries and two targets saturday. 
in prosise’s absence, fresh­man running back Josh adams shouldered most of the carries saturday, racking up 147 yards on 20 touches and adding a re­ceiving touchdown on a sweep pass in the fourth quarter. 
if prosise is unable to go saturday, adams would likely become notre dame’s third starting running back of the year, after junior Tarean Folston tore his acl in the season opener against Texas on sept. 5. 
Kelly said even if prosise can play, he expects adams to get a higher volume of carries against the demon deacons. 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu 

By DAISY COSTELLO 
sports writer 
no. 18 notre dame, com­ing off a two-game sweep of connecticut over halloween weekend, welcomed minnesota to compton Family ice arena this past weekend, splitting the series with a 4-3 win Friday and a 4-1 loss saturday. 
The irish (4-2-2, 2-0-0 hockey east) got off to a quick start Friday, leading the golden gophers 3-1 going into the third period of the game. Freshman left wing dylan malmquist and sophomores left wing anders bjork and defense-man Jordan gross all tallied goals heading into the final period of play for notre dame. irish head coach Jeff Jackson said he thought his team got off to a hot start but played with less urgency in the third period. 
“i thought we were a little bit flat footed to start the third, but we had been playing well up until that point,” Jackson said. 
The golden gophers (3-4-0, 0-0-0 big Ten) refused to relent and quickly took advantage of a five-minute major penalty on malmquist with two power-play goals, tying the game at 3-3 with just under four minutes to play in the game. gross rose to the occa­sion for the irish to avoid 
see hocKey PAGE 14 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 101, wayne sTaTe 52 
Irish dominate in exhibition win 




