The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 75 | MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Students participate in 42nd March for Life 
Record number of Saint Mary’s, Notre Dame and Holy Cross students travel to Washington 
By KATIE GALIOTO and MEGAN UEKERT 
news writers 
a record-breaking 692 stu­dents from notre dame, saint mary’s and holy cross traveled to washington d.c. last week for the annual march for life. 
senior rachel drumm, presi­dent of notre dame’s right to life club, said this year’s march was an “incredible op­portunity” for members of the notre dame community “to celebrate life and to remind the country that life is valuable and important.” 
last Thursday marked the 42nd anniversary of roe v. wade, the 1973 supreme court decision to legalize abortion in the united states. 
“The right to life march is a peaceful protest that happens every year on the anniversa­ry of the roe v. wade ruling,” drumm said. “hundreds of thousands of people from around the country gather to­gether to march for this cause.” 
Junior noreen Fischer, 2015 march For life trip coordina­tor, said the march is an impor­tant demonstration given that the topic of anti-abortion and pro-abortion rights is contro­versial nationwide. 
“The march represents hope for a future in which all human life, from conception to natural death, is valued as sacred and not disposable,” Fischer said. 
Junior will harris, one of 
see march PAGE 5 



ACE initiative helps incoming editor-in-chief literacy in Haiti names new supporting staff 
release. officially begin their new stevenson, The observer’s 
By ALYSSA LYON Observer Staff Report 
news writer kate schuenke-lucien, as-roles march 15. current news editor, is pur­
sociate director of haitian Jack rooney, lesley rooney, a junior politi-suing a double major in 
notre dame’s alliance for catholic education initiatives stevenson, mary green and cal science and american film, television and the-catholic education (ace) for ace, said the primary goal wei lin will help oversee studies double major and atre and american studies. partnered with the episcopal of the project is to help haitian The observer’s editorial journalism, ethics and de-she hails from memphis, commission for catholic children to “learn to read, to board operations in 2015-mocracy minor, has worked Tennessee, and lives in education and catholic relief read to learn,” a mantra the 
in The observer’s news and 


2015-2016 
services (crs) to begin the project uses to promote the 

viewpoint departments, 
Mary Green 
assistant managing editor 
Jack Rooney 
haiti reads project in august long term benefits of increased most recently serving as 
managing editor 
2014, working to improve the literacy. haiti reads is try-associate news editor. 
literacy of haitian children. ing to improve students’ abil-The chicago native is cur-
The initiative is sponsored ity to read and write in creole, rently studying abroad in 
by a $1 million grant from an which is spoken by 95 percent dublin and lives in alumni 
 foundation, with of the haitian population, and hall on campus. during 
anonymous 

additional funding and person-French, which is the language his time at The observer, 
nel provided by ace and crs, rooney has reported on 
according to a university press see ace PAGE 5 2016, incoming editor-ann coulter’s visit to cam-breen-phillips hall. with in-chief greg hadley pus, changes to the student rooney, she spearheaded announced sunday night. international business coverage of the 2014 mental rooney will take on the council (sibc) and various illness awareness week managing editor position, student government issues. and expanded the news de-

assistant managing editor 

This summer, he will intern at The concord monitor in concord, new hampshire. 
“i consider The observer an indispensable part of the notre dame and saint mary’s community, and i will work to make sure it continues to provide rel-
Wei Lin 
assistant managing editor 


the paper’s no. 2 spot, while evant, impactful stories partment’s corps of writers stevenson, green and lin about issues that matter to in addition to writing on will all serve as assistant my fellow students,” rooney managing editors. They said. see ediTors PAGE 5 
news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 8 scene PAGE 9 women’s baskeTball PAGE 16 men’s baskeTball PAGE 16 






Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


What are three words to describe Hip Hop Night? 

Utkarsh Sonkiya 

Leah Billion 
freshman 
sophomore 
Zahm house 
cavanaugh hall 
“life, liberty, love.” 
“don’t go sober.” 

Zach Weissenborn 

Lizzy Miggins 
sophomore 
junior 
Zahm house 
pasquerilla west hall 
“it’s a trap.” 
“seductive, sweaty, smelly.” 

Katharine Janes 

Jack Walsh 
freshman 
freshman 
pasquerilla east hall 
dillon hall 
“it was terrifying.” 
“where’s my dad?” 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Want your event included here? 
News Sports 
carolyn hutyra mary green Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

margaret hynds rachel o’grady clare kossler 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
emily danaher Jimmy kemper 
Photo Viewpoint 

Undergraduate Snite Salon Series Wellness Winter Career and Men’s and Women’s 
emmet Farnan macaila demario 
Workshop: “Crafting Snite Museum of Art Wednesday: Tai Chi Internship Fair Swimming a Strong Grant 5 p.m. - 5:45 p.m. and Chai Tea Joyce Center Rolfs Aquatic Center Proposal” A collegial exchange Rockne Memorial 109 4 p.m. - 8 p.m. 5 p.m. - 7 p.m. 
Corrections 

Brownson Hall of ideas about a great 3:30 p.m. - 5 p.m. All colleges and majors Shamrock Invitational. 
The observer regards itself as 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. work of art. Chai Tea provided. are welcome. Free admission. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Sustainability Film: “Rashomon” Men’s Basketball Notre Dame Student Men’s Hockey 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Undergraduate DeBartolo Performing Purcell Pavilion Film Festival Compton Family Ice 
however, recognize that we will make 
Research Expo Arts Center 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. DeBartolo Performing Arena 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Hesburgh Library 8 p.m. - 10 p.m. Notre Dame versus Arts Center 7:35 p.m. - 9:35 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
7 p.m. - 8 p.m. Classic Japanese film. Duke. 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Notre Dame versus 
we can correct our error. 

$4 for students. New Hampshire. 


ASA hosts third annual conference 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
The notre dame african students association (asa) will host its third annual midwestern conference, “This is new africa,” from Feb. 7 to Feb. 9. 
The goal of the conference is to educate students at notre dame and other universities about african culture and the issues fac­ing the continent, asa president ihuoma nwaogwugwu said. 
“There are a lot of different per­ceptions people have of africa, and [we want] to show that we’ve pro­gressed into being a bigger, better place and try to dispel a few of the misconceptions there might be out there in africa as a whole,” she said. 
nwaogwugwu said the con­ference, which will include par­ticipants from the university of michigan and purdue university, will consist of a mixer Feb. 7 in laFortune student center, a bas­ketball game on the morning of Feb. 8 and a keynote speaker that afternoon. 
nwaogwugwu said the speaker, who has not yet been confirmed, will be someone who studies or works with african concerns. 
“every year we select some­body who is currently working in the african diaspora to come in and discuss with us based on our theme,” she said. 
on the evening of Feb. 8, there will be a showcase of african­themed music, dance perfor­mances and poetry readings in stepan center. nwaogwugwu said the showcase will include dance africa, Troop nd, First class steppers and several indi­vidual performers. 
“people can just come together, dance, have fun, listen to a bunch of african music,” she said. 
The conference will conclude with a prayer service in the coleman-morse cha­pel and a brunch in the lounge, nwaogwugwu said. 
“There’s going to be praise and worship, and it’ll be a good culmi­nation of the weekend,” she said. 
in the 21 days leading up to the conference, asa co-vice president rosie olang said she is posting in­formation about african culture and current events on the confer­ence’s Facebook page: annual asa weekend — This is new africa 2015. 
“everything from fashion,to politics, to football and current events,” she said. “The more stories you hear, the easier it is not to form a single narrative about a place.” 
nwaogwugwu said asa pro­vides a place for students who are african or who are interested in africa to come together and learn about the continent. 
“our goal is to get a group of people that are like-minded, have some sort of interest in africa,” she said. 
nwaogwugwu said the confer­ence is open to anyone who wants to learn more about africa. 
“it’s, one, knowing that we’re a club, because i don’t know if a lot of people know about our club,” she said. “Two, if you have any interest in africa, we would love for you to come, and if you don’t know much about it, we’d love for you to come and learn. 
“... since we have such a broad group, people can share from per­sonal experiences and from things that they’ve learned and get the discussion going about africa as a whole.” 
nwaogwugwu said students can register for the conference online. registration costs $20 and includes all events and a t-shirt. 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 


Former theology professor dies 
Observer Staff Report 
Fr. richard p. mcbrien, the crowley-o’brien professor emeritus of Theology, died sunday morning at the age of 78 after a long illness, according to a notre dame press release. 
mcbrien joined the faculty of notre dame as the head of the theology department in 1980 and served in his position until 1991, according to the national catholic register. 
“Father mcbrien was a leading theologian and commentator on the catholic church,” university president Fr. John Jenkins said in the release. “while often contro­versial, his work came from a deep love of and hope for the church. we pray for eternal rest for his soul.” 
according to the press release, mcbrien was also a past president of the catholic Theological society of america, as well as the author of more than 25 books, including “catholicism,” “lives of the saints,” “lives of the popes” and “The church and politics.” he was one of the most widely quoted mem­bers of the notre dame faculty on all matters relating to the catholic church. 
he was also a former president of the catholic Theological society of america, the release stated. 
as of sunday night, funeral ar­rangements are pending, but a memorial mass at the basilica has been tentatively scheduled for the coming weeks. 

Former nd electrician dies 
Observer Staff Report 
Former notre dame electrician royce mcdaniel eck died Tuesday evening, according to a university press release. eck was 92 years old. 
a world war ii veteran, eck spent two years in the air Force before being discharged in 1946, according to his obituary in the south bend Tribune. he went on to work at notre dame for 30 years before retiring in 1985. 
according to the Tribune, there will be a viewing at 10 a.m. Tuesday at the rieth-rohrer-ehret Funeral home in goshen. services will follow at 11 a.m. eck’s family has asked that memorial donations be made to the center for hospice. 


The observer | MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ndsp hosts rad training 
By JP GSCHWIND 
news writer 
expanding their efforts to address sexual assault, the notre dame security police is partnering with recsports to offer the rape aggression defense (r.a.d.) program to female students, faculty, staff and other members of the notre dame community. 
r.a.d. is a nationally certi­fied program in self-defense for women with an empha­sis on instruction in physical resistance and educational components including aware­ness, prevention, risk reduc­tion and avoidance strategies. 
“The class is designed to give students options when put in dangerous situations.” 
Margaret Dawson 
program coordinator 
it has a presence on many college campuses across america and is regularly of­fered by gyms and martial arts instructors certified by r.a.d. 
program coordinator margaret dawson said ndsp decided to offer the program through recsports because it was an opportunity to expand accessibility. 
“i see students very eager to learn at the beginning of the classes and then the sense of empowerment they feel at the end of it,” she said. 
according to dawson, ndsp hosted r.a.d. for the last 15 years and ran at least three programs every year. The average class size has roughly been six to 12 stu­dents, but dawson said the new recsports offering hopes to increase turnout and participation. 
“The class is designed to give students options when put in dangerous situations,” she said. 
according to ndsp’s web­site, the r.a.d. program re­quires no special equipment, skills or previous experience and is open to females ages 13 and older. The new recsports class will consist of six two-hour sessions running from wednesday to march 4. Those interested in attending should contact recsports or ndsp. 
Contact JP Gschwind at  jgschwin@nd.edu 

Justice Friday discusses CAT program 
By MACAILA DeMARIO 
news writer 
saint mary’s students and staff gathered in the student center Friday to discuss the college academy of Tutoring (caT) program’s impact on Title one schools in the south bend community school corporation as part of the Justice Fridays lecture series. 
samira payne, associate di­rector of the office of civil and social engagement and direc­tor of caT, led the discussion and prompted students with questions such as: “did you feel like you had a teacher you could reach out to,” “did you feel like school was a safe place for you?” and “how do you think poverty affects students?” 
“The caT program works with three particular schools in the south bend area,” payne said. “They’re actually primary and intermediate centers.” 
Title i schools have high num­bers or percentages of children from low-income families, ac­cording to the u.s. department of education website, so they receive federal financial assis­tance to help the students meet state academic standards. 
according a worksheet given to students in attendance, 49.3 percent of students in the state of indiana are eligible for free and reduced lunches. 
“poverty is very cyclical. what is the number one way so­ciety tells you to improve your life?” payne said. “They always say go to school, get a job so that you can improve your life, but if you are in a school, and this is your circumstance, how can you do that? 
“how can we task a third grader, a nine-year-old, to be doing this? They’re nine. This is not their responsibil­ity. our system is failing these students.” 
although test scores are not the only indicator on the prog­ress of students, payne said those results still tell a story. 
“graduation rates are lower, and that’s pretty significant,” she said. “it really impacts their experience.” 
payne said volunteering with caT gives [college] students an opportunity to step outside of their comfort zone, while also building skills working with students in south bend schools. 
“it’s really important that we recognize it’s not necessarily that these student aren’t smart, but that they don’t necessarily have the same set of resources, and they haven’t yet found a person, or there isn’t that per­son in their lives who really is helping them to grow and learn and to build on those skills,” payne said. “and so it’s really important that we start to rec­ognize that, and when we’re working with students, it’s not that we see it as a fault within our students but that we see it as a fault within our system and what can we do to support our students.” 
payne said caT gives stu­dents in south bend schools an opportunity to get a glimpse at college life and speak to college students. 
“That gives them that really cool opportunity to ask ques­tions and dream bigger and really open their minds to [col­lege],” payne said. “it’s a really cool opportunity for everyone involved.” 
Contact Macaila DeMario at  mdemario01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




re-energize the cause by in-and it’s grown bigger and big-
improved education and oppor-March spiring people to foster a ger every year since.” 
ACE tunity for the children in haiti,” 
conTinued From page 1 

conTinued From page 1 greater respect for life. Fowler, who has attend-
TJ d’agostino, associate director “i decided to go on the ed the march for life three 
of haitian catholic education this year’s trip coordinators, march with my brothers and times, said her favorite aspect 
primarily used in educational initiatives for ace, said. said the march for life be-sisters from notre dame be-of the experience is the people 
instruction, schuenke-lucien “catholic schools are the big­gan on the national mall with cause it’s a wonderful oppor-she meets along the way. 
said. gest single educational provider an hour-long rally for life tunity to get together with “i have been impacted being 
“we know that early literacy is in the country so [haiti reads] and concluded in front of the other pro-lifers and discuss surround by so many people 
incredibly important for educa-is a way to make a pretty big dent supreme court building. ways in which we can create who support life, experienc­
tional success for children,” she in trying to improve education “[There was] a crowd of over a culture that fosters all life ing profound moments of lis­
said. “basically, children who quality in haiti at large,” he said. 650,000 marches from the ral-from conception to natural tening to stories and seeing 
schuenke-lucien said the ly site up to the supreme court death,” harris said. witnesses and meeting peo­
project’s approach to their mis­
“The Haitian 

building behind the capitol,” saint mary’s senior brooke ple who are really inspiring,” sion is two-fold. 
educators are 

harris said. “during the Fowler said she marches for Fowler said. 
“[improved literacy] would 
exceptionally 

march, you are usually able “love for life.” harris said it was inspiring 
happen by improving students’ to interact with groups from “i was born and raised into to see university president Fr. 
dedicated, and we test scores and students’ ability around the nation through a big family, and i have been John Jenkins march alongside 
feel really grateful to read and write ... and then also chanting, dancing, singing able to see life in such beau-notre dame students. 
by improving the ability of the 
at ND that we 

and discussing the cause for tiful ways,” Fowler said. “i “i love seeing Fr. Jenkins at teachers to deliver a high qual­
are working 

life. in addition to the main want to give a voice to the the march for life each year,” 
ity curriculum to the students,” march, there are many con-voiceless.” harris said. “he is a man with 
with so many schuenke-lucien said. ferences and masses that can beyond the march itself, so many responsibilities, so it 
knowledgable The haiti reads team began supplement the experience.” students had the chance to ex-really shows how important 
training teachers in approxi­
and committed 

drumm said the march for plore the city of washington this issue is for our nation. he mately 50 catholic schools in 
educational 

life is a symbol of hope and over the weekend. on Friday, took time out of his schedule 
august 2014, and the teachers perseverance for the pro-life many members of the right to come join us, not in some 
leaders [in Haiti].” implemented the newly crafted movement. to life club attended mass at special vehicle or place but 
curriculums in december 2014, 
Jaime Zarafonetis 

“i think that a lot of people the basilica of the national right in the midst of all of us schuenke-lucien said. 
associate director of teaching 

may see the march as only a shrine of the immaculate students.” 
Jaime Zarafonetis, associate 
and learning 

protest of this one law,” she conception. drumm said the march director of teaching and learn-
ACE 

said. “and in that case, they “For $35, you are able to for life fits very well with 
ing for ace, said notre dame is may argue that the march partake in an unforgettable notre dame’s mission as a 
excited to work with the teachers isn’t very effective because experience that includes the university. 
don’t learn to read well in the in haiti. that law is still in place. To march for life, having the “notre dame is very big on 
early grades are not able to con-“The haitian educators are me, the march is much more ability to see washington d.c. the phrase ‘what are we fight­
tinue in school.” exceptionally dedicated, and we than that. it gives a lot of hope and receiving two university-ing for?’” drumm said. “what 
according to the haiti reads feel really grateful at nd that to people in the pro-life move-approved excused absences,” better thing is there to fight 
press release, this explains why we are working with so many ment and promotes a sense of Fischer said. for than life — specifically 
50 percent of the haitian adult knowledgable and committed cultural change. drumm said this year the lives of the most vulner­
population is illiterate and why educational leaders [in haiti],” “it helps people to slowly re-marked her eighth march for able, who can’t stand up for 
only five percent of students con-Zarafonetis said. alize that life is valuable, and life in washington. themselves?” 
tinue past primary school. as of now, 49 percent of haitian it’s something worth fighting “we have been sending stu­
haiti reads works with some of third graders cannot read either for. and that’s how change dents to the march for a very Contact Katie Galioto at  
the 2,400 catholic primary and language, Zarafonetis said. happens.” long time,” she said. “it start-kgalioto@nd.edu and Megan 
secondary schools in haiti as a harris said one of the ed with a couple students who Uekert at  
way to “renew and strengthen Contact Alyssa Lyon at  key goals of the march is to drove themselves out there, muekert01@saintmarys.edu 
catholic education to provide an alyon@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

offered strong reporting and Editors coverage in recent years, 
conTinued From page 1 
i’m excited to see the new 

lengths we can go to with notre dame admissions and more multimedia and so-the irish guard. cial media incorporation,” 
“The observer exists to green said. serve notre dame and saint born and raised in new mary’s in a way no other york city, lin is a junior group can,” stevenson said. majoring in accountancy, “with this team in place, i economics and chinese. a know we will maintain top-resident of knott hall, lin quality coverage and find currently serves the 2014­innovative ways to increase 2015 editorial board as the our readership in the com-photo editor. ing term.” he has worked on the irish 
green currently serves as insider covers during the The observer’s sports editor past football season. lin oc­and is majoring in english casionally travels to provide and film, television and the-photo coverage for away atre with a minor in journal-games and also writes for ism, ethics and democracy. the news department. The Tampa, Florida, native “when i first joined The and pangborn hall resident observer, i never imagined has covered notre dame i’d be where i am today,” lin football, baseball, women’s said. “i’m thankful to have soccer and men’s swimming such great mentors and real-and was part of the paper’s ly excited to continue work-coverage of the notre dame ing with such a talented women’s basketball team’s group of friends to provide tournament run in 2014. the best experience for our 
“while we have always readers.” 



The observer | MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

irish time 

Jack Rooney 
news writer 

my soul swooned slowly as i watched the snow faintly falling at o’hare international airport a few weeks ago — falling faintly upon all the living and the dead. 
i stole pretty much that entire para­graph from James Joyce, but i’m in ireland for the semester, so it’s okay. and besides, it was actually snowing when i left chicago on Jan. 12. The snow followed me to dublin, too, and it was indeed faintly falling when i arrived in my home for the next three months or so. 
it hasn’t snowed since that first day i arrived, which is fairly typical of an irish winter. unlike the Fighting irish winter weather in south bend, the emerald isle usually only sees a few days of snow each year. 
but in the two weeks i have been at university college dublin, the mild weather isn’t what has struck me most. rather, the entire notion of time in ireland stands starkly opposed to the hectic life i live in the united states and has caused my biggest adjustment. 
in part, this adjustment comes from the fact that i no longer have near con­stant meetings to attend nor as many commitments to keep. overall though, irish life still moves slower. and i like it. 
i may not spend as much time on meetings and extracurricular activi­ties, but i suddenly have time for lin­gering, leisurely meals with friends old and new. i do not spend as much time actually in a classroom (nobody tell my parents), but i have time to read and truly appreciate what i am read­ing for class. 
at first i thought my perception of irish time is something all study abroad students experience, and that may well be true. but my experience thus far has undeniably shown me an irish life that delightfully lacks urgency. 
even in ireland’s largest city, there is no rush, no hustle and bustle. people walk slowly, with their heads up, sa­voring the people and the places they see along the way. 
i’m sure i’ll learn plenty in my classes this semester, but i think i’ve already learned the most important thing i will from my time in ireland. living slowly, wholly and with de­liberate intention to fully experience whatever comes my way is something i will not leave behind in ireland. when i arrive back home in chicago in mid may (at which point i hope it’s no lon­ger snowing), i’ll be sure to reset my watch to irish time, and walk slowly, with my head up, back to my high-speed, american existence. 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Time to discuss ND apparel affairs 
many times this week, i’ve asked a friend or classmate to share their opinion on the potential expansion of pro­ducing notre dame-licensed products in china. almost every time i was met with the response of “huh? i didn’t know about that.” most of my fellow students deleted the emails sent from the worker participation committee almost immediately after receiving them — and i don’t blame them. The panel hosted for this issue Jan. 20 had about six undergraduate notre dame students in at­tendance, including myself. clearly, mass emails are not the way to catch the attention of the student body. The administration has done a poor job in engaging the stu­dent body on the issue of whether or not to manufacture in china, which cuts to the very heart of notre dame’s identity as a catholic institution. by failing to effectively engage students in this debate, the worker participation committee and the administration does great injustice to the student body. 
This issue dates back to 1999, when university president emeritus Fr. edward “monk” malloy created a task force to advise whether or not notre dame should allow the manufacture of licensed products in countries that do not allow workers the right to organize and freely associate. This list includes china, which does not al­low the creation of independent unions, the right to col­lectively bargain or the ability for workers to strike. The right to organize is considered by the catholic church to be a fundamental human right, essential for the dignity of workers. This task force advised halting production of any notre dame licensed goods in countries that do not allow the right to organize. From that date on, the university has not manufactured any products with our logo or name on them in countries that do not uphold this fundamental right. 
in late december 2014, the student body was informed 
(in a haphazard way) that since summer 2013, there has 
been a committee discussing the creation of a pilot pro­
gram for the manufacturing of licensed goods in china. 
This committee includes only two students: former 
student body president alex coccia and current student 
body president lauren vidal. while these two leaders 
are worthy representatives of the student body, this still 
left the vast majority of us in the dark about a debate 
that is crucial to notre dame’s catholic identity. as lead­
ers of a university, the worker participation committee 
should know that sending out emails, only shortly before 
the decision deadline, is not enough time to engage the 
student body population, especially by sending out long 
emails with vague subject lines. The committee could 

have done a number of things to more effectively inform students, including utilizing social media, creating in­formational videos or distributing fact sheets. The lack of planning in engaging the student body prevents active dialogue in the notre dame community. 
i am not advocating for one side of the debate or the other. i am simply stating that this is a valuable debate in which we all need to be actively and deeply engaged in. on one hand, by manufacturing in china, notre dame could be violating principles of catholic social justice teaching by implicitly supporting a government that does not legally allow its citizens to form private unions or collectively bargain. it could be additionally argued that notre dame could do more good by giving this substantial amount of business and opportunity to manufacturers in third world countries that legally allow their citizens to organize. on the other hand, some argue notre dame should not shut out china from its busi­ness practices entirely. while this decision probably will not change the chinese constitution, it can massively improve the lives of the chinese workers within the fac­tories notre dame contracts. The worker participation committee vetted many factories in china and found several that meet its criteria of providing healthy, safe working conditions. obviously, this is a complex issue that requires serious thought from every party involved 
— including the student body. 
in the coming weeks, i encourage my fellow students to attend the panel discussions and open forums the worker participation committee will be hosting to discern their stance on whether we should pursue a pilot-manufactur­ing program in china. if we are to take the phrase “we are nd” seriously, we should be involved in all aspects of the university — especially the ones challenging our catholic identity. i also encourage the notre dame administration and the worker participation committee to make a great­er effort to reach out to the student body. after the com­mittee reaches a decision, they should continue effective dialogue with the entire notre dame community about our role as a catholic institution in protecting the rights of workers. i sincerely hope this debate brings about a stronger and more united notre dame family rooted in the ideals of catholic social teaching. 
Madeline Inglis
                                                                                              junior breen-phillis hall                                                                                            Jan. 23 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



The observer | MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2015 ndsmcobserver.com 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

This past Thanksgiving was a very emotional day for all 19 aunts, uncles and cousins at the farmhouse in wright, kansas. To begin, these family gatherings are already so special to everyone involved, as evi­denced by the stellar attendance from the extended family. i hold these gatherings very close to my heart because it is a time to see loved ones that i care about, but am never able to see. however, there was a certain weight looming over this dinner that became apparent. 
This was the first year without the matriarch and patriarch of the family present, since my grandmoth­er passed away this past april. almost everyone was there, despite this possible excuse not to meet, show­ing that family still comes first. before we ate dinner, we said our customary prayer and each separate fam­ily, in order of their oldest to youngest siblings, said what they were thankful for. and as we went around the room, i realized how special this Thanksgiving was and how blessed i really am. 
The elephant in the room became even more prom­inent when it came time for my uncle and cousin to speak. i’m sure while he was speaking the whole family could not help but remember the tragedy that happened a little more than two years ago. his wife, 
Be thankful 
a mother of three, committed suicide to the shock of everyone. nevertheless, my uncle and cousin were there, praising the family for its support and being thankful for what they have. Through the myriad of problems (strained relationships, sadness, bad mem­ories) a suicide brings, usually exacerbated by being around family, they were still thankful. 
after my parents and i expressed our teary-eyed gratitude towards family, it finally got to my aunt/ godmother’s family. i am very close to her, and we have shared some beautifully spiritual moments to­gether that i think have made us grow immensely as people. but it was her turn now. even after losing the company of my grandmother, whom she took care of for the past three years, even while battling ovarian cancer for the past two, she was thankful and happy. 
unfortunately, after being “cancer-free” for a short time, it has recently returned. still, as she said quite eloquently, she is nevertheless grateful for the family that has supported her, for all the great experiences she has had and whatever the future has in store. she is okay with it. 
The thought of her passing away and being all right with that is not only just so profound, but also a testa­ment to how strong and faith-filled she really is. 

it moved me easily enough, but it was the first time i’ve ever seen her husband tear up. and with all these melancholy topics floating in the room, it was only appropriate the circle of life be completed. as the last giving of thanks, my godmother’s newlywed daugh­ter told us that she was pregnant with her first child! it’s funny how it all works out. 
i am so lucky and blessed to have a family such as mine. now, i realize that people might not have what i have, and there might be those who struggle day in and day out more than i do. nevertheless, i believe it’s essential to a happy and fulfilling life to be thank­ful. i thank god for my family. i also thank god not for the hardships my family has endured, but for the fact that we have overcome them and grown closer. but giving thanks isn’t dependent on a belief in god; it’s realizing that we are blessed with life. remember to keep those blinders down: we’re here and we’re alive. be happy! 
Andrew Martin 
junior knott hall Jan. 23 
dames aren’t damsels 

in countless studies, it has been determined that young girls develop communication skills faster and better than boys. in our culture, pre­teen girls are known to speak at unforgiving speeds, throwing in new terms like “selfie” and “tbt” that confound adults but end up in webster’s dictionary. in high school, young women are heard on stage, across sports fields and in front of their teachers. in corporate boardrooms and professional settings, however, grown women seem to lose their voices. in their new york Times article “speaking while Female,” sheryl sandberg and adam grant discuss this phenomenon as well as the repercussions faced by women who do speak up: “male executives who spoke more often than their peers were rewarded with 10 percent higher ratings of competence. when female ex­ecutives spoke more than their peers, both men and women punished them with 14 percent lower ratings.” This double standard can be seen from wall street to silicon valley and even in disney movies. 
most have seen the classic movie musical, “The little mermaid,” in which ariel, the curious and amphibious heroine, trades her voice for legs. without any means of communication, ariel shifts from dynamic and defiant to passive and submissive. her talents, opinions and desires are ignored because she cannot articulate them. although “The little mermaid” was my favorite movie as a child, i would often feel frustrated on ariel’s behalf. i have always been talkative, so the idea that someone could steal my voice or ignore my words was a nightmare. (sometimes literally. is there anything worse than those dreams when you try to call out for help but you cannot get the words out? nope.) ursula, the villain, wasn’t out for blood but rather power, and she knew it was as simple as stealing ariel’s voice — and that scared me. luckily for my six-year-old self, i didn’t have to be frightened for long. in classic disney fash­ion, ariel gets her voice back and lives happily ever after with the patrick dempsey-lookalike, prince eric. The real world is a different story. 
women are underrepresented in almost every professional industry, ranging from film to public service and sTem fields. decisions about women — our identity, our bodies and our capabilities — are made with lasting implications and without our input. societal and cultural factors lead us to battle our own ursulas, or forces that consciously or subconsciously silence us. we might have the tendency to sit in the back and nod along, or like ariel, to make sacrifices for new worlds that don’t necessarily become happily ever after. we might even think that our own prince eric will come if we remain silent. ultimately, we can get caught in a perfect storm that leaves us displaced and dismissed. 
There is still a cost of “speaking while female,” but sandberg and grant suggest that women con­tinue to seek leadership positions and to exercise their voices until people get used to it. on cam­pus, we often expect to be heard, and rightfully so. yet, we can prepare for the future by speaking up more in classes, group meetings and even in clubs. last semester, i started “notre dames,” a club that strives to strengthen the female voice on campus. we host “Talk it out Tuesdays” (TioTs), weekly conversations on topics that relate to our dames, ranging from dorm parties and “ring by spring” to street harassment and sexism. TioTs are meet-ups, in which all notre dame or saint mary’s students can drop in and discuss for how­ever long they want. while it’s important to talk about these female-focused topics, it’s also cru­cial to simply talk. 

as people, but most especially as women, we must exercise our voice whenever we can. we must be conscious of our voice: its value, its im­pact and its potential. we each have unique per­spectives, dreams, skills and stories that deserve to be heard — for the sake of our community, our world and ourselves. it’s clear that the real world is not always a fairytale, so why even pretend to be damsels in distress? Talk it out with us, dames, and we can help each other be heard. 
Alison Leddy 
senior 
cavanaugh hall 
Jan. 25 


The observer | MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By ALEXANDRA LOWERY 
scene writer 

if the look i got from my editor when i pitched this idea is any indication of how this article is going to be received, it is this — i am not very optimistic. as col­lege students, we forgo makeup and stylish clothing for an extra 30 minutes of sleep, which we all know is a way more productive use of our time. 
however, these trends are for the girl that got woken up an hour early by her roommate attempting to navi­gate their room without turning on a single light or the girl that finds herself wanting to try something new on her third consecutive Thursday night at club Feve. This article is for the girl like me who looks forward to putting on her makeup everyday almost as much as she looks forward to eating — almost. it’s for fun. it’s for when you’re feeling bold. and it’s by no means required. 
1. Dewy skin 

This look has south bend written all over it. notre dame’s weather not only steals your warmth and live­lihood but also all of your skins moisture. by using a hydrating foundation or bb cream, your skin will re­main hydrated amidst the tundra and remain on trend as the matte look moves aside for a healthy glow. For an even brighter radiance, try mixing a luminous primer with your foundation or cream before applying. 
2. Extra hairy eyelids 
kim kardashian’s insane eyelashes set the standard for today’s obsession with voluminous top and bottom lash lines. not all of us have an in-dorm makeup artist, but by adding a few quick coats of mascara your eyes will instantly feel more open and awake, a fact they will thank you for in that 8:20 a.m. lecture you got stuck in. most makeup artists recommend curling your top lashes with a lash curler and applying mascara from the base of your lashes up, using back-and-forth shim­mying motions as you go. once that coat is dry, usually after about 30 seconds, apply the second. your lower lashes are just as important, so don’t neglect them. 
3. Bold lips 
as the rest of the world will move on to hot pinks and oranges within the coming months, we in south bend have an entire semester’s worth of cold weather to look forward to and subsequently, fall/winter lip colors. so, it’s really not that bad. cranberry and plum stains have been all the hype this season, complementing a wide variety of skin tones and hair colors. by adding a dar­ing pop of color to your lips, you have an instant look with a minimum amount of effort. 
4. Even bolder winged liner 
Thanks to cleopatra and Taylor swift, this once trendy eye look has turned into a staple in the cosmet­ics world, instantly adding retro dimension to any eye look. while the cat eyeliner looks amazing on its own, i tend to skip it in my daily routine, as it’s the most complicated of the techniques mentioned and takes me — and i believe most women unless you’re a ma­gician — a generous amount of time to get the wings even. however, it is perfect for a night out, as it pulls to­gether pretty much any dramatic eye and is extremely versatile. This year fashionistas are going thicker than ever with their cat eyes, so, don’t be afraid to let those winged liners fly. 

5. Brows, Brows, Brows 
it goes without saying that statement brows are their own type of celebrity nowadays. natural thick, bushy forehead hair feels like you won the lottery, but the good thing is we can all pretty much achieve the same thing if we want to. it’s really a personal preference on how to go about thickening, whether it’s with powder, pencil or pomade, but the most important thing to re­member is to not go overboard. once your brows are on point, you’ll notice them on everyone. “oh, i love your brows!” is a thing you’ll start to say. Just let it happen. 
whether you apply all, some or none of 2015’s beauty trends, you’re killing it and don’t you ever forget it. 
Contact Alexandra Lowery at alowery1@nd.edu 

By ADAM RAMOS 
scene writer 

i get it, horror movies aren’t for everyone. when a group of friends watches a horror movie, there is in­evitably one friend who spends the entirety of the movie nervously playing on his phone or hiding be­hind a couch pillow. and while i myself enjoy a good scare from time to time, i sympathize with all you pillow-hiders. it seems nowadays the horror genre as a whole has begun saturating itself with pop-ups, gross outs and disturbing imagery at the expense of the essential components that make movies enrich­ing experiences. Fortunately we have this week’s weekly watch, “The babadook,” a horror movie that’s scary yet smart with a very powerful takeaway. 
a 2014 sundance Film Festival standout, “The babadook” is a debut for the australian writer-di­rector Jennifer kent. The movie delves deep into the psychological issues surrounding a single mother, played by essie davis, struggling with the grief of her husband’s death and her challenging relationship with her overactive problem child, played by noah wiseman. The intrinsically disturbing babadook monster embodies the tribulations that face the small family and begins to systemically terrorize them af­ter being awoken through a dubious children’s book mysteriously found in the young boy’s bookshelf. with long sharp fingers, cold dead eyes and a white painted face, the babadook monster is straight out of nightmares, leaving the family of two with little hope. 
Through intimate dialogue between the son and mother, powerful imagery and laudable acting, “The babadook” perfectly captures the breakdown of the human psyche. kent creates a movie in “The babadook” that, as well as being visually scary, strikes a very disturbing cord on a very primitive level. while there are some scenes showcasing the monster’s dis­turbing nature, such scenes are not relied on, leaving no anxious waiting for the next monster appearance, as is so common in many recent horror flicks. 
noah wiseman delivers an impressive perfor­mance, and at only seven years old, such a feat is even more praiseworthy. Though much of the drama sur­rounds the mother, it is wiseman’s tremendous act­ing that adds new dimensions to the movie. despite abuse, both emotional and psychical, wiseman’s character, samuel, remains steadfast in his love for his mother. such love provides another thematic component, making the movie all the more enjoyable. 
wiseman’s character also comes to represent the growing concerns over the apparent “ritalin gen­eration,” as he becomes medicated after a spell of misbehavior. wiseman’s transition from the chaotic child he is in the beginning of the movie to the mel­lowed, altered child he becomes was done flawlessly and represents a unsettling comment on today’s common practice of altering child behaviors through medication. 

yet the major component that lifts “The babadook” from the sea of mediocrity plaguing the horror genre is the constantly present metaphor of grief and psycho­logical management. by using the babadook monster as catalysis, kent is ability to vividly paint the true horrors that really exist. while “The babadook” may be a bit tame for those looking for constant fright, the message that emerges is certainly worth the small sacrifice. For anyone who has been through or wit­ness to any kind of serious struggle, “The babadook” will be especially poignant. The madness and degra­dations of the family crescendo to an extremely pow­erful ending, and while i won’t ruin anything, i will say it is certainly satisfying, albeit a bit bizarre. 
Though “The babadook” may not be a thrill ride, it a certainly a movie, and a good one at that. “The babadook” is available on video on demand and for streaming on amazon video. make sure you check it out. 
Contact Adam Ramos at aramos6@nd.edu 
The observer | MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 

For $300,000, you could buy a three-bedroom, two-bathroom condo in chicago, about five semesters of notre dame tuition/room and board or about 25,000 piz­zas. or, of course, you could buy James patterson’s newest book. 
advertised as “The self-destructing book: ‘private vegas’ by James patterson” for “only $294,038,” this is the newest marketing scheme cooked up by the man who was the first (and for a long time, the only) author whose book commercials i had seen. 
now, to be fair, the person who chooses to pay the above price will get more than just James patterson’s newest book. 
The “most Thrilling reading experience a human being could ever encounter” also includes “a first-class flight to an undisclosed location, two nights stay in a luxurious boutique hotel, a splendid reading space including per­fectly chilled champagne, a well-trained bomb squad to handle the self-destructing book, gold binoculars inside a fine-leather case engraved with patterson’s initials, an unforgettable 5-course dinner with mr. James patterson” and the entire “alex cross” series signed by patterson (jamespatterson.com). 
This guest will have 24 hours to read the entirety of patterson’s newest novel and then have the chance to witness the book’s destruction over a dormant volcano. it seems like all of this should have some important ties 
By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene writer 

mark ronson’s “uptown special,” released Jan. 13, fea­tures an eclectic mix of motown funk, Tame impala whim­sy and Feve frenzy — but, unlike many at Feve, remains coherent and unmuddied. 
mark ronson, british musician and producer for artists such as amy winehouse and adele, collaborated with an array of talent on his latest album. The contributors each bring unique styles, lyrics and vocals that mesh in an ec­centric r&b conglomerate. 
The album was recorded over a period of seven months at royal studios in memphis, Tennessee, validating its jazz-funk vibes. 
ronson collaborated with andrew wyatt of miike snow and kevin parker of Tame impala to achieve a dreamy, tingly, ethereal sound on tracks like “leaving los Feliz,” “heavy and rolling” and “daffodils.” The effects are mes­merizing and add an interesting layer to a soul-filled funk record. 
The opening track, “uptown’s First Finale,” features a groovy harmonica melody and … stevie wonder. ronson reached out to him in a “hail mary” move, which, unlike the “hail mary” plays that i have seen of late, actually paid off. 
“Feel right” is a jazzy, raspy and invigorating track featur­ing mystikal who brings his own new orleans flair to the memphis stylings of the album. his grunty rap style and the to the plot of the novel, but according to patterson, it has very little to do with the actual action of the novel. 
rather, patterson hopes that this advertising stunt will bring life back into the book industry. 
“publishing, in my opinion, needs to get out there competing with everything else in the world — movies, televisions, etc. etc.,” patterson said in an interview with mashable, “it just seems to me i’m in a position to do that. i went to a very good small advertising agency [and said], ‘let’s do something that’s relevant to what i do, very un­usual, that will draw attention to books and this book in particular.” 
From my perspective, patterson has always been better at the marketing end of the publishing business than most authors that i have read. despite having never read a sin­gle one of these books, i am very familiar with his name. it seems that every time i am watching television, at least one James patterson commercial will come up. still, this newest stunt seems to be pushing marketing to its limits. 
patterson’s rationale is that he wants to reignite excite­ment in the book industry, to get people to feel like read­ing is as thrilling as going to the movies or playing video games. personally, i do not have any problems with the current reading experience — but there is no doubt that there is lots of worry about the currently “dying” publish­ing industry. 
it is worth mentioning that patterson’s scheme is not only for the very wealthy. he offered 1,000 secret web codes for fans to get advanced copies of “private vegas” and then they had 24-hours to read the (free!) e-book. 
jivey instrumentals make for a James brown-esque groove track. 
The single “uptown Funk,” featuring bruno mars, has garnered tons of attention and a five-time rotation at any campus party — and i’ve yet to grow sick of it. everyone from my mom to that kid who sleeps through every ac­counting class has been seen jamming to it. The fact that it is perfectly suited to my signature dance move that involves “don’t try this at home” footwork and “you’ll probably have to wear your infinity scarf as a neck brace tomorrow” head movements, it may be beneficial to my health if i would start loathing it sooner than later. listen at your own risk: uptown may funk you up. 
ronson also consulted Jeff bhasker, collaborator on “my beautiful dark Twisted Fantasy” and “watch The Throne,” on the album. bhasker and ronson became inspired to discover a young, powerful voice that could not be found through the industry connections they possessed. 
“one night, at two in the morning after a couple of whis­keys, Jeff said, ‘you and i need to drive through the south and do a trip called the mississippi mission. we are going to drive round all these churches and find that singer’,” ronson told The guardian. 
That singer was keyone starr of mississippi. The daughter of a preacher, starr was banished from the church after be­coming pregnant. ronson described her to The guardian as having, “this amazing burnt, rasping quality to her voice.” she appears on the song, “i can’t lose.” 
another unique contributor to the album was author 

each page would self-destruct as it was finished and readers had the chance to steal time from other read­ers through the website set up to track those participat­ing. it may not be quite as exciting as witnessing a bomb squad take care of a self-destructing book, but it is far less expensive. 
it seems to me that patterson’s experiment is certainly interesting in its attempt to reignite the book industry, but i have to wonder at the efficacy of it. it is unlikely to attract anyone new to his fan base — the book in question is the ninth installment of the “private” series and participating requires that you read it in less than 24 hours, which really only appeals to people who are confident speed readers. it is equally unlikely to convince anyone who is not already reading for pleasure to begin; movies and video games do not have to resort to timestamps to get this sort of excite­ment value. 
still, as always, patterson sort of interests me with ev­erything he does to market his books. as mentioned be­fore, i have yet to pick one up, but i have always wondered about the amount of advertising he invests in. with his Tv commercials, book advertising and now this absurd stunt, patterson occupies a nearly unique spot in the book industry. 
For those of who are not interested in spending $300,000 on a book and missed out on the free web codes, the hard­cover of this novel goes on sale Jan. 26 for only $28, free of all advertising gimmicks or self-destructive quirks. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 
michael chabon. realizing a potential connection between being able to construe beautifully worded sentences and song lyrics that would convey more than “heartache or the dance floor,” ronson reached out to the pulitzer prize­winner as a fan of his book “The amazing adventures of kavalier & clay.” 
ronson and chabon’s work marks an exciting delve into a connection between literature and music, a seemingly inte­gral connection that has yet to be explored. chabon’s lyrics are featured in over half the tracks, including “leaving los Feliz” (a self-aware ode to the aging hipster) and “crack in The pearl” (a las vegas rumination). 
This album features so many unique aspects from its lyr­ics to its influences; the 11 tracks are “straight masterpieces.” 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
“Uptown Special” Mark Ronson 
Label:  Columbia Tracks: “Leaving Los Feliz,” “Uptown Funk,” “Daffodils” If you like: Tame Impala, James Brown, Bruno Mars 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Pats’ offense will be key to victory 
Manny De Jesus 
sports writer 
Today marks the first day of the much-anticipated super bowl week. several news networks will be cov­ering the hype leading up to best sunday of the year, and nearly everyone will be coming up with predictions on who will walk away with the lombardi Trophy. 
To add on to the hundreds of articles that are going to be published this week on super bowl predictions, i would like to give my own prediction on super bowl XliX, along with breaking down the offensive position groups for each team. 
offensive line 
The patriots own the ad­vantage on the offensive line without a doubt. Tom brady was only taken down 21 times in the regular sea­son, which is half the num­ber of times russell wilson was brought down. some of that does have to do with wilson being a dual-threat quarterback, but on top of protecting brady in the pocket, the pats’ offensive line has shown how domi­nant it can be run blocking. 
last week against indianapolis, the offen­sive line paved the way for legarrette blount’s 148 yards and three touch­downs. led by nate solder, rookie bryan stork and sebastian vollmer, the patriots’ offensive line should continue to domi­nate against the seahawks. 
running backs 
without a question, marshawn lynch is going to be the best back on the field. he finished fourth in the league in rushing and tied for first for touchdowns. we’ve all seen lynch’s ridic­ulous run against the saints a couple of years ago in the playoffs that solidified his nickname, “beast mode,” and more recently, his 79­yard touchdown run against the cardinals. 
The patriots don’t have a featured back, and while some may argue that new england’s diverse backfield is a strong one, i don’t think you can throw in any run­ning back and expect to be successful against the seahawks defense. seattle’s backfield has the edge here. 
receiving corps 
if you remove tight ends from what makes up a re­ceiving corps, i would say that both teams have pretty similar talent at wide re­ceiver, but because tight ends are included, the patriots have the advantage. 
rob gronkowski, the nFl’s best tight end, changes the game for new england’s passing attack. gronk can line up next to a tackle, in the slot or out wide. it doesn’t matter. he’s gronk. whenever the patriots get into the red zone, we all know where the ball is go­ing on a pass play, and gronk still makes insane receptions. add in Julian edelman, who tears apart defense across the middle of the field, and the patriots have a deadly receiving corps. 
Quarterback 
i’m a big fan of russell wilson. i really am. i think he’s a great player with a ton of talent, but we can’t ignore that brady is a hall-of-Fame quarterback playing in his sixth super bowl. after los­ing in his last two appear­ances, i can only imagine how fired up the two-time mvp will be in what could possibly be his last super bowl. he finished the year with 4,109 passing yards to go along with 33 scores and just nine interceptions. 
wilson, on the other hand, compiled less than 3,500 yards with 20 touchdowns and seven picks. wilson also threw four intercep­tions in the nFc title game, which should concern seattle. There’s no way the seahawks win if wilson has another performance like that. 
Final prediction: new england 34, seattle 24. brady wins his fourth super bowl, cements his status as one of the best quarter­backs in history and retires a winner. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessar­ily those of The Observer. 


NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL | duke 77, sT. John’s 68 

Duke coach gets 1,000th win in game vs. St. John’s 
Associated Press 
new york — coach 1k. how grand. 
mike krzyzewski earned his 1,000th career win sunday, making him the first ncaa division i men’s coach to reach the milestone, when no. 5 duke surged past st. John’s in the second half for a 77-68 victory at madison square garden. 
Tyus Jones scored 22 points and the blue devils (17-2) went on an 18-2 run down the stretch to put coach k in four figures on his first try. 
“i’m not sure i’ve ever been a part of a game like that. That’s kind of nuts, huh?” krzyzewski said. “it just seemed like three different games.” 
Jahlil okafor had 17 points and 10 rebounds, combining with Jones and Quinn cook (17 points) to fuel the decisive spurt after duke trailed by 10 with 8:15 remaining. 
That’s when the blue devils finally began to look like a krzyzewski-coached team, picking up their defense and hustling to loose balls as he urged them on from one knee in front of the bench. duke outworked the red storm on the glass and held them with­out a field goal for 6 pivotal minutes. 

“it just, boom! it was great,” krzyzewski said. “it was beautiful, really, to see them fight today and win.” 
when the final horn sounded, blue devils play­ers engulfed krzyzewski and he received a bear hug from assistant Jeff capel. photographers swarmed the coach on the court, and players were given T-shirts that read “1,000 wins and kounting.” 
a public address announce­ment offered congratulations to krzyzewski, and duke fans at a packed garden chanted his name and held aloft “k’’ signs. 
“i’m glad it’s over,” krzyzewski said in the post-game interview room with family nearby — includ­ing two of his three daugh­ters and seven of his nine grandchildren. 
“There will be others that win more, but it is kind of neat to be the first one to 1,000,” he added. “i am proud of that, too: it’s not just the number of wins, but the quality of oppo­nents we’ve had.” 
sir’dominic pointer had 21 points and 10 rebounds for the feisty red storm (13-6), who were looking for a huge win to put on their ncaa tournament resume. They were in position to get it, but got worn down late by duke and let this one slip away. 
“i thought we just missed some easy looks,” st. John’s coach steve lavin said. “we came up short today, but i think you can also see the sneak preview of a team that could be very dangerous here if we continue to make progress.” 
no. 1,000 came about 500 miles from the cramped and cozy confines of cameron indoor stadium, but coach k was hardly on unfamiliar soil. 
madison square garden, af­ter all, was where he notched victory no. 903 against michigan state in november 2011, breaking the division i record previously held by his college coach and mentor, bob knight. 
“To win the 1,000th here, you need to be a lucky guy. i like my place, cameron, but this is a magical place,” krzyzewski said. 
The67-year-old krzyzewski improved to 1,000-308 in a 40-year coaching career that began in 1975 at his alma mater, army. he is 927-249 in 35 seasons at duke, guiding the blue devils to four ncaa titles and 11 trips to the Final Four. 
NHL  | Team Toews 17, Team Foligno 12 

Team Toews outscores Team Foligno 
columbus, ohio — John Tavares of the new york islanders matched a record with four goals, and Team Toews beat Team Foligno 17-12 on sunday night in the highest-scoring nhl all-star game. 
The wild, no-defense ex­hibition even featured a fake fight to go with goals in bunches. 
The 29 goals were the most in the event’s 60-year history, eclipsing the 26-goal burst in north america’s 14-12 victory over the world in 2001. 
ryan Johansen, of the hometown columbus blue Jackets, had two goals and two assists for the losing team but still won the mvp award in voting by fans on Twitter. 
philadelphia Flyers forward Jake voracek — formerly of the blue Jackets — scored three goals and tied a game re­cord with six points for Team Toews. That mark was set by mario lemieux. 

Tavares’ four goals gave him a share of the all-star re­cord that was established by wayne gretzky in 1983, and equaled by lemieux (1990), vincent damphousse (1991), mike gartner (1993) and dany heatley (2003). 
captain Jonathan Toews of the chicago blackhawks had a goal and four assists, as did boston’s patrice bergeron. dallas’ Tyler seguin had two goals and two assists, Filip Forsberg of nashville, and rick nash of the new york rangers 
— another former columbus star — both scored twice, and Florida’s aaron ekblad and st. louis’ vladimir Tarasenko each had four assists. 
For Team Foligno, led by blue Jackets forward nick Foligno, chicago’s patrick kane and Tampa bay’s steven stamkos had two goals and an assist apiece, philadelphia’s claude giroux had a goal and two assists, and washington’s alexander ovechkin added three assists. 
The nhl has determined the teams by a number of geo­graphic and divisional setups over the 60 years. Just like on ponds around the, voracek notched his second, and ryan suter, nash, Forsberg and anaheim’s ryan getzlaf each notched their first for Toews. 
steve stamkos tallied twice in the period for Team Foligno, which trailed 11-8 heading into the third and never came close to catching up. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


MEN’S TENNIS 

nd splits matches at iTa kick-off 


By RYAN KLAUS 
sports writer 
no. 14 notre dame split its two matches this week­end at the iTa kick-off championships at eck Tennis pavilion. 
“we love playing at home,” irish coach ryan sachire said. “it was a reward for the final ranking we had last year and that’s how we were deter­mined to be the host school here. it was an awesome envi­ronment to be a part of.” 
The irish (2-1) opened the tourney saturday with a 4-3 win over no. 24 oklahoma state. 
after failing to take the dou­bles point against kentucky on Jan. 17, the irish started saturday with doubles victo­ries from senior billy pecor and junior alex lawson and juniors Quentin monaghan and eric schnurrenberger. The remaining pairing of sophomores Josh hagar and eddy covalschi did not fin­ish its match, but were ahead when notre dame clinched the doubles point — a point that turned out to be decisive for the irish in their victory. 
in singles against the cowboys (4-1), the irish lost three of their first five match­es, forcing the entire match to come down to the match between schnurrenberger and oklahoma state fresh­man Tristan meraut. schnurrenberger ultimately put the irish on top with a comeback 6-2, 5-7, 7-6 (8) win that set notre dame up for a match against no. 16 columbia in sunday’s championship. 
The irish doubles pairings had another successful outing sunday against the lions (2­0), taking the point after pecor and lawson won their match on a tiebreaker, 7-6 (3). 
“it’s only a point, but it gives you a momentum boost when you know going out there that you only have to split the six singles matches and not have to win four of the six,” sachire said of the tiebreaker win. 
Though the irish took the doubles point, columbia came back to win four of the singles matches and the overall tour­nament with a 4-2 victory. 
“credit to columbia; they came into our place, lost a doubles point and won four singles from us,” sachire said. “hats off to them. They de­serve the win.” 
against columbia, all of notre dame’s singles match­es went to three sets, includ­ing an unfinished match between monaghan and no. 22 senior winston lin that went all the way to a third-set tiebreaker. 
“The schedule we play is loaded with great teams,” sachire said. “we’re going to be in a lot of these matches. we were in one yesterday, and we were in one today. That’s the way the year is going to be. The acc is the best ten­nis conference in the country, with a lot of great teams and national championship con­tenders, and we’re going to find ourselves in a lot of these battles and every time you go through it, you become a little bit better because of it.” 
despite the loss sunday, sachire said he was optimistic about his team’s performance. 
“i’m really proud of our team,” sachire said. “we played our tails off. we knew it was going to be a great match. columbia’s lost a grand total of two matches in the last 13 months. They’re a great, great team and have everyone back from a team that was a sweet 16 team last year, and we saw that lineup that got them there. we were right there with them until the last ball. when you have two doubles matches decided in tiebreak­ers and all six singles matches go three sets, it really can’t get a whole lot closer than that. They outperformed us maybe at the end of the match, but we have to hold our heads on high. we played a great match, we competed the right way and i’m really proud of what we did.” 
The irish return to ac­tion against northwestern on Friday at 5:30 p.m. at eck Tennis pavilion. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu 



The observer | MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

NFL | Team irvin 32, Team carTer 28 
watt takes mvp in pro bowl 
Associated Press 
glendale, ariz. — Few moved very fast, no one flattened a quarterback and there were no bone-jarring hits in the gentle, friendly version of football played at the pro bowl sunday. 
even in a game dominat­ed by offense, J.J. watt was the star. 
The Texans defensive end intercepted pass, recovered a fumble and led the crowd in dances during commer­cial breaks. 
Team irvin defeated 32­28 watt’s Team carter, but the score is never impor­tant in the nFl’s all-star game. everyone seemed to have a good time, particu­larly watt, the game’s de­fensive mvp. 
other memorable mo­ments came from saints tight end Jimmy graham, who dunked over the cross­bar twice after Td catches 
— this time with no penal­ty, and giants rookie odell beckham Jr. who made a diving grab at midfield. 
graham’s second touch­down, on a 1-yard, fourth-down pass from matt ryan, was the winning Td with 3:10 to play. 

greg olsen and emmanuel sanders also caught a pair of touchdown passes apiece. andrew luck was nearly perfect in his short time on the field, completing 9 of 10 for 119 yards and two scores. matthew stafford threw for 316 yards and two Tds and was the offensive mvp. 
The pro bowl took a one-year hiatus from hawaii to be played in the desert to coincide with the big game. a sellout crowd of 63,225 watched at university of phoenix stadium as the teams moved up and down the field, often without much resistance. 
if the players missed the beach, they wouldn’t let on. 
“it’s been fantastic,” dallas quarterback Tony romo said. “The turnout here at the stadium is just like an nFl game.” 
romo knew this wasn’t a real nFl game. 
“it’s a blast,” stafford said. “To able to play with the best in the world is a whole lot of fun, and every­body is such good people, too. i am out here having a good time.” 
NBA | rockeTs 99, lakers 87 

Lakers lose eighth straight 
Associated Press 
los angeles — James harden had 37 points and eight rebounds, and the houston rockets rolled to a 99-87 vic­tory over the lakers on sunday night, sending los angeles to its eighth straight defeat. 
harden hit four 3-point­ers, and the nba’s leading scorer added five assists in the rockets’ third victory in four games. 
Josh smith and Jason Terry had 11 points apiece as houston cruised to its fourth straight road victory over the lakers even without dwight howard, who sat out after injuring his right ankle two days ago. 
carlos boozer scored 18 points for the lakers, who are on their longest losing streak in nearly 10 years. 
The lakers weren’t terribly competitive until the fourth quarter of their latest game without kobe bryant, who could be out for the season. 
houston took a 25-point lead in the third quarter and coasted to the win, allowing the lakers to creep within 89-78 before harden returned and kept the rockets on top. harden scored at least 33 points in his fourth straight game. 

los angeles hadn’t lost eight straight games since march 2005. The lakers missed the playoffs that season for the only time in bryant’s career before last year. 
nick young played just nine minutes for the lakers, get­ting benched for the second half. The entertaining shooting guard hadn’t played in a game without scoring since he joined his hometown team before last season. 
rookie Jordan clarkson had eight points on 2-for-10 shoot­ing and five turnovers in his second start for the lakers, while Jeremy lin had 14 points and six assists off the bench af­ter being a healthy scratch in Friday’s loss at san antonio. 
The lakers could find out monday whether bryant needs season-ending surgery on his torn right rotator cuff. coach byron scott hasn’t given up op­timism for an eventual return by the third-leading scorer in nba history. 
TRACK AND FIELD | noTre dame inviTaTional 

Notre Dame wins four events at Invitational 

By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
The irish women’s team took second place at saturday’s notre dame invitational while the men took fifth, combining for four to­tal event wins. 
irish coach alan Turner said the team showed a lot of effort in this weekend’s meet, held at loftus sports center. 
“one that was important for me was us really giving that all-out, 100-percent effort,” Turner said. “There were a few people who didn’t do that last week. This week, we had a much bet­ter overall showing from the effort of the kids. some of my younger ones are learning how to compete. That’s always im­portant, learning how to com­pete. people were running hard, finishing great.” 
The highlight of the day for the irish came when senior sprinter chris giesting broke the school record in the 600-meter run with a time of 1:16.70, a new mark by nearly two seconds. 
“i was pretty nervous going into this actually because i don’t run this event,” giesting said. “it’s my third time running this event in my career. i normally run the 400-meter. i just went as hard as i could for as long as i could. i went out fast knowing i could be comfortable doing that. 
“... i just closed my eyes the last 60 meters, head down. i re­ally don’t want to do another one anytime soon, but i was pretty happy with today.” 
Turner also lauded giesting’s performance, saying that it was remarkable. 
“The highlight for me, first of all, was chris shattering our school record in the indoor 600-meter,” Turner said. “... he’s in great shape. he’s been the superstar of this team since his freshman year.” 
on the women’s side, junior margaret bamgbose took the title in the 400-meter dash in 53.37. 
“she won that pretty easily, and that was her second fastest time ever indoors,” Turner said of bamgbose. “That time should definitely put her in the top eight in the country. by the end of the year, she should definitely be top eight in the country.” 
The two other notre dame wins came from junior michael clevenger, who won the men’s mile in 4:05.99, and senior emily morris, who threw 16.00 meters in the women’s shot put. 
“emily morris in the shot put came three centimeters from tying her own school record,” Turner said. “she’s getting very, very consistent there.” 
after saturday, the irish will compete in a string of events that feature national power­houses, including the razorback invitational next weekend and the meyo invitational the week­end after that. 
Though the competition may be tough, giesting said the most important thing for the irish is to get healthy. 
“The acc is very, very tough this year,” giesting said. “we’ve got a good team. it’s all about getting healthy for us right now. we’ve had a got of injuries, a lot of guys are going to miss the indoor season, and so if we can just get healthy we’ve got a shot to crack the top three tier. 
“it’s anyone’s game at the acc 
— anything can happen. we’ll work on getting healthy, but i think we’re looking good for now.” 
notre dame’s next meet is next weekend at the razorback invitational in Fayetteville, arkansas. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 




HOCKEY | norTheasTern 3, nd 2; norTheasTern 4, nd 2 
huskies take two against irish 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame lost both of its matchups against conference foe northeastern this weekend, dropping to 5-4-3 and seventh place in hockey east and 10-13­3 overall. 
The irish lost Friday night, 3-2, with the huskies taking the lead late in the third period on a goal by sophomore for­ward dalen hedges at the 18:30 mark. 
although they not able to come away with a victory, the irish mounted a comeback in the third period to make it close, climbing out of a two-goal deficit late. 
scores from junior left wings mario lucia and sam herr knotted the game at two with 
6:45 left to play. lucia’s goal was his 16th on the season, tied for most in the conference. 
irish freshman goaltender cal petersen had 37 saves on the night, including 16 saves and no goals allowed in the first period. 
The irish dropped saturday’s matchup, 4-2, despite gaining an early lead on the huskies thanks to a goal from junior center Thomas dipauli, his fifth of the season. 

irish sophomore center vince hinostroza picked up his team-leading 18th assist and 21st point of the season on dipauli’s goal. 
northeastern tied the game at one score apiece late in the first period with a goal from hedges, his third in the series, and built a two-goal lead with two more scores in the third period. 
The irish were able to cut the huskies’ lead in half 15:19 into the third period with a goal from freshman left wing anders bjork, but northeastern pushed its lead back to two with a goal at the 17:30 mark from sophomore forward mike szmatula. 
The two losses drop notre dame (13 points) just be­hind northeastern (14) in the hockey east standings with 10 conference games remaining. all 12 teams in the conference qualify for the hockey east tournament. 
The irish return to the ice to face new hampshire this weekend, with games Friday at 
7:35 p.m. and saturday at 6:35 p.m., both at compton Family ice arena. 

paid adverTisemenT 


M Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
expired. grant’s game-high 25 points led notre dame, which had five players in double-fig­ure points. grant also dished out four assists and snagged three rebounds. 
“i thought Jerian grant put on a clinic tonight on getting people open or scoring the ball,” brey said. 
late in regulation, the irish trailed 71-66 with 1:16 on the clock and a boisterous pnc arena crowd screaming for another home upset like it saw when the wolfpack shocked then-undefeated and current no. 5 duke, 87-75, on Jan. 11. but notre dame scratched and clawed its way back from the brink to erase the deficit. 
a grant free throw cut the nc state lead to four, and the irish forced a stop on the defensive end before six­foot-one sophomore guard demetrius Jackson posted up inside and willed in a bucket to cut the lead to two with 18.7 seconds remaining. 
after the Jackson bucket, grant perfectly defended a hail mary inbounds pass by nc state, forcing a turnover and giving the irish posses­sion with 15 seconds to tie the game. a grant attempt bounced off the rim but was corralled by senior guard pat connaughton, who forced up another shot through a double team that rattled around and out before beachem’s heroics silenced pnc arena. 
“pat and Jerian’s leadership and toughness, that’s what you saw tonight,” brey said. “That’s the stuff that’s gotten us over the hump in close games. They are fearless, tough guys. … 
“when we get to overtime, we feel it’s our time, and we did it again.” 
with the win, the irish moved to 19-10 all-time in overtime games under brey, including 3-0 this season af­ter earlier wins over michigan state and georgia Tech. 
The wolfpack led by as much as 18 in the first half as the irish slogged through one of their worst offensive halves of the year, shooting just 37.5 percent from the field and 1-of-11 from beyond the 3-point arc. notre dame came into the game sporting a 
52.6 shooting percentage and knocking down 40.5 percent of their attempts from long distance. 
The irish offense found its spark in the second half, however. notre dame used a 15-4 run over 3:45 to take its first lead of the night with 
13:22 remaining in the second stanza on junior forward Zach auguste’s lay-up. auguste fin­ished with a team-high 11 re­bounds as well as 10 points as he recorded his first double-double since dec. 6 against Fairleigh-dickinson. overall, the irish won the rebounding battle, 43-34, including an 18­12 edge on the offensive glass. 
connaughton and Jackson each matched beachem’s 11 points to round out the irish scorers in double fig­ures. sophomore guard steve vasturia finished with nine points. 
when the irish next take to the court, they will have the chance to accomplish what no team has before: beat a division-i men’s coach with 1,000 wins. duke coach mike krzyzewski became the first coach to reach the mile­stone yesterday by virtue of his team’s 77-68 win over st. John’s, but notre dame will try to avoid becoming win 1,001 when the match-up of top-10 teams tips off wednesday night at purcell pavilion at 7:30 p.m. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 



The observer | MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
she said. 
notre dame held an over­whelming size advantage over clemson, which started just one player taller than 5-foot-10. The irish capitalized on their height, consistently feeding the ball down low for 42 points in the paint and outrebounding the Tigers, 46-26. 
six-foot-three freshman for­ward brianna Turner totaled 15 points and 10 rebounds for her fifth double-double of the sea­son, and 6-foot-3 sophomore forward Taya reimer and 6-foot­2 freshman forward kathryn westbeld added 10 and 11 points, respectively. 
The strong post presence helped notre dame go on a 40-6 run during the first half to create too large a deficit for clemson to overcome. 
“we wanted to look inside. That was our game plan from the start,” mcgraw said. “we did have a huge advantage size-wise, and i thought we were able to look in because we do run a lot of guard stuff, and they were very unselfish tonight, looking in.” 
Junior guard Jewell loyd led the irish with 17 points on 6-for­7 shooting and two 3-pointers. loyd also chipped in eight re­bounds, which matched reimer’s 
“The starters love being on the bench watching the rest of the team, cheer for them,” mcgraw said. “They work so hard in prac­tice. They do all they can to help us get better, and it’s great for them to be rewarded with some playing time.” 
leading notre dame’s reserves force was junior forward hannah huffman, who played 20 minutes, the most among the non-starters. huffman has averaged 12.3 min­utes in 19 games so far this sea­son, an increase from 7.7 minutes during her first two seasons. 
“she’s been a real spark,” mcgraw said. “… Tonight, she guarded the other team’s best player when Jewell went out, and she did a really good job on her. she raises the intensity level for everyone because she’s willing to dive for loose balls and take charges and things like that.” 
The irish limited Tigers senior guard nikki dixon to only six makes on 17 shot attempts for 15 points. 
overall, clemson shot just 28.6 percent from the floor for the game, with 14 field goals, seven second-chance points and 14 points in the paint. 
“i was very pleased with the defensive effort,” mcgraw said. “i thought we rebounded well. i thought we had a lot more inten­sity and focus on who we were keying on defensively.” 
Hadley 
conTinued From page 16 
and pummeled the lowly Tigers (9-11, 1-6), 74-36, at one point going on a 40-6 run. afterwards, mcgraw may not have been ecstatic, but she did pronounce herself pleased. 
college basketball has a long season. even the best squads sometimes suffer through off-days, receiv­ing scares or worse, from much less talented teams. especially after the Tennessee upset, one might wonder why mcgraw was so harsh in her criticism. her team did man­age to collect a win against a conference opponent and successfully defend its home court. 
but if the irish want to reach or even exceed the lofty marks set by previous years’ teams, they need mcgraw to criticize them. They need her to demand more. They need her competitive fire and high standards. They do not need her to congratulate them for allowing a 12-9 squad to shoot 50 percent from the field. 
For the first time in six years, mcgraw does not have a single senior in her start­ing lineup. instead, three freshman see regular minutes for notre dame. obviously, all these players are talented. but a team this young is prone to mental lapses, especially when the outside pressure builds. 
a perfect example of this tendency occurred Jan. 8, when notre dame, on the road and with rumors swirl­ing around reimer, went cold from the field and lost to un­ranked miami, 78-63. That loss also came after a close win over a ranked opponent, this time 85-74 over then-no. 21 syracuse on Jan. 4. 
after the loss, mcgraw said her young team needed something like that to act as “a kick in the pants” so that they would work harder. Fast-forward to the georgia Tech game, and mcgraw was echoing the same sentiments, saying that her squad needed to improve its attitude and toughness. 

in years past, mcgraw would not have had to be so tough on her team — she had savvy veterans who could call out the underclassmen and hold them accountable for her. players like natalie achonwa, kayla mcbride and skylar diggins could change the en­tire dynamic of a game solely with their competitive edge, pushing their teammates to match their intensity. 
This year, there is no one player that has that effect for notre dame. Junior guard Jewell loyd is one of the best and most exciting players in the country, but she cannot carry the scoring load and re-energize the team at the same time. sophomore guard lindsay allen is still settling into her new role of running the offense while also attack­ing the rim. The three seniors on the team have a combined six starts between them. 
That leaves it up to mcgraw to help her players mature as quickly as possible. public scoldings like the one after georgia Tech should be no surprise, because if the irish want to return to a fifth-straight Final Four, they cannot afford to let up, no matter whom they are play­ing. whether it’s connecticut or clemson, notre dame needs muffet mcgraw’s inten­sity to push them to greatness. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
mark. 
The rout allowed notre dame’s starters to ride the bench for a lon­ger period of time than they nor­mally do, especially after the last three tough games against no. 12 north carolina, no. 5 Tennessee and georgia Tech. 
every player who dressed saturday, which was the entire roster, minus injured senior guard whitney holloway and injured sophomore forward kristina nelson, saw time on the court and scored. 
after a packed, 10-day stretch of competition, the irish will have more time to rest before they re­turn to the court to face virginia Tech on the road next Thursday. 
“we’re going to be off tomor­row, and then we’ll get back to practice and start focusing on our next game and seeing how we can get better,” mcgraw said. “There’s a lot of things we still need to work on.” 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 




paid adverTisemenT 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


DOME NUTS | aleXandria wellman 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: Juggling will be your best asset. being able to think and act fast will help you excel. using innovative tactics to reach your goals will put you in a special category that will be admired by both friends and colleagues. put your best foot forward and make a difference through the contributions you make at home and at work. your numbers are 5, 12, 14, 23, 27, 31, 42. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): get involved in something that you feel passionately about. it’s time to make some personal changes that will improve your standard of living and bring you closer to someone you love. emotions will surface and are best used lovingly, not disruptively. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): you’ll face tough decisions. remain calm and deal with each issue that arises with thoughtfulness. you will accomplish so much more if you are willing to make adjustments along the way. don’t let love interfere with what needs to be done.  

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): listen carefully, follow instructions and don’t let anyone take advantage of you. make personal changes geared toward self-improvement, learning and looking your best. home improvements should bring comfort and convenience to you and those you live with. love is highlighted.  



CANCER (June 21-July 22): someone will make changes you don’t like. do your own thing and explore interests that coincide with what you are doing. The end result will not be as bad if you don’t fight the inevitable. make an effort to help, not hinder.  


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take pride in what you do, and you will attract attention. The alterations you make will spill over into your personal life and encourage romance. you will learn valuable information if you share your emotions with someone special. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): stick to basics and abide by the rules. someone you are close to will reject something you want to do. don’t let their demands overrule your plans. Take care of your responsibilities and get on with what you want to do.  


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): enjoy life. a little playful activity will help bring you closer to someone you love. don’t feel you have to overspend to maintain a certain lifestyle. change is good, but not if it is costly and adds stress to your life. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): someone may be looking for an argument or encouraging you to be indulgent. you are best to stay focused on something that is unique, creative and productive. put your energy to good use, and good fortune will be yours. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): look for new ways to earn a living. expand your talents and be diverse in the way you offer services. pursuing something you love or starting a small sideline business from home will help you reach your financial goals.  


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): get your personal paperwork in order and look for alternative ways to make your money and assets grow. don’t be tempted to follow someone who makes impulsive financial moves. stick to what’s worked for you in the past. be safe, not sorry. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): put more emphasis on how you look, how you feel and what you want to pursue. a change in the way you earn your living looks promising and will offer a stable and secure future. don’t fear change.  


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): don’t let confusion set in. ask questions and share your likes and dislikes. anger will not get you what you want, but compromise and an honest outpouring of what you require to feel satisfied will help to clear up any misgivings.  


Birthday Baby: you are unpredictable and outgoing. you are competitive and resourceful. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 74, clemson 36 
Declawing the Tigers 

Four players in double figures as Notre Dame sharpens its focus to top Clemson 
By MARY GREEN 
sports editor 
after four games in 10 days, irish coach muffet mcgraw was finally able to empty her bench as no. 6 notre dame cruised to a 74-36 win over clemson on saturday at littlejohn coliseum in clemson, south carolina. 
The victory comes two days after mcgraw criticized her team’s performance in an 89­76 win over georgia Tech, in which she said she was “ex­tremely disappointed.” 
mcgraw said notre dame (19-2, 6-1 acc) watched a lot of film in preparation for the Tigers (9-11, 1-6) to regain its focus. 
“[we] talked about the re­bounding, talked about focus­ing on the scouting report, talked about how we really needed to know who the better players were on the other team, who we really needed team defense on, not just individual defense, so there was a greater awareness on the floor tonight,” 
see w bball PAGE 14 


Greg Hadley 
associate sports editor 
in the span of three days, muffet mcgraw went from steaming to satisfied. 
That’s not a transition she might be used to making in her 33 years as a coach, but with a squad as young as the no. 6 irish, she might have to do it a little more often. 
last Thursday, notre dame (19-2, 6-1 acc) defeated georgia Tech, 89-76. The irish were coming off a win over no. 5 Tennessee on Jan. 19, so one might be forgiven for thinking that mcgraw would be happy just to avoid a let-down upset. 
instead, she ripped into her team’s defensive effort, calling out every player on the squad save one: sophomore forward Taya reimer, who has had her own share of problems this season. 
The irish seemed to receive the message; they came out against clemson on saturday 
see hadley PAGE 14 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

andrews transfers to usc 
Observer Staff Report 
sophomore midfielder morgan andrews has trans­ferred from notre dame to usc, the Trojans an­nounced Thursday, leaving the irish without their top point-scorer from the last two years. 
irish coach Theresa 
romagnolo  had  no  com­ 
ment  on  the move,  a  team  
spokesman said.  

“we are excited to get such an extremely talented player to add to our ros­ter,” usc coach keidane mcalpine said in a press release. “Through this pro­cess, i have been equally as impressed with [andrews] as a person. This is a win for the Trojans, but also a win for the pac-12.” 
andrews, who was named acc Freshman of the year in 2013 and earned all-acc honors in both 2013 and 2014, had 13 career goals for the irish to go along with 10 assists. she started all 44 games in which notre dame played and led the team in shots each year as well. 
andrews came to notre dame as a two-time gatorade national soccer player of the year and was recruited by former irish coach randy waldrum. after her freshman season, waldrum resigned in order to take over the houston dash of the nwsl, and romagnolo came aboard to lead the irish. in both of her seasons, andrews and notre dame advanced to the round of 16 in the ncaa tournament before being eliminated. 
usc is coming off its first winning season since 2010. in mcalpine’s first season, the Trojans recorded a mark of 12-6-3 and qualified for the ncaa tournament be­fore losing in the first round to pepperdine. notre dame and usc faced off once in 2014, with the Trojans com­ing out on top, 2-1. 
unless she is granted a waiver by the ncaa, andrews will have to sit out for a full academic year be­fore she can play for usc. 
MEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 81, n.c. sTaTe 78 (oT) 

Irish avoid road upset 

By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
no. 8 notre dame sur­vived cold first-half shooting and staved off an upset bid by north carolina state, 81­78, in overtime last night at pnc arena in raleigh, north carolina. 
“i’m so proud of our group because it’s a real tough environment, didn’t get off to a good start, nothing re­ally going too good for us, but that’s where this group has really great toughness and focus and togetherness,” irish coach mike brey said in his post-game radio inter­view. “we just hung in there, and man, did we make big plays in crunch time.” 
sophomore forward v.J. 
beachem tipped in an of­fensive rebound to tie the game at 71 with 1.8 seconds remaining in regulation, and his layup with exactly two minutes left in overtime put the irish (19-2, 7-1 acc) ahead for good against the wolfpack (13-8, 4-4). The Fort wayne, indiana, product fin­ished the game with 11 points and four rebounds. 
“v.J. [beachem] didn’t have a great night in blacksburg, virginia [on Thursday against virginia Tech],” brey said. “but tonight, he had a big night defending [wolfpack redshirt senior guard ralston Turner], certainly a huge tip-in there to put it into overtime. 
“but you know he really is like a sixth starter for us. That’s how we look at him, and i knew he would bounce back tonight.” 
senior guard Jerian grant also blocked wolfpack red-shirt junior guard Trevor lacey’s 3-point attempt to tie the game with four sec­onds remaining in overtime, and lacey was unable to get another shot off before time 
see m bball PAGE 13 




