The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 126 | tuEsdAy, APril 28, 2015 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
Vidal, devine to present report to trustees 
Outgoing administration will offer recommendations to improve University’s mental health resources 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
news editor 
on Thursday, student body president emeritus lauren vidal, student body vice president emeritus matthew devine and student body chief of staff emeri­tus shannon montague will present recommendations to the Board of Trustees for how the university can improve mental health re­sources for students. 
each spring, the outgoing student body administra­tion has the opportunity to present recommendations on an issue they are passion­ate about to the Board, vidal said. 
vidal said her administra­tion has been working on the mental health issue for quite some time; she, devine and montague gave a “prelimi­nary report” to the Board of Trustees on stress and stu­dent wellbeing in october. 
vidal said the former ad­ministration began the report by assessing the re­sources on campus and how students use them. 
“we found that we have all if not more resources than what universities across the nation have, so in that re­spect we are doing a good 
see healTh PAGE 5 




SMC president responds to ‘The Hunting Ground’ 

By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
saint mary’s editor 
saint mary’s president carol ann mooney will a host a stu­dents-only conversation about sexual assault Tuesday at 5 p.m. in vander vennet Theatre, in light of discussion surround­ing the cnn documentary “The hunting ground.” 
director of media relations gwen o’Brien said Tuesday will be the best opportunity thus far for dialogue between ad­ministration and students. she said mooney is committed to the topic of sexual assault and wants seniors to have a chance to discuss their concerns before graduating. 
“carol doesn’t intend to leave this topic at the end of the se­mester,” o’Brien said. “This conversation will continue.” 
o’Brien said the conversation will involve only students, with the exception of connie adams, director of the Belles against violence office. she said the discussion is necessary in order to make progress. 
“[Tuesday] is a time for stu­dents to have the opportunity 
see presidenT PAGE 4 


professor to walk 30 miles to raise money to build well 
Burkina Faso walks in one at 6 a.m. in front of Keenan 

By ANDREA VALE 
news writer week to obtain and bring back hall. From 1 p.m. to 3 p.m., water. For half of his walk, students and others onlookers 
michael meyer, an associate 
professional specialist in the 
mendoza college of Business, 
will walk 30 miles around 
campus while carrying two 
gallons of water sunday to 
raise money to build a well in 
Burkina Faso. 
meyer will do 20 laps of a 1.5­can purchase water balloons 

for $1 each from tables in front 
of Keenan and dillon hall, to 
throw at meyer as he walks by. 
“i will admit my wife is very 
concerned that this will turn 
out to be a stoning, and i will 
get injured as students hurl 
water balloons at me,” meyer 

mile route around campus, to said. “i have confidence that accomplish a total of 30 miles, he will carry two gallons of even with the frustration of which represents the distance water. a typical village resident of meyer will begin the walk see walK PAGE 5 

OUTatND seeks to promote LGBTQ rights on campus 
BY KAYLA MULLEN 
associate news editor 
despite recent efforts to cre­ate an inclusive environment for lgBTQ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transsexual and questioning) students, notre dame is still the ninth most lgBTQ-unfriendly campus in america, according to the princeton review. a new grassroots movement, ouTatnd, is aimed at changing this title and developing notre dame as a true safe space for lgBTQ students, se­nior and founder Jake Bebar said. 
“currently, there is a lot of am­biguity around the term ‘ally’ on this campus,” Bebar said. “To some people, you can be an ally even if you don’t support marriage equality. To others, you can be an ally even if you don’t support lgBTQ relationships. … 
“ouTatnd believes that being an ally means supporting equal­ity in every sense … relationships, marriage, gender identity and ev­erything else mentioned our web­site. we don’t want there to be any ambiguity around the term,” 
see ouTatnd PAGE 4 





ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. Box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney alex Jirschele Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: lesley stevenson Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: Brian lach Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu lsteven1@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. Box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What are you doing this summer? 

Adrienne Bruggeman 
sophomore 
le mans hall 
“i’m working on a campus research team in organic biogeochemistry and taking naps in the sunshine.” 
Ashley Watkins 
junior 
le mans hall 
“living on campus, working and road tripping out west.” 
Julia Sturges 
freshman 
mccandless hall 
“working at a camp.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Kate McGowan 
freshman 
le mans hall 
“soaking up the sun.” 
Kayla Zellmer 
freshman 
mccandless hall 
“going to charleston, south carolina.” 
Stephanie Israel 
junior 
regina hall 
“i’m going to learn all about promoting Tiny houses.” 


News Sports Want your event included here? 
emily mcconville Zach Klonsinki 
Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: Katie galioto Ben padanilam rachel o’grady Brian plamondon 
hunter mcdaniel 
Graphics 

sara shoemake Scene Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday John darr 
Photo Jodi lo Viewpoint 

Spring Concert Snite Salon series Thanking Mom Mindful Meditation Grounds and Hounds 
Kevin song Tabitha ricketts 
Washington Hall Snite Museum of Art Hesburgh Reflecting Coleman-Morse Brownson Hall 8 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 5 p.m.-5:45 p.m. Pool Center 2 p.m.-4 p.m. A cappella concert by Collegial discussion 2 p.m.-6 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. De-stress with dogs 
Corrections 

Halftime. and exchange. Celebration of moms. Practice in meditation. and free coffee. 
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and 

Notre Dame Day Baseball Grotto Trip “Grey Gardens” Baseball 
strives for the highest standards 
Campus wide Frank Eck Stadium Bond Hall  (1975) Frank Eck Stadium 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
All day 6:05 p.m.-8:05 p.m. 10 p.m.-11 p.m. DeBartolo Performing 6:05 p.m.-8:05 p.m. 
however, recognize that we will make 
Celebration of the The Irish take on Hosted by the Asian Arts Center The Irish take on 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
University’s founding. Michigan State. American Association. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Northwestern State. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Free for ND students. 
we can correct our error. 


ndsmcoBserver.com | tuEsdAy, APril 28, 2015 | The oBserver 

Alumni create philanthropic clothing company 
By MADISON JAROS 
news writer 
Three brothers, all notre dame graduates, created an apparel company called Free world united in november, with the idea that “every dollar earned is a dollar that gives back.” 
company co-founder Francisco diez, class of 2003 said the com­pany was created to be “a source for fundraising, a different op­tion for nonprofits to raise funds and to engage their donor base.” Free world united creates apparel collections and unique landing pages for a handful nonprofits that range from wildlife conser­vancy to the support of children in developing countries. when a customer purchases one of Free world united’s T-shirts, $10 goes to the designated nonprofit. 
diez said the inspiration to cre­ate Free world united came from the brothers’ love for their home country of ecuador. That’s how the group started working with the galapagos conservancy, their first nonprofit. 
“The galapagos islands are part of ecuador, and our parents have a tourism business there,” diez said. “so we’ve always been close to the galapagos islands, and we’ve grown up with the issues facing the galapagos. so we wanted, initially, to help the galapagos any way we could. when we started thinking about it — we all have business degrees from notre dame, so we 

Office of Housing returns to old inspection policy 
By MATTHEW McKENNA 
news writer 
This year, preliminary end­of-the-year student room in­spections took place in some residence halls the sunday before the final week of class­es. This change is a transi­tion back to the policy of prior years; last year was the only year in which inspections took place during finals week. 
Karen Kennedy, director of housing, said the “change” in procedure is actually a rever­sion back to the procedure that was observed for more than a decade. 
“The practice of requiring all student rooms to be inspec­tion-ready by 10 p.m. on the sunday before the last week of classes has been long stand­ing at the university,” she said. “last year’s move-out process was handled differently and, because those changes did not produce positive results, it was decided to return to the previ­ous time line for readiness for room inspections.” 
Kennedy said there are two goals for student rooms to be ready for inspection by sunday at 10 p.m. 
“one is to provide for the university to be able to inspect rooms for critical repairs that must be made as soon as stu­dents move out, and the other is to confine the noises asso­ciated with furniture moving and assembling/disassem­bling prior to the start of study days and finals,” she said. 
Kennedy said the procedure benefits students as they study and rest for finals. 
The transition back to the old policy is a direct result of the negative feedback and lo­gistical issues created from the change last year, Kennedy said. 
“we received feedback from both students and hall staff that the procedures imple­mented last year provided for additional noise throughout fi­nals week and also made room inspections more challenging, resulting in untimely damage billing charges and other chal­lenges in preparing the halls for commencement and sum­mer guests,” Kennedy said. 
Kennedy said students who fail to comply with move-out procedures may be subject to a fine. 
“These fines help ensure compliance and, when ap­plicable, cover the costs of re­pairs, undue cleaning and lost keys,” Kennedy said. 
Kennedy said elevated beds, which are permitted to be constructed in residence halls without modular furniture, have been required to be down by 10 p.m. the sunday before the last week of classes for at least a decade. 
“students who choose to construct elevated beds are no­tified of and agree to this when they sign the elevated agree­ment form at the beginning of the year,” Kennedy said. 
Kennedy said this proce­dures are always being revised according to feedback received from individuals throughout the notre dame community. 
“i understand and appreci­ate the concerns shared with me by students, and will take student feedback into consid­eration when looking toward how move-out and room in­spections will be handled in future years,” Kennedy said. 
Contact Matthew McKenna at mmcken12@nd.edu 

put our heads together and said, ‘you know, we all actually like de­sign,’ and that led down the path of creating T-shirts … and that’s where the whole idea of Free world united took shape.” 
word of mouth spread the com­pany’s name from there, diez said. This spring, Free world united created a campaign for earth day called earth day army. The com­pany hoped to raise funds for the galapagos conservatory and the mountain gorilla conservation Fund. a late start hurt Free world united’s efforts, but the company plans to continue the fund into 2015, diez said. 
“we turned the earth day army into a year-long campaign, that is going to build up all the way until earth day,” he said. “now that we have an idea of the dynamics of working with … our network and the length of time it takes … we re­alize that we need to start this way ahead of time. and building it into a year-long model is going to help us create the sort of snowball [ef­fect] that we want. 
But this campaign is just the be­ginning, diez said. 
“we want to, essentially, grow from being an apparel company to, i would say, a lifestyle company,” he said. “where most of your everyday products, we’re going to offer in our store, and every single one of them is going to give back to a cause.” 
giving back to the community is at the core of Free world united’s mission, diez said. 
“we grew up in a — i guess you could say a Third world country. i guess for the last 20 or so years ecuador was considered a Third world country,” he said. “everyday, you see poverty, and you see how the rainforest is being cut down, and how a small economy tries to cope with growth by doing things that maybe shouldn’t be done. But when you grow up in a place like [ecuador], you feel that you have to give back for all the things you do at some point. 
“people in First world countries, they love to give back … what we want to do is take that spirit but of­fer it on a day-to-day basis.” 
Contact Madison Jaros at  mjaros@nd.edu 

college celebrates 30 years of gender and women studies 
By OLIVIA JACKSON 
news writer 
This year, the gender and women’s studies (gws) pro­gram at saint mary’s is cel­ebrating its 30th anniversary. department chair stacy davis said the program officially be­gan in september of 1985 as a minor only. 
“classes in women’s studies had been offered since 1972,” davis said. “we started teach­ing an introductory course in 1994, and we had student-designed majors from the mid-1990s until 2013. This is our first year as a department with a major, so the 30th anni­versary is a celebration of that accomplishment.” 
davis said the gws pro­gram has a strong presence throughout the saint mary’s curriculum. 
“The major would not have happened without the sup­port of our faculty, who teach courses in over a dozen de­partments and programs that count for gws,” davis said. “currently, we have five ma­jors and 14 students will grad­uate with a minor in gws this spring.” 
sophomore gws major michaela gaughan said the program is important because it sheds light on important is­sues related to gender on a global scale. 
“i think it is important for colleges to have gws pro­grams because they promote gender differences, create an understanding about gen­der [and] challenge students to think about the concept of gender,” gaughan said. “i think it is important for wom­en’s colleges to have gws pro­grams because historically women have faced inequality on the basis of their gender. i believe gws programs pro­vide insight to students about historical struggles women have endured along with pres­ent current challenges women face.” 
sophomore gws major Kylie garabed said having such a program on campus is ben­eficial because it can create a “feminist presence.” 
“a feminist presence will make sure that the student body is aware of the social is­sues by holding lectures and events, and this will bring the issue of inequality to the minds of the student body,” garabed said. 
davis said the saint mary’s gws program has hosted several events on campus and in the community. it co­sponsored panels on the films The hunting ground and Fifty shades of grey, south Bend’s first slutwalk and an event with the girl scouts with michiana. The program also sponsored a talk by Joel Barrett, a writer who spoke about his experiences with ex-gay therapy. 
garabed said she has found the gws program to be a re­warding experience. 
“This program is truly amazing. The professors are all great and so passionate about what they are teaching,” she said. “all of the classes that i’ve had to take for my major have taught me so much more about myself and the world than i could have expected. i think everyone should try to take some sort of gws course in their time at saint mary’s because it is just it is so rewarding.” 
garabed said gws courses concern more than just wom­en’s studies. 
“here at saint mary’s, we have a variety of gender and women’s studies courses that relate to masculinity and lgBTQ … taking one gws course can provide a student with a new perspective on many social issues and in­equalities. saint mary’s has a gws program that is open to all individuals who share dif­ferent perspectives and be­liefs. The best part about going to class is knowing it is going to be discussion-based, and you’ll have the opportunity to share your perspective as well as discover something new.” 
Contact Olivia Jackson at  ojacks01@saintmarys.edu 

Due to technical difficulties, Notre Dame Day will re­broadcast the final three hours of the program from 8 p.m. – 11 p.m. Tuesday, which will allow  everyone the opportunity to watch, give, and vote for their favorite areas of interest. All activity will be made available through notredameday.nd.edu 

The oBserver | tuEsdAy, APril 28, 2015 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

Saint Mary’s hosts Second City improv troupe 
By NICOLE CARATAS and MARTHA REILLY 
news writers 
improvisational comedy group second city, which came to saint mary’s on Friday for an extended weekend of teaching classes as the margaret m. hill endowed visiting artists, held a press conference and performance in o’laughlin auditorium at saint mary’s on monday 
according to troupe member casey whitaker, second city loved interacting with saint mary’s stu­dents through these events. 
“anytime there’s a group of strong women anywhere, it’s go­ing to be awesome,” whitaker said. “everyone is so supportive and so open, and you can tell that you guys care and love each other, and that’s great when doing improv be­cause you’re open and supporting each other.” 
Troupe member Jamison webb said the improvisation group in­cluded some material exclusive to saint mary’s throughout its performance. 
“There’s some improvisation throughout the show where we get suggestions from the audience to inspire scenes or moments within scenes,” webb said. “There’s also some custom material that we’ve put together about saint mary’s. The saint mary’s experience has been pretty unique.” 
webb said he enjoyed watch­ing students grow as perform­ers throughout his time at saint mary’s. 
“when we’re doing shows on the road, we’re in that town for a day or two, so we don’t really have the lux­ury we’ve had here at saint mary’s, with kind of an extended weekend where we’re able to do multiple workshops with the same perform­ers,” he said. “Building something together is pretty cool.” 
according to whitaker, the les­sons learned during last weekend’s workshops should continue to help students as they discover more about theatre. 
“we always talk about process at second city, and i think that’s true for improv in general,” whitaker said. “it’s always a process. we will never feel like we’ve conquered it completely or like there’s nothing left to learn from improv. That will never be the case. There is always something to learn from improv.” 
webb said he hopes students learned the value of commitment to character development when acting. 

“a lot of the basic principles and things that are focused on in more traditional, kind of theatri­cal, script-based acting apply to improv,” webb said. “it’s still about committing to a character. it’s still about giving the audience a compelling look into relationships and a certain time and place. The difference is you are in control of that in the moment, and you are creating that. it’s very ephemeral. Then it’s gone.” 

whitaker said saint mary’s stu­dents should use the skills they learn as they progress in their act­ing careers. 
“you kind of have an advantage going into improv and sketch com­edy because you already know about emotion and commitment,” whitaker said. “when you’re im­provising a scene, you’re writing as you go. so it’s kind of a completely different muscle. you can’t go home and practice your lines a bunch. you just do it in that moment, so you have to be super present when you’re improvising, which could of course then lead to a great scene.” 
Contact Nicole Caratas at  ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu and Martha Reilly at  mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 
President 
conTinued From page 1 
to speak candidly with carol without the media present, be­cause it really is about the stu­dents,” she said. 
o’Brien said she hopes stu­dents will be honest with president mooney because that is the best way for the con­versation to be productive. 
over the past several weeks, “The hunting ground” has sparked discussion and debate on both saint mary’s and notre dame’s campuses. The college screened the documentary april 9, which features notre dame as a school that ineffec­tively responds to sexual as­sault allegations, some against saint mary’s students. mooney introduced the film, and from the audience during the panel, she addressed concerns that she had disregarded a student’s sexual assault complaint. 
a second panel discussion, run by students, april 20 cov­ered a range of issues and proposed a list of recommen­dations for the saint mary’s administration on providing more support to victims of sex­ual assault. 
alumnae, as well as stu­dents, have expressed con­cerns about the issue raised in the film. Through care.org, 2013 graduate Jessica lopez created an online petition. lopez said the petition, which resembles the petition that arose from the april 20 panel discussion, has 301 signees, with a goal of 500. 
The petition seeks to grab the attention of saint mary’s administrators, specifically president mooney. a sec­tion of the petition written to president mooney reads, “as the first lay alumna presi­dent of saint mary’s college, you have the power to make a truly significant impact on the history of our college. you can encourage your fellow ad­ministrative officials to make sexual assault a priority issue to address.” 
lopez said there are several reasons alumnae are signing the petition. 
“First, we love our school, we support its mission, and we want to hold it accountable for its actions,” she said. “second, we support our students and advocate for their safety. Three, we have been impacted by sexual assault either per­sonally or through a friend, and we don’t want the past to repeat itself. 
“we expect better outcomes for the current and future stu­dents of saint mary’s college.” 
lopez said she saw “The hunting ground” on april 9 when it showed in Bloomington, indiana. during her time at saint mary’s, lopez was a history and humanistic studies double major with a minor in gender and women’s studies (gws), and she heard about the documentary on the gws Facebook group. 
lopez said she decided to draft the petition for alum­nae because of her love for the college. 
“i think it is important that the voices of its students are not only heard, but that their requests are acted upon,” lopez said. “saint mary’s is a community of strong, educat­ed women who believe in their school’s ability to lead in this mission for change.” 

The main platform for ad­vertising the petition is social media, lopez said. 
“with our current access to social media, the relationship between student and alumnae has never been stronger,” she said. “i want the students to know that the alumnae are lis­tening and support their cause for change.” 
The response to the petition has been exciting and speaks to the saint mary’s experience, lopez said. 
“i am delighted with the re­sponse we have had from the alumnae so far,” she said. “it truly goes to show how tight the bonds of sisterhood are at saint mary’s. at times we have to be our own advocates, and this is that time.” 
lopez said current students have been the guiding force behind drafting the alumnae petition. 
“Their passion and activism truly inspired me to hold my­self accountable as an alumna and fulfill the pledge i made after graduating from saint mary’s, that is ‘to continue the mission of saint mary’s college by integrating the core values of learning, community, faith, spirituality and justice into my life beyond saint mary’s.’ 
“The students are the great­est resource [and] our school, our administrators, can ben­efit from listening to their experiences.” 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
OutatNd 
conTinued From page 1 
he said. 
The organization is independent of the university and is focused on promoting equality, visibility and solidarity for the lgBTQ commu­nity at notre dame, Bebar said. The organization is composed of undergraduate, graduate, fac­ulty and alumni, according to the ouTatnd website. 
“we believe in equal rights, priv­ileges and resources for the entire lgBTQ community,” the website said. “we believe that members of the lgBTQ community deserve access to rights including but not limited to marriage rights and spousal privileges, relationship equality (i.e. the right and safety to engage in an open, honest, and public non-heteronormative rela­tionship), [and] sexual orientation and gender identity inclusive non­discrimination clause in notre dame policies.” 
The group also wishes to ensure equal access to notre dame re­sources, such as housing and rest­rooms, and to promote visibility of the lgBTQ community on cam­pus, the website said. 
“we believe that all members of lgBTQ communities should feel free to openly demonstrate pride toward their respective gender, sex­uality and gender identity, and to engage in activist practices that cel­ebrate the embodiment of non-nor­mative sexual and gender identities and/or gender,” the website states. 
“we also believe that through our organization, we can establish an open and secular network of support for individuals who may be questioning their sexuality or gender identity,” it said. 
The group is launching its first initiative today in recognition of the marriage equality case that is also being heard by the supreme court today, Bebar said. 
“we’ll be launching a video fea­turing a number of out students and faculty,” Bebar said. “at the end of the video, we will be encouraging out nd members and alumni to upload videos of themselves shar­ing their nd experience. we really want to get everyone involved. 
“Both lgBTQ individuals and allies are encouraged to participate in our photo campaign by upload­ing a photo of themselves holding a sign showing their support for the lgBTQ community.” 
ouTatnd recognizes the activ­ism that has led to the creation of prismnd, which provides a space for respectful dialogue about lgBTQ issues, but prismnd has its limitations, Bebar said. 
“we are conscious of the limi­tations of prismnd because of lgBTQ rights that remain unrec­ognized and needs that remain unmet, such as the support of gay relationships,” Bebar said. 
“Knowing that prismnd pro­vides a necessary resource for many students and that its ex­istence could be put at risk if it were involved in this initiative, ouTatnd operates 100 percent in­dependently of both prismnd and the university of notre dame.” 
ultimately, Bebar said, the goal of ouTatnd is to advocate for the needs of lgBTQ students at notre dame, saint mary’s and in the south Bend community as a whole. 
“we want every openly lgBTQ, closeted, or questioning student to know that we are here,” he said. 
Contact Kayla Mullen at  kmullen2@nd.edu 


ndsmcoBserver.com | tuEsdAy, APril 28, 2015 | The oBserver 

Walk 
conTinued From page 1 
taking my accounting 20100 and accounting 20200 ex­ams, they will have mercy on a 48-year-old man and enjoy the moment in the spirit of love that is at the heart of the walk.” 
meyer’s interest in poverty in Burkina Faso began four years ago, when a charity took up a collection to fund building a well in the african country. 
“To be honest, i had never heard of that country, but the pictures and the challenges of the Burkina Faso villages made a strong impact on me,” meyer said. “The thought that one in three children die before the age of 10, often as a result of diseases brought on by drink­ing bad water — i have three daughters under the age of 10, and i could not bear to think about losing one. Knowing that parents in Burkina Faso must deal with the death of a child as a matter of regular occur­rence was something that mo­tivated me to give and to want to do more.” 
The following year, professor meyer and his wife donated the full cost of a well. Two years ago, his three daughters, 8-year-old twins and a 6-year­old, asked for donations for a well in Burkina Faso be given in lieu of gifts at their birthday parties. 
“i mean, really, what kid gives up birthday presents to give money to people they will never know, who live in a place they barely even heard of?” meyer said. “so my daughters’ acts of charity motivated me to come up with doing something to raise money for a well.” 
meyer said he thought about doing the walk around campus for about a year, but the death of university president emeritus Fr. Theodore hesburgh and comments of pope Francis mo­tivated him to action. 
meyer said pope Francis’s 2013 evangelii gaudium, an apostolic exhortation on car­ing for the poor, was an ad­ditional source of inspiration, particularly the pope’s com­ment that “each individual christian and every commu­nity is called to be an instru­ment of god for the liberation and promotion of the poor, and for enabling them to be fully a part of society. This demands that we be docile and attentive to the cry of the poor and come to their aid.” 
“his words tell me that i need to do more than just think about doing something, but to get out there and do it now,” he said. “in reading all of the commentaries about the life of Fr. Ted, i was struck by the fact that Fr. Ted acted. his life was one of action to make this university, this nation, and this world a better place. his words and actions told me that i needed to do more, that i need to act.” 
according to meyer, in Burkina Faso women can often be forced to walk up to three miles each way to get water if their village does not have a well. Their resulting water sources are often stagnant pools or other unsafe supplies, which result in the high death rates in children under the age of 10. one well could pro­vide a lifetime’s worth of clean water for 400 to 1,000 village members. 

meyer said his wife will be present for the duration of his walk, and his daugh­ters will walk a lap with him. additionally, some students and friends have indicated interest in walking alongside meyer, who emphasized that anyone who wants to join in with him is welcome to do so. 
meyer hopes to raise $2,000 to cover the cost of building one well in Burkina Faso. 
“i want everyone in this community to know that even a very little donation can made a significant impact because we are doing this as a commu­nity,” meyer said, “This is not about me walking as about us all making an impact for a vil­lage in Burkina Faso. 
“i realize that we cannot fix the problem for every village, but we perhaps can solve the problem for one village. one village can have clean water, healthy children and a future. one village can have parents that do not have to bury their children. They may never know what the university of notre dame is, but they will know that they are loved; loved by strangers and loved by god.” 
Contact Andrea Vale at  avale@nd.edu 
Health 
conTinued From page 1 
job,” she said. “i think what we need to do differently is the promotion of our re­sources and how to bring students in by reducing the stigma. 
“so we approached that for a year. we thought, how can we really change this on campus? ” 
in the final report this Thursday, the group will recommend the following: 
•	 
“strategic consolidation of all university health resources for easier ac­cess, recognition and usage through the cen­tralized web portal: irishe alTh” 

•	 
“streamlining of the re­porting system for indi­viduals (faculty, staff, peers of fellow students) who are concerned about the wellbeing of a student” 

•	 
“incorporation of a consolidated web por­tal of health resources in the curriculum of the moreau First year experience course” 

•	 
“reevaluation of the physical space in st. liam’s hall to redefine the hall as a ‘house of health.” 


These recommendations came from the group’s ob­servations and findings about the current state of campus, vidal said. 
The purpose of the irishhealTh portal, vidal said, would be to combine the existing information and resources that are currently available on the university counseling center (ucc) website, the university health services (uhs) website and the mcdonald center for student well-Being website as well as making it easier to navigate for students. 
“we’re going for rebrand­ing and consolidation,” vidal said. 
The second recommen­dation revolves around the campus assessment, response and education (care) program that, among other things, is a re­source for people on campus concerned about a student’s wellbeing and also to assist students applying for read­mission to the university. vidal said many on campus were unsure of how these resources worked. 
The moreau First year experience course will replace the current physical education and contemporary Topics cur­riculum. The group has proposed that part of this curriculum detail the re­sources available for men­tal health and wellness and how to find and use them. 
Finally, the group has rec­ommended that the space in st. liam’s be reevaluated, particularly regarding wait­ing rooms. vidal said the group suggested that the waiting rooms for the ucc and uhs be consolidated into one, in order to help students feel more com­fortable. vidal said she had received the most positive feedback on this point out of all the recommendations. 
The report also detailed a number of findings. one of the notable points con­cerned populations on cam­pus especially vulnerable to “excessive stress levels and the associated mental health consequences,” the report reads. 
“we identified two; the first is first-year students … The second is internation­al asian students; we have found a lot of research to support that,” vidal said. 
according to the data pre­sented in the report, only 3.7 percent of students enrolled in the First year of studies visited the ucc in the 2013­2014 academic year, com­pared with 22 percent of arts and letters students, 
9.9 percent of architecture students, 11.5 percent of Business students, 16 per­cent of engineering stu­dents and 18 percent of science students. 
additionally, they found based on ucc data and na­tional averages that the university has higher per­centages of students with psychotropic medication, alcohol abuse, adhd and eating disorders com­pared to other mid-size universities. 
official findings of the re­port include the following: 
•	 
“misconceptions about postgraduate opportu­nities lead to unrealistic views on ‘necessary’ ac­ademic and extracurric­ular involvement, which contribute significantly to student stress.” 

•	 
“students primar­ily connect with re­sources online and look to the internet first when searching for information.” 

•	 
“The university does offer a number of coun­seling and support re­sources, but there is a lack of awareness of these resources among students.” 

•	 
“The stigma surround­ing mental health may prevent students from getting the help they need.” 

•	 
“There are reporting structures in place, but faculty members still re­main generally unaware of how to recognize stu­dents who may be strug­gling emotional and how to get them the help they need.” 


Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 



a year is a long time 
Caelin Miltko 
scene writer 

last wednesday, as i sat in The observer office, waiting for the night’s articles to get in, i had the weirdest re­alization. That night would be my last night in the office for over a year, as i head off to spend my junior year abroad at Trinity college, dublin. it was a weird realization because even though i sup­pose i’ll likely be back my senior year and that i’ll still be able to write from abroad, it sort of brought home that a year is a really long time. 
now i’m only a sophomore, and i’m not about to wax poetic about all the things i will miss about notre dame. i can leave that to the seniors who actu­ally are graduating. But my realization last week brought home to me what i might actually be missing out on when i head off to go abroad. 
it’s a bit weird to think about that way, because almost everyone i’ve met since starting college has told me that i abso­lutely have to study abroad. For both my parents, it’s apparently the one thing they regret not doing in college, and they are not the only ones to express this sentiment to me. 
don’t get me wrong. i am beyond excited to spend a year in dublin; i wouldn’t have applied otherwise. But at this moment in time, when all of my classmates are discussing next year’s classes and rooming situations and i’m still waiting for Trinity to release their class schedule (which won’t be until september, and they still do class regis­tration in a composition notebook of all things), it feels like i might be missing out on something. 
i think all of this is driving home a truth i always wanted to avoid when i was younger. in high school, i was the queen of signing up for anything and everything under the sun. i didn’t like to say no, and i never wanted to choose be­tween two things i knew i would really love. and i avoided it as long as i could. 
But as i approach my study abroad experience, i’m realizing that doing both is not always an option. and i’m begin­ning to think that’s okay — because even though i won’t see my current friends for over a year, i know i’m going to have the opportunity of a lifetime over in dublin, even if it is lacking american football games. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at       cmoriari@nd.com 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Christopher Newton 
stepping out of The cave 

no, we are not there yet, so stop asking. 
while it is my last column, i promise to largely adhere to the foreign affairs commentary and not provide you with a diary entry or pretend i have a loyal following (i estimate regular readership at an optimistic four). For those not fa­miliar, we are speaking of plato’s allegory of the cave, or what you will. it has several names, but boils down to the difficulty of changing a person’s perspective when they have become deeply rooted in one way of seeing the world. woe to the writer who believes it is a mere matter of eloquence or even evidence. if you are not a fan of plato, imagine living your en­tire life within a single dorm party and then having someone attempt to describe darties. 
The careful reader may have noticed my title happens to be rather similar to my byline, a reflection of my intentions with these viewpoint columns. The goal of this apologetically irregular column was always to shed a bit of light on issues of international security and to show in some small way that the world is not the great mess of baffling chaos it often appears to be. 
i have attempted to unravel bits and pieces of issues related to iran, yemen, palestine, the islamic state (is) and the like, seeking to challenge prevailing opinions of hostility, confu­sion or sticking-your-head-in-the-sand-because-reading­is-hard regarding the middle east and central asia. many people look at these regions and see only homogenous mass­es of angry muslims, endless violence and a series of complex issues that are not worth the time it would take to understand them. it is an uphill battle and i certainly claim no expertise 
— i write viewpoints, not peer-reviewed articles or pieces for “The economist.” 
allow me, then, to briefly touch on a few of the major issues of my favorite regions of the world before signing off. i came into this university on the heels of the arab spring and was granted the opportunity to write about the subsequent win­ter. over the past year, the metaphorical snow has begun to accumulate. 
The islamic state has reached its high water mark in terms of territorial aggrandizement. while it may prove to be an adept terrorist organization in the coming years, it is at pres­ent showing itself to be a rather poor insurgent group. absent, massive, nearly unthinkable reforms, it will not hold the terri­tory it has seized. as it is slowly pushed out of iraq and syrian Kurdistan, its grand claims to be the new caliphate will be­come increasingly untenable. while it has begun to branch out into libya, yemen, afghanistan and nigeria, these off­shoots will be highly unlikely to seize major territory, though they may persist for years nonetheless. 
on yemen, i am not sure whether to begin playing taps for the state or to sound the call to arms to the international community. saudi airstrikes and general alarmism about the iranian connection to northern rebels will do little to solve yemen’s problems, which relate more to water scarcity and economic collapse than major sectarian differences. yemen has functioned as a gradually unfolding train wreck for years, with the world only now seeing the folly of its turning a col­lective blind eye. without massive and concerted efforts to alter the course of yemen, it may in time become, as eric church sings, “too far gone to be shot back.” 
iran is gaining friends and influence in the arab world far faster than the united states, in part because of its substan­tial gains in iraq following the american-led invasion. it is active in Bahrain, iraq, syria, lebanon and yemen, taking advantage of dysfunction in its near abroad and general eco­nomic success and stability at home. Bombing this country will not go well for the united states and israel, particularly after its acquisition of advanced air defense systems from russia. iran’s careful and long-term bid for regional hegemo­ny belies a rationality highly unlikely to lead it to seek nuclear weapons at the risk of becoming an international pariah like north Korea or of being bombed into roughly the middle ages like iraq after the gulf war. a negotiated deal can work for iran and certainly does work for the us. 
israel is, by definition, colonizing the west Bank. i tend to disagree with colonization, and would prefer if israel would stop building illegal settlements like a petulant child with a new lego set after bed time. The gaza strip is running out of water and economic collapse looms over the horizon, typical­ly catastrophes that lead people to violence. it would behoove israel to not allow 1.8 million palestinians to reach such dire straits while still governed by hamas. Things will go decided­ly poorly for all involved at such levels of horrific desperation. 
call me a nerd — all my friends do — but the world to me is absolutely fascinating. i have thoroughly enjoyed contem­plating just this small part of it within the confines of this publication. i may not have led anyone out of the cave, or even escaped myself, but perhaps i have at least loosened the chains a bit. 
Christopher Newton is a senior formerly of Knott Hall. He is a political science major and international development studies minor. He can be reached at cnewton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
lEttEr tO tHE EditOr 
The need for theology 
The curriculum review committee is discussing eliminating or weakening the theology requirement. with the notable exception of carolyn woo, most of the pushback has come from theology professors and majors. it is no surprise theologians value theology, but this gives a false impression. we, the undersigned, are not theology majors, but we recognize theology is a vital part of a catholic education, and so we are writing in support of keeping the theology core requirement. 
catholic universities must educate their students’ hearts along with their minds. notre dame is the fore­most catholic university in the world, and as such we must be an example of how to combine faithful witness and academic excellence. eliminating the theology requirement would frustrate our mission and bring notre dame closer to being another good school among many. 
Theology courses are the most direct encounter stu­dents can have with “the big questions” from the per­spective of what god has revealed: what are we doing here? why does it matter? how do i relate to god and to those around me? Thus, theology is in a unique posi­tion to change students’ lives. 
some have suggested that classes about catholic themes — such as classes about the history or sociol­ogy of catholicism — could replace theology. such courses are important, but cannot replace theology. Theology is central to a catholic education because its distinctive subject is god’s self-revelation and our place in the world in light of that revelation. every discipline is valuable, but theology’s perspective is unique. 
Furthermore, the core requirement gives structure to the theology department. since every student has to take two courses, the theology department has more faculty and graduate students than other departments. This offers students more perspectives along with more role models who can guide them on how to live their faith. weakening the requirement will slim down the department and make notre dame a much poorer place to be a catholic. 
Thus, we the undersigned oppose any effort to elimi­nate, reduce or dilute the theology requirement. 
Brian Stahl 
history senior Keenan hall april 24 

For the complete list of 203 signatures, view the article online at ndsmcobserver.com 

lEttErs tO tHE EditOr 

Let’s do this together: a letter from Fr. Jenkins 
sexual assault has no place at notre dame, where we value the dignity of each person, and pride ourselves in creating a community that cares. regrettably, notre dame isn’t immune to sexual as­sault, as our annual crime reporting indicates. in fact, we’ve seen spikes in reporting in recent years, which may be an indicator of a courageous willingness of survivors to come forward. These are not instances where assailants are strangers who jump out of the proverbial bushes, but in which students are known to one another. a review of conduct hearings over the last decade shows that all students who have been found responsible for non-consensual sexual intercourse were permanently dismissed from the university. still, combating sexual assault is an ongo­ing concern and a priority of mine. 
i have asked erin hoffmann harding, vice president for student affairs, to write separately and in greater detail to all students to remind them how to report sexual assault, what support services are available and what more we can do collectively to prevent it. 
meanwhile, in encouraging students to report crim­inal conduct to the police and/or administratively through the university’s conduct process, we want to support them fully in the process. That’s why we have hired more investigators and more professional staff to walk students through the process and to support their decision-making throughout. it’s also important to me that investigations of sexual violence are con­ducted without fear or favor. 
as important as is support for survivors, prevention is critical. That’s why the university has expanded bystander intervention training and other strategies to deter sexual assault in the first place. our student leadership is to be commended for being in the fore­front of these and other education efforts including “one is Too many” and “it’s on us,” in which i was privileged to participate recently. 
There was a time when sexual violence committed by an acquaintance or family member was rarely, if ever, reported to authorities. Fortunately, with better support for survivors and their increased willingness to come forward to identify their assailants, society has the opportunity to better combat these crimes. as an extended family itself, notre dame is commit­ted to the well-being of all. as shaken as we may be by reports of sexual violence among us, we are also un­ashamedly resolved to address it head on, in the hope one day of eradicating it. 
let’s do this together, notre dame. 
Fr. John Jenkins 
university president april 27 

meet the administration halfway 
Too often our students speak of the ‘mysterious administration’ that actively seeks a barrier between main Building and the student body when making pivotal decisions for the university of notre dame. during my time in office, i regularly received the question: “how can we get [the administration] to tell us what’s happening?” i have one simple answer: ask. university decisions are not made with the deliber­ate effort of keeping students out of the conversation. as a matter of fact, most divisions, departments and committees are thirsty for student input; i would know, i spent a year crossing that imaginary line. 
i believe in meaningful citizenship. i believe in a population dedicated to conversation and improve­ment. if, as leaders, we strive for perfection in com­munication and strategy, we will land somewhere near excellence. 
our notre dame community is a magnificent one, characterized by intelligence, talent and devotion. we are a team of students working to lead every field of study on a national and global level, but how can we do this if we continue to treat our relationship with the leadership of this university as an adver­sarial one? so close to the real world, two weeks from graduation, i will soon join working america as a representative of a notre dame education, but also as a representative of our generation. we are a genera­tion typically characterized by impersonal interac­tions, an addiction to digital entertainment and an attention span far shorter than that of our grand­parents, which leads me to worry for our patience in conversations of progress and change. 
our country used to be a place of bipartisan work, a land whose freedom guided the most challenging conversations. we were a nation that together, fought for our moral commitments. we raced to the moon. we aspired to intelligence, not to credentialization. we led the world in the classroom, in the laboratory and on the olympic field. we could succeed in these ways and we could shine a beacon of light because we were informed. ironically, information is both the defining characteristic of the twenty-first century, but it also chains us. inundated by possibilities, we forget to focus. 
notre dame should be seen as a microcosm of the united states. although our university does not oper­ate as a democracy, our campus presents an opportu­nity for us, as citizens, to interact meaningfully with leadership and to ask the right questions in order to receive desired results. if we want to walk hand in hand with faculty and staff towards a common goal, we as students must engage. Transparency exists only in the worlds of those who make a persistent effort to keep it alive. 
This needs to be a partnership, but we have to meet them halfway. step outside of the classroom and apply what you’ve learned in real time. read your emails, follow university press releases, ask the dif­ficult questions and be persistent about getting the answers. go to your elected officials, work with your senators and attend collective discussions. require your representatives to represent you. make use of the senate floor. senate is a place for the student voice; it is held each week and all are welcome, yet few attend. ask your current leadership to invite administrators to the floor, so that students have an­other way to communicate with main Building. 
let us condition ourselves to participate as com­mitted citizens of any community. let us sculpt the future of our generation’s interaction with govern­ment, religion and macro-level discussion. let us engage with one another meaningfully in order to inspire change that can only come from honest and calculated conversation. Together, we can set the tone and refocus what it means to be today’s Fighting irish and what it means to be a young american. internalizing the true value of freedom requires us to continually monitor its health and magnify its necessity. 
This is your university. Take your opportunity to engage as both a privilege and an obligation, for with great power comes great responsibility. i am honored to be a member of the class of 2015 and a member of the notre dame family. i look forward to seeing my peers rise to unparalleled heights, to reading about our students setting agendas in public and private arenas and to witnessing a class of individuals lead­ing with their hearts and learning with their spirits. now and forever, let’s go irish. 
Lauren A. Vidal 

student body president emeritus april 27 
On behalf of employees: boycott the ‘Bun Run’ 
soon a questionable tradition called the “Bun run” will be upon us again. For those who don’t know, this is an event that usually takes place on sunday night before finals week where a handful of male students hide behind masks and run naked through campus buildings, disrupting students and staff. 
as a notre dame Food services manager at The huddle for 25 years, i work with 200 employees. on behalf of my employees, i respectfully ask you to consider a few things before participating in or supporting this event. we have been dealing with the negative effects of this for years, and we’ve re­ceived numerous complaints from staff. 
our employees are here to help and serve the students and should not to be subjected to harass­ment and offensive behavior at their daily jobs. my female staff often request schedule changes or hide in the kitchen or elsewhere in the building when this event takes place. They work extremely hard and deserve to be treated with dignity and respect. This creates a hostile work environment for them. how would you feel if your mother or grandmother were working here and someone did this to them? 
do those who participate in this event really want to, or is there an ugly form of peer pressure being applied to coerce participation? don’t put your friends into this situation. in the past, coeds even lined up to watch this run. again i ask, are people going along just to fit in? are you contrib­uting to the problem? This community includes the thousands of staff members that support you. students, it is time to stand up and do what is right. 
public nudity on school grounds is against university policy. i ask you to think about the re­ality of what you are doing and the ramifications it could have on your future. is it worth it? i know that Title iX is a federal civil rights law that pro­hibits this behavior, and i’ve been told that the university is obligated by law to prevent this ha­rassment from happening in the future. This is a serious issue. please, i ask you, don’t throw your college career away on a “tradition” that is against the rules, illegal and offensive to others. 
i hope this letter helps you understand the way this is impacting others. i hope you care. i hope you rally against it. my bet is that the majority of notre dame students would not support some­thing that is so harmful to the employees of our community. 
Fred Kraus 

The huddle Food services manager april 21 

The common ground 
Stephen Raab 
let’s Talk smart 

april has been sexual violence awareness month, and the last two weeks have only strengthened the ground­swell against rape on notre dame’s campus. staff and students alike have been eager to counter the trou­bling accusations raised in Kirby dick’s “The hunting ground,” as well as the all-too-familiar email reporting a sexual assault. 
i have nothing but support for the anti-rape activism as it stands. The prayer services, Take Back the night marches and denim day are all great ideas. my hands are reddened with applause, though i do wish it didn’t take the scrutiny of a major motion picture to spur the university into such visible action. The text of the mes­sage is on point. i merely take issue with the subtext. 
consider one of the most popular slogans of the modern sexual assault prevention movement — “don’t teach women how not to get raped, teach men how not to rape.” it’s a simple message that calls to mind many of the societal failures of cases like the steubenville rape, in which media voices sympathized with the perpetra­tors and the “promising futures” they had lost, rather than with the traumatized victim. Further, it illustrates the utility of consent education, as many who commit sexual assault do not understand that their actions con­stitute rape. university of north dakota professor sarah edwards published a 2014 study in which one-third of reporting men admitted they would force a woman into sex if they would suffer no consequences, but only 13 percent reported they would “rape” a woman under the same circumstances. 
however, such thinking also perpetuates a dangerous false dichotomy by suggesting that anti-sexual assault efforts ought not merely to expand their scope and reach out to men, but also to stop educating women on how to reduce their likelihood of victimization. The subtextual message is that women don’t need to take any precau­tions against criminals, because that would be “victim blaming” and it’s the criminal’s responsibility not to commit crimes. obviously, this puts women at risk — some rapists will not accept or will actively reject at­tempts to “train” that behavior out of them, and anyone who fails to take precautions will be statistically more likely to be victimized. 
This is in no way to say that women who fail to take precautions are to blame if they are sexually assaulted. The rapist will always bear full legal and moral respon­sibility for his (or her) deplorable actions. however, the matter of where the blame rests is trivial compared with the trauma suffered by the victim of a sexual assault, which we should be trying to avoid altogether. if you drive without a seat belt and do not watch out for other drivers, you are statistically more likely to be in a fatal automobile accident with a drunk driver. you won’t have been “asking for it,” and it won’t have been your fault, but you will still be dead. Just to be on the safe side, isn’t it best to teach defensive driving and seat belt usage? 
one common response to such logic is that women are already bombarded with information on rape avoid­ance, and any further advocacy would be wasted effort. while it would be nice to think so, this is apparently not the case. i recall one prominent feminist in The observer who stated her goal was a campus in which she could go running around the lakes at night, alone, with her headphones in, and not have to worry about becom­ing the victim of a crime. unfortunately, you can spend all the time and money you want educating men, and that wish will never come true. 
and there’s the rub — the anti-rape activists on cam­pus seem to feel we must choose one strategy to the exclusion of the other. in reality, the best results will be achieved when women take precautions against victim­ization and men are simultaneously socialized not to become rapists. i’m an engineer — redundancy is key to preventing a system from failing those who rely on it. 
maybe the best way to solve this problem is a semantic shift. instead of marketing these tips to women as useful to avoid rape, it might work better to market them to the full student body as tips to avoid becoming the victim of a crime. after all, most of these tips (stick with a buddy and watch for people messing with your drink) work just as well at preventing assault or robbery as they do at preventing rape. and while no one would argue that someone who’s mugged while stumbling home drunk and alone deserved their victimization, everyone would agree that such an incident could probably have been prevented. 
some headway is finally starting to be made in the college sexual assault problem. let us use all available resources to end this problem for good. 
Stephen Raab is a junior studying chemical engineering.  He resides in Alumni Hall and welcomes discourse at  sraab@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
encountering roe v. wade part ii 
Tiernan Kane 
guest columnist 

This past weekend, the university’s center for ethics and culture hosted its annual evangelium vitae medal dinner. regrettably, the event was indoors and no roasted pig was to be found. on the other hand, there was stirring witness to the intrinsic value of every hu­man being, regardless of age, stage of development or condition of dependency. more than 40 years after roe 
v. wade, the pro-life movement has not only survived but thrived. indeed, it has even given birth to a daugh­ter movement for marriage. This week, as the supreme court hears a case that may become roe v. wade ii, daughter stands to learn much from mother in the way of wisdom and courage. 
if the original roe v. wade is any precedent, the pro-marriage movement should not expect the supreme court to correctly identify the question at hand. in that case, the court failed to grasp clearly that the contro­versy was about which human beings possess intrinsic value such that their lives deserve equal protection of the laws. 
in the same way, given past jurisprudence, it would be remarkable for a roe ii decision to address the cen­tral point of contention. The marriage debate is not an inquiry as to whether human beings who experience same-sex attraction (or sexual attraction of whatever kind) possess inherent dignity. (even if that proposi­tion were not easily affirmable, the arguments of the pro-life movement settle the issue.) rather, the marriage debate about whether there is intrinsic value in a com­prehensive sexual (in other words, male-female) union inherently oriented toward the procreation and rearing of children. one side rejects marriage so defined as con­straining and dishonest to one’s own feelings, and there­fore, they seek to redefine (“extend”) it. The other side understands marriage to be a real good, a worthy project of human choice, something society should welcome and encourage (though never try to coerce). 
when the original roe v. wade case was decided, the debate was expected to end. The justices thought his­tory would vindicate their allegedly statesmanlike act. pro-life advocates like sen. Ted Kennedy and rev. Jesse Jackson evolved with respect to their views on abortion, letting go of pro-life principles. To do otherwise, it was thought, would be to stand against the constitution and to favor the prejudices of backward institutions like the pro-life catholic church over the real, personal good of women, who could not possess equal dignity without being utterly free to abort. 
in the same way, if roe ii comes, it will be used to persuade pro-marriagers of the futility of their cause. already, we hear a personified history has decided this question (though not, it seems, in a way that reason can articulate in arguments defining marriage). at the advent of roe ii, latter-day stephen douglases will say to support marriage is to oppose the constitution, and this pseudo-constitution’s avengers will ignore the prin­ciples of free speech and religious exercise the Founders revered. 
The pro-life experience teaches pro-marriagers to expect difficulty should there be a roe ii, but at the same time, it teaches that hopeful courage is the best response. clear thought and right action justify themselves, but they also tend to contrast well against the muddle that mistaken principles bring about: self-proclaimed feminists support aborting a female baby on the basis of sex? lgBT activists boycott self-identified lgBT business owners for holding the wrong views about family life or for meeting with a pro-mar­riage public official? such actions are symptomatic of an advanced case of confusion, as the public can come to see. 
in response, pro-marriagers should stand ready to provide truth-seekers a sort of seamless garment of re­spect for basic human goods. For it is necessary but not sufficient to stand unequivocally in support of human life against abortion. unborn or born, a child has a right to life, but other rights too. centrally important is the right to live in a family with his or her biological mother and biological father. all those who care for a child’s right to life in the womb should care for that same child’s right to be raised by the parents who brought him or her into the world (unless truly compelling circumstances call for the heroic love of adoptive parents). protecting marriage as an inherently child-oriented institution is the best way to respect the full equality of every human being from the very start of his or her beautiful life. 
roe v. wade ii may come, or it may not. company at the party of supreme court failures such as dred scott and roe hangs in the balance. For the rest of us, what­ever the justices on high may say, the fulfilling work of building a robustly pro-life, pro-marriage culture calls. rest up this summer. 
Tiernan Kane is a graduate student living in Zahm House and president of SCOP. He can be reached at tkane4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Anne Wooding 
guest columnist 

last Friday i awoke to a stinging email. i, along with off-campus residents of the lewis hall com­munity, would not be allowed to attend our signature syr, crush. why? it is because i had the audacity to click “Join” on a Facebook event that promoted a series of off-campus parties to celebrate crush week. i had been charged with distracting the community and promoting underage drinking (read here: put­ting underclassmen at risk). i was allowed a refund of my four dollars and told my rectress “will be avail­able to talk with [me] about how [she] reached this decision.” These accusations perpetuate the double standard we’ve all come to recognize, male and fe­male, during our years at notre dame. and the re­sulting culture this double standard promotes does more to threaten the well being of all the women of notre dame than it does to protect them. 
it is no secret that notre dame supports a blatant double standard when it comes parties. all residents of male dorms have to do when they decide they want to have a party is turn in a social gathering form and move all their furniture to one room. There is simply no way for women to drink socially on their own turf. women must resort to locking their doors, turning their music “up” to barely audible levels and sipping on their mixies while trying to squash the overwhelming paranoia that the whole hall staff is currently charging down the hall to get them. so, if girls want to party they must search for an outside environment — either in a male dorm or off campus. given the culture of this campus, the majority of off-campus parties are thrown by men. last week’s incident with the crush syr is a clear indication that this double standard extends off campus and further compounds these gender issues. The disci­pline thrust upon the off-campus women of lewis hall is unheard of consequence for male off-campus activity. 
while many accept this as an unfair bias that women at notre dame just have to live with, what many students don’t realize is that our university has created a party environment that places its women at higher risk for experiencing sexual assault. it comes down to the simple idea of control. since men are the people who are allowed to throw parties at notre dame, they control all aspects of the party environ­ment. These aspects include inputs such as alcohol, an appropriate venue, music and guests. These environments are also sexually charged and young female guests feel an uncomfortable pressure of compensating the hosts. women often feel obligated to talk, flirt, dance or be more intimate with a guy if they’ve received an invite to a party or a drink from him. This factor, when mixed with a deficit of famil­iar surroundings and alcohol consumption, can leave girls in a vulnerable position. 
i am not trying to say this environment causes men to take advantage of women; i am saying this envi­ronment makes it easier for a man who does want to take advantage of a woman to do so. notre dame may claim to do all it can to protect its women from experiencing sexual assault, but with one simple cultural change like allowing women to throw their own parties, it can limit the male-dominated envi­ronments that are a major cause of sexual assault. 
if women at notre dame are allowed to throw their own parties, they have control over their own party experience. when women throw parties, they are in locations that are familiar to them, they are able to invite those whom they trust and feel safe around, they make their own drinks and they feel obligated to no one because of their opportunity to party. 
This is not going to be a cure-all to the problem of sexual assault. unfortunately, when alcohol is in­volved, the opportunity for women to be taken ad­vantage of will always be present. however, i wonder if the university has ever stopped to consider that an effective way to protect us is allowing us to protect ourselves? i implore notre dame to consider the consequences of a set of procedures that consistently demeans the freedom of its women. 
Anne Wooding is a senior living in Lewis Hall. She can be contacted at awooding@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
lEttEr tO tHE EditOr 

Words from a grateful heart 
on may 17, the class of 2015 will walk across the stage at graduation to accept our diplomas. we will laugh, we will celebrate, we may cry. But then we will leave notre dame. 
leaving this beautiful campus — the places and people we have grown to love — will be difficult. starting out in a new city with a new job and new friends will be difficult. But i have been given too much in my time here to be sad or anxious about leaving. instead, i am choosing to be thankful. 
Thanks, notre dame, for a liberal arts education. From presidential leadership to philosophy of law to wood sculpture, i have developed a love of learn­ing new things that will not end with graduation. 
Thanks for my political science courses that taught me how to write clearly and argue effective­ly, how to look at issues from the perspective of the most marginalized and how to be a better citizen. 
Thanks for my education, schooling and society classes that lit in me a fire i didn’t know i had. 
Thanks, nd, for the opportunities i’ve had to learn off-campus — in south Bend, the appalachian region, honduras and london. Because of these experiences i better understand the world and my place in it. 
Thanks to Fr. Ted, who truly embodied the phrase “god, country, notre dame,” and whose life i will continually look to as an example. 
Thanks to professors who were also role models and mentors. They are not only devoted to spread­ing knowledge but are also invested in our develop­ment as people. 
Thanks to my classmates who humbled, im­pressed and motivated me with their work ethic, brilliance and kindness. Thanks to the class of 2015, who i’m confident will change the world for the better. 
Thanks to my friends. Through them, i have learned my strengths and many faults. Thanks for reminding me everyday how lucky we are to go to school here. 
Thanks, most of all, to my parents, who first in­troduced me to this special place, whose undying support i don’t deserve (but very much appreciate) and to whom i owe all of my success. 
i am a better student, leader, daughter, sister, friend and catholic for having spent four years here. Thank you, notre dame, for giving me so much to be grateful for. 
Maria Murphy 
senior pangborn hall april 26 
Going home 
Kitty Baker 
British invasion 

at the moment, everyone in the london program is reminiscing about the wonderful time we had and how sad they are to leave. To lighten the mood, i’ve decided to come up with a few things i am very excited to return to when we get to the states. 
Money: you never know what you’ve got till it’s gone, and all of my money is gone (mostly because the exchange rate is ridiculous). never again will i complain about hav­ing to pay 12 dollars for a movie ticket, never again will i complain about how much it costs to ride the new york subway (the cost is basically a dream come true after the Tube) and never again will i ever complain about the costs of drinks. ever. never. ever. you don’t want to know (and my parents certainly don’t want to know), how much i paid for drinks. 
Burgers: This one seems pretty cliche, but it’s true. The english just cannot make a good burger. yes, there are plenty of things they do so much better (roast beef, yorkshire pudding, digestive biscuits). But a simple burger just isn’t one. apparently beef on a patty with a bit of let­tuce, tomato and ketchup just isn’t enough, and they then have to add on some gourmet cheese, a little bit of pro­sciutto, a talisman from the ancient egyptians, donkey tongue and some other rather extravagant (and not very tasty) additions. (i have not actually had donkey tongue, and it actually might be quite nice.) so, when i get home, i will be having a plain burger, and i will enjoy it very much. 
American TV Shows: it’s not to say British Tv shows aren’t good, there are just some american Tv shows i have not been able to watch here, because they are so behind (i am really looking forward to the day when we get British Tv shows the day they come out in england, and Brits get american Tv shows when the day they come out in america; it would make everything so much simpler). The final season of mad men is happening, and i cannot watch it. my friend sarah missed the final episodes of the final season of parenthood. it really shouldn’t be that big a deal (and has sort of made me realize how much i love televi­sion), but it is. i miss it, and i will look forward to binge-watching when i get home. 
My Phone: i am beginning to see that a lot of these are electronic items and food, and i’m not sure how i feel about this. however, i am so done with having to type on my very very old British nokia phone. i do not understand why when i was younger i was so enthralled with the idea of typing very very slowly on a phone that was so tiny, but the nostalgia for better days is gone. i will never want the motorola razr again. never in a million years. as soon as i touch base in the u.s. i will be texting everyone on my iphone, just because i missed it so much, and i will never complain about its weird hiccups again. (also, as an add-on to this, i really miss just being able to plug my phone and computer into the wall without a converter.) 
Notre Dame: i don’t think this one really needs any explanation. 
These are just a few of the things i’ve missed about america, and there are quite a few things i will miss about being in england. Being able to see my extended family, the fact that everyone drinks tea (america really needs to stop discriminating against my tea habit). i will miss the weather next February, as i pound across south Quad, where not even my ridiculously long puffy jacket can pre­vent me from feeling the cold. i will miss out for the next three months due to the fact that the drinking age is 18 here. i will definitely miss pub culture, (and i think this is something we should definitely bring to the u.s.). There are so many things i will miss, but they will also remind me of how much i loved my time here and how much i’ve loved the people i am with and the city that i have lived in. 
and it really just means i’ll have to come back again. which will certainly be no hardship on my part. 
Kitty Baker is a Program of Liberal Studies and film, television and theatre major and eldest of the Fabulous Baker Girls, who hails from New York City.  She can be contacted at cbaker7@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Miko Malabute 
associate scene editor 

so here we are once again: finals week. The time where you buckle down, become super efficient, freshen up on a semester’s worth of material, constantly pour over old exams and quizzes and lectures and … well, if you’re any­thing like me the thought of it all is truly daunting. so, if you’re anything like me, you’ll turn to your trusty study tool — procrastination. here are some Tv series and mov­ies to check out during finals week because let’s face it, what else are you supposed to do? study? 
“Billy madison” 

yes, finals are upon us, but honestly, people are mak­ing way too much of it. look at it this way: you’re trying to get through a semester’s worth of material in a week. inconvenient? yes. stressful? it sure is. But try being Billy madison, he whizzed through elementary, middle and high school in a matter of months, finishing each grade in a couple of weeks. imagine nonstop cumulative finals every two weeks? so sit back and relax, you’ll have time to study later.
 “Breaking Bad” 

okay, by this point you’ve wasted more time than you 
Erin McAuliffe 
scene editor 

study days are usually as miserable as they sound, but they don’t have to be! sometimes a change in venue is all it takes to relieve writer’s block or rein­vigorate efficiency. spend some of your extra study time in one, or more, of these spots. 
the Birdsell mansion 

The Birdsell is opening its doors wednesday through may 7 as a study destination. head over between 9 a.m. and 9 p.m. (2 p.m. through 8 p.m. on sunday) to share space, art, food and coffee on the first floor of the mansion. 
There will be separate rooms for quiet studying and socializing, as well as a communal table where Zen café will provide coffee and brain-food. choose from desks, couches and rocking chairs to study or relax in. head outside for a study break to play Frisbee, golf or take a nap in the sun. There will also be an exercise bike if you need to relieve some stress and a bed if you need to give up. 
The communal table will feature pour-over coffee, would probably care to admit. your first final is tomorrow but one thing turned into another and here you are with a daunting task and limited time. as you grow desper­ate your final exam outlook grows darker, so you open a darker show. like anti-hero walter white, you’ve likely adopted the “by any means” mindset. maybe you’ve even turned to using and abusing some chemicals to stay awake and power through all those lecture notes — i’m talking about 5-hour energy shots and monster energy drinks, of course. don’t fret because those exams will real­ize that you are indeed the one that knocks. yeah, science. magnets, oh. 
“Game of thrones” 
how many hours have you been up straight? how many nights have you spent watching all those hour-long episodes of “Breaking Bad” and, maybe, occasionally looking at some old powerpoint slides from class? Those long nights in the library basement are getting colder and colder ... brace yourself, finals are coming. similarly to the different kingdoms of “game of Thrones,” it’s going to take meticulous planning, careful strategy and a bit of luck in order to make it through this dreadful week. 
“Grown ups” 
you’re physically, mentally and emotionally spent from the grind of the school year. you need a break. whether 
loose teas, an organic oatmeal bar, local eggs, muf­fins, baked sweet potato fries, homemade bread for sandwiches, nuts, salad, fruit and crock-pot soups, chilis and curries throughout the week. everything available is help-yourself with a suggested donation. 
The Birdsell does not have wi-Fi so make sure to download your powerpoints before heading over for a study session bereft of internet procrastination. 
snite museum 
The snite museum will be open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on study days. study amongst art (aka get smarter and more culturally refined at the same time) on the tables and chairs provided. There will be outlets and wi-Fi available, as well as free coffee and sweets. if you’re in pursuit of an outdoors study spot, checkout the courtyard. 
when the snite closes at 5 p.m. Thursday head over to the coleman-morse center for an hour-long reviving meditation. 
Outside 
Take advantage of the warm weather and pull the “s’college” move of studying on the quad. with highs ranging 60 to 75 degrees and the chance of it’s the countless hours you’ve spent staring at a computer screen (either dedicated to reviewing for your finals or to binge watching) or the vitamin-d deprivation you’re expe­riencing from being holed up in the library, the thought of summer is the only thing keeping you going. “grown ups” is exactly what you need: a nice, easy-to-watch summer film. also, it’s pretty much guaranteed that once you hear the phrase, “i want to get chocolate wasted,” you’ll treat yourself to a nice healthy portion of chocolate. after all, you’ve worked hard — you deserve it. 
“the Office” 

The light at the end of the tunnel … kind of. realistically, by the end of finals week you’re over everything. you’ve mailed it in and, just like all of our favorite employees at dunder mifflin, you’re waiting for the clock to strike so that you can clock out and go home. in the truest sense of procrastination, fire up your favorite episodes of “The office” and appreciate the masterful work (or lack thereof) of michael scott, waiting for his free pretzel on pretzel day; maybe plan out a few pranks in the spirit of Jim halpert, instead of actually, you know, doing work. summer’s just around the corner, it’s not a matter of if, but when. 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
rain below 20 percent each day, grab a blanket, ham­mock or just yourself (if you are feeling extra earthy-crunchy) and head outdoors. 
studying outside allows you to play your music out loud, giving your sore ears a break from those head­phones. it also is conducive to spontaneous exercise and sports. 
Grounds and Hounds 
This event is more of a study break than a study spot. head over to the Brownson hall courtyard between 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. Friday for free coffee and dogs. (okay, well not free dogs but you can go pet dogs and get free coffee.) 
hopefully these study spot suggestions inspire you to leave the confines of the library for a while. (i’m talking to you people already planning your takeover of The Fishbowl’s booths. please do us all a favor and leave the library to go to one of these more exciting venues — or at least shower and clean up your cheetos dust.) 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


This Thursday through sunday the sounds by south Bend music festival will be taking place at over 20 various local venues. Featuring over 45 acts, the festival boasts something for everyone. The scene staff picked the bands they will be listening to. 
miko malabute 

so i admittedly didn’t know anything about this year’s sXsB lineup, but i gave it a quick look-over and i was very pleasantly surprised — santiago x The natural, coming out of chicago, are going to be performing saturday night at river race Townhomes. “miko,” you begin, “who are santiago x The natural? have i heard of any of their work at all?” yes, yes you have. garnering attention from espn for their hit song “warriors,” which was the theme for the 2012-2013 season (i.e. our latest national championship run season), the very catchy song is just a small sample indicative of how great their work is. They even worked with Talib Kweli, and their other hit song “got a hold of me” was featured on espn unite and espn First Take. and, if you needed any more reason to show them some love, they’re a couple of notre dame grads. make sure to see them may 9 at 10:15 p.m. on the main stage at river race Townhomes. “warriors, ay ay ay, we’re the warriors … ” 
Recommended track: “Warriors” 
John darr 
This duo makes real pretty music with lovely vocal harmonies and pretty little guitar-driven ditties. The songwriting is highly melodic and easy-going, evoking easy days in the sun. it’s safe to say that scuttlebuggs is one of those bands that would blow up if they hit a lucky spark to set them off; their music is pretty, catchy and very well-produced on their debut record “after Brilliance.” 
on the other hand, scuttlebuggs also seem comfortable straying from the summer-daze feeling. “hot little minute” rushes along with a relentless guitar groove reminiscent of modest mouse, and “Tom everett scott” employs atmospheric wavering pedal guitar to evoke the alt-country of Beck’s “sea change.” if their record is any indication, scuttlebuggs boast the musicianship and tight songwriting to make for one hell of a concert. it’s defi­nitely enough of a reason to catch their set may 8 at The Birdsell mansion at 5:45 p.m. 
Recommended: “Combover,” “The Slaughter” 


Erin mcAuliffe 

i first saw Frances luke accord when they opened for darlingside at The pool back in november, and i was more than impressed. since that intimate, exciting performance they have played at The pool again, headlined carroll and Badin’s lakeside music fes­tival and have been touring the midwest. 
The notre dame alums have released two self-produced records so far: “Kandote,” their debut album recorded with the Barefoot Truth’s children’s choir of Kkindu, uganda, (it raised $6,500 to pay for the choir members’ primary schooling) and the “Queen for me” ep. They just reached their Kickstarter goal and are getting ready to release their first full-length album, with a special vinyl edition. catch them may 9 at 
3:15 p.m. at the commerce center Building showcase. 
Recommended tracks: “Over Your Roof,” “Nowhere to be Found” 
Caelin miltko 
i’ll admit that before we decided to do this feature, i knew little to nothing about the sounds by south Bend Festival, despite being invited to the event on Facebook. But, i sat down and looked through the list — and realized i knew none of the artists on there. as such, i tried listening to a couple, and while they were all very respectable, eric lee carpenter was by far my favorite. he reminds me of a mix between noah gunderson and Joel crouse, which makes me just a little bit happy. on his 2014 ep “a good place to start,” he starts it off quickly with two songs that just kind of make you want to dance. “we’re on Fire” is particularly catchy. Then it slows down with “life is Beautiful.” personally, i prefer him on his more up-tempo tunes, but i can see the appeal of slowing it down a bit. see his set on may 7 at The exchange whiskey Bar from 8:00 to 9:00 p.m. 
Recommended Track: “We’re on Fire” 


maddie daly 

as fellow notre dame undergrads, the members of this band are enthusiastic and have a great stage presence. i have seen them perform a few times — once at a house party and also at Finni’s and club Fever. The crowd is always singing and dancing along. Their shows are made up of mostly rock covers, but they have also been working on adding more original songs, so i’m sure they will have a few original tracks to play for their show at south Bend Brew werks on may 7 at 7 p.m. come out to support them, drink some craft beer and sing along to your favorite rock hits. 
Recommended tracks: “The Acid Song,” “I’m on Fire” 
Jimmy Kemper 
coming straight out of lead singer Julia steiner’s wild, once-in-a-lifetime four minute performance at #ndday, ratboys are one of the hottest folk/country/indie/alt-rock bands in the chicago area right now. Their latest release, “have a heart,” is straight fire, combin­ing all of those genres with great instrumentation, beautiful vocals and supreme lyrics. steiner and guitarist david sagan are also notre dame students — as if you didn’t already have enough reason to go check them out. ratboys will be playing at the main stage at hammes garage on may 8 at 9:30 p.m. 
Recommended tracks: “Tixis,” “Have a Heart” 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


By MIKO MALABUTE 
associate scene editor 

Before the culmination of the class of 2015’s notre dame undergraduate experi­ence, the culmination of Zachary wendeln’s thesis will come to fruition in the form of the interactive theatre experience “Field Below,” opening at The Birdsell mansion, Thursday night at 8 p.m. 
“Field Below,” based on wendeln’s cre­ative writing honors thesis, offers a glimpse into the lives of several members of a 1950s town in iowa. it explores themes of trauma, betrayal, sexuality and mental illness dur­ing that era, an era that wendeln explains today’s society mostly views through rose-colored glasses as the “golden age” in america. 
“‘Field Below’ narratively is a very loose adaptation of the myth of the rape of persephone from classical mythology,” wendeln explains. “in writing [my the­sis and the production], i explored two main source texts in which this myth ap­pears: ovid’s ‘metamorphoses’ and ‘The 
By ADAM RAMOS 
scene writer 

i’ve only seen passion pit live once. my lovely girlfriend got us tickets for passion pit’s “gossamer” tour back in 2012 at madison square garden in new york city. The day of the show, new york was hit with a nasty snowstorm, and after forging our way into the city we were greeted with an uncharacteristically silent new york. The snow had managed to stop almost all met­ropolitan activity and coated the streets with a white blanket. while aesthetically the city looked more beautiful than i have ever seen it, practically speaking, the snow was a travel nightmare. 
don’t fret; i am not trying to sound like a hardcore concertgoer. This long, con­voluted description of my escapade to see passion pit at msg serves a purpose. The whole night stood as a fitting metaphor for passion pit’s “gossamer.” The glittery pop songs, which fill “gossamer,” are fu­eled through utter anguish and emotional strife. where the album comes off as a fun, poppy joyride, it dubiously manifests itself as the inner demons of passion pit’s front homeric hymn to demeter.’ i then relo­cated the setting from its original classical one to a fictional 1950s town in iowa, ‘ashen meadows.’” 
This production offers a theatre experi­ence with an immersive twist. it’s far more involving than what audience members might ordinarily expect as they are allowed premium access into the lives of wendeln’s characters. audience members are flies on the wall; each member can pick and choose which character they choose to follow and where they travel as the narrative progress­es. The characters live out their narratives in various rooms throughout the mansion setting. 
“each night,” head of marketing amanda Bartolini said, “the narrative is performed [thrice], allowing audiences to piece togeth­er the story however they choose based on who they follow each loop. 
“i think i can speak for everyone involved when i say that we were all drawn to the show due to its unique style of performance, one that we have not worked with at all in our time at notre dame.” 
man, michael angelakos. again, while aesthetically beautiful, “gossamer” can also be taken as sad reflection on the hu­man psyche — similar to the snowy new york i experienced and its dual nature as both beautiful and destructive. 
however, with the release of passion pit’s new album, “Kindred,” this past week, the snowy new york no longer serves its metaphorical purpose. many of the inse­curities and self-loathing that saturated “gossamer” in songs like “Take and walk” and “i’ll Be aright,” are replaced with re­flective pieces emphasizing inner strength and love. instrumentally, “Kindred” re­flects these changing emotional senti­ments, as many songs introduce a stripped down passion pit that relies more on me­lodic, slow tempo harmonies than past albums. with only 10 songs, the concise al­bum is a powerful reflection on the growth of angelako’s mental strength. 
ranging between full-fledged pop bal­lads and low-key retrospective hymns, passion pit keeps an important level dy­namism throughout their discography. This has been true since their incep­tion, on “chunk of change” we heard 
The production style Bartolini spoke of offers an exciting take on theatre, diverging from the typical linear, tunnel vision-like plotline to allow for a more personal, inti­mate experience for each member in the audience according to how they choose to follow along. 
“structurally, ‘Field Below’ is a site-sym­pathetic and immersive play,” wendeln explains. “it’s site-sympathetic in that i’ve staged it in a non-traditional theatrical ven­ue [The Birdsell mansion] but rather than responding to the existing architecture or history of the space, i’ve imposed the world of the play onto the space. 
“immersive theatre simply means the au­dience is placed in the center of the action, free to roam the various rooms and floors of the space and follow [whomever] they choose.” 
Therein lies the most fascinating part of “Field Below” — the audience is not sim­ply the audience, but rather also crucial to the plot of the story they choose to fol­low. audience members will be free to roam the three floors and 15 rooms of the 
the infectious “sleepy head” along­side “cuddle Fuddle,” a lovely tune with an inventive hook. The same was true with “gossamer,” the contrast between the vi­ability of “Take a walk” as a commercial pop song and the resignation of “constant conversations” as a slow paced, melodic piece highlights passion pit’s complexity as an indie pop group. 
This duality continues on “Kindred.” on the pop end, “until we can’t (let’s go)” ex­hibits angelakos’s scary impressive falsetto over a chorus of heavy-hitting synth beats. on the other end of the scale, “dancing on the grave” brings a much slower (al­most boring) tune that echoes the line, “we can’t stay here.” however, “Kindred” brings with it a new middle ground, most notably on “where The sky hangs,” a tran­quil song with a simple bass hook and a fun, sing-along chorus. The expansion of passion pit’s sound is just another remind­er of their growth as artists. 
yet, while angelakos’s shift in focus on “Kindred” is certainly not intrinsi­cally bad for the group, it does elimi­nate some of the (no pun intended) passion. where angelakos inner distress mansion. They’ll wear masks as they are moving around freely, pursuing the action which they deem most interesting and most important. 
while the audience members are free to roam and follow the story they choose, the actors have a very tightly tracked and script­ed narrative track to follow. These tracks are “looped” three times over the course of the performance, so that audience members can follow up to three characters’ stories per night and truly digest what is going on in one character’s life in light of the others’ lives. Furthermore, this style of production truly emphasizes the cyclical nature of trauma, and offers a beautiful take on how connect­ed and interdependent the town members’ lives are with and upon each other. 
opening night for “Field Below” is Thursday night at 8 p.m. at The Birdsell mansion. Tickets are $12 general admission, $8 for students and $5 each for parties of 10 or more. 
Contact Miko Malabute at                  mmalabut@nd.edu 
permeated every song on “gossamer,” parts of “Kindred” are less memorable. it’s up in the air as to whether angelakos’s fire is diminishing or simply taking some time to reignite. 
“Kindred” may not be as holistically strong as its predecessor, but it certainly capitalizes on a few strong points. if you are new to passion pit, by all means give it a listen. For the veterans, don’t have tre­mendously high hopes, but i guarantee that you will find the gems. 
Contact Adam Ramos at                            aramos6@nd.edu 
“Kindred” 
Passion Pit 
Label: Columbia Records 
Tracks: “Where the Sky Hangs,” “All I Want” If you like: Matt and Kim, Miike Snow 


SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


By EMILIE KEFALAS 
scene writer 

in speaking of the creative process, there is the “usual way.” Then there is the disney way, in which limits are only fables and possibilities reach “to infini­ty and beyond.” The disney theme park is guided by its creator’s foundation of imagination and innovation which established a universally recognized mantra, “if you can dream it, you can do it.” since the world first beheld walt disney’s biggest dream, disneyland, on a hot, sticky california morning in 1955, the awe and potential of walt’s world has touched nearly every corner of planet earth, from swampy Florida to bustling Tokyo. 
if you have ever been blessed to visit and play in one of the happiest places on earth during a period of construc­tion, one of the omnipresent quotes displayed on walled-up sections within the parks echoes walt’s love of progress: “we keep moving forward, opening new doors and doing new things, because we’re curious, and curiosity keeps leading us down new paths.” a handful of guests gripe about the blockaded areas of, say, main street in magic Kingdom, but what they miss entirely is the brewing excitement of new and improved magic. 
The history of renovation and chang­es at disneyland and the walt disney resort in particular reveal waves of experimentation in dated attractions and entertainment/hospitality ele­ments. Beloved classics which walt supervised himself such as “pirates of the caribbean,” “The Jungle cruise” and “it’s a small world” will most likely not be retired and renovated into com­pletely different attractions. however, because they are among the most iconic and oldest of the experiences at both theme parks, they demand spe­cial attention and annual refurbish­ment to keep up with their popularity. currently at walt disney world resort in orlando, Florida, “pirates” is prepar­ing for a serious several-month-long renovation, not for those mischie­vous swashbucklers, but for the boats and the ride track which navigate guests through their adventures in the spanish main. 
it is an intriguing time to examine the future projects and undertakings of walt disney world resort. The walt disney company’s umbrella now cov­ers nearly every form of entertainment and franchise in modern-day popular culture, which means the expectations for future guests’ experiences are im­mense. what needs improvement and renovation must correspond with what the public wants when they participate in what walt disney world has to offer. as one with hopes of becoming a walt disney imagineer, i have researched and composed a lineup of upcoming magic and pixie dust at wdw. 
disney’s Hollywood studios 
what began as an idea to rival the opening of universal’s movie-based theme park has become an ode to show business in its heyday and, as former ceo michael eisner said in his dedica­tion speech, “a hollywood that never was — and always will be.” hollywood studios opened its doors to the pub­lic as disney-mgm studios in 1989, a name that lasted nearly 20 years be­fore being changed for marketing pur­poses. now that the disney name has branded itself to entertainment giants marvel and lucasfilm, there rests the looming rumor of brand-new themed lands within the park. The “star wars” franchise is on the cusp of exploding to unprecedented popularity with a new, much anticipated installment set for release this winter. hollywood studios has already pulled off a major refurbish­ment with “star Tours,” a thrilling 3-d, simulator journey through the world of “star wars,” featuring the charac­ters from the original installations and recent prequels. The next step would likely be a “star wars”-themed land, which would mean the end of streets of america, “lights, motors, action” (al-
the fourth be with you. 
disney’s Animal Kingdom 
By the time i graduate college in 2017, disney’s animal Kingdom will unveil “pandora: The land of avatar,” a themed-land intended to boost the roster of disney’s youngest park. with the creative assistance of producers James cameron and Jon landau, the area will be an immersive world based upon the fictional exoplanetary moon of pandora. according to press releas­es, it will include pandora’s floating mountains and bioluminescent plants. mainly referred to as “avatar land,” the area is expected to span several acres and feature multiple rides, attractions, entertainment, audio-animatronics and 3-d holograms as well as retail, food and beverage outlets. “avatar land” will include elements from the original avatar film as well as its three, yet-to-be-released sequels. 
also in the works is animal Kingdom’s first ever night show, “rivers of light.” it has been described as an innovative show with live music, floating lanterns, water screens and swirling animal imagery similar to disney california adventure’s “world of color.” The show will come to life on the stage of the discovery river between discovery island and expedition everest. 
downtown disney 
guests need not pay admission to enter what has been called “disney for adults,” but they will soon have to fork disney is currently undergoing a name change to the less flashy “disney springs.” This marks a rebranding of the shopping and dining district as a unique destination that will treat guests to significantly more shopping, din­ing and entertainment amid open-air promenades with “meandering springs and waterfront charm.” 
EPCOt 
This is the park walt wanted “the Florida project” to be known for. his experimental prototype community of Tomorrow projects his legacy of progress and innovation from Future world to world showcase. of wdw’s four theme parks, epcoT is the one many would prefer to see updated, as its ideals of “future” seem to be frozen in the 1980s. speaking of frozen, the movie “Frozen” has once again come to conquer the world, and by world i mean world showcase, aka the norway pavilion. a “Frozen” attraction is set to open in place of the pavilion’s past ride, “maelstrom.” according to press releases, princess anna and Queen elsa will take guests on a new journey to arendelle through an immersive guest experience including many popu­lar moments and songs from the film. a royal greeting location where guests can meet anna and elsa is also in the works. let it go? not as long as little princesses want olaf dolls. at least they’re learning about another country’s culture, right? 


sPOrts AutHOrity 

nFl should fear expansion to la 
Marek Mazurek 
sports writer 
after the national Football league owners met in march, one thing is abundantly clear: there will be an nFl franchise in los angeles and soon. 
while it has been no se­cret the nFl wants a team in america’s second largest city, it is shocking that goal may be realized as early as the 2016 season with the saint louis rams, the san diego chargers and the oakland raiders all vying for a spot in the supposed golden market. 
notice how i said “sup­posed?” That’s because in their rush to tap into what looks like a great market, the nFl and the three fran­chised mentioned above have overlooked the fact that los angeles is in fact, not a great market for an nFl team. 
what is seductive about los angeles is its size. it is america’s second largest city with more than 16 mil­lion people and more people equals more fans, right? not necessarily. 
according to Forbes, the 10 best fan bases (based on sta­dium attendance, television ratings, social media reach and merchandise purchas­es) are dallas, green Bay, pittsburgh, new england, indianapolis, new orleans, denver, chicago, Baltimore and philadelphia. Based on this list, the most important thing a successful nFl city needs is a blue-collar popu­lation that is not hispanic. hispanics generally prefer soccer to other american sports, and thus, a city with a large hispanic population will be less likely to care about an nFl team, and this is bad news for los angeles. 
of the cities Forbes listed as the best fan bases, the average hispanic popula­tion is 15 percent of the total population according to u.s. census data. los angeles’ hispanic population is 48 percent of its total popula­tion, 33 points above the average for the top-10 suc­cessful cities. 
if you are looking for a counter-argument (which i invite you to do), you may cite the fact there are some successful outliers among the list from Forbes. dallas has a 42 percent hispanic population and chicago is 30 percent hispanic. if the most successful fan base in america is 42 percent his-panic, surely los angeles can succeed too right? 
unfortunately for los angeles, dallas and chicago have other advantages offset­ting their large hispanic pop­ulations. dallas lies in the heart of Texas, a state famous for its football culture and chicago, a city ensconced in football tradition, has a had a team since 1920. 
los angeles has neither the football culture nor tradition of chicago or dallas, and its largely hispanic blue-collar population will not be able to support an nFl franchise. 
one may also observe that the Forbes list includes many successful teams, and in that case, does a successful fan base merely reflect a good team? it is true most of the teams on the list are suc­cessful year in and year out and, yes, fans are more likely to buy tickets and merchan­dise if the team is good, but what does that mean for los angeles? 
again unfortunately, not much. of the three teams fighting for los angeles (the rams, chargers and raiders), none of them are particularly likely to be good in the fore­seeable future. The rams will start a streaky nick Foles at quarterback, philip rivers is nearing the end of his career at quarterback in san diego, and the raiders are just plain bad. 
any way you slice it, the future looks bleak for an nFl franchise is los angeles. as a city with a large hispanic population, the team that lands a spot in los angeles will have to work hard to generate interest to an eth­nic group not traditionally concerned with traditional american sports. 
This will take more than the nFl’s current token “hispanic heritage month,” and it is a process that will not be accomplished in just a few years. in order to suc­ceed, the owners of the new los angeles team need to make a real and concrete commitment to growing their fan base among hispanics. 
The los angeles market has already swallowed up one nFl team (the rams). whether or not the rams can learn from the organization’s past mistakes or whether oakland or san diego will fare any better remains to be seen. The only certainties are the challenges ahead for whatever organization finally settles in los angeles. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

smC sOftBAll | Trine 5, smc 2; Trine 9, smc 0 
Belles clinch spot in MIAA tournament despite losses 

By DOMINIC BUSH 
sports writer 
saint mary’s clinched a post­season birth despite being swept in the final series of the season by Trine, falling in a sunday dou­bleheader 5-2 and 9-0. 
The miaa is comprised of nine schools but only the top four qualify for the conference tournament. saint mary’s (22­12, 9-7 miaa) edged out adrian for the final spot by one game in the conference standings. 
The 22 victories are the most for the Belles in a season since 2012 — their last confer­ence tournament appearance. however, the team will look to improve on their 2012 tourna­ment performance, going 0-2 in double elimination. 
head coach Kelli Zache said the season has been a major suc­cess for team and acknowledged the significance of the tourna­ment birth as a potential point of growth for the program. 
“it means there’s a lot of prom­ise in the future,” Zache said. “we are overall a very young team with nine freshmen.” 
april showers resulted in the cancellation of nonconfer­ence series against aurora and dominican, and the bad weath­er also forced saturday’s finale against regular season champi­on Trine (33-2, 15-1) to be played sunday. 

FOR SALE 
Full size mattress, box spring and frame. desk, desk chair, dresser. Desk lamp, 
By the weekend, the Belles had already clinched the no. 4 seed with adrian’s loss to hope on Friday. 
with their tournament spot guaranteed, saint mary’s trav­eled to the defending miaa champs for an afternoon doubleheader. 
Trine — who went a perfect 16-0 in conference play last year 
— fell behind early in game one thanks to some of the Belles big­gest bats. 
Belles junior catcher Jillian Busfield initiated the scoring with a one-out rBi single in the first. Freshman right field­er and team home-run leader makenzie duncan added an rBi of her own via a double to center later in the inning. 
Belles freshman pitcher morgan raymer did her best to keep the Thunder bats quiet but mistakes in the third and fifth innings resulted in two home runs for the home team. in all, Trine tagged raymer for five earned runs and nine hits over 5 2/3 innings of work. 
The Belles failed to score again after the first frame. The loss dropped raymer to 5-5 on the season. 
“we didn’t get enough people on base when we needed to. you have to score to win ball games,” Zache said. 
in game two the Thunder did not wait as long to jump on saint mary’s pitching. 
The barrage began with an rBi single from the two hitter and left fielder Kaitlin clark. Belles’ starter freshman emily najacht gave up two more runs before being replaced in the first by junior sarah Burke. Burke surrendered three hits and three earned runs in 2 1/3 innings of relief. her replacement — fresh­man Jessica alberts — finished the game giving up three earned runs on five hits. 
Trine starter Bree Fuller held the Belles scoreless to the tune of a five hit, five-inning shutout. The loss marked the first time the Belles were mercy-ruled since march 26, but Zache said she remained optimistic about her team’s rematch with Trine in the first round of the miaa championship. 
“we were right in the first game,” Zache said. “if we play solid like that we have a fair shot at beating Trine.” 
Zache said the tournament strategy for her team is simple: 
“in order to make it out of tour­nament play, we have to win ev­ery inning, every game.” 
Tournament play begins Thursday as the Belles travel back to angola, indiana, for the rematch with the Thunder. First pitch is scheduled for 1 p.m. 
Contact Dominic Bush at dbush@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
storage bins. $350 for all, negotiable. Chris 914-419-718 
You are my fire. My one desire. Believe when I say, I want it that way. But we are two worlds apart. Can’t reach to your heart. When you say that I want it that way. Tell me why. Ain’t nothin but a heartache. Tell me why. Ain’t nothin but a mistake. Tell me why. I never wanna hear you say. I want it that way. 

ndsmcoBserver.com | tuEsdAy, APril 28, 2015 | The oBserver 
smC lACrOssE | smc 8, dallas 6 
Belles conclude season with 8-6 win over Dallas 
Observer Staff Report 
in the final game of their 2015 season, saint mary’s was able to end on a high-note sunday afternoon after defeating nonconference foe dallas, 8-6. 
Belles freshman attack abby Krauss led off the scor­ing six minutes into the game after capitalizing on a pass from senior attack colleen conway, who was playing her last game for the Belles (7-10, 2-6 miaa). it was the first assist of conway’s career. 
saint mary’s added to its lead when sophomore at­tack emilie vanneste scored to make it 2-0 with nearly 20 minutes remaining in the first half. The crusaders (5­
7) quickly struck back how­ever, scoring on their very next possession. 
Following the score by the 
CluB sPOrts 
crusaders, the Belles were able to capitalize on good passing by their offense, and goals from sophomore attack clare Theisen, junior attack maria roberts and vanneste extended saint mary’s lead to 5-1. 
with around five minutes left in the first half, dallas found the back of the net to stop saint mary’s scor­ing run and draw within three. good defensive play from both sides continued for the next several minutes, but as time wound down in the first half, Belles fresh­man midfielder mary grace heller connected on a shot to make the score 6-2 as the game headed to halftime. 
much like the first half, the Belles broke open the scor­ing in the second half when Theisen netted her second goal of the game. 
The crusaders, down 7-2 at this point, made the game interesting with a 4-1 scor­ing run of their own to make the score 8-6 with just over five and a half minutes to go. sophomore goalkeeper shannon weyer was able to come up with several big saves in the final minutes for saint mary’s, and the Belles survived going down a player after being issued a yellow card with 1:45 left in the game to hold on for the 8-6 win. 


as a team, the Belles out-shot the crusaders, 30-21, and held the edge in ground balls recovered at 41-32. 
vanneste registered a hat trick and Theisen was right behind her with two goals of her own. 
with their win against dallas, the Belles finish up their season with a record of 7-10 overall while going 2-6 in miaa play. 

Cycling finishes season, Ultimate ends undefeated 
Special to The Observer 
Cycling 
notre dame cycling club team hosted the other midwest cycling conference teams over the week­end in the final action of the reg­ular season. Team time trials and road races took place saturday in niles, michigan, while the short-course criterium race was held sunday around eddy street commons. 
The irish finished second over­all for the season, behind only defending national champion marian. 
on a rainy and cold saturday, both the women’s B and men’s d squads took home titles in the team trials, while the men’s a team finished in third, only a second behind second-place lindonwood. 
graduate student John cerney won the afternoon road race in the d category, sprinting to the line ahead of a pack of riders that included his teammate, gradu­ate student david mcKenna, who crossed the finish line in fourth. 
sophomore sarah cullen fin­ished second in the women’s B race, falling just short of the vic­tory while teammates freshman Kelly valenzi (fourth), junior maggie schmid (ninth) and saint mary’s sophomore emma-Kate conlin (13th) rounded out the top-15 riders the notre dame team. 
sophomore James pratt (flat tire) and graduate student Tom Frederick (crash) struggled in the men’s B race, but seniors Jim snitzer (seventh) and John pratt (10th) and graduate student luke Tilmans (13th) all worked their way to top-15 finishes in the men’s a race. 
cerney lead the men’s d race for most of the event, holding off a charge from a few riders late to claim the victory sunday in the short-course event. valenzi also claimed victory in the women’s B race after being placed in strong position by her teammates. graduate student lillie romeiser (fourth), cullen (fifth), schmid (seventh) and conlin (11th) also earned strong finishes in the race. 
John pratt also sprinted to a third-place finish in the men’s a race. pratt and snitzer will rep­resent the club in ashville, north carolina, at collegiate nationals may 8-10. 
ultimate 
The no. 10 notre dame wom­en’s ultimate team defeated ri­val michigan in the regional tournament final last weekend in rockford, illinois. The victory earned the undefeated irish a spot at the college national tour­nament in milwaukee, which will take place over memorial day weekend. 
notre dame reached the re­gional tournament on the heels of allowing only four points in four games of pool play during the conference tournament. The irish met purdue in the confer­ence finals, emerging with a 12-9 victory to claim the top spot in the regional tournament the next weekend. 
notre dame defeated 2013 na­tional qualifier northwestern (13­3), michigan B (13-2) and purdue again (13-4) in pool play. The irish advanced to the finals with victories over indiana (15-4) and illinois (15-5) in the quarterfinals and semifinals, respectively. 
awaiting the irish in the finals were the rival wolverines, last year’s national qualifier. after trading points early, notre dame pulled away to an 8-5 halftime lead and extended the lead to as much as 12-7 before michigan eventually rattled off four straight to pull within one at 12-11. notre dame slipped in a final point to ice the game as time expired to reach the final margin, 13-11. 





smC tENNis 

Belles ready to begin postseason against Hope 
By DAISY COSTELLO 
sports writer 
saint mary’s begins post­season play this Thursday after snagging the fourth spot in the final conference standings. saint mary’s will begin the miaa tournament against top-seeded hope. 
The Flying dutch (18-4, 8-0 miaa), the regular season miaa champion, defeated the Belles (11-9, 5-3 miaa) earlier in the season by a score of 9-0. saint mary’s three conference losses all came against the other teams in the miaa tourna­ment, including a loss to second-seeded Kalamazoo to end the season. 

nearly two months later, the Belles are a different team than they were in their first conference match of the season against hope, Belles head coach dale campbell said. even after a tough lost to Kalamazoo last week, campbell said his team has come a long way throughout the course of the season and has all the tools to orches-Thursday match will be a trate an upset of the no. 1 battle of short rallies and seed. long, drawn out points. 
“we are more aggressive “we have to slow them and have gained a lot of [hope] down before we beat experience with our part-can beat them, it’s not sim­nerships,” campbell said. ple,” campbell said, “we “Teams are talking better have to play long points and and pick each other up when test them physically a bit.” needed.” The Belles’ and Flying 
campbell said their dutch’s lineup match up well in comparison to each other. The Belles have just one more freshman than the Flying dutch, but campbell said for the most part the Belles will be relaxed in terms of player-to-player matchups. however, he said there are key matches that, with wins, the Belles can use to swing momentum in their favor down the stretch. doubles for the Belles put up the toughest fight against Kalamazoo, so the pairings will again play a key role in gaining early momentum. 


“we need to win at least one of the doubles matches, maybe two,” campbell said. 
hope will be a test of en­durance considering their proficiency in all aspects of the game as the Flying dutch did not suffer a single conference loss on the sea­son, campbell said. in order to pull off the upset though, he stressed the importance of notching singles wins as well. 
“we [also] need to get ahead early in some of our singles matches and show that we can fight them out, and then others can draw on that momentum,” campbell said. 
The Belles look to punch their ticket to the miaa championship match Thursday in their semifi­nal matchup against hope. play is slated to kick off in holland, michigan, at 4 p.m. 
Contact Daisy Costello at mcostel4@nd.edu 
Nd W Golf 
conTinued From page 20 

Big east women’s golfer of the year during her one season with notre dame. her 72.86 scoring aver­age this year leads the wildcats coming into the tournament. 
campbell leads the irish in scoring, averaging 73.41 strokes per round this year. armstrong (73.93), sophomore Jordan Ferreira (74.67), senior Kelli oride 
(76.07) and Bellville (77.33) round out notre dame’s tournament squad. 
The current forecast calls for more rain during the regional, and by now the irish are as prepared as any team in the field for it, having played many rounds in damp conditions. 
warren golf course will be the site of an ncaa re­gional for the second time in its history, the first be­ing the central regional in 2011. notre dame earned its first-ever trip to the ncaa championship after finishing fifth in the re­gional round that year. 
The tournament will consist of 54 holes of play over three days. a practice round will be played may 6 while tournament action will commence may 7. The top six teams and top three individuals not on qualify­ing teams will advance to the ncaa championships in Bradenton, Florida, on may 22-27 at concession golf club. 





ndsmcoBserver.com | tuEsdAy, APril 28, 2015 | The oBserver 



paid adverTisemenT 


mEN’s GOlf | acc TournamenT 
irish wind up 11th at acc tourney 
Observer Staff Report 
The irish took to the links one final time this season, finishing in 11th place at the atlantic coast conference tournament at old north state club in new london, north carolina. 
Because they compete in the acc, notre dame was forced to compete against some of the toughest competition in the nation. The conference boasts ten teams in the top 50 of the golfstat rankings and five in the top 30, includ­ing no. 1 Florida state, no. 11 georgia Tech, no. 19 north carolina, no. 23 wake Forest and no. 28 virginia, while the irish check in at no. 154 in the national rankings. 
georgia Tech ultimately prevailed over the field to capture its second confer­ence title in as many seasons. The yellow Jackets won the team championship after a two-hole playoff against no. 37 clemson. Both the yellow Jackets (284-279-282) and the Tigers (281-283-281) carded teams scores of 845 to tie for first place, edging out the top-ranked seminoles, 846, by a single stroke (282-282-282). 
meanwhile the irish com­peted about as well as ex­pected in what head coach Jim Kubinski has repeatedly called a transitional season, with a team led largely by underclassmen. 
sophomore Blake Barens paced the irish over the weekend, finishing in a tie for 43rd place with a score of 11-over-par 227 (77-76-74). sophomore matthew rushton and junior cory sciupider came in immediately be­hind Barens with scores of 12-over-par 228, good enough to tie for 46th place. 
other members of this irish squad who played over the weekend included senior Tyler wingo and freshman Thomas steve. wingo fin­ished tied for 52nd place with a final score of 14-over-par 230 (76-78-76), while steve came in at 58th place with a 20-over-par 236 (79-81-76). 
ultimately the irish com­piled a team score of 911 (303­305-303) to finish 47-over-par, edging only Boston college, who ended the tournament with a 913 (303-311-299). 
with the acc tournament now in the rear view mir­ror and no invitation to the ncaa tournament at the concession golf club in Bradenton, Florida, notre dame will have to turn its fo­cus to the fall and the season ahead of them next year. 
Because of the nature of this year’s transitional team, the irish will have a lot to build on and the pieces with which to do it. other than wingo and seniors patrick grahek and david lowe, next year’s team will be composed much of the same key young players who now have exten­sive experience under their belts. 


WEI LIN | The Observer 

Irish sophomore Liam Cox swings at Warren Golf Course during the Notre Dame Challenge on Aug. 31. Cox finished in 16th place. 


Baseball 
conTinued From page 20 
michigan state won two of three games against an indiana team that defeated the irish, 6-5, on april 21. 
michigan state has also experienced success against notre dame recently, as the spartans have won nine of the last 10 games between the teams. The irish, however, emerged with a 7-3 victory in the last meeting, which oc­curred in april 2013. 
“michigan state is always good, well-coached, they’ve got some athletic kids,” aoki said. “They seem to also have pretty good karma going against notre dame over the years, so we’ll just have to go out there and do a good job competing.” 
notre dame will send sophomore right-hander ryan smoyer to the mound against a spartans lineup that ranks third in the Big Ten with a team average of .286. 
michigan state has four play­ers — junior outfielder cam gibson, senior first baseman ryan Krill, redshirt senior in­fielder mark weist and senior outfielder anthony cheky 
— with batting averages cur­rently above .300. 
smoyer, meanwhile, has a 6-0 record and 2.14 era in 12 appearances, seven of them starts. smoyer can succeed against the spartans lineup if he pitches to his strengths, aoki said. 
“For ryan to be successful, he’s got to do a good job com­manding his fastball and be able to use one of his off-speed pitches to kind of get them off the fastball a little bit,” aoki said. “we sort of rely on pitch­ing and defense and counting on balls being put into play in the manner in which we want them to be put into play.” 
notre dame and michigan state find themselves closely ranked in terms of their rpis. michigan state has the no. 31 rpi nationally, up from no. 37 last week, while the irish possess the no. 38 rpi in the nation, down from no. 33 last week. The irish have only lost two midweek games all sea­son, falling at home to Toledo on april 15 in addition to their defeat against the hoosiers in indianapolis one week ago. 

despite michigan state’s ranking, the irish will ap­proach the game in the same manner they would for any other midweek opponent, ac­cording to aoki. 
“Baseball’s one of those sports where you never know,” he said. “it doesn’t matter whether you’re play­ing chicago state or a mid­american [conference] school or this kind of school or an acc school. so much is dependent on what you get out of your pitching and then timely hitting.” 
notre dame and michigan state are scheduled for the first pitch to be thrown at 7:05 
p.m. at Frank eck stadium. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 

Nd softball 
conTinued From page 20 

the irish swept in a three-game road series earlier this april. however, that could change based upon games this upcoming weekend, as the fifth and seventh-placed teams, north carolina state (13-8 acc) and virginia Tech (8-12 acc), respectively, and pittsburgh all play in three-game series against acc opponents. 
despite Tuesday afternoon’s contest having no implication on notre dame’s acc post­season positioning, gumpf said her team will approach the game like any other. 
“we’re going to treat the michigan state game like it’s the most important game of the year,” gumpf said. 
although the spartans have struggled this season, losing 15 of their last 16 contests, gumpf said michigan state will present a challenge to the irish offense. 
“Their pitching is solid, so we’ll have to find a way to scratch across some runs against them,” gumpf said. 
notre  dame will face off  
against  michigan  state  at  
secchia  stadium  in  east  

lansing, michigan, with first pitch scheduled for 4 p.m. 
Contact Ben Horvath at bhorvat1@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT ndsmcoBserver.com | tuEsdAy, APril 28, 2015 | The oBserver 



CrOssWOrd | will shorTZ 


HiGHly PuNliKEly | chrisTopher BrucKer 
sudOKu | The mepham group 

dOmE Nuts | aleXandria wellman 

HOrOsCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: Keep your life simple, focused and on track. you will be taken for granted if you are too willing to help others achieve before you master your own goals. deal with emotional situations before they have a chance to escalate. it will be your promptness and your strong sense of justice that will prevail. learn as you go. your numbers are 6, 13, 19, 22, 27, 31, 46. 
Birthday Baby: you are observant, charming and persuasive. you are brave and outspoken. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): aim to impress. love is on the rise and romance in the stars. no matter what your focus is, do your best. an older relative will appreciate your concern. neglect will play a role in the way a situation unfolds. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): stick to a set formula or conservative strategy when it comes to budgeting and making your nest egg grow. don’t feel pressured by what others do or say. Think for yourself, do your own thing and you will avoid a loss. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Focus on home, family and self-pampering. do whatever it takes to keep things running smoothly. a problem when dealing with institutions will crop up. put off any legal, financial or medical matters for now. love is in the stars. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): accept whatever changes are going on around you and keep moving in the direction that seems the most appropriate. it’s best not to make a fuss or promise too much. Just do what’s expected of you and avoid emotional conflict. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): overreacting will not help you avoid disputes at work or at home. make whatever changes are necessary and do your best to take care of your responsibilities to avoid complaints or criticism. discipline and hard work will be your best response.  


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): live and learn. ask questions and respond with confidence. Taking part in community events or traveling for business will be emotionally draining, but will give you plenty to think about. progressive action will pay off. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): expect the unexpected. learn to go with the flow and you’ll keep the peace as well. don’t get involved in a joint venture or put cash into something that is aimed to help someone else instead of helping you. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Taking an introspective look at your life and the way you’ve been living will help you make some necessary adjustments that will lead to a more creative and interesting future. don’t worry about what others do -- follow your heart. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): look around you and make personal changes that will bring you added confidence, greater satisfaction and improve your love life. real estate investments or fixing up your residence will help your assets grow. romance is highlighted. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): concentrate on the changes you can make at home that will better your life. a last-minute change someone makes must not alter your plans or leave you feeling confused. use your imagination and your skills to improve your surroundings. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you’ll be offered help, but before you accept, find out what it will cost financially, emotionally or physically. you may be best to go it alone or negotiate your position and what you are willing to give in order to receive. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): expect to face a roadblock. challenge anyone who gets in your way or criticizes you. Be willing to let someone walk away if it is in your best interest. Try to surround yourself with positive, upbeat and helpful people. 


JumBlE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. Box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 
form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

Nd sOftBAll 

Notre Dame hits the road before ACCs 

By BEN HORVATH 
sports writer 
notre dame will wrap up its regular season with a trip to east lansing, michigan, to square off against michigan state in a one-game series Tuesday afternoon. 
The contest will mark the first time notre dame (39-12, 17-6 acc) has played a road game since april 12, as the irish are coming off a nine-game home stand. 
despite not playing a road contest for over two weeks, irish head coach deanna gumpf said she expects her team to perform well based on the high number of road and neutral-site games the squad played during the first half of the season. 
“i think we play very well on the road typically,” she said. “we played the first two months on the road, so it’s nothing new to us.” 
The irish began the year with 26 straight road and neutral site games. Their first home matchup did not come until march 18. 
Tuesday’s game against michigan state (17-33 overall, 2-19 Big Ten) will mark the 29th nonconference game the irish have played this year. notre dame is 22-6 against opponents outside the acc, and gumpf said she believes her team is prepared for a nonconference test prior to entering the acc conference tournament. 
“i’m glad we have michigan state before we jump into post­season tournament,” gumpf said. 
with its victory in the second game of sunday’s doubleheader against north carolina, the irish clinched the three seed in the acc conference tourna­ment, which is slated to begin next Thursday in Blacksburg, virginia. as the third seed in the eight-team tournament, the irish will square off against the sixth seed. 
currently, that slot belongs to pittsburgh (10-11 acc), whom 
see nd soFTBall PAGE 18 
Nd WOmEN’s GOlf 

irish set to host regional at warren 
Observer Staff Report 
after a sixth-place showing at the acc championships, notre dame earned the eight seed in the ncaa tourna­ment’s south Bend regional to be hosted at warren golf course on may 7-9. 
The bid marks notre dame’s 10th overall trip to the ncaa regionals and also extends the program’s streak of consecutive appearances to eight years. 
The irish finished in the top-10 of every tournament this season and finished sixth at the acc championships with a 12-over-par score of 
876. it rained the entire week­end, and conditions were less than ideal, but notre dame improved from its struggles at the Bryan national and managed the weather. Junior Talia campbell again led the way for the irish with an 11th place finish and score of 215 (71-72-72), and she was followed by freshman Kari Bellville and senior ashley armstrong, who both shot 220 and tied for 26th. 
in order to advance to the ncaa championships in Bradenton, Florida, on may 22-27, the irish must secure a top-six finish in the regional. They are seed­ed eighth out of 18 teams, and their regional includes four other conference foes: second seed and defending national champion duke, fourth-seeded wake Forest, 11th-seeded louisville, and north carolina, which earned the 13th seed. other teams in the regional include oklahoma state, university of california-davis, pepperdine, Tulane, purdue, Kent state and san Jose state, all ranked in the top 50 na­tionally. Kentucky, harvard, Troy, eastern Kentucky and youngstown state — making its first ncaa regional ap­pearance after winning the horizon league champion­ship — also join the 18-team field. 
Topping the regional is arizona, the pac-12 champi­on led by notre dame trans­fer lindsey weaver. weaver played her freshman season with the irish, sharing med­alist honors in the Big east tournament with campbell. weaver was also selected as 
see nd w golF PAGE 16 

BAsEBAll 
ND aims to bounce back, hosts streaking Spartans 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
senior sports writer 
after losing its first week­end series in nearly a month, notre dame will look to re­bound against michigan state at Frank eck stadium on Tuesday night. 
The irish (28-15, 12-12 acc) dropped two of their three games to wake Forest on the weekend, losing 5-4 in 11 innings sunday. prior to the weekend, the irish had not lost a conference series since being swept by virginia on march 28-29. 
irish head coach mik aoki said the team has done a good job of putting the week­end’s results behind itself. 
“i think by the time we were rolling back into town, the guys were fine, just looking forward to the up­coming week and looking forward to a good challenge with michigan state [on Tuesday],” he said. 
The spartans (25-17, 9-6 Big Ten) will enter the non-conference matchup hav­ing won nine of their last 11 games. over the weekend, 
see BaseBall PAGE 18 





