The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 19 | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
NOTRE DAME FORUM 
Columnist examines religious liberty 
2015-2016 Notre Dame Forum event considers implications of Vatican II on American Catholicism 
the evolution of the church’s atti-example of the positive relation-look to america and could find still have resonated as catholics 
By CATHERINE OWERS 

associate news editor tude toward religious liberty. ship the church could enjoy with what looked like very solid proof of tried to grapple with twentieth “[it] formally established the the government. concept. century realities, politically, theol­ross douthat, author and new roman catholic church’s sup-“anyone looking for evidence ogy can only be so abstract. it ulti-

york Times columnist, spoke on port for religious liberty and de-50 years ago that the church had mately needs a reference point in 
actual existing politics. … having 
the american example made an 
immense difference in the de­
bates, its outcomes, and the docu­
ment and teaching itself.” 

douthat said in contemporary 
times, the american catholic the evolution of religious liberty in veloped the church’s teaching to nothing to fear from dropping 
america since the second vatican the point where it was no longer its call for a preferential position 
council on wednesday afternoon deemed necessary for catholics to for catholicism could look to the 
in decio Theatre of the debartolo argue for a preferential, state-es­united states, could look to notre 
performing arts center. The event tablished position for the catholic dame, and be immediately reas­
was part of the 2015-2016 notre church in countries around the sured that the church could flour-
dame Forum, which is titled world,” he said. ish absent such patronage,” he 
“Faith, Freedom and the modern world: 50 years after vatican ii.” 
douthat said he looked to the second vatican council’s dec­laration on religious freedom, “dignitatis humanae,” to track 
although the document was written in rome, douthat said, the “crucial transformative voices” that crafted “dignitatis humanae” were american. Furthermore, american catholicism gave an said. “and anyone looking for evi­dence that one form of liberalism, liberal democracy at least, could be trusted to protect the church’s freedoms, rather than perpetually going against it … could likewise 
“so while a document like ‘dignitatis humanae’ had still been imaginable without the american example, and the argu­ments that undergirded it might consensus that the church can flourish in the liberal democratic experiment is fracturing. 
“one crack is showing up a little 
see columnisT PAGE 4 



Show confronts sexual assault 
notre dame offers digital marketing program 

By ANDREA VALE 
news writer 

chicago-based catharsis productions came to campus and performed “are you getting the signal?” on wednesday night in debartolo hall, com­bining scripted and improvised scenes with audience partici­pation. The show used humor to provoke discussion about common misconceptions and misunderstandings surround­ing sexual assault. 
“catharsis productions was founded in 2000 when christian murphy and gail stern met at a one-act play festi­val and discovered they shared a passion for comedy, social justice and advocacy,” maura Kinney, marketing and com­munications coordinator for catharsis productions, said in an email. “our mission state­ment: To change the world by producing innovative, acces­sible and research-supported programming that challenges oppressive attitudes and shifts behavior.” 
according to regina gesicki, assistant director 
see improv PAGE 5 

By SAM FENTRESS 
news writer 
it was a friendship des­tined for success. 
paul slaggert and peter methot met several years ago at a conference for unicon, a global consor­tium for people working in executive education. now slaggert, director of non-de­gree programs in executive education for the mendoza college of business, and methot, managing direc­tor of executive education at rutgers business school, have something to show for their friendship: a week-long digital marketing certificate program co-sponsored by the two schools, which will take place on notre dame’s chicago campus from sept. 28 to oct. 2. 
methot said the goal of the program, which will con­vene in a university-owned building on michigan ave., is to equip marketing pro­fessionals with the tools to engage new audiences in the digital sphere, particularly through outlets like social media, search engines and mobile devices. 
see marKeTing PAGE 5 


Lecture explores mission of Holy Cross education 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 
in a lecture at saint mary’s wednesday, brother Joel giallanza spoke on embracing and continuing the mission of a holy cross education, and how saint mary’s helps to do just that. 
The lecture focused on the mission of holy cross education and how it should be applied to modern schools. giallanza, the associate director of the holy cross institute at st. edward’s university, said the purpose of a holy cross education is to help prepare students for the world after school and the supply them with the necessary tools to be ac­tive and ethical citizens. 
giallanza said it is important to consider how the current educa­tion system will affect the future. 
“For the college to offer what it says it offers, what do we as fac­ulty, as staff, need to be,” he said. “what kind of persons do we needs to be? because it will not happen by itself — otherwise we’d be running a factory.” 
giallanza explained the history of holy cross education, starting in 1835 when Fr. basil moreau de­cided to start a boarding school. 
“The [school] would become a place of promise,” giallanza said. “The heritage would become a source of passion, life and espe­cially educational life.” 
see lecTure PAGE 3 


news PAGE 4 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 waKing The echoes PAGE 16 cross counTry PAGE 16 




ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green 


Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 

News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 


Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 

What is your favorite dining hall food item? 

Brad Martin 
sophomore 
Zahm house 
“piadinas … by far.” 

Sadie Zacharek 
sophomore 
cavanaugh hall 
“pasta stir fry at ndh.” 

John Judge 
freshman 
Zahm house 
“cinnamon rolls during breakfast.” 



Jim English 
sophomore 
Knott hall 
“chicken alfredo pizza at sdh.” 

Katharine Janes 
sophomore pasquerilla east hall 
“indian night.” 

Chloe Georgiades 
freshman 
Farley hall 
“vanilla ice cream with chocolate sauce and sprinkles.” 
KATHLEEN DONAHUE | The Observer 


Brother Joel Giallanza spoke on the mission of  a Holy Cross education during the “Embracing and Continuing the Mission” lecture at Saint Mary’s on Wednesday. The congregation was founded in 1835 and celebrated its feast day Tuesday. 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Katie galioto alex carson Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: rachel o’grady manny de Jesus Kathryn marshall 
Scene Graphics Kelly mcgarry 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
Janice chung 

Viewpoint Photo olivia Jackson 
Dante’s Other Works Blackhawks Training Football vs. Georgia La Misa en Espaol Getting Started in 
chris collins Tabitha ricketts 
Hesburgh Library Camp Tech Dillon Hall Research 
4:30p.m.-5:30 p.m. Compton Family Ice Notre Dame Stadium 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. Brownson Hall Celebration of Dante’s Arena 3:30 p.m. Mass celebrated in 4 p.m. -5 p.m. 




Corrections 

minor works for his 10:30 a.m. -12:40 p.m. The Irish take on the Spanish. Workshop on research 
The observer regards itself as 750th birthday. Team opens training. Yellow Jackets. project process. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
An Evening with The Future of the Rules of Engagement Vespers Discussion with 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Ramahan Faulk Past Raclin-Carmichael Hall Bascillica of the Chilean Ambassador 
however, recognize that we will make 
DeBartolo Performing Hesburgh Library at IUSB Sacred Heart Visitation Hall 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Arts Center 4 p.m.-5:30 p.m. 11 a.m.-12 p.m. 7:15 p.m.-8:15 p.m. 5 p.m. -6:30 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
7 p.m.-8 p.m. Lecture on revival of Lecture on global Evening prayer in the Discussion on Latin 
we can correct our error. 

Visual arts presentation. Ireland from 1891-1922. health volunteerism. Lady Chapel. American affairs. 

ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2015 | The observer 


STUDENT SENATE 


Group discusses sustainability, online forum 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
student senate met wednesday night for presen­tations on new sustainability initiatives in the dining halls, the novo registration program and onward, student govern­ment’s new online forum for students. 
linda Kurtos, director of sus­tainability, addressed student complaints about the removal of styrofoam cups from the din­ing halls, saying sustainability has a unique set of priorities. 
“something to remem­ber about styrofoam is it re­ally is a very bad actor in the world of sustainability,” Kurtos said. “ when we talk about 
sustainability, we think about  including information about fu­ undergraduate students will be  
‘how do we do the best, first  ture updates that will be made,  able to access onward, which is  
for people, then the planet and  such as adding ciF forms.  set to launch next week — fac­ 
then for profit?’”  The  meeting  ended  with  ulty and graduate students will  
Kurtos  also  discussed  what  a  presentation  from  student  not be able to see it. ricketts  
the money saved will be used  body president bryan ricketts,  described the program as be- 
for.  director of constituent services  ing “like yik yak, but not anony­ 
“part of this program is to  John  Kill  and  director  of  mous.” students can make and  
reallocate  some  of the money  campus  Technology  michael  vote on posts; posts with more  
saved from not buying the poly­ mcroskey about  onward, an  votes will receive more attention.  
styrene cups and put it toward  online forum to give students a  in  order  to  improve  trans- 
more local and more sustain- place to post their concerns.  parency with student govern­ 
able food,” she said. “so now,  Kill said onward will be a  ment and the administration,  
we’re using all a local dairy  student-driven way to address  mcroskey  and  ricketts  said  
farmer for our dairy products in  problems  and  offer  possible  problems  that  are  being  ad- 
the dining halls.”  solutions.  dressed will be “pinned” to the  
after  Kurtos’  presentation,  “we’re trying to establish this  top of the feed with updates to let  
chuck hurley, university reg- idea of problem and solution.  users know the problem is being  
istrar, held a discussion with  it falls under what we call ‘ide­ handled.  
student senators about novo,  ation to probable action,’” he  ricketts said he hopes this  
the class registration system  said.  new program will encourage  
that replaced darT this fall,  only  notre  dame  students to be more vocal about  


paid adverTisemenT 


their concerns. 
“when nidia [ruelas, student body vice president,] and i were out campaigning, we went and knocked on pretty much every door on campus, talked to every student that we could and got a lot of great ideas,” he said. “it’d be great if we could do that every day, but we can’t. senators can bring their ideas to us, but there’s 8,000 students at this school and they have ideas and concerns to share.” 
The student senate meets ev­ery wednesday at 6 p.m. in the notre dame room of laFortune student center. all meetings are open to the public. 


Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 
Lecture 
conTinued From page 1 
giallanza said the boarding school was designed solely for the benefit of the students. he said the plan was to design a curriculum that would help the students learn not only the subject matter being taught, but also how to form values and how to implement those val­ues into their lives after school. 
giallanza said there were three principles a holy cross education needed to have to be successful: information, formation and trans­formation. according to giallanza, information means academic ex­cellence, while formation means putting the information into use. he said transformation is defined as a student’s use of his or her edu­cation after graduation. 
when considering modern holy cross institutions, giallanza said there are additional points beyond the three principles that schools need to meet. he said he believes saint mary’s meets all of these principles. 
“First, holy cross education is concerned primarily with lead­ing students to understand and to live the gospel,” giallanza said. “second, holy cross education enables students to become in­formed and active citizens. holy cross education nurtures an en­vironment of collaboration and cooperation, supported by a sense of community, which touches and includes everyone associated with the college.” 
giallanza said the principles fostered by a holy cross education will help teach students important values, which will help students in many different aspects of their lives. 
“holy cross education teaches respect: personal, social, racial, political, cultural, religious, gender included in this diversity,” he said. “holy cross education fosters par­ticipation in the life of a living com­munity and promotes dialogue between faith and knowledge, faith and daily life, faith and culture.” 


Contact Nicole Caratas at  ncaratas@nd.edu 



The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Columnist 
conTinued From page 1 
on the catholic left. in the age of pope Francis, the current pon­tiff’s scathing criticism of global capitalism and the american-led world order has maybe started to encourage a more radical catholic left critique of the american sys­tem than we have seen since probably the vietnam era,” he said. “on the catholic right, espe­cially maybe the younger catholic right, there’s an increasingly felt tension between being american and being catholic, stronger even lately than some of the tensions created by roe v. wade. and this tension is emerging for a reason that’s relevant for the specifics of ‘dignitatis humanae,’ one of the elements of religious liberty that that document deemed essential to the political order — the idea that freedom of religion encom­passes the freedom of the reli­gious community.” 
The guarantee of corporate reli­gious freedom is no longer appar­ent, douthat said, citing recent attempts by the u.s. department of health and human services to enforce mandates of contra­ception on catholic institutions, as well as aclu lawsuits against catholic hospitals. 
“what all of these examples have in common, in addition to the connection to the sexual revolution, is that they represent places where state pressure is being brought to bear not on catholicism as embodied at mass on sunday, but on catholicism as a corporate identity, catholicism as the impetus and organiz­ing idea behind the institutions which seek to serve the common good,” he said. “in each case, and perhaps more as time goes by, the church is being told that trying to serve others is not sufficient, that catholics must accept that the price maybe of their most ba­sic ministry is to accept a secular definition of the common good and be governed in certain ways by secular power rather than the constitution of the church.” 
douthat said the catholic church in america has been weakened in the last 50 years, as evidenced by declining mass at­tendance and a decrease in reli­gious vocations, yet the church maintains a distinctive place in american politics. 
“The church is still large enough, still potent enough, still intellectual enough to have many — to be frank — enemies, who would like to see it weak­ened or brought low, meaning that catholics are not or not yet the quirky, marginal, amish-style religious minority that tends to be tolerated and accommodated very easily under secularism. but at the same time, the church is too weakened, divided, possibly declining certainly in some cases to effectively fight its battles when those enemies circle or attack.” 
religious liberty protections are often unnecessary for the stron­ger religious groups, and easy to extend to the weaker religious groups, douthat said. 
“it’s the weakened, but still im­portant, institutions in between that are more likely to see their protections shrink, and that’s roughly where the church has found itself today,” he said. 
douthat said many who want to restrict the church’s religious liberties do not view christianity itself as problematic, but in­stead identify the problem as one set of issues, where traditional christian teaching is not compat­ible with contemporary views on human rights. 
“so in this sense, many people who support what i think are real restrictions on religious liberty see themselves as operating in the space of reasonable regula­tion allowed for by ‘dignitatis humanae’ itself, in the passage where the council fathers noted that religious liberty is still subject to certain regulatory norms,” he said. “and many even see them­selves ultimately as friends to catholicism and christian reli­gions, offering a kind of construc­tion pressure and constructive criticism, a helping hand into sex­ual modernity — one that will be eventually vindicated by a third or fourth vatican council, at which point catholic resistance today will look a little silly.” 
many catholics agree with these opinions, douthat said, and the best defense of religious lib­erty should focus on religious plu­ralism, rather than on religious liberty itself. 
“The part of ‘dignitatis humanae’ that matters most in america right now is again the document’s stress on the cor­porate nature of religious free­dom,” he said. “and to the extent that catholics are hoping to per­suade people outside the church that something important in american life is threatened in the current religious liberty debate, they need to press the case that this kind of communal freedom, this associational freedom, is es­sential to the american experi­ment as we know it. and if it gives way to a strictly individualistic understanding of religious liber­ty, something precious will have been lost.” 
religious pluralism is not a threat to liberal values, douthat said, but a complement to a liberal democracy. 
“a healthy pluralism allows people of any persuasion, secular or religious, progressive or con­servative, to build a culture with a sense of mission, a place where certain ideas are generally accept­ed or taken for granted, certain or­ganizing principles are assumed,” he said. “and at the same time it’s telling them that they have to do this within their own private in­stitutions, rather than aspiring to impose their ideas on a grander, society-wide scale.” 
douthat said the tensions be­tween the church and the wider culture should also serve as a re­minder that the church does not have a permanent political home. 
“even as we seek to preserve that congruence between the american order and catholic free­dom that inspired so much opti­mism in 1965, we should also not to expect it to last indefinitely,” he said. “we should realize that lib­eral democracy, like all political orders, is time-bound and contin­gent, and not the ultimate good that the church is called to preach. 
as american attitudes to­ward religious liberty evolve, the church must be prepared to adapt and move forward, douthat said. 
“if a synthesis between being american and being catholic, which seemed to be getting easier in the 1960s and may be getting more difficult today, we should be challenged but not necessar­ily troubled by that change,” he said. “‘heaven and earth shall pass away,’ Jesus said ‘but my words shall not pass away.’ but he was not talking about the u.s. constitution.” 


Contact Catherine Owers at  cowers@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2015 | The observer 


Marketing 
conTinued From page 1 
“once upon a time it was just this one-way media. There was radio, there was Tv, there was newspaper, there [were] billboard[s],” he said. “now, with the inter-net and the hyper-informed consumer, they’re deciding who the right fit is to solve their problems or to provide their needed products and services.” 
according to slaggert, the partnership bridges two key components: the robust digi­tal marketing program at rutgers and the professional audience of the notre dame area, particularly chicago, which is home to more notre dame alumni than any other city. 
“peter was able to bring us the content and proven instructors from rutgers, we were able to provide a venue and support and mar­keting and exposure in the chicago area,” slaggert said. “That’s what you look for in a partnership.” 
each day of the five-day program will be split into two three-and-a-half hour “modules” which will touch on different aspects of digi­tal marketing. The modules will present a combination of lectures and group exercises, where professionals will be able to apply what they’ve learned to their own work­places, methot said. 

according to the program’s page on mendoza’s website, the program will cover topics such as social media market­ing, search engine marketing, online customer acquisition and web analytics. a module called “personalized digital experiences,” for instance, will give professionals a better sense of how to use consumer data in marketing. 
“[personalized data] takes you from an anonymous con­sumer to dan, who is this age and this demographic in this location,” methot said. “That’s how personalized digital experiences come into play. it’s using the data to bet­ter serve the needs of the pos­sible consumer.” 
although these kinds of programs mainly appeal to professionals specifically in­volved in marketing, methot said they also attract people who need an understanding of the digital world in fields like sales, leadership and in­formation technology. 
“it’s a pretty broad audi­ence, but generally speaking, it’s people that bring with them at least five to 10 years of business experience and are having their businesses changed or transformed due to digital impact,” he said. 
slaggert and methot said they hope the relationship between the two universities will continue to provide new opportunities for profession­als to learn. 
“we really feel that the model moving forward is 
paid adverTisemenT 
these kind of cross-collabora­tive partnerships among pres­tigious schools,” methot said. 
slaggert and methot said they hope the relationship will eventually work two ways, allowing notre dame to bring unique programs to an audience in the rutgers area, particularly new york and new Jersey. 
“if we can take programs that they have that are suc­cessful and bring them to our more natural customer base, and if we can take programs we’ve developed to his natural customer base, that’s a win-win for both institutions,” slaggert said. 
The program will be an ed­ucational experience not only for professionals, but also for the universities behind it, slaggert said. 
“since it’s the first time, it’s a pilot,” he said. “we want to sit down and figure out what worked, what didn’t, what we want to do differently, what do we want to do better and then look for new opportunities.” 
in the end, slaggert said it is his friendship with methot that is important. 
“it works because there’s a personal relationship that exists with people on both sides,” slaggert said. “we were able to build that, and lever­age that into something that we felt would benefit both op­erations and the customers we both have.” 


Contact Sam Fentress at  sfentres@nd.edu 
Improv 
conTinued From page 1 
of educational initiatives for notre dame’s gender relations center, christian murphy is a 1992 graduate of notre dame. murphy will also be on campus oct. 12 to speak as part of relationship violence awareness month. 
murphy will “speak about his personal history and the jour­ney from notre dame to found­ing catharsis, a production company with such a unique way of working against inter­personal violence,” gesicki said. 
The show was performed by only two actors, phillip sheridan and anne dufault. The duo employed a medley of scripted material, audience suggestions and improvisa­tion to enact a series of three scenes, each followed by open discussions among audience members. 
“The scenes are used to il­luminate some of the ridicu­lous aspects of the stereotypes we assign each other based on gender and sexuality and help everyone think about all the as­sumptions we connect to dat­ing, consensual sex and rape,” Kinney said. “The goal is to re­ally dive into the unique issues of each campus by talking to and engaging with students.” 
during the first scene, sheridan and dufault narrated the thought processes of a man and woman at a party, high­lighting how disinterest can be misinterpreted as “vibes.” audience members were asked to decide the direction of the scene by volunteering a pick­up line for sheridan’s charac­ter to use, choosing whether dufault’s character should be “nerdy” or “ditzy” and decid­ing whether sheridan’s charac­ter should show his sensitive or “macho” side. 
after the first scene, the ac­tors led a discussion about the damaging impact of particular words society uses to describe sex, inequalities between gen­ders and gender norms. The group analyzed conflicting cul­tural expectations for women to be passive and soft-spoken yet sexually confident, as well as pressures for men to be het­erosexual, tough and emotion­less womanizers. 
during the second scene, audience members were giv­en red cards reading “sTop.” whenever they thought the ensuing scene, depicting a stereotype-conforming man and woman at an off-campus party, became too embarrass­ing or difficult to watch, audi­ence members held up their cards. The scene was followed by a discussion of the multiple aspects that made the depicted situation inappropriate. 
“it is our feeling that sexual assault, and most forms of in­terpersonal violence, are mani­festations of larger cultural issues, like racism, sexism, ho­mophobia, etc.,” Kinney said. 
“our programs attempt to get at the heart of those issues and encourage everyone to inter­vene at all levels when oppres­sive behavior emerges — from when someone makes a sexist joke to when someone is being creepy at a party.” 
The actors stressed that sexual assault can take place along any gender dynamic and the importance of, and soci­etal impediments to, bystander intervention. 
The third and final scene con­sisted of a talk show discussing the blurred lines that can con­fuse the distinction between consent and rape. dufault played the host, while sheridan played a college boy defending himself against accusations of rape. The scene was followed by a discussion identifying various “red flags” in the defen­dant’s version of events. 
“we use humor never as a way to make light of a serious issue, but as a way to illuminate the biases and hypocrisies of a culture where sexual assault is so prevalent,” Kinney said. “Through active participation and laughter, rather than lec­turing, we find that our audi­ences are more engaged and motivated to step up and stop violence in their communities.” 
an sos advocate, a repre­sentative from the rape crisis center of st. Joseph county, was sitting in the back of the audito­rium in a private area outside of the performance room, avail­able in case audience members became upset or distressed during the show. 
sheridan and dufault ended the show by listing various local resources students can take ad­vantage of in the case of sexual assault, including the counsel­ing center in st. liam hall and the sos rape crisis center of st. Joseph county. They promoted support for victims of sexual assault, encouraging students to make sexual assault a more discussed and less victim-stig­matizing subject. 
“what we can say to make a huge cultural shift is saying, ‘i support you, here’s a counsel­ing center; i support you, here’s the phone number for a support group,’” sheridan said. 
“here at notre dame, we are called to create a community where we honor the dignity of all and where we are our brothers’ and sisters’ keepers,” gesicki said. “we should chal­lenge one another to be active bystanders, to overcome our personal barriers to protect one another from harm. … i hope this year’s production continues the robust campus conversation around sexual assault and violence preven­tion. i hope “are you getting the signal?” encourages our community to continue to hold each other accountable and to change our culture to one where everyone does their part to show that violence is not tolerated.” 
Contact Andrea Vale at  avale@nd.edu 



The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Parents are people, too 
Janice Chung 
graphic designer 

i recently started watching a Korean variety show called “The return of superman.” it’s a series that follows the daily lives of fathers and their adorable children, ranging from seven months to 11 years old. each episode captures the adventures that unravel when these men are left to care for their kids for 48 hours without the help of their wives. 
i only started watching this because of my mom. she got hooked on the show last winter, and her favorite stars are these two-year old triplets. now, i’ve never liked kids, but for some reason, watching this show is my procrastination method of choice this semester, and it’s made me re­alize some things about my own parents. 
aside from the hilarity that inevitably ensues when children are involved, there are a lot of moments that are quite touch­ing. one father nearly cries tears of joy when his twins walk for the first time. another takes his sons bungee jumping to build their self-confidence. in segments throughout the episodes, all the fathers talk about how they’ve gotten closer to their kids thanks to the program. despite their struggles, the love they have for their children is unconditional. 
in a scene i distinctly remember, one fa­ther was talking about how his child gave him another reason to live. he described his wife and daughter as his spring in the midst of winter, because at the time, he had been struggling with depression. 
This made me wonder if my parents had similar experiences. They never talked much about their hardships, and i never talked to them about mine, but we’ve re­cently been able to open up to each other more. i think they’ve loosened up a bit because the majority of their parenting is done. now we can get to know each other beyond the parent-child dynamic. every time i go home, i learn more about what they are like as individuals. 
it’s a sign of growing up to realize that your parents are people, too. watching this series helped me understand a bit more about what things are like from their perspective. everything they do is out of love for their children, and i appreciate this so much more as i get older. so let’s take some time today to call our parents and thank them for everything they’ve done for us. Keep in mind that despite any faults we may have, in their eyes, we are perfect. 
Contact Janice Chung at jchung2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

young and dreaming 
Rebecca Feng 
guest columnist 
Background: L’Arche is an international organiza­tion for people with and without intellectual disabili­ties to live together and learn from each other. Huiling is a similar organization in China that provides ser­vices from group homes to supported working places for people with intellectual disabilities. Because of my dream of founding the first L’Arche community in China, I was recommended by L’Arche International to visit Huiling, to learn more about the living situations of people with intellectual disabilities in China and try to establish friendship between the two organizations. All names below are made up for privacy reasons. 
“i am from l’arche.” 
“what is l’arche?” 
“an international organization for people with and without intellectual disabilities to live together and learn from each other. it provides homes, warm homes, for people with intellectual disabilities. it was founded in France. now it has communities in 46 countries. i worked there.” 
“international? wow. you worked there? you must be an expert in this field then. maybe you can help me out. does … what’s it called? l’arche, does l’arche have any idea how to stop my daughter from doing this?” her daughter, dandan, once again, pulled off her underwear in front of me. 
honestly, dandan’s behaviors weren’t surprising 
— i have many friends with severe autism who tend to do the same thing when they are nervous or when they have unmet needs. 
“my daughter does it every time when she wants to go out. she hates staying at home.” 
“Then why don’t you let her go out?” 
“it is too much trouble. she doesn’t like being looked at and you know, when she gets nervous, she takes off all her clothes and tears them up in public. she is hopeless. sometimes i just start crying. why the hell does this happen to me?” 
“actually, dandan has taught me how to accept my vulnerability in the past week, so please don’t be hopeless about her.” 
“you are too kind. Thanks for saying that, but sometimes even i, her mother, cannot see any value in her. she contributes nothing to society.” 
ah, here we go. we think differently. in china, an atheist country, a person’s value comes from his or her contributions to the society. but for my friends at notre dame, a person’s value comes from god. it is not the difference between huiling and l’arche, it is the difference between two cultures. 
on a separate occasion, the volunteer at “hope group,” a drawing workshop for kids with intel­lectual disabilities, was kindly introducing the kids to me. “This is Tingting, she has autism. That little boy, panpan, in the corner, doesn’t have autism, just learning disabilities. This girl over here, Fangfang, has down syndrome … ” 
“and she is a wonderful painter.” i couldn’t stay silent anymore so i rudely interrupted her. 
“eh, yeah, she likes painting.” she looked at me with confusion. 
i continued. “and panpan is amazing at blending different colors. Tingting is an awesome listener.” 
“ah, yeah, they do have different talents. anyways, the disability level of kids in this workshop is pretty high compared to those in other workshops. most of them are really slow in learning things. They may need a month to learn to do things that we can learn to do in five minutes. be patient with them,” she said. 
suddenly, panpan stood up and nudged me. he looked into my eyes and said very slowly, “yeah it is difficult for the kids here to learn to do certain things. They usually pay so much more effort than normal people do.” 
he paused for several seconds. “actually, i am one of them.” Then he gave me the most genuine smile i had ever seen in my life. it struck me. i didn’t know how to deal with his bravery and confidence. i was such a coward. 

on my first night, i asked, “excuse me, sister Zhang, where ... where can i get hot water? i am des­perate for a shower.” 
“oh, there is no hot water here. no worry, you will get used to it. cold water is good for your health.” 
“oh … oK. and … how do i flush the toilet?” in many places in china, you don’t sit on the toilet, you squat down and do whatever you need to do. 
“see that big container over there? you get some water and flush everything down yourself.” 
“oh … oK, cool!” 

That night, in a little room over 90 degrees, sweaty and tired, i had a long conversation with sister Zhang, a christian nun who had served in huiling and lived in this little room for four years. “how do you deal with all this every day?” 
“deal with what?” 

“deal with … you know, the shower, the toilet, no air conditioning … ” 
“oh, i am happy here. i stay with those kids with intellectual disabilities every day. i am poor but they enrich my life from within.” 
i was happy we were able to communicate on such a high spiritual level. 
“yeah, sometimes when i see those kids with intel­lectual disabilities and their passion for life, their happiness for simply waking up everyday, i just think, what reasons do i have not to love my own life?” 
“exactly. you are staying here for a week right? i will pray for you that you can experience that divine joy of being poor ‘outside’ and being ‘rich’ inside.” 
she seemed very understanding and peaceful, so i decided to impress her more with my ‘deep thoughts.’ 
“people with intellectual disabilities help me see who i really am because they don’t see all those la­bels on me, notre dame student, chinese, high gpa. … They see me as i am.” 
“at the very beginning you felt sad, right?” 
“yeah, i felt like i was so normal, so … worthless.” 
“but despite that, they still love you, don’t they?” 
“yeah, they trust me and love me, unconditionally.” 
“love you unconditionally, as you really are. who does that remind you of?” 
“you mean … god?” 
she was finally smiling. “do you still feel sorry for yourself that you have to flush the toilet on your own?” 
“Thank you, sister.” 

“i understand you come from l’arche, and you want to found the first l’arche in china?” 
“yeah, but i just realized that it is so hard, getting money, dealing with the government, everything.” 
“you want to establish a sign of joy and peace for our society and change society’s view on people with intellectual disabilities, not just to keep people with intellectual disabilities fed and clothed, right?” 
“yeah.” 

suddenly, the electricity in her little room went off. in complete darkness, i heard her gentle laugher. 
“wow, thank you god, this is just what i want, because now i want to light her heart up with the following words. yuan, if you are serious about changing the world, be the change you want to see.” she could not see my face, but i was smiling. 
later, i looked at a full cup of cheap coffee i had just bought from mcdonalds. This was the first time i drank coffee in 20 days. coffee is a luxurious thing in rural parts of china. i drank it up quickly, like i had been in a desert for three days. i was celebrat­ing my reunion with coffee, something so essential and common in notre dame. pathetic yet extremely enlightening. if i learn to celebrate every small bit of life, in the end, maybe i will learn to celebrate life itself. 
Rebecca Feng is a junior studying English literature and accounting. She can be contacted at yfeng2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Pressing ‘1’ for English is a great American value 
Courtney Phelan 
english major in the real world 

a Facebook friend of mine recently shared an im­age. while i see images shared on social media every day, this one struck me particularly hard. 
The image depicted a woman holding a phone receiver away from her face and looking outraged, with red text superimposed on it that said, “im in america, why do i have To press 1 For english!” when i looked at the image’s original page, it was full of other images lamenting the de­struction of american values. 
while i could write forever on what the incorrect use of punctuation and obnoxious style will lead me to believe about the intellect of whoever holds this viewpoint, i’ll save that for another day. i could also write a piece reminding readers that the united states of america does not have and has never had an official national language. and that even if it did, democratic countries with a national language do not require all citizens to speak that language. 
instead, i’m going to focus my rage on the igno­rance of that question (or exclamation?) on explain­ing how difficult it is to simply “learn english.” 
while experts love to squabble about which lan­guages are the most difficult to learn, english is gen­erally regarded as one of the most difficult. english is a germanic language with significant influences from latin, French and greek. This means that un­like French, german or mandarin, where letters are normally pronounced the same way in every word, pronunciation in english is a crapshoot. 
For instance, take the phrase “through tough thor­ough thought, though.” much of english pronuncia­tion is memorization, and luckily for native english speakers, we memorized common words when we were young. english language learners have to learn the finicky rules of english pronunciation, then quickly learn all the exceptions to those rules. 
For someone who does not speak english at home, constructions like adding an “e” to change the sound of an “o” can be the epitome of confu­sion. For proof of this, think about the difference in pronunciation between “some,” “one,” “home,” and “epitome.” 
many aspects of our grammar present difficul­ties, too. english syntax critically important, and yet often the distinction between two different sentences is that the order of the correct one “just sounds right.” Just as i, someone with an untrained musical ear, am unable to immediately harmonize with a note someone is playing, an english learner will struggle to tell you why my ear is an “untrained musical ear” rather than a “musical untrained ear.” 
english also has these ridiculous things called “verbal phrases,” which are two-word phrases that change the meaning of a verb, like “ask out,” or “ask around.” verbal phrases are difficult enough on their own for an english learner. but imagine trying breakdown your thought process so you can speak properly during a stressful situation, like when you have a broken down car, are going through a break up or have a nasty acne break out. it’s enough for anyone to have a mental breakdown. 
clever illustrations of my points aside, learning another language is an extremely difficult task that requires you to change the way your brain pro­cesses and produces information. Foreign language professors will tell you that in order to learn a new language, you have to make mistakes. mistakes are how language learners reach beyond the basics and learn what exactly they are doing wrong so they can correct it. but when english learners in the united states make mistakes, they are often assumed to be stupid, made fun of or told to try harder. in my Foundations of esl (english as second language) class, we have often talked about how esl students need courage to simply raise their hand in class. many esl learners, discouraged by all this, are driv­en into silence. 

pressing “1” for english when calling somewhere is not a sign of the destruction of american values. rather, it is an extraordinary example of many of the values on which america was founded and is sup­posed to embody — inclusiveness, aide to the under­dog and equal opportunity. most phone calls that give a language option are phone calls that require spoken clarity and total understanding, like calls to your bank or electric company. allowing people who struggle (understandably so) with english, or are at a stage in learning where they need to make mis­takes, to conduct their business in the language they feel most comfortable is not unamerican. it’s one of the most american things you can do. 
Courtney Phelan is a junior English major living in Le Mans Hall. She can be contacted at cphela01@saintmarys.edu The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The amazing race: white house 2016 
Roge Karma 
bridging the gap 

“do you think it’s fair that hillary’s hair gets a lot more scrutiny than yours does?” 
if you had to guess, where would you say this question came from? a dramatic reality Tv series that you would never admit you were a fan of in public? The kind of gossip-filled magazine you would never keep in your house but read at every salon visit? well … sort of. 
based on the question’s content those are all very good guesses, but this question comes from a different source of entertainment — one that has seemingly become more drama-filled than “The hills” and more drenched in mindless gos­sip than “star.” 
The race for the 2016 presidential candidacy. 
The “hillary” mentioned in the quote is hillary clinton, and the question itself was asked of bernie sanders by the new york Times. This is not an isolated incident or a mindless gaffe. in fact, this type of language is becoming more and more commonplace in both the 2016 election and american politics in general. 
For example, let’s look at last night’s gop presidential primary debate. 
with u.s. income inequality at the highest it has been since 1928, the influence of the islamic state (isis) continuing to spread throughout and beyond the middle east and the fact that there were 204 mass shootings in the first 204 days of 2015 among a myriad of other historically press­ing issues facing our nation, what would you think would be the first question of a debate de­signed to select a nominee for the next leader of this country? 
you guessed it: an inquiry into the apparent feud between donald Trump and carly Fiorina. 
Though it was masked as question related to na­tional security, this question was a thinly-veiled attempt to fuel the ever-entertaining but wholly unproductive fight between Fiorina and Trump which has taken over recent news.  The type of dialogue spurned by this question continued as rand paul, Jeb bush and scott walker jumped into the conversation, and the stage stopped resembling a debate and began to resemble an episode of “The real world: ronald reagan presidential library edition.” 
while the moderators and candidates eventu­ally got around to real issues, the gossip-fest was far from over. after a bout of serious discus­sion on foreign policy, the first segment ended with an all-important question to carly Fiorina: how did she feel about donald Trump making negative comments about her face? suddenly the republican candidate pool once again suc­cumbed to the petty bickering and personality jabs that have become characteristic of the race thus far. 
in this debate, we had political reality sand­wiched between ‘reality’ Tv. with the first debate segment beginning and ending with Trump and Fiorina’s personal feud, digs at candidates who aren’t polling so well and of course references to Trump’s exorbitant wealth, one could easily forget some real issues were discussed. candidates ad­dressed and argued about the details and wisdom of the iran deal, about russia’s action in syria, special interest groups and the issue of funding for planned parenthood. 
but little to none of this will make the head­lines or even be discussed on political talk shows. why? because americans are enamored with the non-political, with the absurd and amusing. we’ve sacrificed our focus on reality and moved on to something more closely resembling “Jersey shore.” while real issues were covered, many of them of great urgency and concern, they were easily lost to the noise of bickering about per­sonal appearance and the spectacle of donald’s smirks. 

which leads us to ask: is this the only way to get people involved in politics? is the iran nuclear deal too boring? does the planned parenthood controversy leave viewers wanting in entertain­ment? or, perhaps, does the media underestimate the american people and our passion for the is­sues that directly affect our lives? 
while we can’t force the media to ask the im­portant questions, and we can’t force our political candidates to answer them, what we can control is whether we succumb to the gossip-filled, mud­slinging, reality Tv series this presidential race has become. Too many times we have found our­selves skipping over news stories pertaining to real issues like the impending government shut­down or tax reform in order to read about the lat­est controversial donald Trump quote, and many of us have probably had the same experience — it’s only human. in the same way we are tempted to sleep through our morning classes everyday, get into yik yak wars every time we see something we don’t like or binge watch “The bachelorette” the night before our final exams, we are also tempted to just give into the empty political rhet­oric we are exposed to everyday. 
The difference is that in the case of the 2016 elections, the future of our country depends on whether we can resist this temptation. Thus, while we shouldn’t necessarily stop sleeping through our 8:20 classes on Friday mornings, we should make our very best effort to focus on the issues that matter in our political elections. 
Roge Karma is president of BridgeND, a bipartisan student political organization that brings together Democrats, Republicans and all those in between to dis­cuss public policy issues of national importance. They meet Tuesday nights from 8-9pm in the McNeil room of LaFortune. They can be reached at bridgend@nd.edu or by following them on Twitter @bridge_ND 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By ADAM RAMOS 
scene writer 

our society has a propensity for co­vertly liking the unlikeable. maybe it’s because we appreciate those who do and say things we don’t have the gall to put forth ourselves, or maybe it’s simply because we love the cha­os those characters bring to society. with either reason in mind, enter donald Trump and Kanye west. on the surface, they two completely different icons, yet if you call “busi­ness” and “music” by the same word, Trump and west’s bios become eerily similar — each man defined by his severe ego, limitless ambition, im­mense success and a comical amount of controversy. 
with Kanye’s recent 2020 presiden­tial announcement at The mTv video music awards, and Trump’s current republican candidacy runaway, may­be it’s time to imagine these two great forces colliding in an election. while it may not make for the most erudite 

Miko Malabute 
scene editor 

over the past couple of days, one would be hard-pressed to not notice the new update that snapchat recent­ly rolled out. across everyone’s feed, people watched themselves vomiting rainbows while their eyes popped out to unhealthy proportions. with every release of something “new,” there’s bound to be an initially strong response, even if it’s not necessar­ily good — just think back to the two sequels in the “hangover” film series. 
at the risk of sounding like the old man on campus: when is enough, in fact, enough? i was keeping up with snapchat, albeit struggling to main­tain pace, when the social media app of elections, in a country plagued by a seemingly endless list of issues, it could certainly help illuminate our political flaws. whether or not you, as a citizen, would support either candi­date, the implications of such an elec­tion is interesting. 
Kanye boomed over the cheer of a confused but nonetheless riled vma crowd, “i don’t know what i finna lose after this. it don’t matter though, cuz it ain’t about me.” 
Kanye makes a point: speaking your mind shouldn’t mean tarnishing your image. sensitivity is beginning to mask free speech and society is worse off because of it. politicians con­stantly dance around topics in order to appease the multitudes of agendas. Though Trump is often criticized for his brash, sometimes ignorant, com­ments, it’s clear he is beginning to change the game in terms of speaking one’s mind. if candidates start follow­ing this trend of unabridged speech, we will be rewarded with a more transparent, clearer understanding of our candidates and their beliefs. not only that, but candidates may also adopt Trump’s confidence. 

first came up big on campus. i fully  served to make their long-time users  them. every picture and video they  
supported it when there were com- only more confounded and left ask- shared was novel, because everyday  
plaints of shallow social interactions  ing — why fix what wasn’t broken?  people were doing something differ- 
for a supposed social media app. i  There’s something to be said about  ent; no one has the same day twice  
defended it when they introduced  change to freshen up a stale product.  (save for bill murray in “groundhog  
the “chat” function to an app that  after all, some people are quite cog- day”). yet this need to add in video  
made its bread and butter on hastily  nizant about how a certain leading  effects only serves to make a mockery  
captured pictures being sent back  multimedia technology company  of their users, as if we were a group  
and forth. i even, some how some  allegedly rehashes existing, old prod- of over 200 million five year-olds that  
way, justified the reasoning behind  ucts, repackaging them and promot­ need to be entertained with bright  
“snapcash,” the ability for users  ing them as the newest thing on the  lights and flashy images. There’s no  
to send money (in a nutshell, this  market. and the thing about it is,  need to fix what isn’t broken — oth­ 
seemed to me a business response to  these people are the same ones who  erwise snapchat might simply be  
the emergence of the payment-shar­ get in line on the first day to pur­ the very ghost for which its logo is so  
ing app, venmo).  chase these “new” products.  well-known.  
but this is where i draw the line.  with that said, this model does  
This reminded me of the tragic mo- not work with snapchat. The thing  Contact Miko Malabute at  
ment when Facebook became “un­ that drew people to snapchat was its  mmalabut@nd.edu 
cool.” That moment came on the  ability to share with friends instan­ The views expressed in this column are  
verge of endless layout changes and  taneously — and only temporarily —  those of the author and not necessarily  
confusing innovations that only  what was going on with and around  those of The Observer.  

now, confidence goes by many names. whether “swagger” is in your lexicon, or you tend to use “arrogance” more, everyone can agree both Kanye and Trump are the epitome of such de­scriptors. while too much confidence can be a bad thing, we only need to look at the polls to see how the u.s. responds to it. Trump’s dumbfound­ing surge in the polls doesn’t exactly correlate with his positions on keys topics. america just loves a man who gets what he wants. candidates must begin matching Trump and Kanye’s confidence or forever hold their poli­cies. on the other side of the coin, maybe we need Trump to help us realize the faults in voting based on presentation. while presentation and oration are key components of a suc­cessful presidency, they certainly are not the most important. 
yet, i would be remiss if i didn’t at least explore the idea of a joint ticket. 

in fact, in a recent phone interview with “The view,” Trump was asked if he would consider mr. west as a run­ning mate, to which he jeered, “The thing i like most about Kanye west is that he always speaks so nicely about me.” The donald may be for it, but if i know anything about Kanye, he may have some problems with not being the first name on the ticket. 
i’m not blind to the fact that “Kanye west for president” may seem as about legitimate as “vote for pedro,” but if this current race has taught us anything, it’s never to count a can­didate out. while meticulowusly perfected beats may not translate to strong foreign policy; who knows, maybe Kanye’s got some tricks up his sleeve. but if the politics do end up the same, i still would appreciate a Trump vs. west debate. i’m already seeing Kanye and Trump wwe-esque intros. 
Contact Adam Ramos at aramos6@nd.edu 

JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 
The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By NICK LAUREANO 
scene writer 

For two decades, pixar has kept a hand on the marionette that is their au­dience’s emotions. at times, this hand was a heavy one. despite seemingly large emotional payoffs, pixar’s ef­forts failed to arrive at any profound truth. Think of “up,” with its dazzling opening sequence and debased third act. at its best, the studio exercised a delicate touch, creating moments that yielded true catharsis, as the emotion­al tidal wave that crashed upon the au­dience perfectly coalesced with some deeper meaning. The denouement of “Toy story 3” comes to mind. 
perhaps, then, the genius of “inside out” is that it could never have failed to achieve this beautiful lockstep be­tween our emotions and meaning because, well, the whole movie is an examination of our emotions. The sad­ness that comes with the death of a be­loved character could never feel like a cheap shot in a film that passionately argues for the primacy of sadness in the human experience. 
“inside out,” which will play in debartolo 101 Thursday through saturday, is very much a coming-of-age story, though not in the typical sense. 
whereas most coming-of-age stories see their characters achieve indepen­dence (think of cameron Frye kick­ing his father’s vintage Ferrari out the window in “Ferris bueller’s day off”), “inside out” examines the importance of dependence. Joy believes she can keep riley’s mind in ship shape on her own, but she can’t. riley believes an act of defiance is the best solution to her problems, but it isn’t. and they both believe the best — scratch that 
— the only way to function is without sadness/sadness (that’s little s for the emotion and big s for the character, who is an emotion. don’t worry, it’s not a confusing movie). it is not surprising that Joy resorts to confining sadness to a small circle, far from riley’s im­portant mental machinery, especially after riley’s misguided mother asks her to smile to benefit her stressed-out dad. Joy, and therefore riley, are not yet at the age where they can digest all the nuances of emotion. To them, if you’re not 100 percent happy, then you must be 100 percent sad (notice, all of riley’s happy memory orbs are 100 per­cent yellow, her sad memory orbs 100 percent blue. we adults can expect this to change by the end of the film). so the only course of action is to renounce sadness/sadness. 
no matter how much we may want to, we cannot live entirely independent of sadness. we cannot live in eternal joy. why? wouldn’t this be better? no (obviously), because as Joy learned in the dark recesses of riley’s mind, our human experiences are often a mixed bag. we depend on the multitudi­nous combinations of our emotions to help us make sense of the multitude of events life throws at us. in learn­ing the importance of sadness, riley and Joy ultimately learned that life is bittersweet. 
i’m really just scratching the sur­face here. and oh, that surface! if the last three paragraphs were a giant pill of meaning that needed to be swal­lowed, then the surface of that pill, of pixar’s latest confection, is as sweet as an everlasting gobstopper. The humor, like the premise, is some of the clev­erest the studio has produced. i first saw “inside out” opening night, sur­rounded by small children, and i wish the student union board (sub) could rent a couple dozen 6-year-olds for this week’s screenings. only surrounded by small children who will laugh hysteri­cally at some of the sillier gags can you appreciate the complexity of a comedy that appeals to kids from two to 92. yes, i giggled at some of the childish sight gags, but i howled at the adult jokes. in fact, a certain quip about bears is prob­ably my favorite joke from the entire pixar canon. after a depressing stretch of failures — “brave,” “monsters university” and the abominable “cars 2” — it’s good to be having fun at a pixar movie again. 

visually, “inside out” is a treat (duh). it’s not quite as pretty as “Finding nemo,” and because it mostly lacks subject matter that is grounded in re­ality, it’s not as startlingly impressive as “wall-e” or “ratatouille” (which is underrated in every regard). but hey, few films are. The pit of doom/memory dump is frighteningly cavernous, and all of those little memory orbs look — and sound — fantastic. director pete docter wisely includes a handful of super-wide shots to give his audience a sense of the mind’s expanse. even though all these shots are animated, their sheer scope tickled me in the same way david lean’s desert compo­sitions in “lawrence of arabia” did. 
“inside out” will play in debartolo 101 this Thursday through saturday. sub is sponsoring the screenings, and student tickets are $3. 
Contact Nick Laureano at                    nlaurean@nd.edu 

JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

NHL experiences golden age 
Brett O’Connell 
sports writer 
Though it still resides be­hind its beefier brothers, the nFl and the mlb, in american sport culture, it’s hard to argue against the early 21st century’s growing reputation as the golden age of the nhl and professional hockey in america. 
Though some teams, such as the consistently-medi­ocre phoenix coyotes and the sneakily-good Florida panthers, still struggle to draw crowds, stadiums and rinks from toasty southern california to glitzy brooklyn are projected to sell out almost every game in the 2015-2016 season, which opens in roughly 20 days. combine the continued monetary success of non­traditional market teams in places like los angeles, nashville and Tampa bay with the revitalized fervor for hockey in the states of illinois and pennsylvania, amongst others (credit to minnesota here — the state of hockey never saw even a hint of decline), and the financial future for the nhl seems bright. 
what’s more, the league recently signed a land­mark $600 million deal with major league baseball advanced media, which will give the baseball group the rights to hockey’s out-of­market Tv broadcasting and internet streaming. Though the nhl will still main­tain control of the means and production values of hockey content streamed by mlbam, the six-year contract will allow new markets at home and abroad to experience hockey from the comfort of their living rooms. For a sport whose arguably biggest barrier to fandom lies in its lack of ac­cessibility for both viewers (Tv schedules are crowded) and players (ice melts), this deal could spell even further expansion of popu­larity for hockey, which is only just starting to produce consistently-elite domestic talent. 
This year, the nhl will seek to create a faster, more frenetic game, with adjust­ments to goalie equipment being considered and new 3-on-3 overtime rules al­ready in the process of be­ing put in place. as a hockey fan, it has been a while since there has been this much buzz around a new season. 
The nhl’s big wigs seem to recognize this swell of popularity, too — that much is made clear by the recent announcement of two yet-to-be-named expansion teams that will be joining the league in the next few years if all goes according to plan. Though we don’t know for sure the locations and names of the new teams, all signs seem to point to a return to Quebec and the rebirth of the old nordiques franchise in the east, as well as the very first major league team to be hosted in las vegas in the west. 
it’s difficult to say what expansion will do for the league’s revenue. besides, not all of the recent news has been good for those with a financial interest in professional hockey – the recent stagnation of the canadian dollar, combined with ballooning costs for maintaining the league’s many arenas, is caus­ing some salary cap strife amongst the teams with the highest payrolls. but this much is clear: The product the nhl is putting on the ice is attracting more con­sumers, both in person and over the airwaves, than it ever has before. really, the numbers aren’t even close. 
This is a beautiful time for the sport of hockey. Fans can only hope this trend continues upwards from here. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


MLB | indians 5, royals 1; blue Jays 7, braves 1; yanKees 3, rays 1 
lindor, salazar lead Tribe past Kansas city 
Associated Press 
cleveland — Francisco lindor, making a late run for al rookie of the year, was 3 for 4 with a home run and four rbis to lead the cleveland indians to a 5-1 win over the Kansas city royals on wednesday night. 
danny salazar (13-8) took a three-hit shutout into the seventh before mike moustakas started the in­ning with a home run. The right-hander allowed one run and struck out six in sev­en innings. 
lindor, who matched his career high in hits and rbis, had a solo homer in the first for his 100th hit since being called up from the minors on June 14. he added a two-run single in the second and an rbi single in the fourth. 
lindor also began the fifth with an outstanding play at shortstop. he dove to his left to come up with alex rios’ ground ball and made a one-hop throw to first from his knees for the out. 
The indians (72-72) got back to .500 and remained in contention for the second wild-card spot in the al. 
danny duffy (7-8) allowed four runs in 2 1/3 innings for Kansas city, which has dropped nine of 12. 
lindor drove a 1-0 pitch several rows deep in the left-field bleachers in the first. Following Jason Kipnis’ rbi single in the second, the switch-hitter punched a hit through the right side for a 4-0 lead. 
lindor’s first two hits came from the right side against the left-handed duffy. his fourth-inning single was off right-hander Jeremy guthrie. 
lindor, 21, was cleveland’s no. 1 draft pick in 2011, the eighth overall. he began the season at Triple-a columbus. 
cleveland entered play five games behind houston, but also trailed minnesota and los angeles in the wild-card race. 
Kansas city was a season-high 31 games over .500 (82­
51) on sept. 3 before its recent rough stretch. The royals are still 10 games ahead of minnesota in the al central. 
Blue Jays 7, Braves 1 
aTlanTa — david price allowed one run in seven innings, russell martin hit a homer and drove in four runs, and the Toronto blue Jays beat shelby miller and the atlanta braves 9-1 on wednesday night to protect their lead in the al east. 


price (16-5) gave up six hits and had nine strikeouts as he improved to 7-1 since com­ing to Toronto in a trade with detroit. he lowered his era to 2.42. 
The blue Jays stayed three games ahead of second-place new york in the division. The yankees beat the rays 3-1. 
Toronto had 12 hits as it returned to its customary high-scoring pace after man­aging only a combined two runs in two straight losses. martin hit a two-run double in the four-run first and add­ed a two-run homer off ryan Kelly in the ninth. 
miller (5-15) didn’t make it through the fourth inning as he gave up five runs, four earned. his era rose to 3.00 after he allowed four or more earned runs for the third time in his last five starts. 
miller’s streak of winless starts was extended to 22. it is the longest streak for any pitcher in a season he was an all-star. The right-hander, who has the worst run sup­port in the majors, has lost 14 consecutive decisions since his last win on may 17. 
Jose bautista had a run-scoring double and ryan goins drove in a run in the first. The blue Jays knocked miller out of the game with another run in the fourth. 
ben revere drove in two runs with two hits, includ­ing a double in the fifth, for Toronto. 
The braves’ run came in the first. nick markakis hit a leadoff double and scored on Freddie Freeman’s fly ball. christian bethancourt had three hits. 
Toronto first baseman edwin encarnacion had three hits and two walks in his return after missing two starts with a sore left middle finger. 
price walked bethancourt and pinch-hitter ryan lavarnway to open the fifth but then had help from an unusual double play. second baseman cliff pennington couldn’t catch a shallow pop fly by markakis, but his throw to goins forced lavarnway at second. goins threw to third baseman Josh donaldson, who tagged bethancourt when he slid past the bag. 
Yankees 3, Rays 1 

sT. peTersburg, Fla. — prized rookie luis severino rebounded from his worst start, greg bird homered and drove in two runs, and the new york yankees beat the Tampa bay rays 3-1 on wednesday night to keep pace in the al playoff race. 
The second-place yankees, who lead the wild-card chase, took two of three from Tampa bay and stayed three games behind Toronto in the al east. 
severino (4-3) allowed one run and six hits in 5 2-3 in­nings. The right-hander gave up a career-high six earned runs over 2 1-3 innings in an 11-5 loss Friday to Toronto. 
after bird had a second-inning rbi double, chase headley put the yankees up 2-0 with a run-scoring single in the sixth. bird, also a rook­ie, made it 3-1 on his ninth-inning shot. 
Justin wilson, dellin betances and andrew miller, who pitched the ninth for his 34th save, combined for 3 1-3 scoreless innings for new york. 
chris archer (12-12) gave up two runs, four hits, four walks and struck out seven over six innings for the rays. his fourth strikeout of the game, coming against brett gardner in the third, broke scott Kazmir’s single-season club mark of 239 set in 2007. 
steven souza Jr. cut the rays’ deficit to 2-1 on a tower­ing, run-scoring double that center fielder Jacoby ellsbury appeared to briefly lose sight of near the warning track. a video review failed to deter­mine if the ball had struck an overhanging catwalk, which would have made it a game-tying homer. 
betances entered with one out in the seventh and walked the bases loaded be­fore striking out James loney on three pitches. loney had gone 3 for 3 against severino. 
yankees slugger alex rodriguez went 0 for 4 in his second game since an mri exam Tuesday determined he has a bruised left knee. The designated hitter homered Tuesday. 
“i feel fine,” rodriguez said before the series finale. “it’s banged up a little bit, but it’s ready to go.” 
a-rod will get a chance to rest the knee during a three-game interleague series against the nl east-leading new york mets that starts Friday night at citi Field be­cause the designated hitter will not be used. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2015 | The observer 

SMC SPORTS 

Belles prepare for action at home and away 
Fields. 
By BEN PADANILAM,  
heading into the game, the 
RYAN KLAUS and SEAN 
belles (0-5, 0-3 miaa) are 
KILMER 

sports writers coming off a tough 2-0 defeat to Kalamazoo on monday. Soccer belles head coach Ken nuber 
saint mary’s looks to pick said he believes it was a game up its first win of the season his team could have just as tomorrow when it welcomes easily won. Trine to Junior irish airport “i was disappointed for the 
paid adverTisemenT 

girls we didn’t get the win on monday,” nuber said. “we played very well against the team picked to win the league and should have gotten the result. we created a bunch of opportunities and just couldn’t finish.” 
having only scored one goal in five games, finish­ing opportunities has been a problem for the belles all season. despite these strug­gles, nuber said he has seen improvement by his team in each game thus far. 
“The conference sched­ule does not leave a bunch of room for true training with a crazy three games in six days, but we are improving,” nuber said. “i feel good about the progress we are making, and the players are starting to get healthy.” 
Tomorrow, the belles play host to the Thunder (1-4, 0-3), who have struggled as well over their last four games. after winning its season opener against manchester 
— a team saint mary’s fell to by a score of 1-0 — Trine has lost four straight and been held scoreless in all of those matches. with that in mind, nuber said his team has a great opportunity to come away with its first victory of the season. 
“Trine is a much-improved team that will attack us on the flanks,” nuber said. 
“i think if we can continue to create scoring chances, we can get our first result.” 
The belles will take the pitch against Trine tomor­row at 4 p.m. at Junior irish airport Fields. 
Cross Country 
saint mary’s will return to action this weekend as it heads to michigan state to compete in the spartan invitational. 
For the belles, the spartan invitational follows last weekend’s calvin Knight invitational, where saint mary’s placed 15th. 
“overall, i was really pleased with the team’s per­formance at calvin. we ran well together,” saint mary’s head coach Jackie bauters said. “however, i think some people could have had better performances with a more re­laxed start. it is easy in the big races to get sucked out too fast in the first 800 to 1,600 meters and then take a hit in the mid­dle of the race. i’m hoping the team can be more mindful of their pacing off the line this Friday, especially as it will be an even faster field.” 
while all of the races so far for the belles have been five-kilometers, Friday’s race will the first six-kilometer event for the belles in 2015. 
“For our first-years, it will be a great time to test run their first 6K,” bauters said. “although it isn’t a signifi­cant difference from the 5K in many ways, racing a new dis­tance always provokes a little nerves. i’m glad we have one to get under our belt before our [miaa] Jamboree.” 
Friday’s spartan invitational is part of a cru­cial stretch for the belles that includes last week’s calvin Knight invitational and next weekend’s miaa Jamboree. 
“as a team, i don’t have placing expectations, but [i] do have hopes for where people will individually fin­ish,” bauters said. “i think if we race smart, everyone can have a really great day. i’ve never taken the team to msu before, but i hear that it runs flat and fast and i’m excited to see a great race.” 
The spartan invitational is set to begin at 11:50 a.m. Friday on the michigan state campus in east lansing, michigan. 
Volleyball 
after a pair of losses last week, saint mary’s will look to right the ship this weekend at the millikin Fall Frenzy in decatur, illinois. 
last week, the belles (5-3, 1-2 miaa) played three con­ference games in four days, losing in straight sets to no. 2 calvin and adrian on ei­ther side of a four-set victory against Trine. 
after that foray into league play, the belles return to nonconference action Friday when they head west to face webster and rose-hulman in a pair of neutral-site contests. 
The belles will face webster first Friday, and the gorloks (4-4, 2-0 sliac) enter the con­test on a three-match win­ning streak, taking games in straight sets against eureka, iowa wesleyan and saint louis college of pharmacy. 
saint mary’s will conclude the day against the engineers (8-3, 0-0 hcac), who raced out to a quick 8-1 start this season, but come into this weekend on a two-game skid after losses to centre and ohio wesleyan. 
First serve for the belles goes up in decatur, illinois, on Friday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at                                          bpadanil@nd.edu, Ryan Klaus at                                             rklaus1@nd.edu and Sean Kilmer at skilmer@nd.edu 





conTinued From page 16 
last year, and we were able to watch the seniors last year lead and help everybody along the way. we are just hoping to fill those shoes and do our best.” 
as for this year’s seniors, aragon said she, seidel and sydni meunier live together off-campus. 
“it’s probably the best situ­ation i could have,” she said. “living with your team­mates, we all keep each other accountable and kind of help each other make good choic­es as far as sleeping and eat­ing and of course, training. we all know when we have a big workout coming and that kind of thing. it’s really nice to live with my teammates; i think we’re going to grow closer throughout the year just by being roommates.” 
That chemistry will be important for the irish this season as they move into the second year of associ­ate head coach matthew sparks’s tenure. aragon said there is a greater comfort level this year compared to last. 
“everything was new last year,” aragon said. “now we have a year under our belts having coach sparks. he seems more comfortable and i think all the girls re­ally like coach sparks, they like his training program. i think it’s been a really good 
W Golf 
conTinued From page 16 
with her second-place fin­ish last weekend evidence of that. holt said the irish have connected well in the first few weeks of the sea­son, and team chemistry is at a good point headed into the weekend. 
“i’m very happy with where we’re at,” holt said. “i had a lot of fun traveling with them, and the team dynam­ic is really good,” she said. “There is a lot of respect amongst them. individually they’re good players, but as a collective they have a lot of potential and they’re start­ing to see that. everyone’s in a good place right now.” 
while the irish had a se­nior leader in campbell at the top of the scorecard last thing and this year, being used to his training, i think everyone’s going to do well.” 
Though sparks is in his second season, he is chang­ing up the training program for the star runners on the team like aragon and seidel. instead of competing in the opening meets of the sea­son, sparks plans to have aragon and others do a sepa­rate training regime, a plan which aragon said is good, because it will keep her rest­ed and give her time to come back from a nagging injury. 
“i have a bit of an inju­ry right now, so that’s why [sparks] is holding me back,” aragon said. “but also molly seidel isn’t racing either and i think that’s just to kind of keep her fresher later in the season and make her ready for the meets that really count, like accs, regionals and nationals.” 
despite not racing much in the first part of the year, aragon is staying focused on helping the team once she gets back. 
“right now i’m hoping to get healthy and be able to be a contributor at accs and nationals,” aragon said. “as far as team goals, i think we hope to win accs and score in the top ten at nationals.” 
and while it may be a few weeks until aragon races, her impact should be felt — both on the course and off it. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 
weekend, they also had a pair of freshmen contribut­ing — isabella dilisio fin­ished tied for fifth while maddie rose hamilton fin­ished tied for 11th. despite the duo’s freshman status, campbell said her team­mates shared the same vi­sion for the season. 
“all of us are very competi­tive and have the same goals [to make it to ncaas], so be­ing aligned with regards to that transcends class years,” campbell said. 
The irish look to con­tinue their strong start to the season saturday at the schooner Fall classic, teeing off at 9 a.m. at belmar golf club. play will continue in the three-day tournament sunday and monday. 
Contact Daisy Costello at        mcostel4@nd.edu 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Doughty paves path to becoming top prospect 
Associated Press 
bowling green, Ky. — brandon doughty might be the best quarterback you haven’t heard of, until now. 
projected as a mid-round nFl draft pick, the western Kentucky sixth-year senior could be the next obscure Qb from a small school to get attention at the next level. playing for mid-ma­jor schools certainly didn’t keep baltimore’s Joe Flacco (delaware) or pittsburgh’s ben roethlisberger (miami of ohio) from becoming pro starters and super bowl winners. 
such lofty aspirations are a distant thought for doughty, whose priority is getting wKu (2-0) past indiana (2-0) on saturday. if he knocks off yet another power 5 conference team en route to a conference usa title, the rest should take care of itself. 
“honestly, i have no idea what they’re saying about me and haven’t talked to anybody,” doughty said of his nFl prospects. “i’m just trying to make this team better and get us to where we want to be.” 

doughty’s resume’ sug­gests anything is possible. 
he led the nation in passing last season with 4,830 yards and 49 touch­downs, broke several school records and won the sammy baugh award as the nation’s top passer. The 6-foot-3, 220-pound doughty is c-usa’s pre­season offensive player of the year choice and on watch lists for other na­tional awards. 
doughty’s current num­bers aren’t likely to vault him into the heisman Trophy conversation, espe­cially with power 5 confer­ence players leading that discussion. but he’s coming off a 441-yard performance in last week’s 41-38 shoot­out win over louisiana Tech that included a 37­yard touchdown pass. 
doughty already has a season-opening vic­tory over southeastern conference member vanderbilt under his belt and can add a victory over a big Ten school if they beat the hoosiers on the road. winning will likely require a heisman-worthy per­formance from the davie, Florida, native especially with hilltoppers senior running back leon allen sidelined. he was a 1,500­yard rusher in 2014, but suffered a season-ending left knee injury last week. 
“i’m expecting more re­sponsibility, but that’s part of the game,” doughty said. “Things change, but you just don’t replace a guy like leon. i’m hoping we can do that by committee, and ev­erybody has to step up.” 
doughty can’t do it alone, but wKu’s offensive suc­cess begins and ends with him. he’s shown he’s up to the challenge, making his own remarkable comeback from injury. 
he was a backup in 2012 after sustaining a season-ending knee injury in his first start the previous year, then reclaimed the starting spot in 2013 under then-coach bobby petrino. doughty followed a vic­tory over Kentucky with eight interceptions over the next two games, a disas­trous stretch leading to his benching for a game. 
paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 






Tight End U 
conTinued From page 16 
tight end position.” 
“i wanted to be a linebacker,” bavaro said. “i don’t think tight end was the huge, premier po­sition that it’s become. … but when you’re 18 years old and coaches say the best way to get on the field is to play [tight end], you play it. it’s not that i didn’t like tight end; i loved tight end. … but back then tight end was essentially an extra offensive lineman that was eligible for passes.” 
in today’s modern nFl, the tight end is often split out wide and targeted just as often as receivers; one has to look no further than the statistics of players like rob gronkowski and Jimmy graham, occasion­ally eclipsing the 1,000-yard mark and hauling in 10 or more touchdowns in a season. during the 1970s and 1980s, though, tight ends wouldn’t see the field if they couldn’t block efficiently. 
“First and foremost, the tight end was there to block,” bavaro said. “back then it was 75, 80 percent of the requirement of the position. … if you couldn’t block, you were pretty useless. 
“That has transformed over time to something i don’t even recognize anymore.” 
The shift in the utilization isn’t something totally unfore­seen in football; notre dame passed the ball on 49 percent of their offensive snaps in 2014 compared to just 32 percent in macafee’s senior year. This has been a trend across all of foot­ball, and more pass attempts equates to a need for more weapons on the field. To the notre dame tight end greats, however, blocking was what made them the most useful at the time. 
“i was never just purely a receiver,” bavaro said. “it was a fun part of the game, but it was like dessert after the main meal playing football, which was blocking.” 
bavaro, macafee and casper have been entrenched in notre dame lore for decades, but have been joined in the 21st century by the likes of anthony Fasano, John carlson, Kyle rudolph, Tyler eifert and Troy niklas. 
macafee has ideas as to how notre dame began to churn out top-tier tight ends, but doesn’t know for certain. 
“it may have been perpetu­ated when dave casper start­ed and i followed him, and then the tight ends that came along after me that had good statistics, caught the ball and were utilized in the offense,” macafee said. “once that’s es­tablished, these kids that are getting recruited, they look at that. 
“i think when they see the ball is being thrown to a tight end at a certain school, they’re going to pay more attention to that school and follow it through the year.” 
bavaro, on the other hand, isn’t so sure how notre dame turned into “Tight end u”. nevertheless, he’s consistently impressed with the coaching staff finding players that can live up to the name. 
“[notre dame] always seems to have a stud,” bavaro said. “it’s year after year. once one goes, there’s somebody there to replace him immediately. There’s almost no incubation time, these guys are waiting in line. while the great one is playing this season, they’re not going out and recruiting some­body in a year or two — they already have somebody there who’s kind of waiting in the wings to take over.” 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 


Observer File Photo 

Notre Dame tight end Mark Bavaro leaps in the air for a catch during the 1984 season. Bavaro played for the Irish from 1981 to 1984. 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2015 | The observer 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 
ACROSS 1 It wraps scraps 9 Scratches, say 
15 Unlocked, as a computer file 16 Saws 17 J 18 Apartment dweller, e.g. 19 Transvestite of song 20 Loud laughs 22 Third neighbor? 23 Cellphone feature 25 Backup singer’s syllable 27 Eighth-day rite 
28 Source of the phrase “brave new world,” with “The” 
31 Splitting headache? 
33 Subj. of psychological experiments with inconclusive results 
34 Dirty 
36 Skater Harding and others 37 U 39 Downsized 

42 Was overcome with embarrassment, in slang 
43 Goat sound 46 Does perfunctorily, as 
a performance 48 Openly state 50 Letters on a 

stamp 51 Scand. land 53 Parts of an “Old 
MacDonald” verse 54 Mughal Empire rulers 56 Related 59 Parks in a bus 60 Beggars of a sort 62 X 64 Gettysburg Address, e.g. 65 Neat and trim 66 Trample 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


67 1994 film that spawned a TV series 
DOWN 1 Collapse 2 Division rivals of 
the Rays 3 Quaint illumination 4 A flat is the 
same as this 5 Derisive response 6 Hip-hop devotee, 
in old slang 7 Baseball’s Felipe 8 Gordon ___, 
“Wall Street” character 9 Fraternize, with “around” 10 Alternatives to saws 11 Y 12 “My bad” 
13 “Another name for opportunity,” per Ralph Waldo Emerson 
14 Trypanosomiasis transmitters 21 Roll at a nursery 24 Accelerator particles 26 This way 
29 Oscar-winning screenwriter for “The Social Network” 
30 “___ the last rose of summer” (Thomas Moore poem starter) 
32 Activity with dolls 35 Was up 37 O 
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  14  
15  16  
17  18  
19  20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  27  
28  29  30  31  32  
33  34  35  36  
37  38  
39  40  41  42  43  44  45  
46  47  48  49  
50  51  52  53  
54  55  56  57  58  59  
60  61  62  63  
64  65  
66  67  

PUZZLE BY DANIEL A. FINAN 
38 Test the 44 Proposes a date temperature of, to in a way 
45 Armand of 39 Presses “Private together Benjamin” 
40 Negotiate 47 “Just kidding!” 
41 Tamed, as a 49 Dismissal stallion 
52 Strenuous 
43 Mediterranean college resort island, to programs, for locals short 
55 ___ lily 57 Light air 58 “The Sopranos” 
actress ___ de Matteo 61 Prefix with fuel 63 Location of the tragus 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: Think before you react. don’t jump to conclusions or make assumptions. Focus on yourself and how you can make improvements that will ensure your happiness and well-being. strive for perfection as well as living within your means. don’t allow emotions to take over or hinder your ability to get things done. your numbers are 5, 13, 23, 26, 32, 38, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): stay grounded, even if someone tries to upset you emotionally. Focus on your personal needs and doing things that you find exciting. love is on the rise, and avoiding feelings of jealousy will keep an important relationship running smoothly. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): get things out in the open if you are having a problem with someone. Knowing where you stand and what you can expect will help you make better choices. a day trip will bring you clarity and open up your options. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t follow someone without questioning what’s in it for you. make positive changes to the way you live and who you hang with and it will be easier to break the habits and routines that cost you financially and emotionally. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): move things around to suit your needs. get out in your community and see if there is something you can do to bring about positive changes. don’t let someone’s negativity get you down. remember, actions speak louder than words. make a difference. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you’ll inspire the people you talk to today. your expressive and engaging way of presenting your ideas and plans will draw someone special to your side. an opportunity must not be overlooked. romance is highlighted. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): you’ll be able to see the big picture, but that doesn’t mean you should neglect the fine details that require a little more attention. ask questions and challenge anyone who you feel may be offering false information. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): your involvement in matters that concern you will give you a platform to use your skills in order to make a difference. romance is encouraged and will help improve your personal life. a change of scenery will make your life better. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): don’t trust anyone with your money, your possessions or your ideas. Try to develop a project by yourself or with someone you know you can trust. a change to your routine will make your life better. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): put your time and effort into self-improvements, not into trying to change others. not everyone will be overjoyed with the changes you make, but that will make it easier for you to weed out who you want in your circle and who you don’t. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Focus on the people in your life who mean the most to you. make a difference to someone who has something to offer in return. sharing will bring you satisfaction and open up options that you never considered in the past. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Tell the people you love exactly how you feel, and you will get an interesting response that will warm your heart. love is on the rise, and children and family affairs will lead to greater unity and prosperity. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): look out for your own interests or someone will take advantage of you. make changes to your home that will give you greater freedom to follow creative pursuits. an opportunity to make money from home looks promising. 


Birthday Baby: You are outgoing, entertaining and farsighted. You are unique and compassionate. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK SUDOKU | The mepham group 


Level: 


9/20/12 

Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
WAKING THE ECHOES 

‘Tight End U’ rooted in Notre Dame’s history 

By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
it might be an invented, much-debated moniker, but notre dame’s status as “Tight end u” seems to ring true af­ter 40 years of evidence. 
with a strong foundation in the 1970s, the irish have now had five tight ends be­come first or second-round nFl draft picks over the last decade. while these recent tight ends have put up prolific numbers on the stat sheet, the origins of notre dame’s domi­nance at the position go back to a time when blocking was a tight end’s primary duty. 
dave casper was the first irish player to bring promi­nence to the position when he tallied 21 receptions for 335 yards and four touchdowns en route to team offensive mvp honors in 1973, a season that culminated in a national championship. 
casper’s exploits were fol­lowed by the sterling career of Ken macafee, who was a three-time all-american from 1975 to 1977. 
notre dame’s tight end leg­acy continued into the 1980s, with mark bavaro garnering all-america honors during the 1984 season before win­ning two super bowls with the new york giants, a team that inducted him into its ring of honor in 2011. 
The biggest thing all three have in common, however, is that none of them came to notre dame thinking they would end up at tight end. casper actually earned hon­orable mention all-american honors as an offensive tackle the season before he broke out at tight end. macafee and bavaro said they were re­cruited at other positions but settled at tight end to appease their coaches. 
“i was a wide receiver and a defensive tackle — kind of a strange combination,” macafee said. “coming to notre dame, the coaches said, ‘hey, we’ll probably utilize you as a tight end and a wideout,’ … but it wasn’t until my junior year that it was completely the 
see TighT end u PAGE 14 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

holt praises squad’s growth 
By DAISY COSTELLO 
sports writer 
Following a season-open­ing victory at the mary Fossum invitational in east lansing, michigan, the irish travel to norman, oklahoma this weekend to compete in the third annual schooner Fall classic, held at belmar golf club. 
The irish tied for eighth a year ago when they played the tournament, and irish head coach susan holt took away a lot of positives from the team’s season opener as the irish look forward to a return to oklahoma. 
“overall, we played pretty steadily,” holt said. “There were a couple of blips, but
 thought they managed themselves and their games well, which is always en­couraging to see.” 
holt said her team man­aged the game well last weekend, but also noted there was room for im­provement when her play­ers put themselves in good positions. 
“we had probably four oc­casions where we had girls under par, which is always encouraging,” holt said. “They just have to get com­fortable staying there.” 
senior captain Talia campbell said the field at the schooner Fall classic will be more difficult than the field the team encoun­tered last weekend. The field this weekend is nearly unforgiving, featuring acc rival Florida state as well as big 12 schools oklahoma state, oklahoma, Kansas state and Kansas. sec foes Texas a&m and defending champion mississippi state round out the “power five” teams the irish will face in the tournament. 
“overall the field is a lot stronger, with teams from the big 12 and sec, so it should be a good tourna­ment to see where we stand,” campbell said. 
holt said campbell has ad­justed well to the return to the links after the summer, 
see w golF PAGE 12 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Aragon embraces leadership role for Irish 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
irish senior molly seidel stole the headlines over the summer, winning the 10,000-meter run at the ncaa championships. but she’s not the only se­nior important to notre dame’s success this season. danielle aragon has a role to play for the irish, both on and off the course. 
The billings, montana, native holds all-acc honors for her performance on the course, but off it, aragon looks to impact the team with her leadership. 
“i think i have been work­ing on just helping the freshman figure things out and trying to be more aware of if people are confused about something or strug­gling with school,” aragon said. “i think all the seniors and our fifth-year, Karen [lesiewicz], have really tried to step up and fill the shoes. we had great seniors 
see Xc PAGE 12 






