The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 20 | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND, South Bend join White House initiative 
Notre Dame and the city of South Bend will collaborate as a part of the MetroLab Network 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news writer 
The white house announced a new program on monday that aims to address urban prob­lems in cities across the coun­try, including new york city, chicago, los angeles — and south bend. 
david murphy, director of the esTeem graduate program and associate dean of entre­preneurship in engineering and science, said notre dame and south bend were selected to participate in the metrolab network, a program that en­ables universities and local gov­ernments to work together to find innovative ways to address cities’ needs. 
“The interesting thing about the south bend-notre dame re­lationship is we really are kind of punching above our weight in terms of city size,” murphy said. “we are clearly the small­est city, so we feel blessed and fortunate to be a part of the metrolab network. we also feel we have a lot to contribute and are excited to learn from what some of the bigger cities are doing with their university partners.” 
santiago garces, south bend’s chief innovation officer and notre dame class of 2011, said the metrolab network 
see ciTies PAGE 5 




students react to earthquake 
By CLARE KOSSLER 
associate news editor 
Traveling abroad can be an overwhelming experience, even without a natural disaster. 
For junior John huber, one of 13 notre dame students spend­ing the fall semester in santiago, chile, the 8.3-magnitude earth­quake that struck the country wednesday was “an interesting welcome to chilean culture.” 
“when the earthquake was going on, i felt a mixture of ex­citement and uncertainty,” huber said in an email. “... i think our group as a whole was a little bit shaken, but we’re completely fine.” 
according to an article from The weather channel, the earthquake — which was cen­tered 145 miles north-northwest of santiago — resulted in 15-foot tsunami waves along chile’s coastline, as well as tsunami warnings in locations as far as hawaii, california and even Japan. The same article said the earthquake has directly or indi­rectly caused at least 11 deaths. 

all 13 notre dame students studying abroad in santiago were unharmed. 
Junior rachel Francis said her parents were visiting her from 
see chile PAGE 5 


FOOTBALL FRIDAY FEATURE 



Group boosts campus spirit 
By SELENA PONIO 
news writer 
on home game saturdays, 11 students hide behind mysterious personas and gold spandex, roam­ing campus to greet notre dame fans who seek the perfect photo opportunity. 
These 11 men make up the gold gang, a group currently in its sec­ond year on campus. For every home game, they go out in their morph suits to add a memorable el­ement to the game day experience at notre dame. 
see gold PAGE 5 



SMC panelists speak on assault 

By ALEX WINEGAR 
associate saint mary’s editor 
The justice education pro­gram at saint mary’s spon­sored a panel of eight students Thursday in the atrium of the student center, where the student panelists discussed changes that need to be made regarding sexual assault on campus. 
The panel consisted of stu­dents involved in the justice education board, presidential task force and belles against violence office (bavo). panelists were: maggie langenfeld, caylin mccallick, nicole caratas, Kayla gaughan, alex shambery, bri o’brien, Katie dwyer and vanessa odom (Editor’s note: Nicole Caratas is a news writer for the Observer). 

“rape and sexual assault are not natural consequences,” dwyer said. “They are con­sequences of disrespecting someone else … [and] it 
see panel PAGE 4 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 9 men’s soccer PAGE 16 women’s soccer PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                  Jack rooney cristina gutierrez
            Asst. Managing Editor: mary green            Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite Starbucks drink? 

Cary Palmer 
sophomore 
breen-phillips hall 
“green tea latte.” 
Kate Girdhar 
junior 
lyons hall 

“peppermint hot chocolate.” 
Erin Aucar 
senior 
Farley hall 
“caramel iced coffee.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Erin Prestage 
sophomore 
lyons hall 
“earl grey tea.” 
Shannon Kronenberger 
sophomore 
lyons hall 
“strawberry acai refresher.” 
Kate Walsh 
junior 
walsh hall 
“peppermint mocha.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

clare Kossler Zach Klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
matthew mcKenna marek mazurek martha reilly ryan Klaus 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
lucy du matt mcmahon 
Photo Viewpoint 

Blackhawks Training Football vs. Georgia La Misa en Espaol Getting Started in Blood Drive Camp Tech Dillon Hall Research Rolfs Sports Compton Family Ice Notre Dame Stadium 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. Brownson Hall Recreation Center Arena 3:30 p.m. All are welcome to 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 11 a.m.-5:30 p.m. 
annmarie soller Tabitha ricketts 
Corrections 

10:30a.m.-12:40 p.m. The Irish take on the elebrate Mass in Workshop on research Sign up on www. 
The observer regards itself as Team opens training. Yellow Jackets. Spanish. project process. givebloodnow.com. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
The Future of the Alcoholics Vespers Discussion with Tai Chi in the 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

Past Anonymous Meeting Bascilica of the Sacred Chilean Ambassador Galleries 
however, recognize that we will make 
Hesburgh Library Geddes Hall Heart Visitation Hall Snite Museum of Art 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
4 p.m.-5:30 p.m. 12 p.m.-1 p.m. 7:15 p.m.-8:15 p.m. 5 p.m.-6:30 p.m. 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Lecture on revival of Sessions led by AA Evening prayer in the Discussion on Latin Calm down with 
we can correct our error. 

Ireland from 1891-1922. members. Lady Chapel. American affairs. rhythmic movements. 

ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2015 | The observer 

Author shares new novel 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
saint mary’s editor 
The english department's visiting writer series kicked off Thursday in the newly ren­ovated welsh parlor, where the author of the novel "pretty is" maggie mitchell shared her experience crafting the novel and read excerpts from the book. 
assistant professor of english dionne bremyer said she met mitchell in a writing group and has been impressed to see “pretty is” come to frui­tion from drafts written years ago. 
“i was very fortunate to read some of the first drafts in a writing group we were in to­gether in georgia,” bremyer said. “it’s been amazing to see the way the novel has developed." 
a new york Times book re­view called “pretty is," “[a] stunning, multilayered debut. …what a satisfying novel, with its shifting perspectives and competing stories and notion that our relationship to the truth changes with time and distance.” 
mitchell read excerpts from her novel, which is told in alternating voices from two narrators. 
mitchell said the premise of the novel is the relationship between two characters lois and carly may, who were kid­napped for two months when they were 12. 
as the book progresses, mitchell said, lois writes a novel that is mildly popular and gets a movie deal in which carly may, who has changed her name to chloe, is cast. 
mitchell said she was in­spired to write her book after following a story in the news­paper about two girls who had been abducted. a man held them captive for several days and eventually they escaped together, she said. 
“what stuck with me was that two girls the same age, who didn’t know each other ... had spent those days trying to save their lives,” mitchell said. “i was interested in how they would have bloomed in each other's minds and about the relationship that would devel­op between them.” 
mitchell said “pretty is” is really about the relationship between the two girls, who throughout the process of the novel, grow up and apart. 

“abduction is a mecha­nism in the story and [it] gets them out of their rough home lives, but it’s a bond only they can ever quite understand,” mitchell said. 
she began the novel in early 2009, but said much of the writ­ing process was scattered and she had to work to find time for writing as life happened. 
mitchell said she didn’t fig­ure the whole story out at first, but it came to her over the years as she was writing, re­vising and thinking about the story. 
“i knew they would end up in british columbia, but a lot of the littler plotting comes down to the writing process,” she said. “i thought of the end­ing while driving from georgia to new york.” 
responding to a question about the difficulties of wom­en getting published, mitchell said she didn’t feel discrimina­tion was an issue when work­ing on “pretty is.” 
“novels by men tend to get taken more seriously, but i never thought that was a prob­lem with my work,” she said. 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 



stadium vendors reduce prices 
By MATTHEW McKENNA 
news writer 
student government has worked with auxiliary services and centerplate — the conces­sions vendor in the stadium 
— to create new options for students on game day, includ­ing lower soft drink prices and combination deals. 
student body president bryan ricketts said stadium concession stand management contacted him over the sum­mer to strategize ways to in­crease sales to students. 
"we said the number one thing is the prices,” ricketts said. “a student walks into the stadium, sees the prices are not for them, and decides not to buy anything.” 
student government chief of staff dan sehlhorst said issues of student accessibil­ity had come up in his role on the bookstore committee and spread to a discussion of con­cession prices. 
“That was where this all started about prices and at­tainability of different things for students, and concessions was something that had come up,” sehlhorst said. “after that, concessions came to us and we were able to give them some more concrete ideas.” 
ricketts said he worked with the vendors to find creative ways to reduce prices. The price for a 12 oz. bottle of wa­ter has been reduced from $2 to $1, while souvenir sodas will now sell for $3. additionally, vendors will now offer various combos, such as a souvenir soda and a popcorn box for $5. These combos offer savings of up to $5.50. 
"i did recommend that com­bos would be a good idea,” ricketts said. “also, when it’s hot like this, but even when it’s cold, and everyone is packed in and sweating, lowering the price of water had to be a priority.” 
sehlhorst said one of the reasons they prioritized a dis­count on water was a concern for student wellness. 
“people need some water during the game for differ­ent reasons, and we wanted to make sure if anything would be cheaper, it would be water,” sehlhorst said. 
ricketts said while making sure students are hydrated dur­ing the game is very important, they also wanted to address the struggle a student has choos­ing between forgoing the third quarter pretzel or spending ten dollars. 
sehlhorst said he and ricketts provided a list of rec­ommendations to concessions for more creative options. 
“one of our suggestions was more seasonal-type op­tions,” sehlhorst said. “so for halloween, we suggested having some things that are halloween-themed. i think the apple cider kind of came out of that suggestion.” 

ricketts said he was able to participate in a walk test around the stadium and use his student perspective to help de­cide which concession stands will have student prices. 
“There’s only students in certain sections, so there’s no reason to spread these prices everywhere,” ricketts said. “They had one concession stand marked off for student prices and i pointed out you couldn’t access that stand as you could others and it would be a waste of time.” 
“Game day is a special experience for everyone who is there, and students are an integral part of that .” 
Bryan Ricketts 
student body president 

“we had to think about what realistic traffic patterns are when a student enters the game,” he said. “Telling them something as simple as that can help to shape the student experience.” 
ricketts said game day shouldn’t feel like a corporate entity that exists to make as much money as possible, and the new prices help to make sure that is clear. 
“if i’m a hungry student, food is a reasonable option now,” ricketts said. “game day is a special experience for every­one who is there, and students are an integral part of that. everything from the seating to the food options to the pricing should reflect that. 
“one of our biggest priorities has always been looking out for every student, regardless of their socioeconomic back­ground. you shouldn’t have to forgo getting food when all of your friends are.” 
sehlhorst said lowering con­cession prices is part of a larger effort by student government to create a welcoming envi­ronment for students of all backgrounds. 
"This falls under the larger topic of inclusion, which is something we’ve been broadly looking at along socioeconom­ic lines, issues of race, issues of gender and issues of sexual orientation,” sehlhorst said. “These are all things that our campus has been exploring in much greater depth over the last three or four years.” 
Contact Matthew McKenna at mmcken12@nd.edu 

The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Kellogg Institute hosts Romero book launch 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
The Kellogg institute for international studies host­ed a book launch Thursday for “archbishop romero and spiritual leadership in the modern world,” edited by Fr. robert s. pelton, a Kellogg institute faculty fellow. 
Fifteen people, including pelton, made contributions to the book. Four contributors were at the launch Thursday evening: margaret pfeil, asso­ciate professional specialist in the department of theology, Fr. michael e. connors, director of the John s. marten program in homiletics and liturgics, Fr. gustavo gutiérrez, the John cardinal o’hara professor of theology and Thomas Kelly, professor of systematic theol­ogy at creighton university. 
archbishop Óscar romero, the fourth archbishop of san salvador, spoke out against so­cial injustice and poverty and was assassinated while say­ing mass in 1980. pelton said romero’s legacy continues to unite people in el salvador and has a particularly strong influ­ence on younger generations. 

“There’s been, in a certain sense, a rediscovery of romero among younger people in el salvador,” he said. “we had other people who were really remarkable and extraordinary coming together.” 
after pelton explained romero’s cultural significance and influence, the featured contributors spoke about their pieces in the book. Kelly spoke first and said romero may not have been the same iconic martyr if not for his friend rutilio grande, a Jesuit priest and friend who was assassi­nated in 1977. 
“what i found was that rutilio was very influential on romero,” Kelly said. “anytime you measure the influence of one person on another, it is an imprecise art. while one can see connections and explain convergences and postulate references, in the end it may be only possible to demonstrate that there was an influence.” 
connors then talked about his piece, which he said was inspired by pfeil’s work on how romero approached preaching. 
“i took my initial cues from margaret pfeil’s excellent con­tribution on transfiguration," connors said. "margaret un­derstood very well that preach­ing was central to romero’s self-understanding. maybe not at first, but certainly as he grew in the church and in his role. and she knew that self-under­standing brought no false di­chotomy between speaking on god’s behalf and speaking on behalf of the oppressed.” 
because of the character of romero's assassination, gutiérrez said romero repre­sents a new kind of martyr. 
“he was very conscious to be ready to give his life for the gospel, but also for the people, the people of el salvador,” he said. 
The book comprises the collected papers from notre dame’s most recent confer­ence to honor the memory of the witness of romero, who was beatified earlier this year. 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 
Panel 
conTinued From page 1 
happens when people don’t consider a person enough of a person.” 
last week, annie clark and andrea pino — both of whom were featured in the documen­tary “The hunting ground” — spoke at saint mary’s and notre dame and expanded on many important issues, langenfeld said. 
“an important issue they mentioned was compliance ver­sus commitment,” lagenfeld said. “we see this with a lot of issues, but particularly on col­lege campuses.” 
mccallick said she thought the campus was more compli­ant than committed in regards to sexual assault. 
“as far as our efforts on campus, i think the univer­sity is more compliant than committed,” mccallick said. “personally i think that there is not a strong effort to change policy.” 
The panel also discussed col­lege alcohol culture, and both langenfeld and odom said no matter how much alcohol stu­dents might consume, alcohol is not a cause of sexual assault, but a tool. 
“sexual assault is not a natu­ral consequence of alcohol,” odom said. “what is happening ... is happening everywhere. … we put alcohol on a pedestal.” 

odom said the vulgar lan­guage heard on college cam­puses is also a part of the sexual assault issue. 
“The language used around campus, like calling the bus ‘the sluttle,’ is an issue,” odom said. “i hear it just as much, if not more [at saint mary’s], than when i’m across the street.” 
Throughout the panel, stu­dents addressed topics like sex­ual assault survivor resources and who survivors can talk to. 
Junior maranda pennington said she would like to have the lgbTQ community represent­ed more in the sexual assault conversation. 
“what i’d like for you to ad­dress on the task force is that being out on this campus, a lot of times the language that is used is disrespectful,” she said. “i want the lgbTQ community to be recognized at the task force.” 
gaughan said the presiden­tial task force will meet for the first time Friday. she said the task force is investigating mak­ing all sexual assault and Title iX documents the same across the notre dame, saint mary’s and holy cross campuses. 
Contact Alex Winegar at awineg01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2015 | The observer 




Cities 
conTinued From page 1 
is part of the white house’s “smart cities” initiative, which focuses on using technology and science to help communi­ties tackle local challenges. 
“The metrolab network is a collection of city-university partnerships that are devel­oping the framework to share expertise and share resources, trying to figure out how we can create solutions to problems us­ing new technologies and new approaches,” garces said. 
The metrolab network will examine problems such as crime, traffic, air quality, water quality, sewage and education, murphy said. 
murphy said because notre dame is one of the premier research institutions in the country, it could impact com­munities all over the world by sharing its results. 
“The research here at notre dame is always ongoing, al­ways challenging, always excit­ing,” he said. “The question’s going to be how to harness that [research] and direct it to ad­dress pressing problems in this city and in other cities.” 
as part of the metrolab network, notre dame and south bend will get access to expertise and resources they may not otherwise have, garces said. The program aims to share urban solutions with other cities across the nation. 
“as we start confronting some bigger issues, including sustainability, engagement and inclusion of different residents … we will probably benefit a lot from being able to share ideas and share approaches in looking at the entire collection of cities and laboratories that are trying different methods to confront these big questions and big problems,” he said. 

murphy said notre dame and south bend have a rich history of successful collabo­ration. emnet, a south bend-based company that designs and produces technology to control overflow in city sew­age systems, is just one exam­ple of the effectiveness of this partnership. 
according to murphy, notre dame research labs produced a sensor that was eventually installed in south bend sewer systems, allowing the city to open and close gates and direct the water flow away from areas in danger of flooding. emnet commercialized this product. 
“That’s a great example of technology coming out of re­search labs at notre dame that can be deployed in a very prac­tical setting, in this case the city municipalities,” murphy said. “we then look to how we can share this technology with other cities.” 
murphy and garces traveled to washington d.c. on monday to attend the “smart cities” fo­rum, where south bend mayor pete buttigieg announced the metrolab network with pittsburgh mayor bill peduto at a white house event. south bend was chosen to be one of seven cities on the program’s steering committee, murphy said. 
garces said he believes the program has the potential to help generate a sense of civic pride and create economic ben­efits in south bend. 
“i think that, for south bend in particular, this opportunity of continuing to redefine itself and make use of our strengths as a city can give us the oppor­tunity to build pride in the city,” garces said. “we can build a bridge for people that have gone to notre dame that are researchers and students and ph.d.s who might want to stay and work and solve these very exciting problems by develop­ing exciting solutions.” 
according to a university press release, notre dame and south bend have chosen four projects on which to focus. The projects will include new methods of cleaning the water in the st. Joseph river, assess­ments of local neighborhoods, a community-based research course and a downtown wire­less network. 
murphy said he believes the metrolab network will help notre dame fulfill its duty to serve humanity by sharing its innovative ideas with the rest of the world. 
“we feel like we are on the cusp of something very cool, in the sense of what this could mean, not just for our cities, but for the world,” he said. 
Contact Katie Galioto at  kgalioto@nd.edu 
Chile 
conTinued From page 1 
the u.s. when the earthquake hit. They had taken a trip to the coast and were preparing to go out to dinner when they felt the first tremors, she said. 
“i felt pretty terrified initially and was having a hard time rush­ing to get my shoes on, but at the same time felt this need to stay calm, especially for my parents,” Francis said in an email. “chile is such a seismic country, and i had felt some really little tremors be­fore, but nothing like this. 
“and i just felt the need to kind of guide my parents — it felt like the roles were switched — be­cause they were here visiting me in my now second home.” 
Junior Jackie bruns said from what she’s seen, the earthquake has caused relatively little dam­age to the country’s capital. 
“i was in the metro when the earthquake happened,” bruns said in an email. “i only knew it was happening because all the lit­tle old ladies stopped and looked up at the lights swinging above them. 
“you couldn’t feel much in the metro. but once i got home, i could feel the aftershocks which were actually pretty big. i live in an apartment on the 19th floor, and all the paintings were swaying 
Gold 
conTinued From page 1 
Junior ryan o’donnell works as a guide for the gold gang and speaks for the men behind the gold spandex, whose job requirements include an oath of silence while working. 
“you’re not allowed to know who they are — it defeats the illusion of the gold gang,” o’donnell said. 
o’donnell said the gold gang supplements the traditional notre dame game day atmosphere so many fans travel across the coun­try to experience. 
“it’s different, it’s unique and i don’t know how many other schools have this,” o’donnell said. “i personally like the ‘wow’ fac­tor, like the ‘what is that? why are there people in gold suits?’ reaction that we get.” 
according to the gold gang’s website, the 11 members represent notre dame’s 11 football national championships. The group’s web­site tells the fantastical backstory of how the gold gang came into being after a night at the lab, where Knute rockne was working on bot­tling the notre dame spirit. 
“we love our school and we’ll do whatever we can to show you how great notre dame is,” o’donnell said. “it functions similarly to what the cheerleaders and leprechaun do, just to give that greater promo­tion of the Fighting irish mentality.” 
sophomore aline irihamye said her experience with the gold gang last year started off as initial curi­osity and then ended with a picture that her and her friends look back on (Editor’s note: Aline Irihamye is a news writer for the Observer). 
“i found out that one of my and it was pretty crazy.” 

J. nicholas entrikin, vice presi­dent and associate provost for internationalization, said the university took immediate ac­tion upon receiving news of the earthquake. notre dame has a standard procedure in place for establishing contact with stu­dents and their host families in the wake of national disasters, he said. 
“as soon as we heard about the event, which was just a couple hours after it happened i think, we started our basic communica­tion process to make sure that ev­eryone was safe,” he said. 
This is not the first time notre dame has dealt with an event like wednesday’s quake in chile. entrikin said several years ago, the university had to evacuate students studying in Japan fol­lowing the 2011 tsunami and sub­sequent nuclear meltdown. 
“we monitor the situation as best we can, we have people on the ground — those are our usu­al points of contact,” he said. “... each situation is unique but we have a protocol for reaching out to students and staying in close communication with them.” 
Editor’s Note: News Editor Margaret Hynds contributed to this report. 
Contact Clare Kossler  ckossler@nd.edu 
friends was one of the gold gang members, but he wasn’t allowed to tell me while in the morph suit,” irihamye said. “i just remember one of the gold gang people ges­turing wildly at me with his hands, and me wondering why he was do­ing that.” 
anonymity is an important ele­ment in the gold gang group, and on their website each member is listed as a number — each corre­sponding to a national champion­ship year — rather than a name in order to preserve their element of mystery and intrigue. 
o’donnell said one of his favor­ite memories working as a guide for the gold gang came when a little girl who was initially scared of the members eventually warmed up to them and started dancing with them. 
“last year we dropped by this tailgate and this little girl screamed like she was afraid,” o’donnell said. “The next thing i know, they’re all dancing together and having a fun time and they were really sad when we had to go some­where else.” 
The gold gang frequents hotspots such as laFortune and notre dame stadium during home games and takes pictures with ev­eryone, whether or not they are cheering for notre dame. 
“if you see us on campus, come take your picture with us be­cause that’s what we’re here for,” o’donnell said. “create a lasting memory and put it on Facebook, instagram and Twitter and en­joy your game day and know that we’re here to help you enjoy it even more.” 
Contact Selena Ponio at  sponio@nd.edu 

On Stonehenge and student behavior 

INSIDE COLUMN 

reconsider bieber’s best 
Matt McMahon 
scene writer 

i don’t mean to start one of those observer fights, especially not with a fel­low scene writer, but recently one of my co-workers published an article centered on false information. on aug. 31, cur­rent scene editor miko malabute wrote a piece titled, “’what do you mean?’ unquestionably bieber’s best” praising Justin bieber’s lasted single. malabute went on to call the track, produced by cali The producer and megastar skrillex, “an absolute hit” and “the song of the (late) summer,” in addition to asserting the song is without a doubt bieber’s best. 
unfortunately, because i believe heav­ily in the ethical journalism, i have to take to the paper myself to debunk these claims. The problem is not that “what do you mean,” or the equally good “where are Ü now” released by skrillex and diplo as Jack Ü with vocals con­tributed by bieber, are bad; rather, both songs do contend for the “song of the summer” title with their dub-inspired pop sensibilities, capturing and capital­izing on current dance music trends. 
instead, the issue is that there exists a song Justin bieber is involved with that is so good it may be impossible to better. Five years ago an unknown music pro­ducer took bieber’s single “u smile” into “paulstretch,” an application used to stretch sound files, and slowed the song down by 800 percent. The result, posted to reddit and quickly spread by new sites such as npr, av club and gizmodo, was a beautiful 35-minute ambient song of epic propositions. 
“u smile (800% slower),” as it can be found on the internet, sounds like an opus by an artist among the ranks of mastermind multi-instrumentalist and producer brian eno or the synthetic music genius aphex Twin. and, as it came out of the manipulation of a Justin bieber track, the pop star deserves some credit for its worth. 
in fact, it’s Justin bieber’s voice that provides some of the best sonic qualities of the song. The slowing down effect cre­ates long walls of cascading noise, akin to serene ocean waves. as a Justin bieber song, it’s indecipherable, but the elon­gated piano notes, reverberating produc­tion and sweeping vocals transform the simple, childish ballad into a slow-build­ing, transcendent orchestral force. 
it’s not bieber’s fault “what do you mean?” can’t stack up to “u smile (800% slower).” nor is it malabute’s for over­sight in reporting. it is simply that the latter is such an unforeseen aural on­slaught — one that can regularly induce chills and thoughts of insignificance in the grand scheme of the universe — that it cannot be overlooked when consider­ing the top of bieber’s greatest hits. 
Contact Matt McMahon at             mmcmaho7 @nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Ryne Quinlan 
guest columnist 

it’s an excellent time to be a student at the university of notre dame. with fall looming, football booming and the promise of friends and fun times ahead, every notre dame student has something to look forward to. as one of those students, i’m very excited to be back. and just like other students, i like to have fun and ob­serve traditions. Tradition is an enormous part of what makes the notre dame community so great. many of these traditions are centered on football and game day. 
as i passed by stonehenge after our dominating win over Texas, many students were gathered in and around the fountain, cheering, screaming and playing in the water. it looked like a lot of fun. and i understand the sentiment; it was an exciting football win and the first home win for many freshmen and students new to campus. part of me wanted to join the fun. and part of me was uncomfortable. running through stonehenge and celebrating inside the fountain is a tradition most students (if not all) know about. why was i uncom­fortable? well that begins with something that a sur­prising amount of students don’t know: the history of stonehenge itself. 
here’s some history regarding the fountain. clarke memorial Fountain (stonehenge’s actual name) was dedicated in 1986 by John shuff and maude clarke, in memory of her husband John, an army officer, and for all those notre dame graduates who had given their lives in service to our country. specifically, the memo­rial honors the sacrifice of the 500 notre dame alumni who died in world war ii, Korea and vietnam. of the four arches in the fountain, three scroll the name of a war: world war ii, Korea and vietnam, with the fourth reading “pro patria et pace,” which is latin meaning “For country and peace.” 
Just like any other student, i enjoy our traditions, and i love to have fun. i remember a saturday night in november 2012 — notre dame had just defeated wake Forest to move to 11-0 on the season and was ranked no. 3 in the country. later that evening, both oregon and Kansas state fell, moving notre dame to no. 1 in the country. everyone in my dorm, myself included, rushed to stonehenge to celebrate this monumental moment, a moment nd football hadn’t experienced in over two decades. 
To be honest, as a brand new freshman, i had no idea even what the name of the fountain was, let alone that it was a war memorial. it was stonehenge. and that’s it. 
a memorial is meant to be a commemoration, a re­membrance, unlike just a fountain, which is usually purely for aesthetic purposes. The clarke memorial Fountain is a way for the notre dame community, past and present, to remember and honor our students and alumni that have perished fighting for the freedoms that we enjoy on a daily basis, such as a football. The clarke memorial Fountain represents the strength and sacrifice of members of our own community, and it should be treated with solitude and reverence. now, i can’t help but think celebrating a victory in a war memorial is sending the wrong message to anyone who happens to see it. it’s important to ask ourselves as a student body, what kind of message are we sending when celebrating inside the memorial? it’s not exactly an easy question to answer.  i’m not a veteran, but i do believe that many people can understand my concern: if just one veteran saw our celebration and was of­fended, i would be very embarrassed as a notre dame student. 
i had the chance to talk to Kevin burke, a notre dame student, resident of south bend and army veteran. i asked his opinion of the celebrations within clarke memorial Fountain to which he responded: “i think the idea of partying and climbing on a war memorial is disrespectful. This memorial helps remember and honor the service and ultimate sacrifice of our notre dame students. when it’s treated like a party zone or place to celebrate sporting events, it takes away from the purpose of the memorial. i don’t think students who party in stonehenge realize that what they’re do­ing is disrespectful, but that doesn’t make it any less disrespectful.” 
burke was a member of the 2nd stryker cavalry regiment, 4th infantry division and the 101st airborne division. he served in baghdad from 2007 to 2008, in afghanistan from 2009 to 2010 and returned to afghanistan from 2012 to 2013. 
i realize that advocating against partying in stonehenge after football games is not the most popu­lar opinion. again, just like most students, i’m all for having fun and enjoying game day. running around in a fountain after a big win with all my friends? Trust me, that sounds awesome. and i truly believe that no students mean any disrespect by celebrating in stonehenge. but as a student body, we need to think about the bigger picture. i’m not advocating that we don’t try to have fun. i’m not trying to advocate that we throw out the tradition of celebrating around stonehenge. i’m challenging us as a student body to think about how our actions can be perceived. i’m challenging us to think about what message we could be sending by climbing around and into a war memo­rial. next time we win a big home game (georgia Tech anyone?), i hope we think a bit more about what it means to be partying inside a memorial fountain. 
i’d like to leave you all with this, the words of Fr. hesburgh regarding clarke memorial Fountain in 1986. These words are inscribed on a plaque near the fourth column. 
“about 500 notre dame alumni gave their lives for their country and for peace in world war ii, Korea and vietnam. in memorializing them, we join our prayers to their supreme sacrifice as we inscribe this column: pro patria et pace, For country and peace. This is our prayer, that all living notre dame men and women dedicate themselves to the service of their country and world peace.” 
Ryne Quinlan is a senior studying in the Mendoza College of Business. Ryne can be contacted at rquinla1@nd.edu The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The right to petition 



The divestment issue is just one recent example. notre dame students are intel-EDITORIAL ligent, passionate women and men, and we care about the issues that will shape our 
The white house hosts a platform on its website called “we the people” that al­lows citizens to create and sign petitions. The idea behind the platform is simple but also a 21st century manifestation of one of the most fundamental rights of americans. 
“The right to petition your government is guaranteed by the First amendment of the united states constitution,” a description on the website reads. “‘we the people’ provides a new way to petition the obama administration to take action on a range of important issues facing our country. we created ‘we the people’ because we want to hear from you. if a petition gets enough support, white house staff will review it, ensure it’s sent to the appropriate policy experts and issue an official response.” 
The white house launched “we the people” in 2011, and according to statistics from July, a total of 19.5 million users had started more than 400,000 petitions, gar­nering nearly 28 million signatures. petitions need 100,000 signatures to receive an official response, and as of July, the white house has responded to 275 petitions. 
a cynic may dismiss “we the people” as a white house public relations ploy. a hopeless idealist may view it as a necessary and important part of living in a mod­ern democracy. 
we on the observer editorial board fall somewhere between the cynical and over­ly idealistic extremes, but we feel the university administration should follow the obama administration’s lead and institute a system by which students can petition the university to respond to issues students care about. 
we propose that if 2,000 students — nearly a quarter of the undergraduate popu­lation — sign a petition to indicate they think an issue is important, the administra­tion ought to release an official response. 
one of our biggest frustrations as a student newspaper is when the university stays silent on important issues. but we know the frustration we feel extends be­yond our newsroom. 
earlier this week, sidewalk chalk messages appeared throughout campus de­manding the university divest from fossil fuel companies. This call for divestment is not a new one — the we are 9 movement began in 2013 with the purpose of work­ing toward a sustainable future, a key part of which is divesting from fossil fuel companies. but the closest to a full official response to divestment demands the administration has ever come was in February, when university president Fr. John Jenkins answered a question on the topic at a town hall meeting. 
world as our generation comes of age. we deserve, then, to thoughtfully and effec­tively engage on these issues with the generation currently in charge. 
with a petition system in place, notre dame students could more widely and democratically communicate with the administration on issues like the core curriculum review, the campus crossroads project and sexual assault. 
a system like this would undoubtedly lead to some ridiculous proposals from stu­dents — in 2012, a “we the people” petition demanding the u.s. government build a death star garnered enough support to warrant an official response. but a system like this would lead to much more good than bad. another “we the people” petition, asking that the practice of “unlocking” cell phones be made legal, eventually led to the unlocking consumer choice and wireless competition act, which put into law the petition’s demand. 
we envision a system open to students only, perhaps run through the new stu­dent government online forum, “onward.” Fr. Jenkins and his office would be welcome and encouraged to respond to any petition that receives 2,000 signatures, but depending on the issue, the president’s office could defer to another member of the president’s leadership council for an official response. For example, if a peti­tion demanding theology remain a core curriculum requirement gathered enough support, Fr. Jenkins could defer to university provost Thomas g. burish to issue an official response. 
we know students might not always agree with the administration’s official re­sponse, but the fact that the administration would respond at all is beneficial for students and the administration — it would allow students to get answers on issues they deem important, and it would allow the administration to clearly articulate its position on those issues, opening up a necessary channel of communication for the university. 
we recognize this proposal — which began as a simple newsroom discussion — is unlikely to become a reality, but it’s an idea that would help foster open dialogue between students and the administration. 
we recognize, too, notre dame is not a democracy, but we argue that whenever possible, it ought to try to practice the democratic principles that have guided our country for 239 years. we do not feel this is asking for too much. rather, we believe an engaged and impassioned student body deserves an equally responsive and genuine administration, always willing to interact with as many students as pos­sible and do what is best for us all. 
Fiorina soars as Trump bores 
Gary Caruso 
capitol comments 

wednesday evening’s second gop presidential debate reinforces the adage that the race for the presidency is a slow crawl that methodically scrutinizes the current frontrunner to measure that candidate’s resilience. The media thrives on stories of frontrunners who stumble or underdogs who prevail against overwhelming odds. Journalists pounce like a pack of jackals on frontrunners at the slightest hint of weakness. as a result of their herd-like assaults, the presidential electoral process steadily peels back the frontrunner’s personal façades to even­tually expose each candidate’s character and persona. This week’s debate clearly skinned the frontrunner and shuffled support among the other top 10 contenders. 
while replete with policy specifics and rhetorical zingers, the three-hour exchange shaped clear winners and losers. The biggest loser of the night was real estate mogul donald Trump, who led with 23 percent sup­port. The media orchestrated him to easily overexpose himself as the hollow-shell candidate many pundits had predicted. his facial gestures were nearly always frown­ies. his blunt new york shtick wore on so much that nobody wants to have a martini with him in his tower. it is only a matter of time now until his anti-establishment support dwindles like hot air leaking from a balloon. 
on the other hand, carly Fiorina, a fellow ceo for­merly with hewlett-packard who entered the stage with a mere four percent in the polls, clearly outperformed the pack. her passion, strength and eloquence in op­position to funding for planned parenthood and while describing her stepdaughter’s drug overdose death unveiled a persona few had previously seen. she lived up to expectations so much that she quite possibly has already earned herself serious consideration as a vice presidential contender. 
The debate established the 11 top card winners, losers and survivors. besides Trump, this week’s losers who could not inspire beyond a catch phrase included ben carson for a lackluster performance; scott walker for his richard nixon shiny, sweaty face; Ted cruz, who looks like monty burns from “The simpsons”; and John Kasich, who advocates great moderate positions but communicates like he is constipated. as strange and irrational as these reasons might seem, voters are se­lectively scrutinizing the candidates at this stage of the process. 
The survivors who may come back another day are rand paul because he is libertarian at heart; mike huckabee, who has a small but loyal base; chris christie, who is the loud, northeastern alter-Trump; and marco rubio, who has a compelling story although he still seems uncomfortable on stage. These candidates are like the reality show middle scores who are simply dismissed to come back next week. some of them sit on the bubble and will fall in the near future. 
other than Fiorina, Jeb bush is the winner because the party apparatus is tilted toward him and his insider family. bush showed some pep along with his routinely low-key and bland approach. yet, for all of the media hype now about the outsiders’ support and success, bush is the odds-on favorite to win the nomination by slogging through the marathon a step or two at a time. after all, this is the infancy of the campaign season with many events, elections, caucuses and delegates yet to win. 
any presidential scholar will caution that the cam­paign’s infancy is a voters’ discovery period when most support is fluid. during this early months’ exploration period of the campaign, voters window-shop for their candidates before settling on their final choices. it is not unusual for them to hop from one candidate to another as polling and popularity ebbs and flows. The republican 2012 election cycle is a good case study. 
one need not be a professional political pun­dit or presidential scholar — mere political junkies understand presidential dynamics as well — to have chuckled at newt gingrich’s wide-eyed claim that he would be the nominee while on dec. 13, 2011, he sat atop his highest level of support at 35 percent. The real clear politics interactive map of poll averages charts the rise and fall of every 2012 republican candidate until one survived the grueling campaign season. 
prior to december, mitt romney led until aug. 25, when rick perry surpassed romney. but, oops, on oct. 4, romney overtook the dead perry campaign only to be ousted by herman cain on oct. 20. Then gingrich dethroned romney on nov. 21. however, the lead swapped five more times — back to romney on Jan. 4, lost to gingrich on Jan. 24, again to romney on Feb. 3, but then 10 days later to rick santorum and finally back to romney on Feb. 29 for the duration of the campaign. it proves that once a frontrunner faces severe scrutiny and prevents the luster from tarnishing, that campaign should not come unstitched at the seams. 
let history be our guide as shoppers beware. Four years ago today, sept. 18, 2011, the gop field sat at rick perry with 29.2 percent, mitt romney with 19 percent, ron paul with nine percent, michele bachmann with 7.5 percent, newt gingrich with 5.8 percent, herman cain with 4.8 percent, rick santorum with 2.3 percent and Jon huntsman at less than a percentage point. The sure bet of the day back then was the insider establishment guy — romney. The system has not changed, so expect a bush-Fiorina ticket a year from today. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. Contact him on Twitter @GaryJCaruso or at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

drive far enough south of campus on eddy street, past the typical college town restaurants and their uninspired culi­nary variants, past the familiar notre dame flags, and you are prompted by a series of exit-like signs towards down­town south bend. Follow the first sign’s winding ramp to mishawaka avenue, running along the area’s uniformly low storefront skyline and by the indiana university south bend flagpoles, and you will reach china house, a modest, ordi­nary chinese take-out restaurant boast­ing the best chinese food in the area. 
wedged between a couple of clothing and art boutiques of varying occupancy and across from a corner 7-eleven, china house is predictable in almost every way; it’s a tiny, square, walk-in joint with four of those uncomfortable fast-food booths, a standing cooler housing some cans of soda — free with any order over $10 — and a half counter, over which hangs pictures and prices of some of the restaurant’s dishes. Their menu includes all of the sta­ples of a standard chinese restaurant, but it’s in its execution that it sets itself apart from the other local eateries. 
of their staples, the sweet and sour chicken is by far the best, and the dish argues to be ordered every single visit, even at the known risk of never discover­ing the quality of anything else they have to offer. The simple, uncomplicated plate includes light, puffy, tempura-battered fried chicken bites and a straightfor­ward, but effective, sweet and sour sauce, which leans more towards the sweet. The dish comes with a small side of white rice, like most of the protein and vegetarian orders. and the rice shines just as much as the proteins: soft, sticky and perfectly cooked — necessities if it is to be coupled with most orders. 
orders containing vegetables are usually just as successful. The pepper steak and onion features crisp, tender accompaniments, the fried rice is bright and fresh, with the perfect ratio of carrots and peas. The mei fun is complex and not overly saturated. The only dish that i have ever been disappointed by from china house is the shrimp and snow peas, and the disappointment could have been as much due to personal preference as the cooks’ execution; slightly undercooked snow peas provided too much of a bitter flavor and coarse texture, but they were certainly better than would have been the alternative. 

china house provides exactly what’s expected of it as an unassuming chinese takeout place and then far exceeds ex­pectations through its surprisingly supe­rior food. To be completely candid, i have no idea how the dishes are plated when they are prepared for dining in, besides those i have seen pictured on their in-store menu. i also am not sure whether the restaurant has air conditioning or heating, despite having visited it at times when either would be useful. what i am sure of, though, is that china house has all of the qualities i look for in a chinese takeout restaurant. 
none of the dishes china house offers have that slimy msg coating, the cooks do not have to overcompensate for lack of flavor through over-salting, and the prices are not exorbitant in the least. in fact, in addition to the aforementioned free soda with a $10 order, which can be substituted with a free egg roll, orders over $20 dollars get a complementary pint of fried rice, which can be substi­tuted with a soup of choice. still, for stu­dents on a tight budget, the combination plates, starting under $7 and served with an egg roll and fried rice, are often more than enough for a meal. however, for the leftover-minded, the dishes are nearly as good out of the refrigerator later in the night or the next day as they are at their freshest. 
Contact Matt McMahon at                           mmcmaho7@nd.edu 

Lucy Du | The Observer 


By MIKO MALABUTE 
scene editor 
sometimes, you need to be reminded to be careful what you wish for. although i was ini­tially ecstatic about last week’s episode, after discussing it with friends i realized that although it was a fantastic episode for notre dame football fans, there was little drama or conflict to keep non-notre dame fans interested. 
emerging from this past week­end’s last-second thriller against virginia, it was painfully clear what would be the main story­line behind this week’s episode of “a season with notre dame Football.” after heisman hope­ful malik Zaire went down for the season with a broken ankle, backup quarterback deshone Kizer stepped up and pulled out a come-from-behind win. with that, the story for this week was set into motion. 
early into the episode, the producers truly laid on heavy the theme of “next man in,” having other people step up in the face of injury and adversity. except this was all made in ref­erence to other starting players lost to injury, such as Tarean Folston (who admirably showed his dedication to be on the field with his football brothers in any capacity). however, viewers all knew which injury in particular producers were alluding to, and with every heartwarming scene of Zaire learning under the tu­telage head coach brian Kelly came a pang of heartbreak an­ticipating what was to come. 
There were references and highlights of notre dame’s dom­inant win over Texas two weeks ago, but this episode definitely focused on the team’s business­like mentality and focus. The phrase “burn the boats” was a central theme across the epi­sode, alluding to how the vikings supposedly burned their boats to demonstrate their dedication to an irreversible course: no go­ing backwards, only forward. 

however, for all of the matu­rity and intensity these play­ers demonstrated, the cameras were still able to capture the in­nocence and playful sides of these student-athletes. The players bonded, played a game of FiFa, laughed and joked with each other on the trip to charlottesville, virginia. The playfulness and innocence was exemplified when room checks were being done in the team’s hotel. room after room, the players were all messing around with the staff, while the staff re­minded them that it was almost time for “lights out.” pretty rou­tine, except when they finally get to romeo okwara and andrew Trumbetti’s room. as the staff opened the door, only Trumbetti is to be seen in the dark room … and a very mild “boo!” out of okwara in an attempt to scare them came from just beside the doorway. he had been waiting there for about five minutes just for that. good effort. 
but the climax was, naturally, during the virginia game. The cameras once again showed Zaire’s leadership and determi­nation in the midst of a tightly contested game. Then, it hap­pened: Zaire called his own number, gets caught in an awful pile and, just like that, his year is over. The tears shamelessly poured from his eyes: it was a powerful display of raw emo­tion and pain even the viewers at home could feel. 

with everything turning to chaos, two men in particular stepped up: Kizer drew up the middle to convert on fourth down and then threw an ab­solute beauty to will Fuller to reclaim the lead for good. The mood in the locker room follow­ing the win was bittersweet, to say the least. people were broken up over Zaire’s injury, but the determination and grit of this team was on full display as they debriefed. 
The next episode is sure to be as entertaining and thrilling as the first two — let’s just all hope there are no new injury story-lines to follow next week. 
Contact Miko Malabute at                         mmalabut@nd.edu 

By MIKO MALABUTE 
scene editor 

how does a show, extending into its 19th season, manage to stay so success­ful and popular? well, it continually tack­les the latest, most controversial topics talked about across america and doesn’t apologize for its social commentary. 
it’s no secret that, while we as a soci­ety have grown more culturally sensi­tive and politically correct for the better, we may have overcompensated for our past ignorance and faults. scene writer adam ramos recently covered how co­medic legends Jerry seinfeld, larry the cable guy and chris rock now avoid performing at campuses because of an overly sensitive culture that has been cultivated on college campuses, which prevent them from performing as they wish — all in the name of comedy, with no malicious intent. while we have been trying to be more sensitive and respect­ful, it might have gone so far as to deter anyone from speaking freely, for fear of tripping up on rhetoric that may simply be misinterpreted. 
well, “south park” isn’t afraid to mince words. in its latest season premiere of the episode “stunning and brave,” we see a new principal in charge of south park elementary, “p.c. principal.” after a ver­bal slip-up by the former principal, p.c. principal sets a zero-tolerance standard for any kind of hate speech or insensitive remarks. This standard is ramped up to an absolute extreme, where virtually everything that is uttered in the school hallways is policed and censored for the sake of being politically correct. The people of south park choose to remain silent and limit their own speech — if not for fear of offending anyone, then for fear of getting bullied into political correct­ness by p.c. principal. 

The plot wonderfully mixes together caitlyn Jenner, “deflategate” and fra­ternity culture in a way only “south park” can. The episode received a score of 7.8 out of 10 according to ign’s max nicholson; the episode, as nicholson put it, “took on political correctness with scathing wit and truly outrageous moments.” Kyle broflovski, often the voice of reason in the television series, suffers from a misunderstanding of his opinion on caitlyn Jenner — thus be­gins the relentless torment and bullying by the members of the “p.c. fraternity.” 
broflovski eventually admits Jenner is in fact brave for her honesty to herself, and it is heavily suggested the p.c. fraternity (and the culture they have now imposed upon the town) has won. 
The episode is laughably ridiculous and ridiculously funny, and it highlights a genuine sentiment that has been brew­ing in today’s america for quite some­time now. yes, it is okay to be sensitive to other cultures — as a matter of fact, i prefer that to the hateful speech that was sadly all-too-prevalent in our society not too long ago. but there is something to be said about being rational and level­headed, especially when, in our haste to defend others, we lash out at everyone. 
Contact Miko Malabute at                         mmalabut@nd.edu 
Lucy Du | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

welcome back, big Ten 
Hunter McDaniel 
sports writer 
Think back to last year at this time in college football. The state of the big Ten conference was arguably at its lowest point ever. Two weeks into the 2014 season, no. 8 ohio state fell by two touchdowns to unranked virginia Tech in columbus, no. 7 michigan state couldn’t keep up with marcus mariota and fell apart in the second half at oregon, and michigan fell even further into disgrace with a 31-0 drubbing in south bend for its first shutout loss since 1984. and also don’t forget purdue, indiana and northwestern all lost to tra­ditionally inferior mac op­ponents central michigan, northern illinois and bowling green, respectively. 
what happened did not shock or surprise anyone, ex­cept maybe the league’s com­missioner, Jim delany. The big Ten was a shell of its former self and had been for the bet­ter part of the previous decade. The 2002 buckeyes gave the conference its only national championship in the entire bcs era, and from 2004 to 2013, the league went 1-8 in the rose bowl game, the big Ten’s an­nual opportunity to showcase its conference champion in January. one win and eight losses. That’s not good. and this doesn’t even include the embarrassing scandals that rocked both ohio state and penn state. 
Fans in the midwest were not shy about sharing their discontent at the additions of maryland and rutgers in 2014 either, the former coming off a 7-6 (3-5 acc) season and the latter a 6-7 (3-5 aac) season in 2013. 
This recap should not come as a surprise. The big Ten was the laughing stock of the rest of the power-5 college football world, the butt of every joke. what should be surprising, however, is the dramatic re­versal that has occurred in just one year. 
ohio state, coming off an inexplicable run through alabama and oregon in the inaugural college Football playoff, looks almost unbeat­able through two games this year. The buckeyes possess not one but three fantastic quarter­backs, four possible heisman candidates and at least three legitimate nFl talents in run­ning back ezekiel elliot, de­fensive end Joey bosa and left tackle Taylor decker. 
michigan state, often an af­terthought throughout college football and even in the state of michigan, has finished in the top five of the ap poll in two consecutive years and is fresh off a huge win over oregon that could propel it into the playoff come season’s end. 
and as much as it pains me to say it, the wolverines are well on their way back to the top with the return of head coach Jim harbaugh and a boatload of recruits already committed for next fall. 
in addition, so far this season northwestern knocked off no. 21 stanford, and minnesota nearly shocked no. 2 Tcu in week one. while nebraska was the first victim of byu’s hail mary sensation Tanner magnum, and wisconsin failed to keep pace with alabama, neither program is far from competing for championships either. 
even penn state currently has a top-five recruiting class in the works and potential first-round draft pick in junior quar­terback christian hackenburg guiding the nittany lions this year. 
There are some programs with a lot of work to do, but every conference has perennial bottom-dwellers. it would be wrong to argue such programs define the big Ten as a whole. The big Ten has a lot of work to do in order to sniff the suc­cess the sec held over the rest of college football for the last 10 years. and the powerhouse programs in the acc, big 12 and pac-12 will have something to say about the big Ten’s recent success in the coming months. 
but the big Ten is light years ahead of where anyone expect­ed it to be in 2015. obviously it would be a mistake to crown either michigan state or ohio state college football’s best just yet. a long season remains, and anything can happen. 
as of this writing, however, some chatter is brewing that two spots in the playoff could possibly belong to two big Ten teams. some even argue when the spartans travel to columbus in november, that game could simply determine which team gets the no. 1 seed and which gets the no. 4 seed in the playoff. 
i’m not predicting that’s what’s going to happen, but remembering the state of the conference just one year ago to­day makes me think that any­thing is possible, and it’s simply good for the sport to have one of its top leagues competing again. 
welcome back, big Ten. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcadani1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Interhall 
conTinued From page 11 

quarterback will be up against a tough defensive line. 
“[The defensive line is] pret­ty strong; they really like to block passes,” hoelting said. “it’s their favorite activity to just knock them down.” 
The lions and wildcats will meet at 6 p.m. at labar practice complex. 
Alumni vs. Siegfried 

with pads strapped onto shoulders, cleats laced, hel­mets lowered snuggly onto sweat-glistened heads, the men of alumni and siegfried will kick off their interhall sea­sons sunday. 
it’s a matchup between south Quad and mod Quad, a fierce first test between the dawgs and the ramblers. 
in the first game of the in­terhall football schedule, both teams are looking to start off with a win and work towards the championship in notre dame stadium. 
siegfried is looking to start off well, ramblers senior safety and captain grady schmidt said. his team will try to con­trol the line of scrimmage on both sides of the ball. 
“i’m feeling confident,” schmidt said. “we have a lot of good players on our team, so we’re going to rely on our athleticism to make some plays. alumni is always tough, though, so i’m looking forward to it.” 
looking to spoil siegfried’s day and get its own first win is alumni, a team in a rebuild­ing stage following the loss of many key seniors two years ago. 
“i believe that alumni has been practicing well and that the players are starting to work well together as a team,” junior captain nick lund said. “i look forward to a good season this year.” 
alumni is an offensively minded team, lund said, and will try to move the ball con­sistently, led by senior quarter­back Trevor hurley. 
The game will be played at stepan Fields at 2:15 p.m. sunday. 
Badin vs. Farley 

badin and Farley enter the interhall season already look­ing toward the final at notre dame stadium. 
badin captain margaret long said she has big expectations for the season. 
“[we have] a great team co­hesiveness that has been miss­ing the past few years,” long said. “[we will] work well to­gether and have a strong start.” 
in this first game, long said the badin team will be aiming to get off to a good start in what they hope to be a successful season. long said the bullfrogs are excited to see what they can do, even with a team that is 80 percent freshmen. 
“all in all, it’s going to be a good year for badin,” long said. 
badin and Farley will kick off their seasons sunday af­ternoon at labar practice complex at 4 p.m. 
Contact  Maureen Schweninger at mschweni@nd.edu, Anthony Zappia at azappia@nd.edu, Joseph Everett at jeveret4@nd.edu, Margaret Murphy at mmurph40@nd.edu, Brenda Moxley at bmoxley01@saintmarys.edu, Montana Giordano at mgiorda2@nd.edu, Victoria Llorens at  vllorens@nd.edu, Jack Contrera at jcontre2@nd.edu, Tommy O’Rourke at torourk3@nd.edu
 and Jacqueline Brebeck at jbrebeck@nd.edu 
MLB | cubs 9, piraTes 6 

Cubs notch six in the fifth inning, down Pirates 
Associated Press 

piTTsburgh — by win­ning three of four games in pittsburgh, the chicago cubs made a bold move as they try to catch the pirates for the top nl wild card. 
manager Joe maddon wants more. 
anthony rizzo started a six-run fifth inning with his 30th homer, and the cubs rallied for a 9-6 victory Thursday. 
chicago pulled within two games of the wild-card lead­ers. should the teams end up tied at the end of the regular season, chicago would have home-field advantage, hav­ing won the season series with 10 wins in 16 games. 
pittsburgh began the day four games behind first-place st. louis in the nl central. The cardinals were set to play a night game at milwaukee before going to chicago for the start of a three-game series Friday against the cubs. 
“The division title is still the goal,” maddon said. “That’s what we’re after.” 
The cubs turned a 4-3 deficit into a 9-4 lead with a fifth-inning outburst that included a two-run double by reliever clayton richard (4­

2) and rbi singles by addison russell and Tommy la stella. 
cubs rookie Kris bryant had his second straight three-hit game. la stella and russell drove in two runs each and were two of four 
chicago  players  with  two  
hits, along  with  rizzo and  
dexter Fowler.  

“The whole group was outstanding in this series,” maddon said. “a lot of good stuff going on out there with a lot of guys picking each other up.” 
richard allowed two runs in 3 1-3 innings in relief of starter Kyle hendricks, who gave up four runs on three homers in three innings. Travis wood struck out five in two perfect innings for his second save. 
richard began the season with the pirates’ Triple-a indianapolis farm club be­fore the cubs purchased his contract July 3. 
“it was a little weird fac­ing those guys, but you can’t really think about that when you’re on the mound,” richard said. “i’m just happy the cubs gave me an oppor­tunity and i’m enjoying it.” 
charlie morton (9-8) lost for the fourth time in five starts as he was rocked for six runs — five earned — and nine hits in four-plus innings. 
gregory polanco and pedro alvarez both homered while finishing with two hits and two rbis for the pirates. Travis snider also went deep, and neil walker and Jordy mercer had two hits each. 
polanco hit an rbi single in the seventh and scored on walker’s double to pull the pirates to 9-6, but they got no closer. 
“we played hard. we didn’t play well enough and we didn’t play good enough baseball, and that’s the focus point,” pittsburgh manager clint hurdle said of los­ing the series. “we’ve got to play better baseball moving forward.” 
The pirates went ahead 4-3 in the third when polanco led off with his ninth home run and alvarez hit a two-run shot, his 24th. 
The cubs built an early 3-0 lead. They scored in the first inning on a double-play grounder and then russell and la stella had rbi doubles in the second 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2015 | The observer 

INTERHALL FOOTBALL 

Manor set to open season against Duncan 
By MAUREEN SCHWENINGER, ANTHONY ZAPPIA, JOSEPH EVERETT,  MARGARET MURPHY, BRENDA MOXLEY, MONTANA GIORDANO, VICTORIA LLORENS, JACK CONTRERA, TOMMY O’ROURKE and JACQUELINE BREBECK 
sports writers 
coming off last season as reigning champs, morrissey fac­es duncan as its first challenge on the field this sunday. 
sophomore captain and quarterback declan Zidar said morrissey is not feeling any pressure under the spotlight. 
“we’ve got a lot of young guys on the team this year and pretty much the same base of guys re­turning,” Zidar said. “last year, i’d say running the ball and de­fense were our two biggest skills. This year, we’re trying to air it out a little more, so our passing game’s gotten a lot better.” 
The highlander defense plans to rise to the occasion, junior captain and defensive tackle steve Treacy said. 
“linebacker is our best posi­tion,” Treacy said. “we’ve prob­ably got six or seven guys who can rotate in pretty consistently and make some big plays for us. we’re ready and looking forward to getting back out there.” 
duncan hasn’t forgotten the 28-0 beating it took last year at the hands of the manor. Treacy said his team sees this weekend as a second chance. 
“we’re definitely looking to get a little revenge,” Treacy said. “beat them by a couple touchdown margin to get them back for they did to us last year. we’re looking to make it to the championship.” 
Zidar said his team is trying to keep the game in perspective. 
“we’re pretty excited to play duncan,” Zidar said. “i’ve got a lot of friends on that team. overall, we’re just trying to get the win.” 
duncan will go for an upset when both teams play at stepan Fields on sunday at 2:15 p.m. 
St. Edward’s vs. Fisher 
This first week of the inter-hall season creates a matchup between st. edward’s and Fisher, two teams looking to improve on results from a year ago. 
st. ed’s, which went just 1-3 a season ago, is set to benefit from an influx of new players, upper­classmen and freshmen alike. 
“on offense, we’ve got two good freshman quarterbacks and 10 or so new players total,” junior lineman and team cap­tain phineas andrews said. 
Thanks to these talented new quarterbacks and a strong of­fensive backfield led by junior running back Jahmel Jordon, st. ed’s will look to make versatility a key to its offense. 
as for the defense, andrews says the plan is to stick to what has worked in the past. 
“we’re going to play aggres­sively,” andrews said. “The same way we always have.” 
Fisher, which faced an early exit from the playoffs last sea­son, is characterized this fall by veteran leadership in key posi­tions on both sides of the ball. on offense, junior running back shannon massey said the team would try to get the ball to its playmakers. 
“we’ve got a lot of people com­ing back,” massey said. “so we’ll be trying to get the ball in our best players’ hands and just see what they can do.” 
This straightforward strat­egy could prove effective with weapons like junior quarter­back michael cooney and senior receiver Joe Kelly returning as starters. defensively, massey, who also plays safety, said Fisher will play a hard-nosed style of defense. 
“[we’re] a pretty physical group that likes to hit,” massey said. “[we] will be looking to send a lot of guys.” 
both teams are eager to get back on the field this sunday at 1 p.m., confident improvements will lead to greater success this season. 
Keenan vs. Keough 
Keenan and Keough will kick off their respective 2015 inter-hall football campaigns by do­ing battle at stepan Fields on sunday. 
Keenan comes into this year fresh off a defeat in last year’s 

paid adverTisemenT 

interhall championship, a 3-0 loss to morrissey. however, Keenan captain and junior michael Koller said he believes his team has what it takes to get back to the championship. 
“our defense is definitely pret­ty strong,” Koller said. “we have a lot of returnees and with that comes really good leadership. we’ve been to the championship several times during the last few seasons, so we want to keep that tradition going.” 
Their opponent, Keough, knows all about interhall cham­pionships, having hoisted the trophy two years back. Keough captain and junior matthew mooney said he believes they too have the necessary experience. 
“we have a fair amount of re­turning guys, especially within the running back, safety and of­fensive line positions,” mooney said. “we only run a few plays, but we know we can run them well.” 
both captains pointed to the history of even contests between these two halls. For Keenan, Koller said getting off to a good start will be the key. 
“we’ve had trouble with Keough in the past, so we need to come out firing strong,” Koller said. “establishing the run game and playing shutdown defense will be important, because [Keough] usually has a pretty strong offense.” 
For Keough, mooney said he believes big plays could spell the difference. 
“The key to me is who will make the explosive plays that can change the game,” mooney said. 
The game kicks off at 3:30 p.m. sunday at stepan Fields. 
McGlinn  vs. Pasquerilla  
East  
mcglinn  and  pasquerilla  

east kick off their seasons with what is sure to be an interesting matchup on sunday at 5 p.m. 
pasquerilla east’s strong re­turning defense faces a mcglinn offense led by senior captain megan Fabry. Junior pyros receiver and captain noelle gooding says her team boasts another weapon in the form of their camaraderie. 
“i think [our sense of com­munity] gives us an advantage in comparison to other teams because [it] builds our sense of spirit and as a team makes us more cohesive,” gooding said. 
both teams have been work­ing hard on the practice fields preparing for this matchup, but gooding said both will contend with the uncertainties of open­ing day. 
“it’s everybody’s first game, so we don’t really know what to ex­pect,” gooding said. “we’re defi­nitely going to be working out some kinks, but we’re just going to try to go out there and do what we’ve been practicing, give ev­erybody some time on the field and just set a good precedent for the whole season.” 
despite the unpredictability of the first game, gooding said there is one thing she is certain about. 
“The whole point of it is just for us to get used to it and just get back into the swing of things,” gooding said. “i am absolutely confident that we will have a great performance no matter the outcome.” 
mcglinn and pasquerilla east will be in action on sunday at 5 
p.m. at labar practice complex in what is sure to be an impres­sive start to both team’s seasons. 
O’Neill vs. Dillon 
with the beginning of fall comes the first weekend of in­terhall football, pitting o’neill against dillon on the men’s side. 
o’neill junior Keenan bailey said the angry mob are confi­dent going into the game. 
“we’ve gone all in, you’re go­ing to see sunday,” bailey said. “we don’t run the ball. we are small. we sling the ball around to our little freshmen and let them dance. it’s all or nothing for o’neill. sink or swim.” 
o’neill co-captain, junior conor colpoys, shows an over­all positive and welcoming attitude. 
“padded football as an in­terhall sport is something notre dame has that only a few schools do, and i’m excited to do it,” colpoys said. “it’s a great way for guys within the hall and throughout the halls to meet each other.” 
on the other side of the ball, dillon sophomore captain John walsh talked about his team’s star players and said the big red will bounce back from their 1-3 season last fall. 
“we are led by a freshman quarterback, michael cahill, who can really sling it,” walsh said. “o’neill is the first team in our way. we are looking forward to a great game and starting on our road to the playoffs.” 
o’neill and dillon will lace up their cleats and strap up their helmets when they take to the field at 3:30 p.m. at stepan Fields. 
Walsh vs. Breen-Phillips 
walsh will take on breen­phillips at labar Fields, with both teams looking forward to the start of the season on sunday. 
walsh is looking to make a return to the playoffs this year after being ousted in the first round last season, while breen­phillips is looking to turn their program around and improve from their one-win season a year ago. 
sophomore breen-phillips captain megan resnik says she feels confident her team will be ready to play on sunday. 
“we are going to go out there and play our best,” resnik said. “we have some great plays to run and the team has been working hard.” 

breen-phillips’ offensive at­tack will be led by sophomore quarterback Katie sedor. rensik described sedor as a very ath­letic player who could provide big plays for the babes this year. 
The wild women’s success in the game could depend on how well they are able to shut down sedor. 
Junior walsh captain courtney davis said her team is looking to enjoy the game on sunday. 
“we’re expecting to have fun out on the field and for everyone on the team to give it their all,” davis said. 
davis also said she trusts head coach chris schleckser will have a great game plan ready to go for sunday. schleckser is in his third year as the head coach of the wild women. he was described as a “flag football expert” by davis, who credits him for much of walsh’s success. 
The wild women and the babes meet on sunday at 6 p.m. at labar Fields. 
Lyons vs. Ryan 
lyons faces ryan this sunday for their first game of the season and the first matchup between the two teams in the last three years. 
senior ryan captain and re­ceiver erin clark played in the stadium with her wildcats team as a freshman and said she is itching for another chance. 
“we are always trying to be as competitive as possible,” clark said. “we are a team that takes it very seriously, so that is always our goal: trying to make that final push to get to the championship.” 
lions captain and junior tight end melissa hoelting said her team comes from a different background of flag football at notre dame. 
“lyons is bad about having an athletic presence,” hoelting said. “last year, we only won one game. This year will be good. we care a lot more. our coaches are there and committed to the game, and we’ve been having more practices.” 
both captains said they rely on fresh faces and new quarter­backs to be a positive influence on the field. 
“we took quite a few freshmen so a lot of young blood,” clark said. “but i think it will push re­turning players to be better, and i am looking forward to seeing how they bring a new dynamic to the team. 
“it will definitely be interest­ing filling the quarterback posi­tion because our quarterback is abroad and left some big shoes to fill, but i think our new quarter­back is really going to step up. we are looking for big things.” 
hoelting said the new ryan 
see inTerhall PAGE 10 



Volleyball 
conTinued From page 16 
clearly is still room for im­provement, and these early season tournaments are helping the team see that, dilfer said. 
The difference between last year and this year, ac­cording to dilfer, is that the players have bought into the philosophy of the new coaching staff under first-year head coach Jim mclaughlin. “i think we’ve completely bought into the process and the system this year,” dilfer said. 
“we realize that results aren’t necessarily immedi­ate. we aren’t going to change completely overnight. we’re completely invested, and that is translating into suc­cess on the floor,” dilfer said. “The coaching staff is great and seem to be able to get the best out of us, and so far it seems to be working.” 
bonneval said she agreed. 
“[we need to maintain] focus throughout the entire match and then also play our game the whole time as op­posed to playing not as well because of the team that we’re playing at that time,” bonneval said. “and then just need to hit our shots like we practiced all week. we don’t want to let the team we’re playing dictate what we do, and i think we’re ready for this weekend.” 
arguably the most im­portant test this weekend will be the final match against purdue, when the irish will look to buck their recent trend against their cross-state rivals. The boilermakers have claimed three of the last four match­es and are 9-2 overall at home against notre dame. moreover, the irish were swept by the boilermakers in straight sets almost ex­actly one year ago, sept. 20 in west lafayette. 

bonneval, the lone senior on the team this year, said she tries to use her age to her advantage both on and off the court. 
“it’s definitely a little weird just cause there’s so many younger kids that are below me and that are ready to take my spot,” bonneval said. “i think the biggest thing is motivation and having such talented underclassmen def­initely gives me that.” 
before the start of the sea­son, notre dame made one of its primary goals winning the acc, according to dilfer. 
“The acc is obviously a very good volleyball confer­ence,” dilfer said. “all of our preseason matches are im­portant for us. This weekend, we have another opportu­nity to improve and prepare for the matches down the road. we’ve seen a huge im­provement both in practice and in matches. our goal is to win the acc and to be the very best we can be this year. we’re trying to get bet­ter every single match. we’re just kind of concerned with getting better every week and every weekend and to move forward from there.” 

The irish will use this fi­nal nonconference slate of matches to prepare for the start of conference play next weekend, when they host both louisville and Florida state. 
hoping to continue their early-season success, the irish kick off the purdue boiler box challenge at noon Friday against ball state be­fore turning to south dakota in the evening. They will wrap up the tournament with their match against purdue at 8 p.m. saturday at mackey arena. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 
W Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
“if you look at the top 25, there are seven teams from the acc. it’s the toughest conference in the country,” romagnolo said. “you’re talk­ing about having to face top teams almost every weekend, so that’s not easy. 
“we want to win every game, so i don’t put weight on [saturday’s match] just because it’s the first acc game.” 
clemson’s most remarkable win yet this season was a 2-1 takedown of no. 16 south carolina, which was ranked no. 8 at the time. 
both defenses have been stingy this year, with notre dame allowing three goals through eight games while the Tigers have been scored on four times in seven games. 
romagnolo said she ex­pected the irish attack to measure up against the Tigers’ defenders. 
“we possess pretty well, so what i hope to see is that we’re able to salvage our possession game and create opportunities in the box,” romagnolo said. “we need to be able to match their physi­cal presence and have com­posure when we have the ball but still have that defensive toughness.” 
notre dame’s ability to score was a question enter­ing the season, as neither of 2014’s top goal-scorers are on the roster now. however, romagnolo said she’s been impressed with players stepping up to fill those roles and meshing as a group. 
“at the beginning of the year, you’re always watching for new leaders to emerge, and we’ve had that happen so far this year,” she said. “we’ve also started to play together as a team and limit the shots opponents are able to take. 
“it’s early, only eight games in, so we have to continue to build, but i’m happy with it so far.” 
among those new leaders is freshman forward natalie Jacobs, who wasted little time acclimating to the col­lege game. her four goals are second-most on the team behind only senior forward anna maria gilbertson. she’s also just a couple of goals ahead of junior midfielder sandra yu, who is playing in her first games since an acl injury in 2013. 
The defense, meanwhile, has been led by acclaimed seniors Katie naughton and cari roccaro. naughton’s performances against indiana and michigan earned her acc defensive player of the week honors last week as the irish earned clean sheets in both games. 
The irish will have to rely on all of those players on saturday and beyond as the elite programs of the ncaa loom on the irish schedule. 
notre dame begins its acc journey at 7 p.m. saturday at riggs Field in clemson, south carolina. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 

that week in the country, XC so whenever you host a conTinued From page 16 meet at home, you always 
this year and will take place on the notre dame golf course. The second event the irish host is the Joe piane notre dame invitational, which is the next race on the sched­ule for notre dame after Friday’s race. 
“whenever you have a meet at home, you hope to have a positive experi­ence,” said sparks. “we host this meet and the notre dame invitational meet, which is the premier collegiate event probably want to put your best foot forward. it is a unique experience for us host­ing the national catholic championship with 30 of the 40 teams here com­peting are all division i schools. we’re proud to show off our university to all of these schools com­ing here. 
“it’s great to have it on campus. we go to a lot of cross country meets that are not on a university campus [where] we’re just there to run. when ath­letes come to notre dame to compete, they’re truly coming to notre dame to compete. They’re right on campus, with the golden dome in the background, and it’s a unique experi­ence for them, so we like to roll out the red carpet for anyone who comes here.” 
The women’s race at the 36th annual national catholic championships is set to begin at 4:15 p.m. Friday, while the men will race at 5 p.m. p.m. Friday, while the men will race at 5 p.m. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 





M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
“To be honest, every game in the acc is a test, but this is certainly one of the biggest.” 
The Tar heels (4-0-1, acc 1-0), unlike the irish, last played a game week ago against virginia Tech, so clark said he expects they’ll be well rested. clark said while it’s going to be tough to play on such a quick turn­around, his players will be more than ready to approach the challenge head-on. 
“one of hardest things for us as we rebound is that north carolina didn’t have a game this week,” clark said. “i think they played like a week ago. so they haven’t played for a week, where­as obviously we had the saturday and the Tuesday game. our guys are fit, and i think they’ve responded pretty well, so i think we’ll be oK. They’re looking forward to this game.” 
north carolina advanced to the quarterfinals of the ncaa tournament last sea­son before losing to ucla on penalty kicks. The Tar heels ranked as the country’s high­est scoring offense, accumu­lating the most goals and points nationally as well as the third-most assists by the end of the season. 
This season, north carolina is currently tied for 39th in offense, scoring 1.8 goals per contest, which is well below where it finished a season ago. regardless, it is ranked the third-best team in the country, and clark said this is going to be one of the biggest challenges of the season. 
“i love it, and our guys love playing big games,” clark said. “That’s one of the rea­sons you play. To be chal­lenged in big matches. That’s what you dream about. so the guys will all be wanting to play in this game. There’s no one that doesn’t want to play in this game.” 
while the irish would rather forget what happened against Xavier, some of the players said they think there are things they can learn from that loss that can be used to beat north carolina. 
“we definitely created chances [against Xavier],” se­nior midfielder evan panken said. “we just didn’t take them yesterday, but like they say, you have to have a short memory. you try not to dwell on it but have confidence be­cause we’re all good players, and we know we’ll be able to take those chances when they come again.” 

against Xavier, panken led the irish with three shots on goal but failed to convert any of them into scores. so far this season, north carolina has allowed two goals com­bined. They conceded one goal against william & mary and Tulsa and have shut out the other three opponents they’ve faced. 
of note is the fact espnu has decided to broadcast the game, the only regular season acc matchup the network has decided to broadcast this season. despite the na­tional coverage, notre dame is confident its players won’t fall victim to the nerves that come along with playing in such a high-profile game. 
“we all know each other pretty well,” senior mid­fielder connor Klekota said. “we’re not a group that gets too hyped about a game. we realize it’s a big game, but we also realize it’s just another soccer game. we’ve played thousands of these in our lives.” 
The irish will kick off their matchup against the Tar heels on Friday at 5 p.m. at Fetzer Field in chapel hill, north carolina. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2015 | The observer 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 
57 Uniform 58 Bag lady? 59 Less often seen 60 Deep black 61 Twist 62 America’s Cup 
trophies, e.g. 
DOWN 
1 Broadway musical with two exclamation points in its name 
2 They might have bones to pick 
3 Like characters in a script 
4 Some wetlands wildlife 
5 Miyazaki film genre 
6 Hosp. record 
7 Creates an account? 
8 Fast-food debut of 1981 
9 Go along effortlessly 
10 Vending machine drink 
11 What to do when you have nothing left to say? 
12 Peace Nobelist Cassin 
13 Dance-pop trio Right Said ___ 
16 Symbol of happiness 
20 Off the mark 
23 English Channel feeder 
27 Bad line readings 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: Think before you react. don’t jump to conclusions or make assumptions. Focus on yourself and how you can make improvements that will ensure your happiness and well-being. strive for perfection as well as living within your means. don’t allow emotions to take over or hinder your ability to get things done. your numbers are 5, 13, 23, 26, 32, 38, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): stay grounded, even if someone tries to upset you emotionally. Focus on your personal needs and doing things that you find exciting. love is on the rise, and avoiding feelings of jealousy will keep an important relationship running smoothly. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): get things out in the open if you are having a problem with someone. Knowing where you stand and what you can expect will help you make better choices. a day trip will bring you clarity and open up your options. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t follow someone without questioning what’s in it for you. make positive changes to the way you live and who you hang with and it will be easier to break the habits and routines that cost you financially and emotionally. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): move things around to suit your needs. get out in your community and see if there is something you can do to bring about positive changes. don’t let someone’s negativity get you down. remember, actions speak louder than words. make a difference. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you’ll inspire the people you talk to today. your expressive and engaging way of presenting your ideas and plans will draw someone special to your side. an opportunity must not be overlooked. romance is highlighted.  

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): you’ll be able to see the big picture, but that doesn’t mean you should neglect the fine details that require a little more attention. ask questions and challenge anyone who you feel may be offering false information. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): your involvement in matters that concern you will give you a platform to use your skills in order to make a difference. romance is encouraged and will help improve your personal life. a change of scenery will make your life better. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): don’t trust anyone with your money, your possessions or your ideas. Try to develop a project by yourself or with someone you know you can trust. a change to your routine will make your life better. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): put your time and effort into self-improvements, not into trying to change others. not everyone will be overjoyed with the changes you make, but that will make it easier for you to weed out who you want in your circle and who you don’t. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Focus on the people in your life who mean the most to you. make a difference to someone who has something to offer in return. sharing will bring you satisfaction and open up options that you never considered in the past. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Tell the people you love exactly how you feel, 
and you will get an interesting response that will warm your heart. love is 
on the rise, and children and family affairs will lead to greater unity and 
prosperity. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): look out for your own interests or someone will take advantage of you. make changes to your home that will give you greater freedom to follow creative pursuits. an opportunity to make money from home looks promising. 

Birthday Baby: You are outgoing, entertaining and farsighted. You are 
unique and compassionate. 

JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

ACROSS 
1 Where Union Pacific is headquartered 
6 Chinese ___ (popular bonsai trees) 
10 Medieval drudge 
14 Sister of Castor and Pollux 
15 Fighter getting a leg up? 
17 Site of Tiberius’ Villa Jovis 
18 Page on the stage 
19 Comfortable 
21 Taking place (in) 
22 One-point throws 
24 Appliance sound 
25 Checkers, for instance 
26 Play critic? 
28 Hype 
32 Onetime Arapaho foe 
33 Grooming tool 
36 Vietnamese holiday 
37 O-shaped 
38 Priest in I Samuel 
39 Dread Zeppelin or the Fab Faux 
41 Sports div. that awards the George Halas Trophy 
42 Gold Cup venue 
43 Quote qualification 
44 Coin of many countries 
45 Pretension 
48 Get more inventory 
50 Country whose flag is known as the Saltire 
54 Bubble handler? 
55 Foundation devoted to good works? 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  
19  20  21  
22  23  24  
25  26  27  28  29  30  31  
32  33  34  35  
36  37  38  
39  40  41  
42  43  44  
45  46  47  48  49  
50  51  52  53  54  
55  56  57  
58  59  
60  61  62  

PUZZLE BY PATRICK BERRY 
29 Launched the 40 Gondoliers, e.g. first round 44 Like a poli sci 
30 Narcissistic one major, maybe31 Hand-held “Star 
Trek” devices 46 Woodworking 33 Sea creature tools 
whose name 
means “sailor” 47 Underhanded 
schemer
34 Huxtable family mom 
49 American 35 Surgical cutter Airlines hub 

50 Drink served in a masu 
51 Zodiac symbol 
52 Palindromic man 
53 “My man!” 
56 Plaintive pet sound 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

SUDOKU | The mepham group 



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

city      state Zip address 

MEN’S SOCCER 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

ND readies for matchup 
Irish travel to 
against No. 3 Tar Heels 
West Lafayette 
By MANNY De JESUS 
sports writer 
no. 2 notre dame seeks to move past its first loss of the sea­son and turn its focus toward its matchup against no. 3 north carolina on Friday. 
The irish (4-1-1, 1-0 acc) fell to Xavier, 1-0, on Tuesday at alumni stadium, their first loss since virginia ended their season last year in the third round of the ncaa tournament. despite that blemish on its record, irish head coach bobby clark said his team understands the implications this matchup carries far out­weigh what it’s worth to dwell on the loss. 
“This is the biggest game in the collegiate calendar this week,” clark said. “currently, if you go by monday’s ranking, we’re no. 2, and they’re no. 3. we might not be two after Tuesday’s loss, but it’s still a big acc match, a national match. it’s a good test to go to a place like Fetzer Field and play a game there. it’s a challenge good teams love, and this will be a test. 
see m soccer PAGE 14 

By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
The irish are gearing up for the start of atlantic coast conference play next week­end, but before that hap­pens, they have one final test they must undergo. 
starting Friday, notre dame (4-5) begins its last nonconference tournament of the season when the team travels to west lafayette, indiana, for the purdue boiler box challenge. 
The irish will look to build off their successful home stand, which featured vic­tories over mississippi state and eastern Kentucky and a respectable showing against top-ranked penn state. 
now the irish turn their attention to ball state (6-5), south dakota (4-6) and no. 22 purdue (6-2). 
coming off a strong per­
formance at the golden 
dome invitational, in-
MACKENZI MARINOVICH | The Observer 
cluding hitting a career-
high 16 kills in the win 
Junior defenseman Matthew Habrowski readies a pass in a 1-0 loss 

to Xaiver on Sept. 15 at Alumni Stadium. over mississippi state, 
senior outside hitter haley bonneval put last weekend into perspective. 
“we were able to learn a lot from all our matches,” bonneval said. “being in practice this week, we fo­cused on some of the stuff that we didn’t do well last weekend and are hoping to avoid them this weekend.” 
co-captain and sopho­more maddie dilfer echoed what bonneval said about last weekend. 
“i think every time we touch the floor, we’re getting more confidence and learn­ing how to play together more, so our confidence in­creases every time,” dilfer said. “we had some success last weekend. we probably could’ve taken penn state a little further. we hope to use what we learned last week and apply it at purdue.” 
Though the irish already have nearly as many wins (four) as they did throughout all of last season (six), there 
see volleyball PAGE 12 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

runners prepare for home meet 
By RYAN KLAUS 
sports writer 
notre dame returns to action this weekend at the national catholic championship, the second event of its 2015 season. 
The national catholic championship follows the season-opening crusader open, where the irish had runner-up finishes for both the men’s and wom­en’s teams. at the catholic championship last season, the notre dame women took first and the men finished in second. 
“we’re running for the win,” notre dame head coach matt sparks said. “i know last year, for the men, we underestimated the competition at this meet, and now we’re coming into things with a little bit of a chip on our shoulder on something to prove. a year ago, we weren’t quite sure what to expect with a new coach, staff and team. 
“on the women’s side, there will be a lot of new faces. [senior] molly seidel won’t be racing because she is getting ready for some of the later season competi­tion, so we will be looking for freshmen to probably fill in four of our top-five spots. we’re looking for them to work together and push each other toward a team win.” 
in the season-opening crusader open, the irish were led by sophomore calvin Kraft, who finished in fourth, and junior chris marco, who took seventh. in the women’s race, sopho­more sydney Foreman was the runner-up while junior elli brady and sophomore Kaitlin Frei also had placed in the top 10. as a team, both the men and women fin­ished behind purdue. The crusader open was hosted by valparaiso, which placed third. 
The national catholic championship is one of two events notre dame will host 
see Xc PAGE 12 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Notre Dame to start ACC play against No. 11 Tigers 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 

no. 10 notre dame es­caped nonconference play relatively unscathed, but its biggest challenge of 2015 so far awaits when it visits no. 11 clemson at riggs Field on saturday. 
The road matchup against the Tigers (6-0-1) kicks off the acc schedule for the irish (7-0-1) and is followed by games against no. 1 virginia and no. 2 Florida state next week. 
notre dame passed its most recent tests with ease, shutting out big Ten-contenders indiana and michigan over the week­end as it geared up for the Tigers, its first ranked op­ponent of the year. 
irish head coach Theresa romagnolo acknowledged the challenge of playing in the acc but said the clemson game doesn’t carry any extra pressure. 
see w soccer PAGE 12 

MICHAEL YU | The Observer 

Senior forward Anna Maria Gilberston gains control of the ball in a 2-1 victory against Santa Clara on Aug. 28 at Alumni Stadium. 




