The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 9 | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Supreme Court justice visits campus 
Sotomayor shares Supreme Court insights, advice 
By CATHERINE OWERS and CLARE KOSSLER 
associate news editors 
u.s. supreme court Justice sonia sotomayor discussed a wide variety of issues, including court procedure and diversity, in a public conversation with nbc news correspondent anne Thompson at leighton hall in debartolo performing arts center (dpac). students and fac­ulty from across the university attended the discussion, which was moderated by u.s. court of appeals Judge ann claire williams. 
sotomayor, who  williams de­scribed as a “dreamer of big, im­possible dreams,” said the day she accepted her nomination to the court was a profound mo­ment in her life. when entering the room behind president 
see soTomayor PAGE 5 



Students react to conversation with Justice Sotomayor 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
news editor 
braving this week’s heat wave, seemingly hundreds of students waited in a line that wrapped around the debartolo performing arts center (dpac) last night, hoping to be one of the few students who would secure a seat at an event featuring supreme court Justice sonia sotomayor when general ad­mission tickets were released at 6 p.m. 
“we heard the line was go­ing to be out the door by 3 
p.m.,”  junior  leah  billion  
said.  
Though  perhaps  slightly  

exaggerated, the prediction warranted some merit; junior John mccready said that by the time he arrived at 4:30 
see reacTions PAGE 3 



nd architecture grad designs papal visit venue 
for [me], as a student at the and the inclusion of ele-shape of the site.” on classical and traditional 
By CLARE KOSSLER 

associate news editor time, to contribute to this ments such as an altar, the Taking into account a va-architecture. incredible, historic event,” pope’s chair, a lectern and riety of practical consid-salden, who also served as 
Just weeks before receiv-lenahan said. an ambo. Thus, lenahan erations – foremost among lenahan’s graduate advisor, ing his master’s degree from lenahan said he specifi-said he had considerable these the estimated crowd said lenahan came to notre the notre dame school of cally tailored his design to freedom to experiment with size of 1.5 million – lenahan dame “eager to expand his architecture earlier this reflect the mission of the ideas for his design. said he eventually decided understanding of classical year, James lenahan learned world meeting of Families, “it was a little bit of a chal-to elevate the sanctuary in architecture.” he had won the papal 
lenge because we had ideas order to make it more visible. “[he] felt a passion for tra­
sanctuary design contest, 
a competition held by the 
archdiocese of philadelphia 
to design the sanctuary in 
which pope Francis will cel­
ebrate mass during his first 
visit to the united states lat-of what was required for the he also said he settled dition and for doing good 


competition, but other than upon a traditional style for things for communities, 
the basic elements, it was his design, in keeping with whether that be within an 
kind of open-ended in terms the classical façade of the institution or a neighbor-
of what they might be look-philadelphia museum of art hood or a broader communi­
ing for,” he said. “in some which will provide the back-ty,” salden said. “he is a very 
sense, in design that can be drop for the mass. unassuming person, very 
challenging, just in terms of having a completely blank slate.” 
receiving little guidance from the competition itself, lenahan said he turned to previous examples of large papal masses — such as pope John paul ii’s 1979 mass in chicago — for inspiration. he said his ultimate goal was to create “something that would be harmonious with what the site was, the 
“The classical has a great deal of beauty that can en­lighten the sense of the sa­cred to a mass even when it’s an outdoor setting,” he said. 
according to samantha salden, assistant dean of the graduate programs in the school of architecture, lenahan’s implementation of a classical design was particularly fitting because of the notre dame archi­tecture program’s emphasis quiet, but very talented.” 
in addition to the prize money associated with the award, salden said lenahan will receive countless ben­efits from winning the contest. 
“it’s quite prestigious,” she said. “The fact that it is go­ing to have an international audience, not just a national audience, with an event of 
see papal PAGE 3 
er this month. 
lenahan’s submission — only recently announced to the public as the winning entry — will inspire the fi­nal design of the sanctuary to be constructed in front of the philadelphia museum of art for the closing mass of the eighth world meeting of Families on sept. 27. 
“it was just an incredible honor to have been selected and a really amazing thing which according to a press release by the archdiocese of philadelphia is “to strength­en the sacred bonds of fam­ily across the globe and highlight its intrinsic value to the good of society.” 
There were relatively few contest requirements, and the majority of the regula­tions concerned the physical dimensions of the sanctuary 






ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                   Jack rooney cristina gutierrez Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 


Assistant Managing Editors 

(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 


Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite part of football weekend? 


Amy Liang 
sophomore 
off campus 

“having all of campus to myself.” 

Caleb Johnson 
junior off campus 
“concert on the steps of bond hall before the game.” 

Julianna Yee 
sophomore pasquerilla east hall 
“The football part.” 



Lucy Jones 
sophomore 

pasquerilla east hall 
“The atmosphere of the whole campus.” 

Patrick Tingleff 
sophomore 
alumni hall 

“The drum circle.” 

Utkarsh Sonkiya 
sophomore 
Zahm house 

“hearing the bells.” 
EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 

The Australian national rugby union team practices on Notre Dame’s campus, preparing for a test match against the USA Eagles Saturday night in Chicago. The Wallabies are ranked third in the world and will compete in the 2015 Rugby World Cup. 


Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
katie galioto Zach klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com rachel o’grady hunter mcdaniel kathryn marshall alaina anderson 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
lucy du kelly mcgarry 
Photo Viewpoint 

Changing Mindset Heaney, Place and Football vs. Texas Men’s Soccer Labor Day 
Zach llorens Tabitha ricketts 
Hesburgh Center for Property Notre Dame Stadium  Alumni Stadium Campus-wide International Studies Hesburgh Library 7:30 p.m.-11 p.m. 2 p.m.-4 p.m. All day 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 4 p.m.-5:30 p.m. Irish take on the Notre Dame vs. Adminstrative offices 
Corrections 

Lecture with Guatemalan Memorial lecture by Longhorns in the first University of Alabama closed, all classes in 
The observer regards itself as ambassador. Christopher Morash. game of the season. at Birmingham. session. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Artful Yoga Men’s Soccer vs. USF Changing American Rejoice! Mass Intramural 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Snite Museum of Art Alumni Stadium Voter in 2016 Dillon Hall Registration 
however, recognize that we will make 
4 p.m.-5 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Snite Museum of Art   8 p.m.-9 p.m. Rolfs Sports Center 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Yoga among Transitory Irish take on USF 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Mass rooted in the 6 a.m.-11 p.m. Tuesday. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Waterscapes in Mike Berticelli Part of Saturday African American Register online for 
we can correct our error. 

exhibition. Memorial Tournament. Scholars Series. tradition. intramural teams. 

ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2015 | The observer 

Psychology professor wins prestigious book award 
By JP GSCHWIND 
news writer 
The american psychological association has given notre dame professor of psychol­ogy darcia narvaez the 2015 william James book award for her book “neurobiology and 
the  development of  human  
morality:  evolution,  culture  
and wisdom.”  

named after the renowned philosopher and psychologist, the william James book award recognizes an outstanding work that incorporates “diverse subfields of psychology and re­lated disciplines” under a “co­herent framework,” according to the american psychological association website. narvaez’s book examines the effect of early childhood development on the formation of moral char­acter and builds upon research in different fields including an­thropology, neuroscience and psychology. 
narvaez said she had long held an interest in the relation­ship between morality and psychology and was inspired to write her book after witnessing social problems she attributed to negative early childhood experiences. 
“if you stress the baby out, they’re going to become more self-centered because they have to protect themselves as they learn from a young age,” narvaez said. 

narvaez calls this problem “undercare” and said it is ram­pant in modern society, ex­acerbated by technology and the social practices that limit a child’s personal contact with adults. This lack of personal in­teraction at young age, narvaez said, can lead to personalities that are overly self-protective and lack empathy for others. 
“when you don’t get that as a baby, it really undermines your development in ways we can now map,” narvaez said. 
she also said this personal­ity formation is often subcon­scious, and many people are unaware of its effect. 
“we now know in psychology that implicit systems govern most of our behavior,” narvaez said. 
narvaez said the modern phenomenon of undercare contrasts with the way chil­dren were historically raised in small hunter-gatherer tribes, where young children were constantly attended to by par­ents and other adults. however, she said modern parenting increasingly includes leaving children by themselves for ex­tended periods of time, often with technology to capture their attention and keep them 
paid adverTisemenT 
busy. additionally, breastfeed­ing is much less common since the advent of mass produced baby formula. 
“we evolved to be carried pretty much all the time in the first couple of years of life and to be physically touching some­body because that develops the brain well, as we know from animal studies,” narvaez said 
according to narvaez, the potential consequences of this shift in child-raising can include anxiety, depression, lack of social acuity, lack of empathy and even aggression. narvaez said children who lack proper care often become “trig­ger happy,” or prone to feeling vulnerable and lashing out at others. 
“when the stress response is activated in your body it draws the blood flow away from your higher order thinking so then your moral reactions become self-protective,” narvaez said. 
narvaez said research pro­vides examples of societ­ies composed of people with poor childhood development that are more inclined to re­spond to issues with violence. ultimately, narvaez said, un­dercare can lead to significant cultural problems. 
Contact JP Gschwind at  jgschwin@nd.edu 

Reactions 
conTinued From page 1 
p.m. there were nearly 50 people in front of him in line. 
sophomore emmy schoenbauer was the last person in the general admis­sion line who was able to re­ceive a ticket. 
“we booked it over here … we got here at 5:15 or so, but we didn’t get tickets until 6:45,” she said. “There were more people behind me than there were in front of me. The line was all the way out­side. There were hundreds, hundreds of people.” 
Those who were unable to get tickets in the concert hall had the opportunity to watch the event live streamed in the lobby and in decio Theatre. 
sophomore cameron 
“She’s very open and very kind. I liked the way she came up to us. ... She came up to the overflow and shook peoples’ hands, and that’s just not normal for a speaker. Especially one of her importance.” 
Cameron Engel 
sophomore 
engel,  one  of  those  who  
watched  the  event  from  
the  overflow  area,  said  

sotomayor came out before the program and began to address the people unable to get seats. 
“she’s very open and very kind. i liked the way she came up to us … she came up to the overflow and shook peoples’ hands, and that’s just not normal for a speak­er. especially one of her im­portance, i would say,” engel said. 
other students echoed this sentiment; billion said she found herself impressed by sotomayor’s ability to relate to her audience. 

Papal 
conTinued From page 1 
this scale is hugely grati­fying for Jim and will serve him well for years to come.” 
and beyond its personal impact on lenahan, salden said the award is signifi­cant because it highlights the ability of architectur­al design to alter people’s perceptions. 
“architecture is a vibrant and important part of our everyday experience,” she said. “what we do is not just about putting up structures that are expressive of our­selves personally, but to be a great architect you have 
“everyone in the room feels as if she’s speaking direct­ly to them,” she said. “her speaking style and what she has to say is very intimate, but also universal, so it feels like she connects with every­one on a very personal level even when she’s speaking to a crowd of so many people.” 
senior elizabeth anthony said she had not been par­ticularly familiar with sotomayor prior to going to the event, but she found great insight in what the Justice had to say. 
“i thought she was very ar­ticulate and gave really good advice,” she said. “i was re­ally impressed just by how personable she was and how honest she was. i think my favorite part was her discus­sion of how personal views play into decisions and how it really is about the law, and i thought that was really awesome.” 
after barely getting her ticket, schoenbauer said the experience was “incredible.” 
“The way that she ar­ticulated things that i had thought before and things that i knew i wanted to hear from somebody in the supreme court but that i had never heard somebody say before, she articulated that very well,” she said. 
while junior rachel ganson said she enjoyed what sotomayor talked about, she stressed more broadly the importance of taking advantage of op­portunities like this one on campus. 
“i just think it’s a really awesome experience for un­dergraduate students — even if you aren’t interested in law 
— to come hear someone as prestigious and influential as a supreme court Justice,” ganson said. “i think no mat­ter what your political views are, it’s really insightful to get to speak to someone and to hear what they have to say. and not hear it through vari­ous media sources, but to hear it from her directly.” 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 
to be able to respond to the community that is using this structure, this building.” 
like salden, lenahan said he recognized the award to be a formative milestone in his career as an architect. 
“it was a great opportunity that was offered based on my studies at notre dame, and i feel fortunate that i had some of the tools through studying there that allowed me to participate,” lenahan said. 
“it is incredibly humbling and i just hope that [my de­sign] will be a successful set­ting for this event.” 
Contact Clare Kossler at  ckossler@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2015 | The observer 




Sotomayor 
conTinued From page 1 
barack obama and vice president Joe biden, she said she felt a sense of detachment from reality. 
“and at that moment, i felt like my spirit had left my body,” sotomayor said. “i was looking at myself from up there … i couldn’t connect with my emo­tions and i knew, ultimately, that the reason for that was if i did, i wouldn’t be able to do what i needed to do: to give a speech. i thought that feel­ing would end that day, but it lasted for about a year and a half. i watched myself doing things that i would have never thought possible.” 
when Thompson, notre dame class of 1979, asked how justices reach decisions on court cases, sotomayor said the process relies heav­ily on personal interaction and discussion. 
“a lot of the initial decision making is personal. generally speaking, the first time we get to talk about a case is oral ar­gument,” she said. “Through our individual questions our colleagues are understanding each other. we’re exploring the strength and weaknesses of the case through our questions.” 
The justices then hold a con­ference amongst themselves and disclose their opinions and reasoning, sotomayor said. 
“so the chief [justice] will start, and his is usually the most forceful explanation. he’ll come up and say, ‘well, this is the way that i’m voting, but i’m a little bit unsure, and this is what’s still troubling me,’” she said. “he also explains why some counterarguments don’t convince him. what happens is then we go down in descend­ing order, around the room, in descending order of seniority. … by the end of the discussion, we all sort of know what each is thinking.” 
sotomayor acknowledged that while the justices can hold responsibility to society. … but we also have a very deep abiding passion about the constitution, our system of government, about our respect for the law, which leads us to believe that some things can’t be compromised.” 

when asked what the in­clusion of women as justices brings to the court, sotomayor said the court started ruling on cases that supported wom­en’s rights. 
“it was only when sandra 
“We disagree with each other, but we do listen. We try to persuade each other, and often we fail. The challenge is to make friends who don’t agree with you, who try to talk you out of your mistakes, who try to change your mind.” 
Sonia Sotomayor Supreme Court Justice 
conflicting opinions, the jus­tices’ commitment to uphold­ing the constitution unites them. 
“many of us have similar ap­proaches to constitutional in­terpretation, but the fact that we have similar approaches doesn’t always mean we come to a similar result. and there is no one who is shy on the court about either expressing them­selves or who has a failure of courage to vote for a position that is unexpected,” she said. “i think every justice on the court is devoted to the court. each one of us cares deeply about the court’s institutional 
paid adverTisemenT 

day o’connor and ruth bader ginsburg joined the court that we had the first case that found gender discrimination that was unacceptable, and that was the virginia military school case [united states 
v. virginia]. before that, the supreme court had almost routinely never voted in favor of a women’s issue,” she said. “a lot of people don’t remem­ber or realize that. The court might have been a slight step ahead of the society when it came to race inequality; it was ten steps behind society when it came to gender inequality. i’m not saying that it was only the presence of women, but i am saying that the presence of women does change the con­versation a little bit. … There is a difference in sensitivity in the way you address things when you have some diversity on the court.” 

sotomayor said that since her appointment to the supreme court she has realized the hu­manity of the people involved in making history. 
“we are ordinary human beings, with strengths, with weaknesses, with foibles, with courage, and sometimes fear. when we get disappointed in our elected officials, often it’s because we see the human side of them,” she said. “That doesn’t mean we should re­spect them less but that you should respect them because they’re trying to do jobs that are hard. 
“in my explaining to you what the process of the court is, what the process of the law is, i hope you come away with a respect for the people who are trying their best, human beings that are trying their best, to do what’s right. and that doesn’t mean that they always succeed according to your judgment, because there’s going to be court opinions that you agree with and that you disagree with. but it is a product of peo­ple trying to do what’s right. i will hope that will lead people to less disillusionment, to more respect for the court instead of less, and more respect for the people who have the opportu­nity to try to do the right thing.” 
The crowd was taken aback when sotomayor responded “no” after Thompson asked if she felt as if she “belonged” on the court. 
“i am different and yet i’m not because we’re all engaged in the same enterprise. we’re all trying to come to the right de­cisions together, and we’re all part of that conversation,” she said. “To that extent, i belong. but will i ever quite feel that i have their same background, their same understanding of the world that i operate on? not really.” 
sotomayor said she has learned to respond to differenc­es as an opportunity to learn something about new institu­tions, people and situations. 
“For me, it’s very, very impor­tant not to think of differences as good or bad, but just differ­ent, and understanding what moves people to the choices they make,” she said. 
after her discussion with Thompson, sotomayor re­sponded to questions posed by notre dame undergraduate and law students. 
in answer to a question about her experience of discrimi­nation as a successful latino woman, sotomayor said ex­pectations for women of color are higher than for the aver­age citizen. she also said dis­crimination can come from unexpected places, and often results from misunderstanding and miscommunication. 
“people don’t really under­stand their own prejudices,” sotomayor said. “most people do things that are discrimi­natory, or say things that are hurtful, without really know­ing they’re doing it.” 
in the face of discrimination, sotomayor said, people have a choice – either to retreat from a negative experience, or to try to reach a greater level of mutual understanding and respect with those who have offended them. 
“Those small slights, those senses of not belonging, can make you not belong if you let them,” she said. “you can be­long and make friends in al­most any place or setting you’re in, but sometimes you have to make the effort to bridge that gap.” 
indeed, sotomayor said making friends, particularly with people of differing opin­ions, is invaluable for personal growth. she said although she has found it difficult at times, she has been able to maintain friendships with other justices on the court despite their op­posing outlooks. 
“we disagree with each oth­er, but we do listen,” she said. “we try to persuade each other, we try to convince each other, and often we fail. 
“The challenge is to make friends who don’t agree with you, who try to talk you out of your mistakes, who try to change your mind. whether they succeed or not is irrel­evant – you learn something from them.” 
sotomayor said one failing of the court as a whole is its lack of diversity – not only in terms of gender or race, but also in terms of the legal backgrounds of the justices. she said all cur­rent justices on the court were prosecutors, and only one, ruth bader ginsburg, has a civil rights background. 
“we have areas of practice that people have never experi­enced: immigration law, family law,” she said. “but we’re mak­ing decisions that affect every one of those areas of the law.” 
The members of the court are not the only ones who could benefit from being more well-rounded, sotomayor said. addressing the students pres­ent, she said college students should take advantage of op­portunities to expand their learning in a variety of areas. 
“you should be learning about the world, and to do that you have to get out of your comfort zone and study things that you know nothing about.” 
in particular, sotomayor said taking courses in religion, economics, sociology and phi­losophy are essential for un­derstanding current events. 
“when you leave this univer­sity, you should have a working knowledge of all the things that affect the human condition,” she said. 
Contact Catherine Owers at  cowers@nd.edu and Clare Kossler at ckossler@nd.edu 


The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

A culture of complicity 

Renee Griffin 
sports writer 

with the second and third (i repeat, third) reports of sex crimes were emailed out after just one week of school, the conversation on campus, at least on so­cial media, was already full of victim-blaming and insensitive criticisms aimed at the accusers. 
if you don’t believe me, let me direct you to a small sample of anonymous yik yak posts from this past weekend, sprinkled in between jokes about Texas. i took screenshots of these yaks if you, too, find it too frustrating to believe they’re real. 
number one: “idea for the ladies (and men too but you guys don’t have as much to risk): don’T have seX ouTside a commiTTed relaTionship oF some kind.” 
Fortunately, this post was down voted quickly. This person’s bright idea is that the best way to stop sexual assault is for all single women to wholly ab­stain from sex. First of all, intimate partners can commit assault too. second, i know we’re a catholic school, but what century is this? but i digress. 
number two: “i’m a girl. i try to be safe. but girls need to understand that if you regret it in the morn­ing, it’s not rape. not to say anything about what happened, just letting you know.” 
ah yes, the classic “i am a girl, but i’m not like those other girls” response, paired with the dis­claimer that “this has nothing to do with the recent reports, except my timing obviously implies that it does.” 
This had 90 up votes when i saw it. it’s true that regret alone does not equal rape, but i doubt anyone sane would contend that it does. That’s not the issue here. 
my fellow females, i ask that we stick together on this one fact: we are generally not psychotic emo­tional liars out to ruin a boy’s life with an accusation because we had a bad night. no one should assume such a thing when someone comes forward with a report of assault. 
number three: “it’s scary to even be with a girl consentually [sic] nowadays, because as a guy i can be accused of Title 9 violations just because a girl has second thoughts afterwards.” 
i’m sure men everywhere (76 up-voters, at least) are quaking in fear as they take girls to bed, think­ing only of what could happen if she decides tomor­row she didn’t have a good time. 
because what men face is obviously much scarier than the fear of rape that inevitably goes through a woman’s mind when she walks alone down a street late at night, or when a guy won’t stop pestering her at a bar. 
excuse me if i don’t have as much pity for the men who claim to be terrified that they’ll be falsely ac­cused, something that is statistically more unlikely than an actual assault. 
it saddens and angers me, but there were pages of posts like these and there will be more in the future. 
i’m not saying there aren’t also positive discus­sions going on and empathetic students out there, trying to improve how we talk about sexual assault. yik yak is certainly not the best hub for intelligent social discourse. 
still, this serves as a reminder that too many people, here and elsewhere, believe and perpetuate the damaging views that have created a culture of assault complicity on campuses today. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
‘Thanks obama’ 
Roge Karma 
bridging the gap 

whether it’s on Facebook, yik yak or day-to-day con­versation, the phrase “Thanks obama,” — and the “it’s obama’s fault” sentiment that it represents — has become the american public’s knee-jerk reaction to seemingly ev­ery political or personal misfortune in recent years. while it has transformed into a half-kidding joke blaming the president for things obviously out of his control, america’s new favorite political mantra is representative of a danger­ous trend in u.s. politics. 
The “Thanks obama” catchphrase is our era’s version of what i like to call “The presidential blame game” (pbg). The game is self-explanatory: whenever something news­worthy goes wrong, the president is to blame, and it’s the public’s role to voice that blame. For recent presidential administrations, the pbg has become more and more commonplace: when isis emerged, it was obama’s fault; when the economy crashed, it was bush’s fault; when saddam hussein and osama bin laden expanded their influence under ‘his watch,’ it was clinton’s fault. whether it’s something actually in the president’s control such as executive overreach, something out of his control like con­gressional power-mongering or something out of the gov­ernment’s control entirely like a major oil spill, americans tend to respond by pointing fingers at the president. 
by constantly blaming the president for everything that goes wrong, even facetiously, we blur the distinction between unwarranted blame and rightful accountability and willingly absolve ourselves of any personal respon­sibility to make a difference in our country’s trajectory. when something goes wrong in our country and the government is at fault, it is, first and foremost, our duty as americans to hold the right government officials respon­sible for their actions — whether that official be poTus or a member of the local school board. however, our role does not end there. once we know who is responsible, it is our duty to act. The pbg permits political finger-pointing to replace political action, and thus has put the most powerful force in the game of democratic politics — the people — to the sidelines. 
we, the people, must stop assuming the president we elect is going to change the future for us, and then blame that president when the future doesn’t change. we must stop running away from the reality that this country was founded of the people, by the people and for the people, and thus we the people are just as responsible for the suc­cesses and failures of our country as our commander-in­chief. great presidents are nothing without great people. That is something we have forgotten in today’s election cycles. what if martin luther king and the civil rights leaders had just muttered, “Thanks Johnson,” when he refused to enact a new voter equality bill? what if stu­dents and young people across the country had just mut­tered, “Thanks kennedy,” when thousands of their fellow americans were dying during the vietnam war? what if our Founding Fathers had just muttered, “Thanks king george,” when he imposed virtual representation and unjust taxes on the 13 colonies? i’ll answer for you: This country as we know it would not exist. 
we — the american people — have succumbed to a willful ignorance of our civic duty to take action towards positive change in this country. by standing passively on the political sidelines, we have facilitated the emergence of a cycle of governmental corruption, inefficiency and lack of accountability to the people it serves. now, it is our responsibility to reverse that cycle. 
whether it’s writing our representatives, actively par­ticipating in local elections, boycotting the montgomery bus system or throwing english tea off the side of a ship in protest, people taking action in some way, big or small, will bring about more positive change in this country than Jeb bush or rand paul or hilary clinton ever will. The only way to make true political change in this country is for americans to make mentalities like “Thanks obama” a way of the past and start focusing on what we, the people, can do to make a difference. 
Roge Karma is the President of BridgeND, a biparti­san student political organization that brings together Democrats, Republicans, and all those in between to discuss public policy issues of national importance. They meet Tuesday nights (starting Sept.8) from 8-9 
p.m. in the McNeil room of LaFortune. They can be reached at bridgend@nd.edu or by following them on Twitter @bridge_ND 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Let’s keep our community safe 
dear notre dame students, 

my heart sank when i learned of several reports of sexual assault last weekend. while i am encouraged that students are comfortable reporting, and i have great confidence in the support and response systems the university and our partners have in place, we will never be content until these incidents cease. 
sexual assault is contrary to notre dame’s values in every way. when one of us is hurt, our entire communi­ty is also harmed and called to provide support to those directly impacted, while also reinforcing that this be­havior is not tolerated. we have worked hard together to try to prevent and respond to instances of sexual assault and sexual misconduct, but every email notice reminds us that our goal has not been reached and we can and must do more as a community of students, faculty and staff. 
i encourage you to get involved in prevention and cul­ture change efforts like the green dot violence preven­tion program that is new to our campus this year. more than 120 faculty and administrators, and 1,500 plus students have already received an overview of this pro­gram. you will hear more about how you can contribute to this effort over the coming semester. bystander in­tervention training was just completed for all new first-year, transfer and graduate students and is available through the gender relations center. 
please refresh your own understanding of the poli­cies and expectations we have in place at notre dame as well as the ways you can help a friend find resources if needed. our residential hall staff just renewed their extensive annual training on sexual assault, so they are knowledgeable and compassionate sources of help. confidential resources are available both on and off campus. last spring, i sent a comprehensive letter that outlined preventing, reporting and response efforts available at notre dame with respect to sexual assault 
—
 you can find this letter and more resources on the division of student affairs website. above all else, if you know someone or have been personally impacted by sexual violence, please reach out to us for support — this is not a journey to be walked alone. 

as we continue this academic year, please commit to keeping watch over one another, making good deci­sions about where and how you socialize, being vigilant about the risks of alcohol and using the bystander skills you have learned (direct, delegate or distract) when you observe situations that could present risk to another. your involvement is essential to ending violence on our campus. The sense of family we cultivate here at notre dame is one of our most beloved and distinctive values 

—
 let our care and concern for each other keep our com­munity safe this weekend, for the rest of the year and for years to come. 


in notre dame, 
Erin Hoffman-Harding 
vice president office of student affairs sept. 2 


The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Regrets of an alumnus 
Christopher Damian 
ideas of a university 

i graduated just over two years ago. here are nine things i wish i had done as an undergrad. 
Fought to get out of the Arts & Letters science requirement (and several other requirements) 
both of my science classes were a total waste of time. i tried to get my pls Foundations of natural science seminar to count as one of my science requirements but failed. in my opinion, it was the most valuable science class i’ve ever taken, and i still use some of the concepts and skills gained in that class. i should have fought harder for that. 
Mastered a (modern) foreign language 
i spent several semesters as a classics major, which was a great decision. ancient greek and latin helped to teach me discipline, the connection between abstract rules and concrete communication and a certain open-mindedness that you can only get from studying languages. but now i do work in immigration law, and i wish i had picked up some spanish as well. 
Gotten a spiritual director (sooner) 
in the middle of my college career, i found an amaz­ing spiritual director who helped me get through some of my hardest times at notre dame. he still plays a valuable role in my life as spiritual advisor, mentor and friend. i wish i had sought him out sooner. 
Been more vulnerable 

Though most people in college saw me as a reliable friend who could be depended on and who had his stuff together, i also had some issues. i wish i had been more open with my friends about them and asked for their help. notre dame is full of amazing people. i wish i had been more vulnerable with them. 
Gotten coffee with the people who argued with me in The Observer 
many students at notre dame have a tendency to spend most of their time with people who agree with them. i did this, especially early in my college years. i wish i had reached out more to people who disagreed with me and made more of an effort to understand them. in law school, some of my closest friends are peo­ple who disagree with me. i’ve learned a lot from them. i’ve learned a lot about myself from them. i contributed to a number of “viewpoint wars” in college. i wish i had become friends with more people on the other side. 
Taken more art and writing classes 
i wish i would have focused more on gaining skills i can use for the rest of my life. i loved my fiction writ­ing class at notre dame. The class ultimately led me to host a writing workshop this summer with a few friends, which was both fun and fulfilling. i wish i had also learned how to draw, paint and write good poetry. you can always read history books or take online account­ing classes after college. but learning an art is expen­sive, takes a lot of time and requires the supervision and advice of a trained artist. 
Read Plato and Shakespeare with my friends 
during my freshman year, i remember a group of upperclassmen organizing evenings of “plato with play dough.” we would play with play dough while reading plato’s dialogues out loud. it was a preposterously pre­tentious experience, the kind of experience you should have in the country club called the university of notre dame. it combined learning, community, culture and childish fun, and i wish i had continued that tradition. you should never read plato (or shakespeare, or really any great literature) by yourself. one goal of college should be to become the kind of person who doesn’t need a class to read great literature with a community. 
Spent more time serving (and learning from) the poor and vulnerable 
regular service, the kind of service where you have to work with particular people who need your help and who are in very different situations from you, is a great way to break out of the “notre dame bubble.” working with vulnerable immigrants in law school has changed me a lot. it’s helped me a lot. i wish i had done this sooner. 
Come out 
i didn’t come out until after college, so most of my college friends never really saw a part of me that, while only one aspect of who i am, touches on many funda­mental parts of my life. we never got to talk through and work through that part of my life together. The only ways they understand that part of my life are through my writings. but there’s so much more. 
don’t waste your time in college. you only do it once. 
Chris Damian graduated from Notre Dame in 2013 with a B.A. in philosophy. He is currently a Terrence J. Murphy Fellow at the University of St. Thomas, where he is pursuing a J.D. and an M.A. in Catholic Studies. He can be reached at cdamian1@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The process of pride 
Dash Holland 
guest columnist 

Editor’s note: This column was written in the spring of 2015 and is part of a two-part series. The second will be published on Friday, Sept. 4. 
my first year at notre dame, i had the privilege of writing in this newspaper and sharing my com­ing out story. in that article i came out as gay, fi­nally accepting the term as a part of my identity. in the year since, i have never regretted my decision nor reverted to rejecting my sexuality. however, it would be a great omission to act as if the story ends there.  many people do not fully understand the coming out process, and are especially un­aware of the process of struggling with sexuality that can begin when one finally comes to term with his or her identity. please let me explain my story. 
The past year featured a struggle to take true pride in my sexuality rather than simply accepting myself as gay. immediately following the release of my viewpoint column last year, i was over­whelmed by the responses. i was especially moved by the kind words and emails from students, fac­ulty and members of hall staff who did not even known me.  The column served as a vehicle for coming out to most of my friends and family, and the love i received from the people who mean the most to me touched me in a way i cannot ex­plain. in my column last year, i said i had rarely felt more loved than when i was coming out, but the response to my letter increased the love i felt exponentially. i was supported by so many people and surrounded by positive words as well as lots of hugs. it was easy to be happy with who i was. i was gay, and i was so happy. but that did not translate to being happy that i was gay. 
Taking true pride in a part of yourself can come only from within. it does not end with coming out, but is a process. i could finally accept myself as gay, but there were many things i could not do. 
i could not share my article, a great point of pride in my life, on Facebook because i did not feel comfortable proclaiming my sexuality to the people i knew. i could not discuss topics related to the lgbTQ community with my (very supportive) family members, and i avoided any discussions of myself or prominent gay figures because i was inexplicably embarrassed. i could not discuss my sexuality with anyone but my closest friends be­cause it just felt wrong. i was uncomfortable de­spite my acceptance of my sexuality. For me, being gay was like having a mole on my face. i had ac­cepted it, and i would not allow anyone to ridicule it.  however, not seeing it as a negative does not mean that i would not change it if i could. 
i worked at a grocery store over the summer, and i saw countless young, happy, straight couples. i wondered why i couldn’t have that. why could they have biological kids so easily? why were they so happy together? why did they get to be so nor­mal when i didn’t? i was not ashamed to be gay, but my sexuality was beginning to feel like a bur­den. like poor eyesight or a slow metabolism, it was a part of me that i had come to terms with but was not always happy with. as much as i wanted to be unabashedly myself, i wondered what i would do if i could just wave a wand and be straight. 
This odd balance of acceptance and uneasiness with my sexuality continued through the begin­ning of the next school year. i was lonely. not in a sexual sense, but in feeling like i was the only person with this difference. i was willing to be dif­ferent, but it was often difficult. i was happy as a person, having a fantastic time with great friends 
— and yes, mom, also learning a lot — but i didn’t see my sexuality as a great benefit in my life. 
The spring semester of sophomore year was bet­ter. i was able to beat isolation by connecting with more people, but i was also more ready to have the confidence to use words like “proud.” i think things like this take time. it’s difficult to say if i’m really a proud gay man now, but i feel comfortable that i’m on the right path, and i have a great trust in myself to arrive at my destination. 
i want to share this story and explain my own struggles to help people unfamiliar with the jour­ney understand that pride is about much more than parades. Too many people lose their lives and even themselves because they cannot be proud. Too many people live in fear because others do not believe that different people have anything to be proud of. 
pride is a necessary human value, and it’s achieved through a great fight. rainbow flags and even drag shows are much more than pointless symbols or bizarre rituals. They are memorials placed on the battleground after a hard-earned victory. These memorials celebrate ourselves and our society while remembering the people who did not survive to see our triumph, our pride. i hope that the more people understand this fight, the easier pride will be to come by, and the better many people’s lives will be, mine included. 
i am a gay man. i am a happy man. i am a flawed man. i am a doubting man. and, despite my name, i am not a particularly fast man. am i proud? i’ll keep you updated, but i’m working to make it all fit together like any other man. 
Dash Holland is a junior studying political science and economics. He lives in Siegfried Hall and can be contacted at wholland@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
scene writer 

When Miley Cyrus set to work on dis­tancing herself from Hannah Montana two years ago, she rebranded herself as America’s foremost provocateur. It’s the reason MTV asked her to host this year’s VMAs: she has become a walking FCC complaint, intent on courting contro­versy by any means possible. 
This is, in part, what makes her such a thrilling pop star, but also such a frustrating one. For every progressive comment she makes about gender and sexuality, she reveals her ignorance about race — like when she accused Nicki Minaj of being angry and jealous for speaking about racism in the music industry. 
For better or worse, this sense of un­predictability extended to “Bangerz,” Cyrus’ first post-Disney album. “Bangerz” felt like a pop album made for the Internet, on which the lines between genres eroded: country-rap, synthpop, dubstep, pop balladry and R&B all ex­isted alongside each other, guided by Cyrus’ insistence on doing whatever the hell she wants. 
That ethos infects “Miley Cyrus & 
By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

as the summer box office draws to a close, we can now take a final look back at all of our favorite blockbusters and glean whatever we can from the data in the hopes of making sense of what the future looks like for these franchises. 
some films, like “Jurassic world,” did so great that, after the biggest world­wide opening ever and a total haul of more than $1.5 billion, universal studios put the film back into a num­ber of imaX 3d Theatres for a second go-around to get even more people to purchase $30 tickets. other films such as “ant-man” have been some of the biggest financial disappointments in the marvel cinematic universe (mcu). 
according to data from box office mojo, “ant-man” has a current world­wide box office revenue of $366 mil­lion, which makes it the second worst performing movie in the mcu, only in front of 2008’s “The incredible hulk.” 
unfortunately, this sort of per­formance may not bode well for the world’s smallest hero. ant-man could 
Her Dead Petz,” a surprise album which was released for free on SoundCloud on Sunday night. Arriving two years after “Bangerz,” it’s a stylistic left turn that is perhaps the most experimental album from a major pop star in recent memory. 
In a New York Times interview earlier this week, Cyrus explained that her ad­visers “said they’d never seen someone at my level, especially a woman, have this much freedom. I literally can do whatever I want.” That Cyrus is allowed to exercise complete creative control at such a young age is admirable, although it’s an idea that often sounds better in theory than execution. 
Her two major collaborators on “Dead Petz” are the psychedelic rock band The Flaming Lips and rap producer Mike Will Made It, who was responsible for most of “Bangerz.” The result is an soni­cally adventurous record that offers an ethereal, lo-fi take on pop music. It also has about as much subtlety of a pair of weed print socks; its first line is “Yeah, I smoke pot!” and Cyrus never lets you forget that she really, really loves weed. 
“BB Talk” perhaps best embodies the line between genuinely interesting and ridiculously indulgent experimenta­tion that Cyrus walks on this album. Its 
likely be relegated to only appearing in big team-up movies such as 2018’s “avengers: infinity war – part 1” a la mark ruffalo’s hulk character. we al­ready know marvel does not have plans for ant-man through phase 3 of its cin­ematic universe, which means it’ll be at least 2020 before we see another ant-man movie, if there even is one. 
results such as this are a shame be­cause “ant-man” definitely deserved a better reception at the box office. paul rudd’s titular character and the story surrounding his origin created one of the most compelling, unique and fun chapters in marvel’s massive film franchise. 
with “ant-man,” we get treated to marvel’s first movie to focus on a sin­gle one of its b-list characters, rather than a core member of its premier avengers team. while “ant-man” could have been another generic origin story where the superhero has to save the world from impending doom, marvel embraced the b-list nature of this char­acter and shrunk the stakes to make a much more personal, ant-sized heist movie. 

verses are rambling, cringeworthy spo­ken-word bits about emoji use and the smell of her boyfriend’s armpit, but the chorus puts her natural pop instincts and strong voice to good use. 
Many of the tracks sound like Cyrus fronting The Flaming Lips circa “Yoshimi Battles the Pink Robots,” due to the involvement of the band itself. The spacey ballad “Karen Don’t Be Sad” sounds like a modern update of “Dear Prudence,” with Cyrus putting her rule-breaking ethos toward comfort­ing a friend. “They’re just a bunch of fools / And you can make them power­less / Don’t let them make the rules,” If you like: The Flaming Lips, Ariel Pink she sings, in one of the best displays of her husky Southern croon, which is drowned in heavy layers of reverb else­where on the album. 
There is a lot on “Dead Petz” that tries too hard to be weird, like “Miley Tibetan Bowlzzz,” which is just two minutes of singing bowl tones, and “F****n F*****d Up,” an interlude on which Cyrus mere­ly repeats the titular phrase ad nause­am. Yet, the album also features many patches of pop brilliance, especially her tracks with Mike Will, which bridge the gap between Cyrus’ newfound interest 
This is great because it gives the su­perhero genre a breath of fresh air from the tired, city-sized action sequences that plague the silver screen these days. seriously, in one part of “ant-man,” paul rudd’s character takes out the bad guys by running up their guns and fly­ing into their face. The climax of the movie even takes place in a bedroom where a “Thomas the Tank engine” track serves as the main set piece. These are unique, awesome scenes that simply couldn’t happen within the more serious narrative frames of a-list superheroes. 
The more personal narrative allows ant-man to be a much more fleshed out character than a number of other marvel superheroes. paul rudd’s ant-man is an ex-con with a complicated past, a wisecracking jerk who wins over the girl and above all a father who wants to redeem himself in the eyes of his daughter. This complexity adds to the interest set forth by the action sequences and pushes the narrative forward into uncharted territories for superheroes. 
“ant-man” was a fun, unique and 
in psychedelia and the rap influence of “Bangerz.” “I Forgive Yiew” plays like trap music on acid, anchored by Cyrus’ swaggering delivery, while the mellow 80s pop of “Lighter,” on which she com­pares a relationship to getting high, is genuinely affecting despite its conceit. 
“Dead Petz” is a sprawling, exhausting mess of an album, its 23 tracks running nearly 92 minutes long and its lyrics often delving into trippy clichés and stoner philosophy. It is an album that, just like Cyrus herself, is flawed and un­censored, but nonetheless manages to be compelling due its unpredictability. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at          mmunhall@nd.edu 
“Miley Cyrus & Her Dead Petz” 
Miley Cyrus 
Label: Smiley Miley Inc. 
Tracks: “BB Talk,” “I Forgive Yiew,” “Lighter” If you like: The Flaming Lips, Ariel Pink 

interesting superhero film that just hasn’t seemed to have gotten the love it deserves at the box office. 
it’s not all doom and gloom for marvel’s smallest hero, as the movie still has a few weeks left in theaters and will almost certainly pass “captain america: The First avenger” in world­wide revenue to become only the ninth worst performing film in the marvel cinematic universe. Furthermore, ant-man has been confirmed to play a role in next year’s “captain america: civil war,” so his time on the big screen isn’t over yet. 
and although “ant-man” may not have been the financial success marvel had hoped for, the future looks bright for the marvel b-list, with black panther, doctor strange and even The inhumans set to star in their own films as part of marvel’s phase 3. Thankfully, marvel hasn’t given up on its weirder characters, and we can look forward to more interesting takes on the superhe­ro genre in the very near future. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at                             jkemper2@nd.edu 

LUCY DU | The Observer 

Dakota Connell-Ledwon 
scene writer 

across the street from the much-be­loved chipotle lies a shiny new mecca of comfort food. blaze pizza opened its doors on eddy street in July and made the off-campus dinner debate that much harder. 
The chain launched in 2012 and has since taken the nation by storm, open­ing over 70 locations in the past few years. The secret seems to lie in the presentation. 
“it’s a create-your-own pizza,” as­sistant manager Todd sharpe said, “like a chipotle, you get to walk down the line and choose what you want. it’s three minutes down the line and three in the oven. you get fast arti­sanal pizza.” 
and if you don’t have the time to wait in line, you can order your pie through the store’s website. 
while speed is definitely a contrib­uting factor, the sheer variety of top­ping options is the true draw — you can’t get zucchini or ricotta on your pizza at north dining hall. For $7.45 you can get a signature pizza or a build-your-own pizza with unlimited toppings. They also serve salads, but the smell of artisanal crust is usually too alluring for customers to even consider just lettuce. 
while notre dame and saint mary’s students are undoubtedly happy about this new option for nearby off-campus dining, blaze pizza is just as excited. 
“They’re trying to get blaze pizzas in college towns,” sharpe said. The chain has clearly struck gold with its new audience of hungry college stu­dents on the lookout for cheap, deli­cious eats. 
The eddy street location envelops you in a fun, bold atmosphere as soon as you walk in — industrial chic décor combines with upbeat music and a gi­ant black and white “make your mark” wall mural to create the perfect group dinner location or casual date spot. even during its busiest times, it’s still quiet enough for a good conversation. comfortable booths plus stools for even more seating ensure that you’ll want to linger and savor your custom pizza. 

i made the short trip with friends in the middle of activities night so the line was blessedly nonexistent, but sources (i.e. pizza-obsessed friends) tell me that at times the wait is out the door. overwhelmed by the choices, i went for what looked good, which was basically everything. Three minutes later, my thin crust pizza with white sauce, mozzarella and feta cheese, spinach, chicken, green peppers and tomatoes emerged from the oven, and i discovered true bliss. 
The personal pizzas are cut into six slices that go down a lot easier than a huge burrito, but the portions may leave hungrier people craving just a little more. if this is the case for you, do what i did and hit up kilwin’s afterwards — a waffle cone washes down the pizza nicely. 
when i asked about the least busy times for the restaurant, sharpe had no solid answer. 
“it’s been all over — i really can’t say,” he said. “we open up at 10:30 in the morning and there’s people stand­ing out here.” 
luckily, blaze pizza’s great hours mean pizza at almost any time of day: it’s open until midnight sunday through wednesday and until 4 a.m. Thursday through saturday. 
Contact Dakota Connell-Ledwon at dconnel5@nd.edu 

LUCY DU and DAKOTA CONNELL-LEDWON | The Observer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

arrieta as good as anyone right now 
Ryan Klaus 
sports writer 
on sunday night, chicago cubs’ ace Jake arrieta be­came the sixth pitcher to throw a no-hitter in 2015, following the efforts of cole hamels, max scherzer, chris heston, mike Fiers and hisashi iwakuma earlier this season. in his domination of the los angeles dodgers (the second time the club had been no-hit in a span of ten days), arrieta struck out twelve hitters and allowed just two baserunners — one of which reached on an error. 
To any baseball devotee, arrieta’s no-hitter sunday night against los angeles should not have caused even remote consternation. on top of flirting with mul­tiple other no-hit bids in the recent past, arrieta has simply been automatic on the mound for the cubs as of late. however, common baseball fans might just be learning who Jake arrieta is. when it comes to name recognition, his popularity is decidedly not on par with the fame of Felix hernandez, clayton kershaw and other notable aces across the league, but his performance certainly has been. and while sunday’s no-hit ac­complishment will likely boost his reputation, it was definitely not necessary proving arrieta’s among the best pitchers in the national league and major league baseball overall right now. 
in what has become one of the more lopsided trades in recent history, arrieta came to chicago in 2013 from the baltimore orioles in an ex­change that gave the orioles a mid-season rental in con­sistently mediocre starter scott Feldman. after the change of scenery, arrieta transformed as a pitcher. in his first full season with the cubs last year, arrieta had a 
2.53 era and finished 10-5, an undeniably impressive record for a starter on a last-place team that lost its divi­sion by 17 games. 
as the cubs have emerged as contenders this year, arrieta has proven his 2014 season was no fluke. upon beating the dodgers on sunday, arrieta became the league-leader in wins (with 
17) and currently boasts a minuscule era of 2.11. when august ended Tuesday, arrieta’s came out with a 6-0 record and an even more microscopic 0.43 era on the month. another fun fact: arrieta’s personal home run total (one) is identical to the number he has given up go­ing back to mid-June. 
sure, arrieta’s body of work is apocryphal in a sense; his two-plus superb seasons in chicago follow parts of four seasons in baltimore where he was statistically one of the worst pitchers in all of baseball. his zero career all-star appearances are three fewer than reviled teammate starlin castro, who is four years younger than arrieta. but at 29-years-old and en­tering his prime, i would still be inclined to put arrieta in the same category moving forward as even the most elite pitchers in the league. 
i am not just making this argument because i am die-hard cubs fan passionately enthralled in their return to relevancy after an utterly ar­duous half-decade rebuild­ing process. Jake arrieta has earned elite classifica­tion with his performance that continues to escalate as cubs’ games become in­creasingly meaningful down the stretch. he isn’t just his team’s best pitcher, or the guy who the cubs will start in place of $155 million-dol­lar signing Jon lester if they find themselves in a one-game playoff scenario, but a pitcher as good as anyone in the league right now who — should Zach greinke’s era decide to magnify itself at all in the upcoming weeks 
— might just be a cy young award winner a few months from now. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


MLB | angels 9, aThleTic’s 4 
Pujols hits 35th home run, Angels take series from A’s 
Associated Press 

oakland, calif. (ap) — albert pujols has been saying for about 15 years now that he will reflect on the many mile­stones and special home runs once his career is through, and he still hopes that is many sea­sons down the road. 
“i’ve been blessed my whole career,” pujols said. “i was born to play this game and to hit.” 
healthy legs powering him again at last, pujols hit a two-run drive to make him one of four players with 10 35-homer seasons in their first 15 years, leading the los angeles angels past al era leader sonny gray and the oakland athletics 9-4 wednesday. 
he is eager to do anything to keep the angels in the playoff mix. 
“albert’s obviously put to­gether a hall of Fame career but we know it’s not over yet,” man­ager mike scioscia said. “he’s got as much passion to play this game now as he ever has.” 
pujols had an rbi single in the first inning, then hit his 555th career homer in the second that tied dominican republic countryman manny ramirez for 14th on the all-time list. he joined hall of Famers willie mays (10) and mike schmidt 
(11) and yankees slugger alex rodriguez (12) to have reached 35 home runs in 10 or more years in their first 15 seasons. 
“it’s something i don’t look for every year, i just try to be healthy and do whatever it takes to help our organization win,” pujols said. “i got my legs back healthy and i felt great in spring train­ing. ... manny is probably one of the best right-handed hitters that ever played this game. he’s pretty amazing. To be on the same page with him and along the way with so many great hit­ters that i’ve passed this year, it’s awesome. it’s something i don’t try to get caught up too much. at the end of my career, i keep telling you guys for 15 years, i can look back and enjoy how blessed i’ve been.” 
andrew heaney (6-2) struck out six and didn’t walk a batter in seven innings to end a six-start winless stretch. he had gone 0-2 since a victory against Texas on July 26. 
gray (12-7) lost his third straight decision, matching his career high with six earned runs allowed for the first time since exactly a year earlier on sept. 2, 2014, at seattle. 
The all-star righty gave up four straight singles to start the game. gray’s wild pitch scored the first of four runs in the inning. 
gray lost to the angels for the first time in five starts this sea­son after beginning 3-0. 
The angels won two in a row for the first time since a three-game winning streak aug. 17­
19. They also earned just their fifth victory in the last 22 road games. 
david murphy and david Freese each singled home runs in the first inning and c.J. cron had an rbi groundout as gray fell behind. gray also dropped to 7-3 in 12 starts against the al west this year and 19-8 for his career. 
Josh phegley hit a two-run homer in the bottom of the first when the a’s pulled back within 4-3. 
“i gave up four and then we came back and put up three and then to give up two back there in the second, it kind of took the air right out of us,” gray said. 

MLB | yankees 13, red soX 8 
Eight runs in 2nd give Yankees win over Sox 
Associated Press 

bosTon (ap) — greg bird, John ryan murphy and carlos beltran homered during an eight-run second inning wednesday and the new york yankees beat the boston red sox 13-8. 
stephen drew doubled dur­ing new york’s big inning and added a three-run homer in the third. didi gregorius later homered for the yankees. 
masahiro Tanaka (11-6) pitched into the seventh in­ning as the yankees won for the fifth time in six games. new york improved to 7-2 

FOR SALE 

CONDO-Mishawaka, Sedgwick House, 3BR 2.5 BA. View of park and riverwalk. Secured entrance with underground parking. $95,900. Call 574-255-3862 
Open house, Condo- walk to ND Saturday September 5th 10a.m-4 
p.m 2 bedroom 2 bath 1,107 sq. feet, 2 car detached garage New London 
against the red sox at Fenway park this season and 10-5 overall this season against their longtime rivals. 
The yankees entered the day 1 1/2 games behind the Toronto blue Jays in the al east. 
The win was the 800th of yankees manager Joe girardi’s career. he guided the marlins for one year and is in eighth season with new york. 
red sox rookie henry owens (2-2) retired the first four bat­ters in order but the next eight yankees reached base safely, with one out coming on the basepaths. 
chase headley walked, then bird and murphy homered. gregorious singled, drew dou­bled and brett gardner walked to load the bases. 
chris young singled in a run, but gardner was caught between second and third — with other yankees occupying both. alex rodriguez singled in two runs to chase owens. 
in all, the 23-year-old left-hander was charged with seven runs on six hits and two walks. 
ryan cook relieved him with two outs in the second and gave up a first-pitch hom­er to beltran that made it 8-1. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Lakes Condominiums. Take Edison to  TO ND! GO IRISH! YEEHA! Check  
Ironwood, go in on Ironwood past 23  out this listing on Airbnb, Amazing 1832  
and Martin’s Condo entrance on left off  RGargesFarm Bedroom!https://www.  
Ironwood downhill, on left 5-6 garage.  airbnb.com/rooms/5428944?s=23  
2109 Coventry Trail Apt. C. 574-277­3002 Under $100,000- negotiable.  WANTED  
Immediate occupancy. Patty Flynn  
FOR RENT  MAKE  $$  THIS  SATURDAY!  

Student(s) wanted to help market­ing firm at and around the football STAY AT A VERY HIP AND game Saturday night. Please con-
FABULOUS FARM! ONLY 19 MILES tact sales@hotsportsgrills.com 

SMC SPORTS 

belles sports experience opening week of seasons 
By MICHAEL IVEY, SEAN KILMER, RYAN KLAUS and BENJAMIN PADANILAM 
sports writers 
Soccer 
saint mary’s dropped its season opener yesterday to cross-town rival bethel in a nail-biting 1-0 game. 
The belles (0-1, 0-0 miaa) traveled to nearby mishawaka to take on the pilots (2-2) wednesday. after conceding a first-half goal, saint mary’s was unable to recover and ultimately fell by a final score of 1-0. The loss marked the third straight for the belles in the rivalry. 
pilot junior midfielder diana diaz-diurych was responsible for the game’s only goal with just under four minutes remaining in the first half. The pilots out-shot the belles 18-10 in the game, but both teams put five of their shots on goal. diaz-diurych led the pilots with four shots, with her goal being the only one put on target, while belles ju­nior forward liza Felix led the belles with three shots 
— all of which were saved by bethel senior goalie mallory conrad. 
The next game on the docket for saint mary’s is their home opener against manchester this saturday. The game marks the sec­ond and final contest for the belles before they begin their conference slate. 
The spartans (0-1) are coming off a 3-1 loss to Trine in their season opener, as they were outshot 19-5 in the game. despite their poor showing in the contest, belles head coach ken nuber said he expects them to be a tough challenge for his team this weekend given the ath­leticism of the spartans. 
“manchester will be a great test going into the confer­ence schedule,” nuber said. “They have a ton of speed and love to run. we are going to really focus on our defen­sive shape and countering into the spaces wide.” 
nuber said the game will also be a special one for him personally, as he is very fa­miliar with the opposing coach. 
“manchester will be fun for me because they are coached by andy stout, who is a former player of mine,” nuber said. 
The belles are set to re­turn to the pitch against manchester on saturday at noon on airport Field 6 of the Junior irish soccer club. 
Cross Country 
saint mary’s opened their 2015 campaign Tuesday in michigan with a Tri-meet that also included olivet and albion. The meet was unscored, though the belles did have 10 of the top 14 timed runners. 
“it was hot yesterday,” saint mary’s head coach Jackie bauters said. “Just over half the team raced, and i was really pleased to see them work together so much throughout the race. i think our first years that competed were able to get some race jitters out and see how they fit within the team.” 
Freshman adele edmonds led the belles Tuesday, and finished third overall with a time of 21:22.09. Fellow freshman mary philbin and junior colleen ogren were right behind edmonds and placed fourth and fifth re­spectively. philbin had a time of 21:36.62 while ogren’s final time was 21:37.15. 

outside of their top three runners, all runners who placed between seventh and 11th came from saint mary’s. sophomore anna mcclowry, freshman emily harrast, freshman meghan allen, senior colleen burke and freshman sarah allen had consecutive finishes. 
allyson schultz, a junior from olivet, was the top run­ner at the Tri-meet and fin­ished with a time 20:24.72. 
The belles’ next event will be the alumnae race, where they will host at bertrand park this weekend. 
“our race on saturday with our alumnae is also a very chill, low-key race,” said bauters. “right now, the team is just chomping at the bit for their first real race at calvin on the 12th. This weekend should be a lot of fun and a great training run for the team. hopefully, it won’t be as hot and hu­mid, but that is not looking promising.“ 
The alumnae race is set to begin at 11 a.m. saturday. 
Golf 

The belles return to action this weekend when they play in the olivet labor day invite this saturday and sunday at medalist golf course in marshall, michigan. saint mary’s is coming off of a second-place finish in last week’s cross Town rivalry. 
“our team is looking to build off of our momentum we received from our good second round from this past weekend,” belles head coach kim moore said. “our goal is to have two rounds that are a bit closer and consis­tent. we definitely do not want a 20-stroke difference between team totals, unless it’s 20 strokes less than the 326 we shot last weekend.” 
moore said she believes playing through the inclem­ent weather last weekend was good for her team. 
“i think our team learned a great lesson on how to play in the elements,” moore said. “during our second round, this past weekend, they played in the rain pret­ty much that entire round. i think it showed them that they can still be successful in less than ideal circum­stances. i do think that the course we are playing this weekend, The medalist, is a little more challenging then the second course we played this past weekend, elbel. regardless of the course, shooting a good score like we did this past weekend, is always helpful for our con­fidence going into the next event. i am really looking to build off of that momentum.” 
The belles will see some familiar competition at the tournament. conference op­ponents olivet, kalamazoo, hope and calvin will com­pete against the belles over two days of competition. 
“we have worked really hard on some short game drills this week,” moore said. “we are going to continue to work on those drills the next couple days. however, i am excited for this early tournament to see how we will stack up to our confer­ence opponents. it will be a great way to see what we need to work on leading into our conference play.” 
The olivet labor day invite begins at 11:45 a.m. on saturday. 
Volleyball 
if the belles were nervous for their first game, they didn’t show it, rolling over manchester in straight sets at home on Tuesday night. 
manchester (0-1) came closest to the belles (1-0) in the second set, when they got an early lead before fall­ing behind and losing 25-18. The other two sets were not as close (25-15, 25-14), giving saint mary’s security until the sweep was complete. 
“i thought we played very well,” belles head coach denise van de walle said. “i thought that we handled the first match jitters well and came out very strong in the first set. i liked how aggres­sive we were at the net, and i really didn’t find a weak point other than a few mis­takes. i thought we looked really good.” 
The match was also van de walle’s first as head coach. 
The belles will look to build off of the opening win this weekend at the elmhurst Tournament in elmhurst, illinois, which begins Friday and continues into saturday. 
Contact Michael Ivey at  mivey@hcc-nd.edu, Sean Kilmer at skilmer@nd.edu, Ryan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu and Benjamin Padanilam at bpanadil@nd.edu 





The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
vince cicciarelli, comple­mented his leading points with five and six goals, respectively. 
oh, and you can’t forget the then-sophomores. 
all part of that national championship roster, they now represent this year’s six seniors. midfielders patrick hodan, connor klekota, evan panken and danny lojek, defender michael shipp (yes, brother of the other shipp) and goalkeeper brian Talcott have one last shot to grab another title. 
it could be argued hodan is the new “little wizard.” he followed immediately be­hind shipp in 2013 with 11 goals and five assists. last season he led the irish with nine goals and three assists. 
klekota and panken played consistently in the irish midfield their sophomore season. There’s no reason they can’t repeat (or out­perform) 2013’s one and five goals, respectively. 
and the younger players seem to have perfectly filled the shoes that the seniors have outgrown. at least five of the six, that is. 
sophomore midfielder blake Townes snagged notre dame’s first assist this sea­son. his four fellow sopho­more teammates include forward duo Jon gallagher and Jeffrey Farina, who in their debut season com­bined for five goals and 10 assists. 
and it was a freshman — forward Thomas ueland — who posted the first goal of 2015 against indiana on sunday. 
The new shipps or hodans, 
maybe?  
meanwhile,  defend­ 
ers  graduate  student  ma x  
lachowecki  and  junior  

brandon aubrey return to their posts protecting the 
net. again, just like 2013. 

plus, the irish are already pushing games to double­oT. They played into dou­ble-overtime six times in 2013, with one occurring on opening weekend. sound fa­miliar to notre dame’s two double-overtime games this weekend against maryland and indiana? 
only time will tell if 2015 will be another “the year” for the irish. Though their level of talent — both young and old — and the roster’s resemblance to the 2013 national championship team certainly point them in the right direction. 
This weekend the irish host indiana, usF and uab in the mike berticelli memorial Tournament at alumni stadium. notre dame takes on usF on Friday at 7:30 p.m. and uab on sunday at 2 p.m. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
ohio state looks to avenge only loss 
Associated Press 
some things to watch in the big Ten as the season begins with 14 games over five days. 
game oF The week: no. 1 ohio state is out to avenge its only 2014 loss when it begins the defense of its national title at virginia Tech on monday night. whether J.T. barrett or cardale Jones starts at Qb, the buckeyes are bound to get better play from that posi­tion than they did a year ago when barrett was 9 of 29 and threw three interceptions in the 35-21 loss in columbus. The buckeyes’ defense won’t miss a beat even with star Joey bosa suspended, and urban meyer should run his record to 14-0 in openers as a head coach. 
besT maTchup: it’s any­one’s guess what will happen when byu visits nebraska on saturday. what’s known is that it’s the first game for new cornhuskers coach mike riley. what’s not is how many players will be suspend­ed. cougars coach bronco mendenhall isn’t saying who will sit for joining in a fight with memphis at the miami beach bowl. riley is holding out five of his players for team rules violations but won’t identify them until closer to the game. also unknown is what riley’s offense — which might be more of a mish­mash than his preferred pro-style — will look like against an aggressive and physical byu defense. 
inside The numbers: minnesota, which hosts no. 2 Tcu on Thursday night, hasn’t beaten a top-10 opponent at home since no. 1 michigan in 1977. ... no. 20 wisconsin, which faces no. 3 alabama on saturday night, is playing the second of three straight openers against southeastern conference opponents. ... nebraska’s 29 straight wins in openers lead the nation. ... penn state, which plays at Temple on saturday, is un­beaten in 39 straight against the owls. 
long shoT: illinois state merits iowa’s full attention on saturday. The redbirds were the 2014 Fcs runners-up and are the division’s no. 2-ranked team in the preseason. They won’t be intimidated. Qb Tre roberson started for indiana in 2011 and played well in a loss at kinnick stadium. lb reggie spearman appeared in 21 games for iowa before transferring to illinois state. The hawkeyes finished poor­ly in 2014 and are picked no higher than fourth in the big Ten west. The heat is rising on kirk Ferentz. lose this one, and it will be downright hot in iowa city. 
player To waTch: whoever starts at Qb for michigan at utah on Thursday night. one of the sidelights to the long-anticipated opener for new michigan coach Jim harbaugh is the mystery sur­rounding the quarterback. co-no. 1s Jake rudock and shane morris know who will start. harbaugh just hasn’t said who it is publicly. utes coach kyle whitting told reporters he’s expecting rudock, a graduate transfer who started 25 games for iowa. 


paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2015 | The observer 


Volleyball 
conTinued From page 16 
on our way. if we can think the right thoughts and get our bodies to move the way we want them to move and re­spond to situations we need to respond to, we can win here. we should win here, at notre dame. so it’s just a process of getting stuff in place, and the girls, today, there were some lessons learned and we had a good practice.” 
mclaughlin said perhaps the most exciting aspect about the beginning of his tenure at notre dame is his knowledge that success cannot be mea­sured by wins and losses alone, and keeping in mind that at the end of the day, his players are more important than champi­onships or accolades. 
“coaching is about a lot of stuff,” mclaughlin said. “yeah, [winning championships at usc and washington] were great days, but you know what? it was wonderful when one of my players became an attor­ney. when i get phone calls like that. or when one of my 




ND CROSS COUNTRY 
players had a baby. or when one of players called me and said, ‘hey Jim, i just made the 
u.s. olympic Team. i’m play-

sparks, irish ready for season 
ing in the olympics.’ or one of my players just said, ‘i’m get­ting married.’ Those stories are great because you’re invested at such a high level with these people, and at the end of the day it’s about people. 
“you know, i’ve had teams that shouldn’t have gone to a Final Four and did. The grati­fication, you can’t put into words. when you work hard and get the right people on the bus, i can’t put that stuff into words. we’re understanding how hard it is, but what makes it so hard makes it great, and i think we’re figuring that out here.” 
The program hopes the fu­ture of this team trends up un­der its new leader. mclaughlin said if he can keep focus of what truly matters, his play­ers, in the long run this team should expect success on the court as well. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at 


By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 

notre dame will begin its season in the crusader invitational on Friday at sunset hill Farm county park in valparaiso, indiana. 
Though it is the first meet of the season, irish head coach matthew sparks said he is approaching the invitational as an exhibition, so he will be resting most of his start­ing lineup, including seniors all-american molly seidel, danielle aragon and michael clevenger and freshman anna rohrer. 
“it’ll be a very low-key meet,” sparks said. “we’re holding out ... our entire top seven. 
“on both sides [men’s and women’s], for the most part we’re counting on under­classmen to try and step up and to give them the experi­ence [to] contribute to the team’s success. 
“in a lot of ways, it’s an ex­hibition for the freshman and sophomores ... to get a chance to run in a more varsity-like appearance.” 
even though the veterans of the starting lineup will not be competing this weekend, they have been preparing and training as if they were, sparks said. 
“Those athletes that are go­ing to be counted on come championship time are train­ing through the early part of the season,” sparks said. 
“last week we had a couple of guys on the team run over 100 miles a week. we’re going to keep that high volume of training going. we want to keep things pretty high in volume, high intensity so we’re more fit at the end of the year.” 
many freshman and sopho­mores will get a taste of this high intensity and competi­tion in their debut race for the irish at the crusader invitational. sparks said he and his coaching staff en­courage the new runners to approach the meet like any other race. 
“we’re going to preach, ‘it’s just another race’,” sparks said. “The neat thing about cross country is that kids race [five kilometers] in high school and they’re racing [5 kilometers] in college. 
“i know [the runners] are wearing a college jersey and for many of them, it’s their dream college jersey, so one, be proud to wear the jersey, [and] two, it’s just another race. 
“don’t get too worked up, it’s just another race.” 
and while sparks aims to give his underclassmen expe­rience with this race, he said he is also looking for another breakout runner to contrib­ute alongside clevenger this season. 
“That’s one of the goals for the men’s program is to be at the national meet at the end of november,” sparks said. 
“[we] had a couple of guys who really broke through in the track season. [Junior] Jacob dumford was a guy that scored in the acc cham­pionship meet in the spring in outdoor track, he’s a junior now and feeling much more comfortable running college cross country. 
“[Junior] chris marco is another young man that was more of a middle distance runner in track, but has the ability to run cross country with the best of those guys and had consistent weeks, over a hundred miles per week. 
“and [senior] Tim ball is our other senior leader along with michael [clevenger]. Those are the three senior-statesman who we expect not just to carry the load from a performance standpoint, but those are our locker room leaders as well.” 
besides testing his lineup, sparks said the heat is an­other challenge the team this weekend. 
“The other variable out there is it’s supposed to be 85-90 degrees,” sparks said. “it’s a long race, make sure you’re well-hydrated and have enough gas in the tank for the last half of the race. it’s kind of awkward this last week we had a cold week and it warmed up this week, so adjusting back to the heat has been a bit of a challenge. but everyone’s dealing with the heat so we can’t use that as a crutch.” 
The irish will race in the crusader invitational on Friday afternoon at 4:00 p.m. at sunset hill Farm county park in valparaiso, ind.. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 



Football 
conTinued From page 16 
championships, he guided the irish to a 19-6 record in his final two seasons, the first two under former head coach charlie weis, and notre dame earned bcs bowl invitations in both those seasons. 
even with such a football-filled résumé today, Quinn still ensures the game isn’t the end-all, be-all of his life. 
he’s played in the nFl and delved into the world of sports broadcasting (he just signed a two-year deal with Fox to serve as an analyst for college and nFl games), but Quinn devotes much of his time to 3rd & goal, the foundation he and his fa­ther founded in 2011 to help veterans in need and for which he currently serves as co-chair. 
“a title is a title,” he said. “i do everything that i can, whether that’s hand writing out thank you notes or run­ning to grab something for an event. we don’t pay any­one a salary with our foun­dation. our help is provided out of the goodness of our staff and volunteer’s hearts.” 
with the foundation, Quinn still dishes out touch­downs, but this time, they don’t yield six points. now, a “touchdown” is a term used for a veteran’s rebuilt or re­modeled home, and it counts for a revamped life and a fresh start. 
by his estimate, Quinn says they’ve helped over 25 families since the founda­tion’s inception, mainly in indiana and his home state of ohio, but as far away as south Florida and seattle. 
“any type of home re-modification to help soldiers wounded in combat adapt to their transition when they come home,” Quinn said of the group’s work. “we also help our veterans who are deemed at risk to experience homelessness by funding housing. This allows the in­dividual to get back on their feet and save money to af­ford their own home.” 
Quinn participated in community service activi­ties while at notre dame but said his father, a former marine and vietnam veter­an, helped inspire the work for the foundation. 
“ … The idea for 3&g was something that was rooted in me,” he said. “i come from a family who has had mul­tiple generations of men who have served in this country. knowing this has always made me desire to find a way to serve as well.” 
he co-chairs 3rd & goal with possibly one of the few people to outrank him in terms of accomplishments: his wife, alicia (sacramone) Quinn, the captain of the 2008 american olympic gymnastics team and the most decorated u.s. gym­nast in world championships history. 
“i couldn’t have found a more incredible woman to be my best friend,” he said. “i feel truly blessed to have bumped into her at a charity event and that we would one day end up together.” 
Though his résumé looks a little different these days — along with his haircut — Quinn’s presence can still be felt on notre dame’s campus, and not just from fans who still wear the familiar no. 10 on game days. This year, 3rd & goal is working with the university’s residence halls to involve current students in its mission. 
“my experience while in school and playing football had a profound impact on my life and future endeav­ors,” he said. “The one com­mon denominator amongst everyone who is a part of nd is that they want to do good. They want to make the world a better place, so it only makes sense to involve such intelligent well intentioned group of people on board. we also feel it’s important that today’s youth realizes the importance of our mili­tary and their contributions to keep our country safe. 
with the book on his foot­ball career still not closed 
— he said he today feels “the best i’ve ever felt mentally about football” — and his work as an analyst secure for the next two years, Quinn said he and the rest of the foundation are ready to tack­le whatever challenges veter­ans will face in the future. 
“i would like to see us help as many soldiers and veterans as possible across the country,” he said. “we will be flexible and adapt to whatever their needs are, so i look forward to the unknown and changing with the times as our foundation continues to grow.” 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2015 | The observer 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: your openness and concern for the welfare of your community, friends, family and environment will bring you recognition and praise. stepping up and doing things because you want to be a part of the changes going on around you will improve your life and put you in a position to attain a brighter future. your numbers are 9, 14, 21, 27, 30, 39, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): push your limits. you will impress the people around you if you pick up your pace and present your skills with passion. when opportunity knocks, you have to be ready to open the door and jump into action. romance is encouraged. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): put more emphasis on expanding your mind and your interests. don’t get into a dispute with someone when you should be focusing on your own accomplishments. learn from past experience and refuse to let your emotions take over. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Finish the jobs you’ve left undone. Taking on too much or neglecting one thing in order to do another will lead to dissatisfaction. a verbal agreement and a tight schedule will help you stay on track and out of trouble. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): stick to what you know and do best. Trying to follow others or live up to someone else’s expectations will be a waste of time. set your goals and don’t worry about anything except finishing what you start. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): your high-spirited attitude and keen ability to express yourself will take you far. make important changes now in order to set the stage for things to come. business and pleasure trips will pay off. romance is highlighted. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): make a point to invite friends over for a get-together. a chance to share your concerns or express your intentions will gather interest from others and will help you narrow down your plans. be sure to finish what you start. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): personal improvements and making a point to bring about changes that will boost your confidence should be put into play. refuse to let anyone put demands on you or your time. put your own needs first. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Think big and use your imagination and intuition when making business or domestic decisions. a chance to get ahead will reveal itself if you rely on your knowledge and skills to help you present what you have to offer. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): strive to make personal improvements that will help you look, feel and do your best. plan a trip or check out new hobbies that fit your current situation. implementing a routine that improves your health and well-being will pay off. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t be troubled by the changes going on around you. property investments will turn out better than you anticipated, and so will a relationship that you have with someone special. good fortune is within your reach. invest in your future. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): your loyalty toward both old and new friends will help you bring them together. you will get the support you need to make positive financial changes and improve the way you live. something interesting will develop that could improve your love life. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): work and money should be your primary concerns. making vocational changes will lead to greater stability. you don’t have to give up one position in order to take on another. spread your talent around and you will advance. 


Birthday Baby: You are responsive, productive and precise. You are generous and thoughtful. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 




make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
WAKING THE ECHOES 

Quinn rebuilds lives through ‘3rd & Goal’ 
By MARY GREEN 
assistant managing editor 
when you’re the starting quarterback of a top-10 team and thousands of fans are cheering, jeering and wear­ing your no. 10 jersey on saturdays in the fall, blend­ing in isn’t exactly easy. 
but when brady Quinn walked the notre dame campus as a student, he just wanted to fit in with his classmates. 
“go to class. go to the li­brary and study. live in the dorms and get to know my roommates. grab a quick bite at the dining hall when­ever i had time,” Quinn said of his to-do list. 
he even recalled how he sported “long shaggy hair with a nice flow bucket com­ing out the back of my hel­met, which i guess was cool at the time.” 
while some of his class­mates might’ve had simi­lar hairstyles, they weren’t two-time heisman finalists. They didn’t win the maxwell award in 2006 as the coun­try’s best overall player, and their jerseys weren’t for sale in the bookstore. 
but that didn’t stop Quinn from taking part in typical student activites, like join­ing clubs like iron sharpens iron, holding on-cam­pus jobs and lacing up for bookstore basketball. 
The dublin, ohio, na­tive still stood out on the bookstore courts, though, where he played with irish teammates Jeff samardzija, adam Fitzgerald, chinedum ndukwe and dan stevenson and won the tournament twice. 
“i still remember playing other students in bookstore basketball and hearing the trash talk from people in the crowd,” he said. “it made me realize that just because these students were fans, it didn’t mean they were your friends. 
“so we kicked everyone’s ass in bookstore basketball and did our best to do the same to everyone on the football field and hoped the student body would join with us.” 
along with the bookstore 
see FooTball PAGE 14 


ND MEN’S SOCCER ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish aim to retake NCAAs 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
is this year “the year” once again? 
Just two games into the regular season, it’s hard to say for sure that the no. 4 irish are bound for their sec­ond national championship in two years. but in those two games the irish have managed one win and one draw, tallying one goal, one assist, three points and 16 total points. 
perhaps an even bigger premonition than statistics: this season’s roster eerily resembles that of the 2013 

national  championship  
team.  
Twelve  members  from  

the 2013 squad, plus 11 new members make up the 2015 team. 
Then-senior forward harrison shipp — the “little wizard” as he was called — led the irish with 12 goals and 10 assists that 2013 season. 
his fellow forwards, se­nior leon brown and junior 
see m soccer PAGE 12 


mclaughlin brings success to irish 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
over the last year, the notre dame volleyball team has seen massive turnover. with eight departing players and a coach­ing staff change, this year’s team is heading in a new direc­tion. First-year head coach Jim mclaughlin, however, thinks he knows how to bring the irish back to its winning past: hu­mility and hard work. 
mclaughlin brings an un­precedented level of success to the program, as he is the only person to coach both a women’s and a men’s volleyball team to ncaa championships. having coached the usc men’s team to a title in 1989 and 1990 and the university of washington to the 2005 women’s champion­ship, his resume also includes a revival of the women’s program at kansas state and recogni­tion as the ncaa coach of the year in 2004. 
but mclaughlin said he un­derstands the past does not necessarily mean success in the future. 
“you know, i’m just a coach,” mclaughlin said. “i think when i’ve studied the success of peo­ple in any industry — the film industry that i’ve studied, mu­sic, business, athletics — what i see is, i don’t see this genetic component like everybody thinks. i see great conditions with mentors that can teach. even mozart had a great teach­er, was in great conditions and practiced extremely hard, and part of the conditions are how you think and your emotions. Those are the key things.” 
mclaughlin’s success will come only with hard work day in and day out and, above all else, the understanding that the mental game is just as im­portant as the physical. 
“every day we just have to make a little bit of improve­ment, to get better, to learn how to learn, and be able to measure it,” mclaughlin said. “we’ll be a very, very good team, and we hope to be a great team in november. That’s al­ways been my goal, and we’re 
see volleyball PAGE 13 




