The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 37 | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Student government composes memo 
Ricketts, Ruelas address student mental health in letter to University Board of Trustees 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news writer 
student government com­piled its new research and recommendations on men­tal health in a memo to the university board of Trustees. 
student body president bryan ricketts said the memo is an extension of a report on stu­dent stress and mental health written by lauren vidal and matthew devine, last year’s student body president and vice president. 
“we thought it was a great conversation,” ricketts said. “Their look at student stress examined how conditions can exacerbate mental illness, or even create it for the first time. now we’re examining some of the leftover questions, look­ing more at the actions taken to help students with mental illness.” 
dan sehlhorst, student body chief of staff, said the memo contained a further analysis of mental illness in relation to high-risk groups on campus, as well as information about in­dividual colleges’ responses to student mental health needs. 
sehlhorst said student gov­ernment issued two main rec­ommendations in the memo, suggesting changes to address the climate and procedures 
see memo PAGE 4 



smc program connects sisters with students 

By GRACIE BURCHETT 
news writer 
This year Friends with sisters, which connects the sisters of the holy cross with saint mary’s students, transitioned from a campus club to a campus ministry program. 
regina wilson, director of campus ministry, said the change in the program, which was founded in 1976, helps to keep Friends with sisters more structured as students graduate. 

“by making it a program within campus ministry, there is a more integrated support system for students from year to year. it seemed like a natural fit for Friends with sisters to become part of campus ministry,” wilson said. 
each member of Friends with sisters is paired with a sister of the holy cross, wilson said. program mem­bers then have one-on-one time each week with their designated sister, where re­lationships can be 
see sisTers PAGE 3 




Alum discusses using comedy against violence 

By EMMA BORNE 
new writer 
monday evening, the gender studies program and the department of Film, Television & Theater co-sponsored notre dame alumnus christian murphy’s presentation on how his company uses comedy to combat relationship violence. 
murphy is the co-founder and executive director of catharsis productions, an organization that uses humor and theater to open conversation and aware­ness about sexual violence. murphy said he and co-founder dr. gail stern started catharsis production in the hope that 
see alum PAGE 4 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 5 FooTball PAGE 12 men’s Tennis PAGE 12 





ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 

Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu,  wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite board game? 

Chris Rhyne 
senior Keough hall 
“monopoly.” 

Gavin Chamberlain 
sophomore Keenan hall 
“Trouble.” 

Hana Jenks 
sophomore pasquerilla east hall 
“liFe.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



Laura Syers 
sophomore 
pasquerilla east hall 

“pretty pretty princess.” 

Quinlan McWilliams 
junior 
Keough hall 
“Trouble.” 


Shaq Johnson 
junior 
Keenan hall 
“bananagrams.” 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
catherine owers renee griffin Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

andrea vale rachel o’grady nicole caratas emma-Kate coulin 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
eric richelsen miko malabute 

Photo Viewpoint 

“Vulnerability over Law School Lecture Mindful Meditation Football Pep Rally Compassionate Care 
Zach llorens austin Taliaferro 
Violence” Law School Coleman-Morse Hesburgh Library in Medicine Hesburgh Center for 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Center 5:45 p.m.-6:30 p.m. Jordan Hall of Science International Studies “The Death Penalty, 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. A home game weekend 1 p.m.-2 p.m. 


Corrections 

4 p.m. Dignity and Doing Meditate with Campus tradition. Part of the Science 
The observer regards itself as Open to the public. Justice.” Ministry. Exploration Series a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Prayer Service Reading Series “Iron Sharpens Iron” ND Women’s Soccer Football vs. USC 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
LaFortune Student Hammes Bookstore Coleman-Morse vs. Wake Forest Notre Dame Stadium 
however, recognize that we will make 
Center 7:30 p.m. Center Alumni Stadium 7:30 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
8:30-9:30 p.m. Orlando Menes, 10 p.m.-11:30 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Notre Dame takes on 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Pray for those professor of English, Weekly praise and The Irish take on the its longtime rivals, the 
we can correct our error. 

affected by violence. presents. worship service. Demon Deacons. Trojans. 

ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2015 | The observer 



club sponsors blood drive today in hurley hall 
By SELENA PONIO 
news writer 
imagine your community is desperately lacking a resource that your own body produces every day. The solution, se­nior shannon Kraemer said, is obvious: give blood. 
notre dame relay for life and the american cancer society (acs) student club are sponsoring a blood drive Tuesday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. at hurley hall. For each unit of blood donated to the south bend medical Foundation, a $5 donation will be given to relay for life. 
Kraemer, co-chair for relay for life and co-president of the american cancer society club, said that even one dona­tion can make a significant difference. 
“one donation of blood can save more than three lives or seven babies’ lives,” Kraemer said. 
The number of blood donors is decreasing every year, she said, and many young adults do not donate blood. 
“i think it is something with our generation that primarily 


“My professor said that when he was younger everyone gave, and it was kind of a moral requirement that you give blood. ... I think we are all kind if in this together.” 
Shannon Kraemer 
co-chair 
Relay for Life 
we are pretty busy or we travel and we just forget to give,” she saud, 
she said one of her profes­sors suggested the decrease in blood donations could be because of a generational difference. 

“my professor said that when he was younger every­one gave and it was kind of a moral requirement that you give blood,” Kraemer said. “There is a bizarre mental­ity that ‘hey it’s my blood, i can choose what to do with it,’ and i want to be sympa­thetic to that perspective, but i think we are all kind of in this together, and if it’s your grandma, or your mom, you wouldn’t think twice.” 
Kraemer said there is a red banner on the south bend medical Foundation’s website, givebloodnow.com, which states that there is less than a two-day supply of a-negative and o-positive blood. 
“i got really kind of anx­ious about it,” Kraemer said. “This i feel like is organic, you make your own blood and you’ll always have more of it, so why can’t we be a little generous to our surrounding community when that’s what means most?” 
participating in the blood drive is especially convenient for students since it takes 

“I think as a University that has social justice standards and human rights conversations. ... We should be able to fill up more than two people an hour for this event.” 
Shannon Kraemer 
co-chair 
Relay for Life 
place at central location on campus, Kraemer said. last year only about half the ap­pointment slots were filled, and she said she hopes a bigger turnout will occur this year. 
“i think as a university that has social justice standards and human rights conver­sations … i really think we should be able to fill up more than two people an hour for this event,” Kraemer said. 
Kraemer said many students travel internationally and as a result cannot give blood. she said for the past couple of years she was one of those students and that she looks forward to giving blood again tomorrow. she said students who are able to give blood should be donating to com­pensate for those who cannot, especially since there is such a dire need for donations in the south bend community. 
“i just wanted to commu­nicate that this is urgent and students need to wake up to this,” Kraemer said. 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 



Nutritionist presents on mindful eating 
moment,” she said. “we’re all york Times bestselling au-by examining the thoughts, “i thought [the instruction] 
By MEGAN VALLEY 

news writer busy, we’re all trying to fit a lot thor dr. susan albers multiple feelings and internal pressures provided new and interesting of things into our schedules, so times, saying albers highlights that affect how and why you insights, and i especially liked Jocie antonelli, nutrition we don’t always have time to mindfulness as a tactic to re-eat or don’t eat,” antonelli said. the chocolate meditation be-
and safety manager for notre eat without multitasking.” 
antonelli also said albers cause i have never heard of that 

dame Food services, gave a Freshman reinaldo angola­
presentation on mindful eat-hernandez said he took an 
ing as part of the mcdonald interest in the presentation be­
center’s mindful mondays. cause he hopes to improve his 
antonelli, who also offers health habits in college. 
nutritional counseling, said “i was interested in going 
mindfulness is closely related to the event because i  want 
to intentionality and explained to build super healthy habits suggests it can be helpful to ask and i honestly thoroughly en-
yourself questions about your joyed those two tiny hershey 
environment, habits and body kisses way more than usual be-
signals before eating to better cause of it,” he said. “i’m kind 
register your body’s needs. of excited to eat again just so 
To end the presentation, i can actually slow down and 
antonelli led participants savor every bite.” 
through a meditation that fo­antonelli said it’s important 
how both are related to food in particular. 
“Taking that idea of mind­fulness and applying it to eat­ing is, very simply, having an awareness of what you’re eat­ing, why you’re eating, how you’re eating, all those kind of things that that involve eat­ing, and being present in that while i’m at college, partly be­cause i want to prove to myself that i can make good choices without having my mother be­hind my back all the time,” he said. “also, i’m always looking for any free events offered on campus that will help me grow as an individual.” 
antonelli referenced new move obstacles that prevent an people from determining their bodies’ dietary needs. 

“many social and environ­mental factors can stand in the way of being able to accurately decode your body’s feedback. mindfulness helps you break free from routine eating habits cused on fully savoring the experience of eating a piece of chocolate — listening to the crinkle of the foil, inhaling the smell and letting the chocolate melt in the mouth for a few moments before chewing. 
angola-hernandez said the chocolate meditation was a new experience for him. 
not to confuse mindfulness with being overly critical or strict with your diet. 
“every item you’ve enjoyed can be part of a balanced and healthy diet,” she said. “it just takes moderation.” 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 

Sisters  volunteer coordinator and director of activities for  
conTinued From page 1  sisters of the holy cross, lee  
ann  moore, said the pro- 
strengthened  in  a  personal  gram is about “forming re­ 
setting.  lationships between sisters  

paid adverTisemenT 

and students that are rooted in friendship and nurtured over the years while the stu­dents are at the college.” 
“The students and sisters become friends and get to know one another better: the students learn about the sisters’ lives and ministry experience and the sisters learn about the students’ 
lives  and  college  experi­ 
ence,” moore said.  
bridget  enright,  senior  
and  president  of  Friends  

with sisters said, “This is my fourth year in the program, and my fourth year know­ing sr. virginia marie. sister virginia has been a source of inspiration, of joy, and of connection to my faith.” 
enright said she is pleased with campus ministry’s in­volvement in the program. “by re-establishing 
Friends with sisters as a program under the campus ministry office, we have been able to make an even stronger connection be­tween the sisters of the holy cross and the saint mary’s campus,” enright said. 
This year Friends with sisters has 78 students and 74 sisters involved in the program. recently, the pro­gram had a kickoff with an ice cream social. 
“at the [kickoff] party, stu­dents came to the convent to meet their sister who will be their friend, mentor and companion for the rest of their college career,” enright said. 
First-year student monica davy said she is thrilled to be part of Friends with sisters. 
“i am so thankful to attend a college that provides the opportunity to develop a relationship with a sister of the holy cross,” davy said. 
enright said the Friends with sisters program is unique to the saint mary’s experience. 
“while the relationships between each student and sister is unique, i believe every girl starting in the program very quickly ap­preciates the genuine and loving friendship the sisters offer us,” enright said. 
upcoming events for Friends with sisters this year include an annual halloween costume party on oct. 26 and a Thanksgiving reflection program on nov. 23. 


Contact Gracie Burchett at gburchett01@saintmarys.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Alum 
conTinued From page 1 
they could use their passion for theater to make a difference. 
“[stern and i] both had people very close to us who had been victims of rape, especially while we were in college and we rec­ognized the dearth of sexual as­sault awareness programs that weren’t dry, pedantic and really uncomfortable to the audience that they were trying to serve,” murphy said. “so we wrote a play called ‘sex signals.’ … we did this with the hope of using humor and audience interaction as tools to open up a dialogue with audienc­es that may have felt they didn’t want have this conversation.” 
murphy said when the audi­ences in these productions are asked to raise their hand if they think rape is wrong, there has never been a person who has left his or her hand down. he said this begs the question: why is sexual assault still happening if everyone knows it is wrong? one of the main reasons is lack of awareness, he said. catharsis productions, murphy said, hopes to meet audiences where they’re at to show them that sexual as­sault is very real. 

according tomurphy,catharsis productions’ main audiences are college campuses and the military. while the organization’s first audience was a college cam­pus, today, every soldier com­ing into the united states army is required to see “sex signals,” murphy said. 
beyond awareness, murphy said catharsis productions looks to educate its audiences on by­stander intervention strategies and their social responsibilities to potential victims. 
“we challenge [the audience] to call out aggressive behavior or sexist or demeaning comments,” murphy said. “we expect them to intervene when they see oth­ers taking advantage of a friend that may appear drunk. we urge them to hold their own friends ac­countable when their friends look to take advantage of other people in vulnerable situations. and we do all this by providing various examples of how they can inter­vene in safe, non-confrontational ways.” 
murphy said catharsis productions hopes to one day change the world. 
“The catharsis productions mission statement is to change the world by producing innova­tive, accessible and research-supported programing that shifts oppressive attitudes and trans­forms behavior,” murphy said. 


Contact Emma Borne at  eborne@nd.edu 
Memo 
conTinued From page 1 
related to mental illness on notre dame’s campus. 
ricketts said student govern­ment defined stigma reduction and emphasized the role of com­munity as segments of its rec­ommendation about the climate surrounding mental illness on campus. 
“Through a combination of aca­demic research, campus research and data analysis we did over the summer, we were able to sit back and decide what we, as a student government, want to accomplish this year,” he said. 
sehlhorst said the memo ad­dressed five procedures related to mental illness — parental education, collegiate targeted out­reach, high-risk group targeted outreach, faculty education and college referral education. 
educating parents about the mental health resources on cam­pus could help them provide sup­port to their children in times of need, sehlhorst said. 
“we want to help parents know better how to refer their students if they were identifying signs that they needed some additional help 
— maybe they’re way too stressed over the phone, maybe they’re re­ally depressed,” he said. 
vidal and devine’s report high­lighted freshman students and international asian students as those with a higher risk of stress-related mental illnesses, sehlhorst said. 
“we identified five additional high-risk groups: lgbTQ students, racial and ethnic minorities, stu­dents who have a background of high socioeconomic need, men and non-catholic students,” he said. “each of those groups face mental health issues in a differ­ent way. They often face different types of mental health issues, so they need to all be dealt with in a specific way.” 

sehlhorst said different on-campus organizations have close relationships with different demo­graphics, allowing them to serve as a resource for different high-risk groups. 
The memo also notes the im­portance of faculty education about the mental health resources on campus, such as the campus assessment response and education Team (care Team), 
paid adverTisemenT 

ricketts said. 
sehlhorst said student govern­ment suggested broader faculty training programs to teach faculty members about ways to recognize mental illnesses and how to help put students in touch with the re­sources available to them. 
“it would start with the actual training … so they know the warn­ing signs and resources available,” he said. “a lot of colleges do this re­ally well already. basically, what we are identifying is we can still im­prove even further.” 
ricketts said it is important to continue the collaboration be­tween the different colleges at the university, continuously evaluat­ing the best way to help students access the resources they need. 
“These are all ideas, initiatives that we’re using to frame how we’re dealing with mental health and how we’re engaging with adminis­trators and the colleges on mental health issues,” he said. 
To address mental illness, stu­dent government has also created a department of health and wellness and assisted in the development and promotion of the mcdonald center for student well-being, ricketts said. 
members of the notre dame community have vocalized their desires to address mental illness on campus, ricketts said. 
“This is an issue that affects stu­dents, and we want to make sure we’re continuing that dialogue and continuing student engagement with the issue,” he said. 
Contact Katie Galioto at  kgalioto@nd.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By GABRIELA LESKUR 
scene writer 

months and in some cases years after my closest friends, i finally turned 21. in the two weeks i have been allowed to stand on the hallowed, sticky floors of local bars, i have experienced much and have come to some conclusions about which bars in town are up to my speed. 
Brothers Bar & Grill 

since the day my id allowed me, i stopped by brothers to see what the fuss was about. 
i had heard brothers was a cool place to be, a place where friends could come together and stand around. little did i realize how literal of a description that was and how little else took place there. 
The two evenings i spent there, i must admit, were a bit of a disappointment. 
brothers is a bit too loud to hold a conversation, a bit too bright to make bad decisions and a bit too sporty to fa­cilitate a dance floor atmosphere. while 
By KELLY McGARRY 
scene writer 

with fall in full swing, it’s hard to say whether scooter season is winding down or at its peak. one thing is cer­tain: this practical and stylish mode of transportation is more present on cam­pus than ever. The kick scooter was a staple of childhood. you may hold fond memories of speeding down hills on your middle-school razor scooter, but the sun has not set on this exciting hobby. as a kid, you may have won­dered why the handlebars adjusted so high — after all, no kid is that tall! it turns out the sleek vehicles we enjoyed so much in our youths still have a place in this very different stage of life. 
The kick scooter appeared to die out during our high school years, but it’s making a comeback, and the notre dame campus is scooter-territory. There are plenty of reasons why the kick scooter is the only choice for the short commutes around campus and few drawbacks. 
it was a great spot to watch the u.s. vs. mexico football — i mean soccer — game, it left a lot to be desired other­wise. i came to brothers in a good mood and left in a bad one. isn’t that the op­posite of how it’s supposed to go? 
on the bright side, i received a pretty sick T-shirt that i wore on game day. Thanks for that, brothers. i’ll be back during the day to eat some of that fried cheese you’ve got on your menu, but my nights will be spent elsewhere. 


Finni’s or The Blarney Stone 
ah, Finni’s. a little bit darker, a little bit dirtier and a lot more fun. except when it’s a notre dame football week­end and there are so many people packed into that small space that you feel like a sardine and smell like one too. 
when i went to Finni’s on a wednesday, i was pleased. The place wasn’t too crowded so i was able to easily move from the bar to the dance floor and back again. i came with a few of my best friends and lived the cliché, dancing like 


Pros 
better than a bike: if you’re travel­ing on campus, riding a bike around usually doesn’t make sense. sure, the actual ride is extremely quick, but the time necessary to unlock and lock the bike isn’t really practical for short trips. even worse is navigating through the crowd heading to debartolo hall at a popular class time. not only is it tricky, but just plain rude to just barely breeze by an unsuspecting pedestrian. it’s the reality of our campus. There aren’t many roads, and bikes are not for sidewalks. 
easier to pick up than a board: you may be considering a longboard or a penny board or any board on the spec­trum for your on-campus transporta­tion needs. you may be considering these because you will look cool and become popular and be “nd-crushed” (if that’s still a thing). but if you have never boarded before, you will not look cool. in fact, you will look very uncool when you attempt to dodge walk­ers while you are unsteadied by your no one was watching. although the mu­sic was loud, i was actually able to hold a decent conversation near the front door. a perfect evening all in all. 

when i went to Finni’s on a saturday, i was displeased. The football weekend brought many more sweaty individuals out to prowl. it was so packed that a walk from the entrance to the elevated dance platform took a good five minutes and a good amount of determination. Friends were lost on the journey, not to be seen again. paige, did you ever make it home? i may never know. 

Madison Oyster Bar 
The night of reckoning, sept. 29, 2015, was not full of pomp and circumstance. no rage was held in my honor, no tray of shots was purchased for my consump­tion. simply a quiet drink at madison oyster bar on a monday night/Tuesday morning welcomed me into adulthood. 
oyster bar has my kind of vibe, with two floors and tables spread throughout. The pool table on the upper level allows for a relaxed game to take place between 
over-filled backpack, give up, and end up carrying the cumbersome board to class. summer goals are great, but boarding to class is not for newbies. 
convenience: most importantly for busy times: kick-scooters have breaks, preventing the terrible mishaps that can come from boarding. hopefully you can find at least one hill to race down, but the general flat campus makes for an easy ride. enjoy a speedy, safe and stylish trip, then fold in half and bring into class with you. These things can be stored anywhere, and tucked safely under your bed for the winter. 
affordability: some scooters like Kickped and Xooter are perfect for all terrains but might be out of budget. if you don’t plan on riding on gravel or sand, the razor of your childhood will meet all your needs at a pretty low price. if you’ve grown a bit since then, razor makes an adult version with higher handle bars and larger wheels and deck. 
style: you will exude poise and grace friends and it’s quiet enough for jokes to be shared. i feel as if madison oyster bar might be the bar with the most consis­tent atmosphere that i’ve been to and i like my bars like i like my men: reliable and kind. (i say kind because the bar­tender gave me a free shot for my birth­day as well as an awesome, if girly, first drink. much love.) 

Conclusion 
i have many more south bend bars to explore and i look forward to the expe­rience. until then, i think my first few weeks of legal drinker-status have re­minded me what i’ve always known: i will always prefer a good conversation and good friends to a crazy night i won’t remember. 
so, it seems like i’m going to put the bars on the back burner and spend this weekend drinking wine and play­ing board games with my best friends. That’s more my speed anyway. 
Contact Gabriela Leskur at          gleskur@nd.edu 
as you breeze by on your scooter. Trick out your scooter with light-up wheels and fancy decals to show the world how you scoot. 

Cons 
all this being said, there are still some challenges to the scooter. 
weather: The scooter doesn’t roll well over leaves and snow, so check the forecast before rolling out. 
posture: as we approach the bad­back/bad-knees stage of life, the knee-dipping, hunched over position isn’t easy for all of us. 
Flip-flops: don’t wear flip-flops. 

The final verdict 
ultimately, the level of zen you will attain on your scooter far surpasses the risks involved. look out for the coolest on-campus commuters, appre­ciate the lifestyle and maybe one day you too will scoot. 
Contact Kelly McGarry at                        kmcgarry@nd.edu 
ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 



The observer |  TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Girls vs. bugs 
Veronica Darling 
news writer 

week eight into the school year, my lousy im­mune system finally decided it was time for me to be sick. This saturday, i skipped the game in order to get better, before my cold got worse. 
11 a.m., i hear a buzz, not a buzz of a fly, but something else. i awoke from my very light sleep to see a stinkbug just feet away from my bed. now, i am not one to get all hot and heat­ed over a bug, but i label stinkbugs in a dif­ferent category. usually, as long as they keep their distance (outside) we have no problems, but when they are in my room — no, no, no, we’re not doing that. i grabbed a blanket, my pillow, my stuffed animal and sought shelter elsewhere. 
i waited for my roommate to get back from the game to assess the situation. before i left my room i counted three bugs, and when she got back, there were two, meaning one was hiding. 
we scavenged for a vacuum. one bug was on our blinds, and the other in the corner of our window. we thought about what would be our most strategic option. we didn’t know how smart of bugs we were working with here. what if one saw us suck the other one up and it retaliated against us? we simply could not af­ford to play hide and seek with another one. 
being the halloween enthusiasts we are, we have polyester spider webs in front of our win­dows, adding an extra factor to the hunt. we decided to approach it head on, literally. From a safe distance, under the webs, we pointed the vacuum tube and in the bug went. we hollered with victory as we examined it still crawling inside. we assured it that its friend was going to join shortly and then we would release them into the wild. yes, we actually did tell it this. 
we went through a hole in the webs to get its friend, we pointed and went forth. unable to see if it went in, my roommate retracted the nozzle. it was still in its same spot; we looked at each other, then back at it, then at each other again. she repeated. it stayed plastered on the wall. This bug was relentless. 
we looked around the room, thinking of supplies we could scavenge. we gathered a plastic knife, some duct tape and the stick of the vacuum. as we were making our stinkbug catching contraption, we see our little friend scuttle behind our blinds, leaving only its little legs visible. maybe we actually did have some smart bugs on our hands. 
we took our sticky knife and wiggled into the crevice, catching one of its legs, he fell onto the windowsill belly-up allowing us to suck him up. we took them outside and released them. as picture perfect as this sounds, it is not yet over. we still have one lurking around. we have high spirits that we will find it and are able to reunite it with its friends. 
so, instead of taking a personal day watch­ing football and laying in my bed, i let three bugs constitute my relaxation. as notre dame battled navy on the field, i was battling bugs in my room. 
Contact Veronica Darling at                           vdarli02@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Nuclear defense 
Stephen Raab 
let’s Talk smart 

i have no doubt that the author of “a mother’s worry” that was published in The observer last Thursday is sincere in her belief that the Fukushima daiichi nuclear power plant incident in Japan poses a risk to the well­being of her children living in oceanside, california. however, i strongly disagree with the validity of these claims, as well as her attempts to smear the nuclear in­dustry as dangerous. well-intended as her claims prob­ably are, they do seem to be heavy on conclusions and light on science. 
consider the (unsourced) claim that cesium-134 and cesium-137 contaminants from the Fukushima reactors are heating the water of the pacific ocean to 80 degrees Fahrenheit in october. First, it’s important to note that the author does not cite any oceanographic data when she claims this temperature is anomalous — rather, she simply claims that she has “never felt water so warm here until the last three years.” as the saying goes, the plural of anecdote is not data. 
Further, the author goes on to attribute this tempera­ture increase to radiation levels of eight becquerels per kilogram in the water. Fairly elementary calculations prove that this is impossible. one becquerel is one nucle­ar decay per second. one cesium decay liberates around 605 kiloelectron volts; one electron volt is less than a billionth of a billionth of a Joule, so the total energy liber­ated per day is less than one ten-millionth of a Joule per kilogram. dividing by water’s heat capacity (4,184 J/kg-K) yields the total increase in the water’s temperature — sixteen trillionths of a degree. This is almost 2000 times less than even the world’s most sensitive thermometers can possibly measure. if you’re curious about how fis­sion reactors like Fukushima manage to boil water from such small energies, the short answer is that many, many fissions occur per second, and that these fissions each release much more energy. 
it’s also telling that the author does not provide sources for her claims that Fukushima’s radiation is “devastating the west coast of the u.s.” if pressed, i can only specu­late that she might point to crop failures or irregular fish migration patterns, as i’ve seen antinuclear advocates do in various corners of the internet. This, along with her as­sertions about water temperature, exemplifies “post hoc ergo propter hoc” reasoning — “a, then b, so a caused b.” it’s particularly puzzling that Fukushima ends up the prime suspect, especially when the scientific community has spent so much time discussing the effects of cata­strophic global warming on california’s local climate. 
moreover, the author wildly overstates the threat posed to humans by radiation from nuclear power plants. For example, she claims that “99 percent of all mutations are the bad kind, not the natural selection type — the result is cancer.” First off, the author appears to be conflating mutations in gametes that are passed on to children with mutations to other tissues in the body, which do not affect natural selection. second, the human body’s resilience and the redundancy of dna means that many mutations are neutral, not the “bad kind.” 
Then the author further claims that nuclear power plants “regularly release radioactive particles into the air and water as part of their normal procedures.” This is true, but with radiation as in all things, it’s the dose that makes the poison. if the author is concerned about radiation from nuclear power plants, which emit about 
0.09 microsievert annually, does she allow her children to eat bananas, which contain more radiation, 0.1 mi­crosievert, due to their potassium-40 content? does she allow her children to live in a house made of brick or con­crete (70 microsieverts)? This is the old canard that “vac­cines contain toxic mercury” reworked for the nuclear age. 
but the biggest question that the author must answer when she calls nuclear power dangerous, or a threat to her children, is “compared to what?” let’s ignore for a moment the long-term climate implications of continu­ing to burn coal, the world’s current workhorse energy source. according to the world health organization, particulates released by coal power plants kill a million people every year. meanwhile, the deaths from america’s worst nuclear power accident — Three mile island — can be counted on the fingers of Jaime lannister’s right hand. 
why, then, is there such fear around nuclear power? well, human beings have trouble quantitatively under­standing risk. consider how many people are deathly afraid of sharks (less than one fatality per year), but hap­pily chow down on hot dogs (which account for 17 per­cent of all food-related asphyxiations each year). in many cases, these irrational fears are hyped by the popular culture. For sharks, it was Jaws; for nuclear power, it was probably godzilla. radiation is a great horror-movie vil­lain — not only can’t it be seen, but the layman knows so little about it that it might as well be cthulhu. 
as i’ve noted, the author clearly cares about her chil­dren very much, and i commend her for that. but she needs to make her case with science, not speculation based on inconsistent logic. until that happens, i look forward to our fully nuclear future. if you need me, i’ll be taking a long swim in the pacific. 
Stephen Raab is a senior studying chemical engineering.  He resides in Alumni Hall and welcomes discourse at  sraab@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

coach Jackson, please reconsider 
an open letter to coach Jeff Jackson of the notre dame hockey team: 
as a devoted fan and follower of notre dame hockey, i was somewhat confused to learn on oct. 7, via the leprechaun legion, that student tickets for hockey will be free this season. i say confused, because student tickets for hockey have never cost me a cent in my three years attending notre dame. in the past, students could gain access to the compton Family ice arena simply by flashing their student ids to the ushers. 
now, however, that will not be the case. according to the ticketing website, students must register for their hockey tickets online. Tickets cannot be reserved for the entire season; rather, students must repeatedly register for games at intervals throughout the year. although tickets acquired this way will (still) be free, students who miss the registration window or those who simply show up on game day will have to pay $7 to attend. 
coach Jackson, you said in your and coach brey’s letter to us students, “you have been the cornerstone to our success at notre dame and we want to make sure that you are there once again for all the action this sea­son.” if this statement is true, then the new ticket policy seems dangerously contrary to your goal. as students, it is not always possible for us to know far in advance whether we will be free on a given Friday or saturday night. That was one of the great strengths of the old policy — it allowed students to decide to attend hockey games the night of, without having to pay. The new policy is not flexible and will make it harder for students to attend hockey games, not easier. 
please consider reversing this policy change. you are the head coach, and we are your fans. it would be a shame if notre dame hockey, which is a source of pride and enjoyment for many students, was harmed by one ill-conceived ticketing decision. 
Michael Rangel 
senior oct. 12 


glee club reunion 
Scott Boyle 
The sincere seeker 
a couple of weekends ago, alumni of the notre dame glee club returned to notre dame’s campus for a cel­ebration of its 100-year existence. it was an opportunity to reflect on impact of the club in the lives of its members and the wider community. 
There were quite a few alumni in attendance. Final numbers showed over 500 men graced the stage of the morris performing arts center in downtown south bend for our Friday night concert. These included members of the current glee club and stretched back to a few mem­bers from classes in the 1940s. 
stories of tours, bus rides and favorite pieces domi­nated our weekend activities and conversations. This is probably not surprising if one imagines the fodder that 100 years of history provides. 
Friends and family members have asked me to de­scribe the weekend. but, it’s difficult to capture all of the emotions and feelings that follow from a gathering like this. university president Fr. John Jenkins, while prepar­ing to eulogize notre dame’s late president emeritus Fr. Ted hesburgh, captured the difficulty i feel well: “how can we draw together the strands of a life that spanned so many years, served in so many realms and touched so many lives?” 
i think Fr. Jenkins was inviting us to consider an es­sential truth. most times, explanations will never be able to quite capture in words what should be seen and experienced most clearly by the heart. lou holtz identi­fied this point well when he described the notre dame mystique: “For those who know notre dame, no expla­nation’s necessary. [For] those who don’t, no explanation 
i find it unconscionable that The observer would print the piece “respect life beyond This week,” by louis bertolotti. i find it to be both indefensibly pro­vocative and poorly reasoned. The author advocates that we “alter or abolish” our form of government (a democracy, last time i checked) because we have a law with which he doesn’t agree. This seems inflam­matory to say the least. wouldn’t it make more sense to fight for change to the law rather than incite the reader to modify or do away with our very form of government? This is the beauty of democracy: one can fight for change to laws within the rule of law. 
second, the author suggests the supreme court lacked the authority to make the roe v. wade deci­sion because its members were not elected. This 
”The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The observer.” 
That sentence appears at the end of every viewpoint column printed in these pages, and it is these 18 words which sum up this newspaper’s policy regarding the opinions we put in print. 
in the oct. 7 edition of The observer, louis bertolotti, a biweekly columnist, wrote a piece en­titled “respect life beyond this week” that argued forcefully against abortion. we have since received a letter from associate professor of romance languages and literatures ben a. heller, which runs above, that calls for The observer to apologize for printing a column he believes reduces the debate around abor­tion “to the lowest and most irresponsible level of discourse.” 
we at The observer welcome all opinions, argu­ments, comments and criticisms. That is why we printed berolotti’s column, and it is why we print will suffice.” 
like in the cases of Fr. hesburgh and notre dame, no single explanation of the glee club’s impact will suffice. no single event like a reunion will capture the essence of its meaning. rather, the essence of meanings like the glee club’s must be discovered and lived daily. That is to say, we are called to connect our daily lives with the implications of what we have seen and felt clearly in our hearts. 
in the case of reunion weekend, i started thinking a lot about community. if glee club taught me anything over four years, it’s that close and meaningful communities are not formed quickly. rather, they result from a life that is lived together over an extended period of time. in community, we are brought together through a common experience or by working together for a common goal. 
over the course of its history, the glee club brought to­gether men who had a love for music. but music was just the beginning. at its heart, learning to make music in the rehearsal room helped us learn how to build friendships in life. 
when we sung together, we learned how to blend, to give and receive. sharper or stronger voices needed bal­ance from warmer or softer voices. Those who were not adept at note reading learned or followed those who were better. 
what we learned musically translated into our friend­ships. different personalities learned how to blend with one another. underclassmen were led through the joys and struggles of college, relationships and life by the upperclassmen. 
probably most essential to this building of commu­nity in glee club was our travels together. every fall and spring break we had a chance to tour somewhere in the united states. and every two summers, we went on an international tour. 
if you want to get to know people, take a trip with them. you learn a lot when you encounter people in a variety of situations: when they’re tired, cranky, ener­gized or joyful. downtime manifests the range of these emotions. 
in the quiet and boredom of downtime, we had time to learn about one another. moments that might have on the surface appeared dull became transfigured. busyness no longer prevented the sharing of stories. we had time to hear the echoes of each other’s hearts. 
perhaps the meaning we feel after reunions comes because they give us the excuse to spend time together and share our lives. in those moments, we intentionally focus on those who are around us. dull moments lead to the laughter and joy of “remember when’s?” This builds community and communion. 
how much good might result if we took the time to do this more in our daily lives? what if we were to spend more time with god? 
after all, god continually invites us to “remember when” he showed us the fullness of his love in the incar­nation of Jesus christ. we are invited to actively remem­ber that event so we will better be able to recognize and live into what that love looks now. 
The more closely we know christ’s life, the more we will be able to imitate it. and through this imitation, we will transfigure the world. 
A 2012 and 2015 graduate of Notre Dame, Scott currently serves as the assistant director for Notre Dame Vision in the Institute for Church Life. He can be reached at sboyle2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

The beauty of democracy 
betrays a fundamental lack of understanding of how our government works. i’m no political scientist but if i remember correctly, one of the main ideas behind the creation of an independent judiciary is that the judges should be (somewhat) insulated from public opinion and not concerned with the constant need to be re-elected. in any event, if our elected officials (members of the house and senate) collectively de­cided to abolish abortion, they could do that. The fact that they have not done so is an indication of the va­riety of public opinion on this issue. 
last, the author suggests, indirectly, that sup­porters of abortion should be aborted. he does this by slyly quoting lincoln on slavery — but the im­plication is clear. The author is, or at least seems to be, advocating violence against those who hold an opinion different from the one he holds. The author is of course entitled to hold any opinion he wants. however, The observer has shown an egregious lack of judgment in publishing this piece. we should all 
— regardless of individual positions on the issue of abortion — demand that The observer apologize to the university community for taking the debate on abortion to the lowest and most irresponsible level of discourse. 
Ben A. Heller 

associate professor romance language and literature oct. 9 
EDITORS’ NOTE 

heller’s letter today. we may not agree with one side or another, but we believe everyone in the notre dame and saint mary’s community deserves a forum to voice their thoughts. 
at the same time, we reserve the right to not run a column, guest column or letter to the editor if it makes personal attacks, is unnecessarily inflam­matory or otherwise unsuitable for print. we edit viewpoint pieces for grammar and associated press and observer style. we never want to censor some­one’s beliefs. 
striking a balance between these two concerns is never easy, but we make every decision with the full knowledge that no opinion piece ever necessarily expresses the views of The observer. 
bertolotti’s views do not necessarily represent the view of everyone at The observer, but we stand by the decision to allow his opinions into print. we are also grateful to professor heller for allowing us the oppor­tunity to clarify our decision-making process, and we welcome his input. lastly, we encourage students, faculty, staff, administrators and other members of the notre dame and saint mary’s community to continue to write to us about the issues that matter to you. 
Greg Hadley 
editor-in-chief 
Jack Rooney 
managing editor 
Mary Green 
assistant managing editor 
Wei Lin 
assistant managing editor 
Tabitha Ricketts 
viewpoint editor 


The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

doping in college football? 
Daniel O’Boyle 
sports writer 
To say that this college football season has had a few surprises so far is an understatement. 
major upsets and countless near-upsets have left us with­out a clear front-runner for the national title and a wide-open playoff hunt. off-the-field sto­ries at rutgers and usc have only added to the shocks. but yesterday, we may have seen one of the rarest events imag­inable in the sport: a major performance-enhancing drugs suspension. 
will grier, quarterback for Florida, has been suspended for the remainder of the sea­son after testing positive for a banned substance. he said at a press conference that he un­knowingly took the substance in an over-the-counter supple­ment. it is the first instance of such a suspension for a notable player at a large division i pro­gram. college football’s record with performance enhancing drugs — on the surface — looks pretty great: the numbers of positive tests are incredibly low and mostly at smaller pro­grams away from the national spotlight. even at the nFl level, numbers of positive tests seem surprisingly low: there’s been no major steroid scandal that can compare to what baseball has dealt with. 
but are we to believe that almost everyone except will grier is clean? i should point out that i have no definitive proof; i have no inside knowl­edge that isn’t public. i’m only speculating, but when you look at the facts it’s hard to believe something isn’t going on. 
Just compare the costs and the benefits. Football is a huge industry. it’s only a matter of time before we see a college team pass the billion-dollar mark. at the professional level, the dallas cowboys are the most valuable sports team in the world, valued at $4 billion, with many other nFl teams close behind. meanwhile, the money in steroid testing is sub­stantially smaller. The ncaa conducts testing for all of its athletes and simply doesn’t have the resources to compete with a well-organized dop­ing regimen. lance armstrong avoided a single positive test in his cycling career thanks to the resources at the usps team’s disposal, and he was facing the most powerful anti-doping agencies in the world — what could a major program do against the ncaa if they want­ed to? The risk of getting caught is almost zero, unless you slip up. 
and then there’s the ben­efits. at the college level alone, maybe there’s not much to gain other than personal glory, but every player wants a shot at the nFl. a league where a single workout session — a bench-press, 40-yard dash and some quick drills — could turn you from a nobody to a million­aire. it seems odd that base­ball, a sport where athleticism is a much smaller part of the game, could have such a large scandal, while a sport involv­ing super-human athletes like football has had only scattered cases. 
if football players aren’t dop­ing, any economist could tell you it would be rational to start. in cycling, most dopers weren’t doing it for the glory of winning a grand Tour like armstrong; they just wanted to remain part of the peloton. it’s easy to see the comparison when there’s one multi-billion dollar pro­fessional football league, and very limited options beneath. Taking that risk to get an nFl contract someday is more likely to change an athlete’s life for the better than for worse. 
if you need actual reports of doping cases, they’re out there. Former byu player Jason scukanec claimed in 2005 that doping is widespread at di programs, but he had no evi­dence and nothing was done. when Tommy chaikin wrote about the use of peds at south carolina in the 1980s for sports illustrated, coaches were jailed, but the ncaa did not issue any sanctions. an associated press investigation noted that the system is perfectly designed to allow dopers to get away with it, and provided evidence of players putting on suspicious amounts of weight with ease. 
so what can be done? is it re­alistic for the ncaa to be able to investigate steroid use well enough to actually compete with major programs? probably not. some suggest that repeal­ing substance bans would lead to more entertaining con­tests and less cheating, but the health risks are obvious. others are aware of what may go on, but happy to turn a blind eye. There isn’t an easy answer. we may need more major player accounts on the matter, and perhaps one day steroid use can be fully looked into. until then, the best we can do is accept that grier may not be alone, and there may be more than a few organized steroid programs in college sports. 
Contact Daniel  O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

SMC Sports 
conTinued From page 12 

matches that didn’t go our way, so i am hopeful that we can get a few results out of the six games,” nuber said. “hope and calvin are battling for the championship, but i believe we can play with anyone and steal some points. i have preached to the team from day one that it’s about daily improvements, and that is what we continue to talk about. we are not in the running for a top-four finish, but with six games remaining, we can still finish in the middle third, which is our goal.” 
The belles are set to next take to the pitch Tuesday at 7 p.m. against the hornets at macKenzie Field. 
Golf 

saint mary’s finished with a team score of 660 to finish in third place in the team stand­ings at the miaa conference end of season weekend Jamboree over the weekend. 
“at the end of the first round, i was really excited to see that we had some consistently low scores from some of the players i expected,” belles head coach Kim moore said. “however, there was some surprises from a few individuals after the sec­ond day, and so we didn’t quite finish where we wanted to.” 
sammie averill paced the belles with a 159 over the two-day event, good enough to put the senior into a tie for fourth place for the tournament. based on her performance over the fall season, averill also won the miaa’s most valuable player award for the lowest adjusted scoring average, the eighth player in saint mary’s history to do so. 
“i was very excited to see her win that award,” moore said. “she didn’t know she was close, so to see the look on her face when i told her she was the con­ference player of the year was really awesome. The final was so close, and she only won by one stroke, but she was so de­serving of that award, and i am so glad the results turned out the way they did. it has been great to see the way she has ma­tured and battled back on this team after a year away and a shoulder surgery over the past summer. she has worked really hard, and she deserves all the accolades that came her way this fall.” 
Junior courtney carlson fol­lowed averill, posting a com­bined 164 over her two rounds 

FOR SALE 

NICE 3 BEDROOM UPDATED RANCH within 2 miles of ND cam­pus- $110,000! All appliances, fenced yard, 2 car garage. Call Kathy Platt, Cressy &amp; Everett, 574-276-4688 
for the belles. Freshman Taylor Kehoe finished with a 167, while junior ali mahoney was fourth for the belles with a 170. sophomore Kaitlyn cartone rounded out the scoring for saint mary’s with a 180. 
“ultimately our goal is to fin­ish in the top four in our con­ference so that we can have a chance for our ncaa [auto­matic qualifying] spot in the spring,” moore said. “however, i was a little disappointed with our last round. we played well in our first round this week­end, which brought us only four strokes back from the sec­ond place school going into the last round. Then in the second round, we didn’t play up to our standard, which dropped us five additional strokes back and put us in third overall. having said that, i am very proud of the way my team hung in there and tried to rally back. we just fell a little short, so hopefully we can make up some ground in the spring.” 
The fall season has wound to a close for the belles. moore said her team will train hard during the winter to prepare for the spring season. 
“i want our team to use the momentum and the success we had this fall to help drive them over the winter,” moore said. “we will be having a few top players leave us for the spring, so i am looking for some players to step up. we have the talent; now we just need some drive, and hopefully a few of my play­ers will take on this challenge, work hard over the winter and be ready to go in the spring.” 
Volleyball 
after a tough loss to alma last Tuesday, saint mary’s picked up a win and a loss over week­end action. 
The belles ran into fifth-ranked calvin on Friday and returned with a 3-0 loss (25­22, 25-14,25-15). in the first set, the lead changed hands seven times, and the score was tied 13 times. with the score tied at 19 all, the Knights smashed two consecutive kills to stretch their lead to two points. however, two Knight errors allowed the belles to tied the game imme­diately at 21. over the next five points, calvin pounded down four kills to take the first set. in the second and third sets, the Knights started quickly and opened up a lead the belles did not come close to challenging. 
The next day, saint mary’s hosted Trine and came back from a 2-1 deficit to prevail in five sets, 25-22, 21-25, 24-26, 25­19, 15-9. senior Katie hecklinski and sophomore mcKenzie Todd put together strong stat lines, with hecklinski register­ing a career-high 25 kills, and Todd’s performances earning her miaa player of the week honors. 
after going down 2-1 fol­lowing three close sets to start the match, the belles shut the door on Trine. The fourth set only had two ties and one lead change, which was when saint mary’s went ahead, 2-1. The belles jumped out to a 7-0 lead in the fifth set, and when Trine rallied to make it 10-8, saint mary’s went on a 5-0 run to claim the set, 15-9, and the match, 3-2. 
The team is now 5-5 in league play and sits in a three-way tie for third, which puts them into a potential playoff spot. The middle of the conference is still close, as third through seventh place are separated by only two games. The belles will travel to adrian, which is only a half-game behind them, wednesday. saint mary’s will then travel to Kalamazoo on oct. 23. 
Cross Country 
saint mary’s returned to ac­tion over the weekend at the benedictine invitational in warrenville, illinois, the belles’ first meet in two weeks. 
as a team, the belles placed third with a score of 72. aurora placed in first overall with a score of 36, while north central was runner-up with a team score of 62. 
once again, saint mary’s was led by junior brittany beeler, who has been the first belle to cross the finish line in every one of saint mary’s races so far this season. beeler’s time was 23:01.5, which placed her fourth overall. 
outside of beeler, saint mary’s had a flurry of runners who recorded personal records. among them, junior Kaitlyn alessi finished with a time of 24:06.4, which placed her 13th, and junior colleen ogren posted a time of 24:12.5, which put her in right on the heels of alessi in 14th. 
The belles will return to ac­tion this coming weekend at the university of wisconsin­oshkosh invitational on saturday at 11:30 a.m. 
Contact Michael Ivey at  mivey@hcc-nd.edu and Ben Padanilam at              bpadanil@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
+ deposit. Call 574-386-0882 FOR RENT 
Beautiful home 1 mile from ND. We’re gonna get ‘em on the run 2 furnish rooms 4 rent $650 each boys and once we get ‘em on the 949-292-1200 must see. run we’re gonna keep ‘em on the 
run. And then we’re gonna go go 

3 BR 2 BA house with pool. go go go go and we’re not gonna Georgetown sub. Close to ND. stop til we get across that goalline. 52162 Pickwick Lane. $1200/mo -Rudy, 1993 

ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2015 | The observer 

Interhall 
conTinued From page 10 
injuries from throughout the season and were down to 14 of the 24 guys we had day one, so obviously, that presented some difficulties.” 
duncan finished its season winless, but Treacy said he sees a bright future for the highlanders. 
“i’m pumped for next season’s team,” Treacy said. “we will be returning every single player, as well as a couple of guys who we are studying abroad right now, so i think teams should watch out for what we’re gonna bring to the table.” 
siegfried junior receiver Jake maier said his team played up to its potential. 
“i think we played really well,” maier said. “we were rolling on offense and played lockdown de­fense all game long.” 
The rambler offense was a balanced attack of running and throwing all game long, with schmidt catching several key third-down passes to keep drives alive. maier said the performance was key for siegfried’s march to­ward the playoffs. 

“i think we’re in a pretty good spot,” maier said. “we need to play one more good game to get a strong seed, but regardless of where we end up, i think we’ll do well.” 
siegfried wraps up its regu­lar season against morrissey on Thursday at 8:15 p.m at labar practice complex, while duncan is done for the year. 
Contact Joe Everett at                       jeveret4@nd.edu 
Morrissey 20, Knott 0 
By TONY ZAPPIA 
sports writer 
morrissey defeated Knott 20-0 sunday in a showdown of playoff hopefuls. 
morrissey (2-1) ran the ball early and often out of its wing-T offense with mixed success. however, it was ultimately a long catch-and-run off of a screen pass to sophomore wide receiver matthew botek that gave morrissey its first points of the game. 

in the first half, Knott (1-2) moved the ball thanks to a few long completions and multiple timely pass interference pen­alties. yet senior captain and running back casey mccaffrey said Knott’s inability to com­plete passes reliably kept the Juggerknotts out of the end zone. 
“we had a couple long passes,” mccaffrey said. “but overall we had no consistency on offense.” 
early in the second half, senior defensive back pete ciuffo inter­cepted a Knott pass and returned it for a touchdown. mccaffrey said that play was a turning point in the game. 
“The pick-six was a big play,” mccaffrey said. “That kind of changed the tide of the game.” 
For the remainder of the game morrissey continued to wear down the Knott defense with runs, eventually scoring its third touchdown on the ground. meanwhile, Knott continued to struggle moving the ball through­out the second half. 
getting a resounding win was important, morrissey sophomore quarterback and captain declan Zidar said. 
“That’s an especially big win because we lost our last game,” Zidar said. “and it’s always good to get a pretty convincing win.” 
Knott falls to 1-2 while morrissey jumps to 2-1. both teams face quick turnarounds before Thursday games with important playoff implications. morrissey takes on unbeaten siegfried at 8:15 p.m. while Knott will play alumni at the same time, each at labar practice complex. 
Contact Tony Zappia at  azappia@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


M Tennis 
conTinued From page 12 
competition, figuring out what you need to do to improve, and hopefully doing those things before we host regionals here during fall break.” 
notre dame now has more than a week off before host­ing the iTa midwest regional championships at eck Tennis pavilion beginning oct. 22, one of the biggest tournaments of the fall semester for the irish. 
“we’re preparing like we nor­mally do, being really specific with our practices, putting guys in positions to work on some of the vulnerabilities in their games,” sachire said. “we’re playing a lot and also work­ing on individual drills so that each guy can improve moving forward.” 
participants in the midwest regional championships will be announced soon, but last year’s tournament in ann arbor, michigan, included michigan, michigan state, ohio state, Toledo, wisconsin, northwestern, detroit, valparaiso and a number of oth­er teams. a year ago, covalschi and current junior Josh hagar upset the field to claim the dou­bles championship. 
with the tournament now be­ing held at notre dame, sachire laid out similar expectations to the ones he set a year ago. 
“our expectation is to have a great tournament,” sachire said. “we’re hosting it here and we feel like we’re preparing like we need to in order to have a great tournament, so we’re ex­cited for it and we’re hoping that we play some good tennis.” 
The iTa midwest regional championships will kick off oct. 22, and will conclude oct. 
26. all matches will take place at eck Tennis pavilion. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Interhall 
conTinued From page 12 
on sunday. 
The Knights (2-1) took the lead early with a 65-yard touchdown pass in the first two minutes of the game. Keenan’s defense twice intercepted stanford (3-0), which was held to 12 total yards of offense in the first half. 
Keenan missed another chance to score after a fumbled snap late in the second quarter. with the stanford offense still struggling, it became a battle of two defenses, senior captain and linebacker dan babiak said. 
“our linebackers and our d-ends were getting great pressure on their quarterback,” babiak said. “That was our biggest thing, that our blitzes were working.” 
stanford’s defense held Keenan scoreless for the remainder of the match, despite the Knights’ mo­bile quarterback, senior aaron digenova, and his 227 passing yards for the day. The tide turned stanford’s way after a botched punt in the fourth quarter left stanford only ten yards from the end zone. senior captain and receiver mikey Koller said the missed snap on the punt was the mistake that cost Keenan the game. 
“it just came down to one missed snap,” Koller said. “we honestly did everything else perfectly. it was the best game we ever played.” 
stanford capitalized on the op­portunity in just three plays, finish­ing the game with a one-point lead and its first victory over Keenan in five years. 
“This is big for us,” babiak said. “it really sets up a good foundation for the playoffs. i’m strongly con­vinced [Keenan and stanford] are the best two teams in the league, so we anticipate seeing them again.” 
The griffins doused their rector, Fr. bill dailey, with gatorade fol­lowing the hallmark win. The two dorms’ shared chapel will be called stanford-Keenan chapel until the two teams meet again. 
stanford plays o’neill under the lights Thursday at 7:00 p.m. at labar practice complex, while Keenan plays there at 5:45 p.m. against dillon. 
Contact Maureen Schweniger at mschweni@nd.edu 
Keough 14, Dillon 8 
By MOLLY MURPHY 
sports writer 
This sunday, dillon defeated Keough 14-8, redeeming itself after last week’s loss to stanford. 
dillon (2-1) was able to work the ball down the field immediately, with 32 running yards and 16 pass­ing yards on their first possession to score and end the quarter ahead 7-0. 
at the beginning of the second quarter, a 10-yard penalty against dillon gave Keough (1-3) field po­sition at the 45-yard line. after a promising drive, Keough found it­self at the 35-yard line with 4th and 14 to go after a sack by the dillon defense pushed the Kangaroos back 8 yards. 
deciding not to punt, Keough threw the ball for a 30-yard gain on the play, setting the team up on the 5-yard line. Junior Keough run­ning back conor Kinasz ran the ball in for the touchdown, and the Kangaroos executed the two-point conversion to go up 8-7 on dillon. 
Keough was able to stop dillon at the 10-yard line to end the half ahead by one, but the big red be­gan the second half the way they began the first: with a touchdown on their first possession. dillon gained 50 running yards and 15 passing yards to lead Keough 14­8, a lead they were able to hold for the remainder of the game. despite the loss, junior Keough captain matthew mooney said he was proud of his team’s efforts, noting the defensive stop at the 10-yard line. 
“we fought hard; dillon had a good team,” mooney said. “we had a big stop in the first half too.” 
sophomore dillon captain John walsh was similarly proud of his team’s play despite missing key players. 
“we focused on the run and that worked out well, but there were some good pass plays too,” walsh said, “we were missing one of our safeties which made it harder but some guys stepped up and the line played really well.” 
dillon will face Keenan on Thursday at 5:45 p.m. at labar practice complex while Keough will have a bye week. 
Contact Molly Murphy at mmurph40@nd.edu 
Sorin 18, Carroll 12 
By BRENNA MOXLEY 
sports writer 
sorin stayed undefeated this weekend with a close 18-12 win against carroll. 
The game started off well for the otters (2-0-1), with their opening drive resulting in a touchdown. 
Their next possession began af­ter an interception by senior galvin loughran. he later ran for a touch­down, making the score 12-0 after a second failed 2-point conversion attempt. 
carroll (1-2) responded late in the half with a touchdown caught by senior receiver and captain anthony vallera. 
The vermin opened the second half with an interception snagged in the end zone by junior sean brown. Freshman Jackson hignite of sorin responded on the follow­ing drive with a pick of his own in the end zone. 
carroll tied the game up at 12 with a pass from sophomore quarterback Tyler Troxell to junior receiver eric richelsen. (editor’s note: richelsen is a graphic design­er for The observer.) 
with one minute left in the fourth quarter, sorin sophomore quarterback shane anderson threw a long pass to senior Jake yurek for an otter touchdown. 
vallera said the defensive break­downs and poor ball security were the major problems for the vermin in the loss. 
“we played hard, but we gave up too many big plays and had too many turnovers,” he said. 
sophomore otter captain matthew requet explained that the outcome of this game was the deciding factor for a guaranteed spot in the playoffs. 

“This win is our ticket to play­offs,” he said. “we started off with turnovers, but in the end made some big plays and now playoffs is what matters.” 
carroll and sorin both play at labar practice complex at 9:30 Thursday with carroll facing off against rival Fisher and sorin tak­ing on st. edward’s. 
Contact Brenna Moxley at bmoxley01@saintmarys.edu 
Farley 20, McGlinn 0 
By ELIZABETH GREASON 
sports writer 

Farley emerged victorious sunday at labar practice complex with a 20-0 win over mcglinn. 
Things got going early for Farley (4-1) as the Finest marched down the field efficiently on the opening drive before punching it in with a quarterback sneak by junior lizzy moulton that put the Finest up 6-0. 
The first drive for mcglinn (0­
5) was not as successful as it was forced to punt, but after a series of turnovers by each team, the score remained within one possession at halftime. 
The second half opened up with mcglinn again struggling to get anything going as its drive came to a quick stop when the Farley defense came up with another interception. 
This time, Farley capitalized with a touchdown pass to sopho­more sydney manista and con­verted the 2-point conversion to go up, 14-0. 
each team would see its next couple of drives stalled before eventually Farley tacked on anoth­er touchdown which brought the game to its final score of 20-0. 
on the Farley side, senior cap­tain ali buersmeyer said she was pleased with her team’s performance. 
“we were extremely happy that we were able to play our game to­day,” buersmeyer said. “we stuck to the game plan, and fortunately, it worked out well for us.” 
despite the loss, mcglinn cap­tain megan Fabry remained positive. 
“we were really shorthanded today, which made things tough,” Fabry said. “but you can’t be disap­pointed when everyone is putting in their best effort.” 
Contact Elizabeth Greason at egreason@nd.edu 
Siegfried 27, Duncan 0 
By JOSEPH EVERETT 
sports writer 

siegfried overpowered duncan on sunday at riehle Fields to take a 27-0 win. 
The ramblers (3-0) built a com­fortable 20-0 halftime lead, and the defense forced five turnovers, including four interceptions in the second half, to secure the shutout. duncan junior captain stephen Treacy said that team depth was once again an issue. 
“This game was a rough one,” Treacy said. “we had a lot of 
see inTerhall PAGE 9 
Football 
conTinued From page 12 
finished the game.” 
on the return front, Kelly said sophomore and starting left guard Quenton nelson could be back in time for saturday’s con­test with usc. 
“Quenton should be able to practice on Tuesday, and then we’ll see how that progresses throughout the week in terms of his effectiveness,” Kelly said. “but [he] just finished with the doc­tors and rob hunt, and they ex­pect him to get out to practice on Tuesday.” 
Preparing for the option 
with two games on the sched­ule this year against triple-option teams, and a pair again next year (army and navy), Kelly and spe­cial assistant to the head coach bob elliott set out to put together a scout team — later termed the 
s.w.a.g. team — headed by a triple-option quarterback, fresh­man robert regan. 
“coach elliott and i had discus­sions about beginning to put to­gether a scout team for the spring, and as we had talked about it, we had — we were also going through a recruiting meeting and putting together some names,” Kelly said. “we were recruit­ing a kid out of this high school, hinsdale central, and one of his buddies was the quarterback. he was a triple-option quarterback, and he applied to notre dame. 
“it kind of just got us thinking about, you know what, let’s go out and recruit a triple-option quar­terback and get this thing going and have somebody as its center­piece, and that’s how we got rob regan. he got into school here on his own, and the rest is kind of history.” 
That quarterback was regan, and following notre dame’s 41-24 win over navy on saturday, Kelly awarded regan the game ball. 
“The guys love him. he sang the fight song. That’s the first time we had a true freshman stand up, and he got the game ball and sang the fight song, and there was a huge roar from the team,” Kelly said. 
Looking ahead toward USC 
after the announcement sunday night that Trojans head coach steve sarkisian was taking a leave of absence from the team and then his subsequently firing monday afternoon, notre dame will be facing its fourth usc head coach in the last four years saturday. 
Folllowing its 17-12 loss against washington on Thursday night, usc dropped out of the polls — after starting the year ranked no. 6 — and Kelly admitted the Trojans’ slide changes the way the irish look at the game but noted saturday’s visitors still have a tal­ented squad. 
“certainly, if they’re ranked 10th in the country, that that’s going to affect us a little bit dif­ferently than them not being ranked,” Kelly said. “but i still think, when you talk about beat­ing usc, i think it still carries a lot of weight because people know the talent that they have on that football team.” 
despite the Trojans being out­side the elite ranks of college foot­ball for a while now, Kelly said the rivalry still holds significance. 
“There’s a special feeling play­ing usc, and i know that that still resonates with our players and coaches,” he said. 
last year, the irish were wal­loped in los angeles, 49-14, to close the season, and Kelly said the irish want to put on a better show this week. 
“look, whether it’s a rivalry that goes back with implications to the national championship or not, for us in the short term, we got beat up pretty good against them last year,” Kelly said. “For our football team, we certainly want to show ourselves a lot bet­ter than we did last year.” 
Grace earns big minutes 
when Kelly and the irish staff made a halftime switch to bring linebacker Jarrett grace into the game for junior James onwualu, it gave the graduate student, who recently overcame a long injury layoff, an opportunity to shine — the irish held navy to just 79 yards on the ground in the second half after the midshipmen put up 239 in the first half. 
“it was as meaningful for him [to have success saturday] as it was for me, just to know what he’s gone through and to be called upon to come in and play a very important role for us,” Kelly said. 
“ … To see him get out there and play on saturday was pretty gratifying that he could get out there and help us.” 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2015 | The observer 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy SUDOKU | The mepham group 

Level: 



10/23/12 


Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: stop procrastinating and start doing. put your energy behind making the changes at home that will ease your stress and make your life more enjoyable. put an end to any unsavory conditions you’ve been tolerating, and do what’s best for you. put your needs first. helping others can be rewarding, but helping yourself should be your top priority. your numbers are 3, 10, 19, 27, 34, 36, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Forget about what everyone else is doing and concentrate on your own responsibilities. completing tasks should be your goal, along with bringing about personal changes that will improve your relationship with someone you love. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): network, socialize and let your voice be heard. a proactive approach to life and love will result in success and happiness. don’t waste time trying to figure out the impossible. Take the path that welcomes you with open arms. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): problems will arise if you exaggerate or underestimate the extent of a job. use your insight and intelligence to figure out the best route to take before you begin a venture that may be too much to handle on your own. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): give-and-take will help you avoid criticism. as long as you keep things equal and do your share, you will be given greater opportunities and support. don’t let emotions take over or you will say something you will regret. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): something you least expect will come from an unusual source. be gracious and do your part to show that you are worthy of what’s being offered. your concern and help will be appreciated. don’t hold back when you can make a difference. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): before getting involved in any sort of partnership, do a background check. someone will offer you only the positive aspects of a deal and expect you to make an instant decision. Trust your intuition and protect your assets, reputation and position. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t let the past haunt you or cause you to make a poor decision. change may be needed, but before you decide to let your emotions lead the way, consider past experience and the outcome of similar situations. consider your motives. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): a chance to advance is in the stars. don’t sit back — do everything you can to connect with the right people and show the unique ways in which you can make a valuable contribution. spontaneity will capture others’ attention. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): don’t brag, overdo it or make unrealistic promises. Take a stance and live up to the expectations you set and the commitments you make. listen to what others want and find a way to accommodate without complaint. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): avoid anyone who exhibits instability. go it alone and put everything you’ve got into your own ideas and plans. romance will improve your personal life and lead to a positive lifestyle change. problems with travel plans and communications are prevalent. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): look ahead and gauge what you should be doing in order to prepare for the future. someone you least expect will surprise you with information that will change your mind about someone. Follow your intuition and avoid making mistakes. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): a chance to explore new avenues, meet new people and try new things will surface. don’t let negativity or someone’s demands stand between you and the people you want in your life. love is highlighted. 


Birthday Baby: you are progressive, intelligent and practical. you are popular and thoughtful. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
MOVNE  

 
 
 
 
 

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
PATDO  

 
 
 
 
 

BBOWEC  

 
 
 
 
 
 

CANREP  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 


Print youranswer here: 

(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: TROLL TREND WEIGHT VALLEY Yesterday’s 
Answer: He was bummed after failing to clear the hurdle, but he would — GET OVER IT 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL  MEN’S TENNIS | iTa all-american championships  
Kelly discusses lineup  monaghan falls at  
ahead of struggling USC  championships  

By ALEX CARSON 
associate sports editor 
after two games in 22 days against teams running a triple-option offense, irish head coach brian Kelly said he’s relieved to get through without any injuries from the scheme’s use of cut blocks. 
“we had no injuries again — knock on wood — this week to anything below the waist for any of our linemen,” Kelly said during his sunday teleconference. “They’re a little sore, obviously, but no major injuries there, again, for playing two very physical teams that play the triple option.” 
There were a pair of injuries suf­fered saturday by irish players — freshman defensive lineman Jerry Tillery and graduate student center nick martin both exited at vari­ous points — however, Kelly said he doesn’t expect either to have an impact. 
“[Tillery] had a sprained elbow and a bone bruise. we’ll fit him for a brace, and he should be fine for practice on Tuesday,” Kelly said. “… nick’s got an ankle sprain, but he 
see FooTball PAGE 10 


By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
The irish wrapped up in­dividual play at the saint Francis health system iTa all-american championships over the weekend, with senior Quentin monaghan falling in the round of 32. 
The tournament, which be­gan with pre-qualifying on oct. 3 and concluded this past sunday took place in Tulsa, oklahoma, and featured four irish representatives. monaghan, the nation’s fifth-ranked singles player, was au­tomatically in the main draw. 
in addition to monaghan, the irish also sent senior alex lawson, junior eddy covalschi and freshman alex lebedev. both lawson and lebedev fell in the round of 256 while covalschi made it through but fell in the round of 128 to wake Forest junior sam bloom, 6-4, 4-6, 6-2. 
on Thursday, monaghan 
CAROLINE GENCO | The Observer 

defeated alabama sophomore Korey lovett (5-7, 6-4, 6-3), 
Senior running back C.J. Prosise attempts to evade two defenders during Notre Dame’s 41- 24 victory over Navy on Saturday. 

the no. 96 singles player in the nation who beat monaghan only two weeks earlier at the crimson Tide Four-in-the-Fall Tournament at alabama. monaghan, however, was struck down by auburn junior no. 76 marko Krickovic (1-6, 7-5, 7-5) in the round of 32 on Friday. 
Though the irish only picked up a pair of wins throughout the whole of the tournament, head coach ryan sachire said the team met its goals through­out the week. 
“any time you play a tourna­ment and you don’t win, you’re probably a little disappointed,” sachire said. “but that wasn’t the focal point of the tourna­ment. our focus was to do well and to do the things we needed to do to get better. all four did well, maybe not to the level of their own expectations. 
“i was happy with it, but just echoing their feelings i think they felt like they left some things on the table. but that’s part of tennis. exposing your­self to a high level of 
see m Tennis PAGE 9 
INTERHALL 

purple weasels suffer first loss 
Welsh Family 7, Pasquerilla West  0 
By TORI LLORENS 
sports writer 
welsh Family bested previously undefeated pasquerilla west on sunday with a 7-0 victory. 
pasquerilla west (3-1) started its offensive effort by marching up the field, but the whirlwinds (3-1) held strong on a goal-line stand to deny the weasels any points. 
The second quarter was riddled with penalties and incomplete passes on both sides, but after a long throw, welsh Family man­aged to score a touchdown and the extra point. The weasels did not connect on the passes needed to put them on the board before the half ended. 
The third quarter contained substantial back-and-forth action, highlighted by a whirlwind sack that pushed the weasels back to the 5-yard line. 
although the pressure was high in the fourth quarter, pasquerilla west made progress down the field and was able to hold welsh Family when on defense. however, with a missed snap and four incomplete passes in the final three minutes of the game, the weasels did not have the final push needed to force a tie. 
senior weasels captain and line­backer bernie Jordan said the loss can help pasquerilla west. 
“it’s better now than later,” Jordan said. “we’re not happy with it, but there’s a positive that we can see what we did wrong and change it. we have a fire in our bellies and sometimes it’s better to get a loss early so our confidence can keep building.” 
both pasquerilla west and welsh Family take the field again Tuesday at riehle Fields at 7 p.m. The weasels play walsh and the whirlwinds face lyons. 
Contact Tori Llorens at  vllorens@nd.edu 
Stanford 7, Keenan 6 
By MAUREEN SCHWENIGER 
sports writer 
stanford came out against rival-Keenan with a statement 7-6 win 
see inTerhall PAGE 10  
SMC SPORTS 

Olivet hands third loss in a row to Saint Mary’s 
By BEN PADANILAM and MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writers 
Soccer 

despite bucking its longest scoring drought of the season, saint mary’s dropped its third straight match saturday when it fell to olivet in double overtime, 3-2. 
The belles (1-10-1, 1-8-1 miaa) broke their five-game scoreless streak against the comets (9-3-1, 6-3-1 miaa) this weekend, scoring two goals in regulation, but the comets scored the game’s deciding goal in the 103rd minute. 
The belles started off the game’s scoring when senior defender and captain lindsay rzepecki scored in the 15th minute. They held this lead go­ing into halftime, but just three minutes into the second half, comets senior defender Jordyn mackool scored her first goal of the season to tie the game up. 
in the 61st minute, comets freshman midfielder emma essen scored an unassisted goal to put olivet up, 2-1. The belles remained unfazed, however, as junior midfielder Jenn Jarmy scored in the 87th minute to force overtime. 
in the first overtime period, the comets outshot the belles, 3-2, but neither team was able to score. in the second period, however, essen found the back of the net for the comets on the first shot of the period to give olivet a 3-2 win. 
after the game, belles head coach Ken nuber said he felt the team played its best game of the season, despite the result. 
“saturday was tough because we have come so far in our de­velopment and started attack­ing very well,” belles head coach Ken nuber said. “we were with­out a few key players that could have made a difference like [freshman goalkeeper] rachel mccarthy and [junior forward] Kate vasile. [Freshman goal­keeper] cara givens had been out for the past three weeks with injury, and for a keeper, rep­etition is everything, so this put cara in a very tough position. 
“having said that, we should have won the game based on our play. we have multiple op­portunities to put the game away, even in overtime. a few mental mistakes lead to the winning goal, but overall, it was our best game.” 
up next for saint mary’s is a road matchup with Kalamazoo on Tuesday. The hornets (6-6­1, 6-3-1 miaa) currently sit in fourth place in the conference, and they have a game-and-a­half lead over albion for the fi­nal spot in the miaa playoff. 
over the break, the belles also have games with confer­ence bottom-dweller Trine and conference-leader calvin on saturday and oct. 24, respectively. 
nuber said it is important for his team to keep fighting and improving each and every game, despite being out of play­off contention. 
“it’s been tough because i have felt that we have been the better team in a few conference 
see smc sporTs PAGE 8 





