The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 124 | fridAY, April 24, 2015  | ndsmcobserver.com 
SUB announces concert headliners 
Cher Lloyd, special guest Jesse McCartney to perform in organization’s annual spring concert 
By MATTHEW McKENNA 
news writer 
This saturday, the student union board (sub) is host­ing its yearly spring concert, a performance that will fea­ture cher lloyd and Jesse mccartney in stepan center. 
senior brianna leon, co-director of programming for sub, said the spring concert is the largest concert the or­ganization puts on each year, so there are more resources and opportunities to bring in bigger name acts. 
“since stepan accommo­dates a much larger crowd than the venues for any other shows held throughout the year, [the concert is] a unique opportunity to gather a large portion of the student body together for one event, cel­ebrating the end of another year,” leon said. 
leon said the doors of stepan center will open at 
8:30 p.m., and the show will start at 9 p.m. 
Junior shadmn minir, concerts programmer for sub, said he is very excited to bring lloyd to campus to perform for the student body. 
“From being on the X-Factor with one direction 
see concerT pAGE 6 

MARY McGRAW | The Observer 


The shirt enters 27th year 


Notre Dame Day 
By ANDREA VALE 
news writer 
The design for The shirt 2015 will be released at 6:57 p.m. sunday during an unveiling cer­emony at the hammes bookstore. This will be the 27th shirt over­all and the 26th year of The shirt project, which raises proceeds to fund various notre dame causes and groups. 
Junior abbey dankoff, this year’s president of The shirt project, said The shirt started in 1990, “just as a student-run fund­raiser for anTostal to raise mon­ey.” while that first shirt served 
see shirT pAGE 6 


By EMILY McCONVILLE 
associate news editor 
starting sunday, the university will hold its second annual notre dame day, a 29­hour fundraising campaign that includes a live broadcast, a tug-of-war tournament, a social media lounge, the un­veiling of The shirt and the distribution of $1 million to more than 780 notre dame-
affiliated organizations. 
MICHAEL YU | The Observer 
The campaign will begin at 
Notre Dame cheerleaders lead the crowd in chants during last 
6:42 p.m. sunday and end at 

year’s unveiling ceremony for the 25th anniversary of The Shirt. 




returns to campus 
midnight april 27.  For the en­tire day, there will be a broad­cast streaming on the notre dame day website, featuring student organizations, current students, alumni, faculty and other notable figures such as espn’s cris collinsworth, for­mer pro football player brady Quinn and author nicholas sparks, who will talk about their experience with notre dame and encourage people to donate. The broadcast will 
see nd day pAGE 9 

Kennedy lecture benefits ill SMC student 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 
Kennedy enthusiast Jack gordon discussed the unexam­ined side of the shooting at a saint mary’s benefit lecture entitled “The Kennedy assassination — separating Truth from myth,” on Thursday. 
gordon’s presentation focused on the circumstances and inves­tigations surrounding the assassi­nation of John F. Kennedy. he said he believes there is more to the shooting than is normally taught. 
gordon said he thinks there was more than one person who shot Kennedy because there is “over­whelming evidence that gunshots came from two different direc­tions.” he cited video clips and photographs taken during the procession in dallas to show that there were multiple shots fired at the president. gordon said he be­lieves the president was hit three or four times, and that it is possible there were six or seven shots total fired at the car. 
he also said there were dis­crepancies with doctor reports, and that the consensus of doc­tors’ reports made at the hospital in dallas were covered up. There were also people seen in the back­ground of video footage from the procession who may have acted as signals for when the president was believed to be shot, gordon said. 
“i think the president was hit in the throat first, and then shortly after the throat was then hit in the back causing his arms to go up. i’m not convinced that the back shot exited. … [gov. John] 
see Kennedy pAGE 6 








ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor Business Manager
 Jack rooney alex Jirschele Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: lesley stevenson Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: brian lach Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, lsteven1@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Chocolate candy or fruity candy? 

Andrew Grose 
freshman 
Keenan hall 
“chocolate.” 

Emily Belin 
junior 
cavanaugh hall 
“all about the chocolate.” 


Jake Miller 
freshman 
Knott hall 

“Fruity candy, sour patch and mike & ikes.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



Meredith Pearce 
freshman 
walsh hall 

“chocolate candy definitely.” 

Rebecca Mai 
freshman 
cavanaugh hall 

“Fruity, especially gummy worms.” 

Tyler Belin 
freshman 
carroll hall 
“chocolate candy.” 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college. editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
madison Jaros Zach Klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

claire Kossler rachel o’grady gabriela malespin stephanie snyder 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday
mary mcgraw miko malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 

“Pitch Perfect 2” “The Wrecking Crew” The Shirt unveiling Spring Concert Snite Salon series
micahel yu mary Kate luft 
DeBartolo Performing DeBartolo Performing Morris Inn Washington Hall Snite Musuem of Art Arts Center Arts Center 5:30 p.m.-7 p.m. 8 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 5 p.m.-5:45 p.m. 
6:30 p.m.-8 p.m. 9:30 p.m.-11:30 p.m. Worldwide broadcast A capella concert by Collegial discussion
Corrections 

Movie sneak preview. Film Screening. of the 2015 Shirt. Halftime. and exchange. 
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and 

Lunchtime Labor “Candide” “A View from the Notre Dame Day “Funding for Non-
strives for the highest standards 
RAPS DeBartolo Performing Bridge” Campus wide profits” 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Geddes Hall Arts Centers DeBartolo Performing All Day Mendoza College of
however, recognize that we will make 
12 p.m.-1 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Arts Center Celebration of Buisiness 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Research, advocacy Opera Notre Dame 3 p.m.-5:15 p.m. University’s founding. 7 p.m.-9:30 p.m.
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
and policy series. presents. National Theatre Live. Non-profit breakfast
we can correct our error. 
series. 


ndsmcobserver.com | fridAY, April 24, 2015 | The observer 

Archbishop calls for Christian-Muslim dialogue 
By JEREMY CAPPELLO LEE 
news writer 
archbishop michael Fitzgerald, member of the society of missionaries of africa and delegate to the arab league from 2006 to 2012, spoke on the impor­tance of interfaith dialogue between christianity and islam in a lecture entitled “The church and islam 50 years after nostra aetate.” 
“religion, relayed by inter-religious dialogue, can pro­vide the right atmosphere in which conflicts can be involved,” Fitzgerald said. “efforts can be made to­wards greater respect for all individuals, and the goal of harmony and peace be brought nearer.” 
Fitzgerald said the “nostra aetate,” a declara­tion passed by the second vatican council of the roman catholic church in 1965, highlights the impor­tance of mutual understand­ing among religions. 
“christians are not expect­ed to combat other religions, opposing their religious and cultural expression, but rather, to seek to appreciate and defend the spiritual and moral values enshrined in them,” he said. 
“nostra aetate” calls christians to respect re­ligious plurality in an in­creasingly connected and secular world and recognize the truth found in all these religions, Fitzgerald said. 

“it means that the various religions, including islam, although they differ from christ — in essential points are not totally rejected,” he said. “They are seen as con­taining, or at least as reflect­ing, truth which enlightens.” 
Fitzgerald said the docu­ment clarifies that non-christian religions are to be respected not simply be­cause those who adhere to these religions deserve this respect, but also because these religions themselves contain truths that have di­rected their followers’ lives. 
“it would be possible to assert that the different re­ligious traditions are to be taken seriously because they have shaped the religious outlook of the people who have followed these tradi­tions,” he said. “one can’t make a valid distinction be­tween the respect due to the persons and the respect for the religion.” 
even though the impor­tance of Jesus christ may not be recognized in other reli­gions, that does not prevent non-christians from attain­ing the same enlightenment towards which christians strive, Fitzgerald said. 
“The role of Jesus christ as unique mediator be­tween god and human 

paid adverTisemenT 

kind doesn’t exclude sub­ordinate mediations,” he said. “dialogue with people of other religions is by no means excluded.” 
while “nostra aetate” is an important refinement in church doctrine promoting the respect of diverse faiths, 
it  also  has  its  limitations,  
Fitzgerald said.  
“because  of  its  brev­ 

ity, which was a deliberate choice in order to avoid con­troversy, it doesn’t do full justice to the different reli­gions in the world,” he said. “it leaves much work for theologians. in this way, it can be considered an invita­tional document rather than a prescriptive document.” 
in the context of a growing perception of christianity and islam as opposed world views, it is important to increase dialogue be­tween these two religions, Fitzgerald said. 
“christian-muslim dia­logue should lead to a common search for under­standing, to a shared sym­pathy for those who are suffering and in need,” he said. “a thirst for justice for all, forgiveness from wrong done, together with a readi­ness to recognize one’s own wrongdoing.” 
Fitzgerald said before dialogue can take place, however, the widespread misunderstandings people hold of both the christian and islamic faiths must first be addressed. 
“a difficulty is in lack of knowledge when one con­siders populations as a whole,” he said. “There is an ignorance in the west about islam, and much ignorance about christianity in coun­tries where there is a muslim majority. 
“There is a constant need to educate people, convey­ing the true image of islam, as many muslims advocate, but also revealing the true image of christianity.” 
Fitzgerald said while the influence of interfaith dia­logue is greatest at the grass­roots level, it is important for high ranking religious lead­ers to foster a community of understanding as well. 
“religious leaders are not called upon to formulate concrete political measures but rather to underline basic moral principles,” he said. “They need to be able to sup­port government measures when these are seen to con­tribute to the common good, but also to criticize them when human dignity is not being fully respected.” 
Contact Jeremy Cappello Lee at jcappell@nd.edu 
nd day to include six development challenges 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer 
This monday, as part of notre dame day, the notre dame initiative for global development (ndigd) will host the first ever global development challenge. 
“[The] global development challenge is comprised of six stations centrally locat­ed on campus, each relat­ing to a global development challenge that ndigd and the notre dame community are currently working to ad­dress. each station has a hands-on, interactive chal­lenge for students, faculty, staff and members of the south bend community to participate in,” event plan­ner meagan mcdermott said. 
mcdermott said events will include a scavenger hunt, a geography chal­lenge and a 3-point shooting contest. 
“notre dame day is about celebrating the best aspects of the university, and so we’re excited to showcase the global development work ndigd and the notre dame community is doing in such a fun and interactive way,” she said. 
participants can take on the challenges individually or in teams of up to four peo­
“Notre Dame Day is about celebrating the best aspects of the University, and so we’re excited to showcase the global development work NDIGD and the Notre Dame community is doing in such a fun and interactive way.” 
Meagan McDermott 
event planner, Global 
Development Challenge 
ple, mcdermott said. The six challenges are slated to take no more than an hour and can be completed any time between 10 a.m. and 6:30 p.m. 
“some of the stations will make for great photo oppor­tunities, and there’s no bet­ter way for students and their friends to spend some down time between classes. The challenges were planned in such a way that anyone can participate and have fun, whether you’re taking on the challenges by yourself or with a group of friends,” mcdermott said. 
mcdermott said winners will have the opportunity to either play basketball or 
“Each task relates to a global development issue that Notre Dame is currently working to address in the developing world, such as clean water, education and one of my passions, fighting malaria.” 
Ruth Riley 
former WNBA player 
have dinner with former notre dame basketball play­er, ruth riley. 
“each task relates to a global development issue that notre dame is currently working to address in the developing world, such as clean water, education and one of my passions, fighting malaria,” riley said in a vid­eo promoting the challenge. 
according to mcdermott, the original idea for the events came from riley and her commitment to help­ing those in the developing world. 
“[riley] envisioned [the global development challenge] as an opportunity to spread the word about the work that ndigd is doing to the rest of campus. we were excited about the opportu­nity to involve students in our mission, and saw notre dame day as a great day to hold the event as we try to spread the word about the work that our office is doing to different parts of cam­pus,” mcdermott said. 
a portion of the $10 reg­istration fee will go to connectivity, electricity and education for entrepreneurship in uganda, one of ndigd’s many projects, mcdermott said. 
“This is a great opportu­nity to learn more about the aid and support notre dame is providing to those most in need. The global devel­opment work being high­lighted through the global development challenge is central to Fr. sorin’s goal of being ‘a global force for good,’” she said. 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | fridAY, April 24, 2015 | The observer 




SMC groups explore child immigration policy 
La Fuerza organizes “Week of Action,” College Republicans and Democrats debate political reform. 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
saint mary’s editor 
la Fuerza, a club that cel­ebrates latina culture at saint mary’s, organized a “week of action” on campus this past week to address pressing issues facing the latin community, sophomore maria hernandez, president of the club, said. 
hernandez said the theme of the week was “into the unknown: The immigration Journey of unaccompanied minors.” she said she thought this theme was especially im­portant as there was an influx of unaccompanied minors crossing the border into the 
u.s. from latin america this past summer. 
“This was not the first time unaccompanied minors have come to the united states,” hernandez said. “This has been and will continue to be an on­going issue within the immi­gration sphere. 
“This recent crisis has ex­posed the many issues within the immigration system. These issues range from humanitari­an to political issues — which is why la Fuerza decided to cover this particular issue from a va­riety of perspectives.” 
a panel of community mem­bers spoke about their ex­periences with immigration Tuesday, hernandez said. 
Jose alvarez, a senior at holy cross, spoke about the experi­ence of his five-year-old cousin, who traveled from honduras to mexico via plane and then was sent across the border with ‘coyotes,’ people who smug­gle immigrants into the u.s., hernandez said. 
hernandez said it was im­portant for students to hear alvarez’s story because the au­dience was able to put a face to the week’s theme of immi­gration and unaccompanied minors. 
alvarez also showed a video of his cousin reuniting with his aunt in the u.s. after the long journey. 
after the journey, Jose’s cous­in said he just wanted to eat pizza, which helped strengthen the audience’s connection to the child, hernandez said. 
Throughout alvarez’s story, there was also a great amount of information about how his cousin was treated while in the custody of the immigration system, hernandez said. 
“[alvarez shared] how his cousin was given one sand­wich a day [while in custody] and a thin ‘aluminum foil’ type blanket which did not keep him warm,” she said. “Jose also shared how his cousin had to sign a paper stating he under­stood his basic rights.” 
on wednesday, Fr. daniel groody, associate professor of theology and director of im­migration initiatives at the institute for latino studies at notre dame, spoke about his 
experience  working  on  the  
border of  u.s. and  mexico,  
hernandez said.  

representatives from saint mary’s republican club and democrat club also engaged in a political debate about immi­gration Thursday as part of the week’s events, hernandez said. 
overall, the week was de­signed for students to under­stand multiple viewpoints about child immigration be­cause there are many injus­tices surrounding the issue, hernandez said. 
“There is a lack of intercultur­al understanding, which is why we wanted to cover a wide va­riety of perspectives, because many people have different un­derstandings of this issue,” she said. “we find it necessary to offer all perspectives to tackle this issue, to improve the lives of these children and learn what we can do to ensure their situation gets better.” 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 


By SYDNEY DOYLE 
news writer 

saint mary’s “week of action” hosted a biparti­san debate between rep­resentatives of the college republicans and college democrats clubs Thursday at the college. The issue of the debate was the immigration of unaccompanied minors into the united sates. 
The event began with an opening statement from college republicans repre­
“We are all immigrants, we are all American. This is not to say that our immigration policies are not in need of dire changes.” 
Nicole O’Toole 
president, College 
Republicans 

sentatives. senior and college republicans president nicole o’Toole said she thinks it is important to debunk the ste­reotype that republicans are anti-immigration. 
“we are all immigrants, we are all american,” o’Toole said. “This is not to say that our immigration policies are not in need of dire changes.” 
in her opening statement, junior angge rocal bazan, a representative from college democrats, said most chil­dren are migrating from ar­eas in latin america fraught with economic and social turmoil. 
“They are crossing into the united states in search of ref­uge,” rocal bazan said. “The reason they come is because the living conditions in their home countries have become increasingly unstable for rea­sons like trauma, stress, vio­lence and abuse.” 

a large issue in the debate was the question of whether to send children back to the situations they had left when they crossed the border. 
o’Toole said there is a need to reform both border control and immigration. 
“To a certain extent, it gets out of our hands. if ev­ery child in the world said, ‘Take me in or i’m going to be killed,’ it would become too much,” o’Toole said. 
Junior  bri  o’brien, a rep­ 
resentative  of  college  
democrats,  responded  by  

saying there are 60,000 unac­companied minors in the u.s. This is a small number com­pared to the 12 million total undocumented immigrants in the u.s. today, she said. 
president barack obama’s executive order provides amnesty to undocumented immigrants, but only 50 per­cent of children are granted amnesty after going through the legal process required, o’brien said. 
rocal bazan said the democrat party believes this system has to change. 
“The democrats believe in a more permanent solution that keeps families together,” rocal bazan said. 
shannon golden, junior and representative of college republicans, responded by saying it was important to prioritize the needs of legal citizens. 
“There is injustice going on throughout the world and [we can’t take] everyone that’s being victimized — as much as you would love to do that, we have [many] american cit­izens without food, without a roof over their head that we need to worry about first, be­fore we can think about peo­ple that are trying to come into this country,” golden said. 
in response to a question from the audience on the re­lationship between catholic social responsibility and im­migration, o’brien said the 
u.s. conference of catholic bishops (usccb) believe it is 
“The Democrats believe in a more permanent solution that keeps families together.” 
Angge Rocal Bazan 
junior, College Democrats 
the church’s duty to respect all who come the u.s. for safety. 
she said the usccb be­lieves we have a “responsibil­ity to help those in need.” 
a closing statement by the college republicans empha­sized the importance of im­migration reform. 
“The goal is not to send children back, but to make sure no more [children] come in,” golden said. 
she said although there is no clear solution yet, the u.s. must reform how illegal chil­dren are treated. 
rocal bazan delievered the college democrats’ closing statement, highlighting the importance of keeping fami­lies together. 
Contact Sydney Doyle at sdoyle01@saintmarys.edu 


The observer | fridAY, April 24, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

began immediately that fall, and 
Concert 
Shirt in February, the official design 
conTinued From page 1 
conTinued From page 1 

was finalized and sent off to man­ufacturers. since then, dankoff to releasing hit singles such 
only to promote notre dame’s said, The shirt committee has as “i want you back,” “with 
1990 game against michigan, the been working to promote the new ur love” and “i wish,” 
second shirt, produced that same shirt. cher’s youTube popular-
year, served to commemorate the “[we’ve been] constantly work­ity offers a small indication 
game against miami and simulta-ing on our social media and our of her success worldwide,” 
neously raise money for the medi-marketing, so for the past two minir said. “she is very pop-
cal expenses of a graduate student months we’ve been preparing for ular in the u.K., where she 
who had recently been injured in a the unveiling and everything that originates from, and [her 
car accident. goes into that, getting vendors and popularity] has steadily 
“That’s where The shirt’s mis-entertainment and somebody to grown in the united states 
sion came from, to support stu-unveil the shirt,” dankoff said. over the past few years. 
dents, help defer medical costs, “This year we’re really excited to “she is on the verge of re­
make sure every student at notre have sgt. Tim mccarthy come un­leasing her third studio al­
dame feels included — to help veil the shirt.” bum, so we are excited to 
unify the student section but also This year’s ceremony will be see what heights she will 
the students,” dankoff said, “over open to all and broadcast live at reach given the success of 
the past 26 years it’s grown into notredameday.nd.edu, according the previous two albums,” 
the single largest piece of college to notre dame’s website. he said. “her ability to sing, 
apparel sold annually across the entertainment and food will rap and perform covers of 
nation; last year we were around be provided starting at 5:30 p.m. many other artists made 
170,000, so that’s our record and and will prominently feature stu­her a unique talent to bring, 
we hope to break it this year dent groups funded through The and one that we think the 
again.” shirt proceeds, including the glee campus will love to see 
according to dankoff, all pro-club, a capella group harmonia live.” long-standing tradition on to get some direct input in 
ceeds from sales go back to stu-and notre dame swing danc­leon said she thinks many campus, minir said. addition to the feedback we 
dents by funding the rector Fund, ers, the website said. The actual middle school dreams will “The spring concert has got from sending them out 
the shirt charity and sao student unveiling will be done by retired come true saturday when been going on for a while online,” leon said. “These 
activities. indiana state police officer sgt. Jesse mccartney performs. now, at least since the surveys provide insight into 
This year, The shirt project Tim mccarthy, recognizable to “in a lot of ways, he was 1980s,” he said. “previously not only which genres stu­
has partnered with alta gracia most as the voice of home football the Justin bieber of our gen-they used to hold a large dents prefer, but also which 
apparel, “a living wage factory game safety announcements, at eration,” leon said. “i think, concert in the Jacc that artists they would like to 
in the dominican republic who 6:57 p.m. immediately after the though i can’t say with full was often public to every-see on campus. 
pays their workers over 300 per-unveiling, The shirt 2015 will be certainty at this point, that one, not just notre dame “once we have a solid 
cent of the legal minimum wage available for purchase. one of the few things better students.” list of potential artists, the 
so they can actually support their after the unveiling, The shirt than the Frosh-o renditions leon said over the sum-next stage is reaching out 
families, go to school [and] put committee will pick up work of “beautiful soul” would mer, sub brainstorms dif-to the artists’ agencies to 
food on the table. we think that again starting on summer mar-be a rendition by Jesse ferent artists across all get up-to-date pricing and 
their mission and our mission re-keting and sales, dankoff said. himself. genres that might be a good availability information for 
ally connect,” dankoff said “what we like to emphasize “additionally, he’s had a fit for the concert. each artist,” she said. “This 
dankoff says planning for The most is our mission, that every-number of popular songs “each year, the concert helps us get a better sense 
shirt 2015 began in october, when thing we do is directly impacting in more recent years that programmers, along with of which artists we can af­
an email was sent out to the en-the students at this university,” should also make for a great their committee of dorm ford to bring and what dates 
tire campus inviting applications dankoff said, “The point of The performance,” she said. reps, start the concert plan-will work.” 
to join The shirt committee. shirt is to unify everybody, both minir said he thinks the ning process almost imme-leon said the commit-
From these applications, 11 com-in apparel but also in notre dame. two artists complement diately after the previous tee typically decides who 
mittee members were selected. i like to think of that as our own each other well and will year’s show,” she said. “as they would like to bring to 
These members focused on de-mission, that then benefits the provide entertainment for early as possible, we reserve campus early in the spring 
signing, marketing, planning greater mission of the school.” people with different musi-the venue for the event, semester. an offer letter 
the unveiling of The shirt and re-cal tastes. setting aside most of the is then sent to the artist’s 
cruiting volunteers for the event. Contact Andrea Vale at “cher lloyd is an art-weekends in april to allow agents. 
creating a design for The shirt avale@nd.edu ist that is a current inter-for as much flexibility as “The timeline for official-national pop star, so we possible.” ly booking an artist all var-thought it would be a good leon said sub also con-ies based on whether or not program. countless times, she has 
Kennedy 

match for Jesse mccartney, ducts surveys to get as the artists are still avail-been a patient. For her career, she 
conTinued From page 1 

a male pop star who repre-much student input on the able and whether or not 
desires to administer to others. sented more of a past gen-concert as possible. they accept the offer,” she 
even when she is receiving treat­eration,” minir said. “This year we brought our said. “once the artists are 
connelly in my mind is hit twice, ment, she is studying so that she The spring concert is a surveys to the dining hall booked, sub makes the an-
separately.” may treat others.” nouncement, coordinates 
as for who shot the president, according to gaito, the money ticket sales and contacts 
gordon said, “For me, for 40 years, raised will go toward richardson’s our lighting and sound pro­
it’s been a triangle. Three cor-treatment and give her the op­duction crew to ensure ev­
ners to the triangle: anti-castro portunity to travel to and from erything is prepared for the 
cubans, organized crime, cia. national Jewish hospital in show.” 
and inside the triangle, in bold denver, colorado, which special­leon said nelly was one 
print, cuba. They all have mo-izes in rare asthma cases. of the artists sub strongly 
tive to kill president Kennedy, “she does not want anyone considered for the concert. 
and cuba is the common to feel sorry for her,” gaito said. “This year we had a num­
denominator.” “she does not complain about ber of challenges related to 
The event also hoped to mitigate her condition. she feels blessed contract negotiations with 
the medical expenses of junior and acknowledges that there are the agencies that forced 
Jessica richardson, who suffers many worse off. she does not seek us to delay the official an-
from bronchorrhea asthma, a rare pity. instead, she desires your nouncement,” she said. 
respiratory disease. assistance. minir said tickets this 
“i have known Jessica and her “i am asking you to make an year are being sold for $10. 
family for over ten years,” fam-investment in Jessica. normally, “all notre dame, holy 
ily friend daniel gaito said when investments are quantitative in cross and saint mary’s stu­
he introduced richardson to the nature. but sometimes, invest-dents can purchase tickets 
crowd. “considering how often ments are qualitative. … you in-from the laFortune box 
Jessica has been in the hospital vest in people. Jessica is my most office, located on the first 
and how many times she has been worthwhile investment. Keeping floor of laFortune in the 
in a doctor’s office, one would her healthy and on her nurs­main lounge, god Quad 
think she would pursue a course ing trajectory is critical for this side,” minir said. 
of study far from the medical community.” community. 
Contact Matthew McKenna at 

“however, she is about to com-Contact Nicole Caratas at mmcken12@nd.edu 
plete her junior year in the nursing nicasdf@saintmarys.edu 



paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | fridAY, April 24, 2015 | The observer 





Nd day 
conTinued From page 1 
also feature remote in­terviews and performances around campus, notre dame day program director aaron wall said. 
The campaign also in­cludes voting for how a ‘challenge Fund’ of $1 mil­lion will be distributed to hundreds of clubs, academic departments, teams, dorms and other “areas of interest” listed on the notre dame day website. 
by donating $10 through the website or by phone or text, donors receive five votes, which they can direct to any of the listed entities. after the campaign ends, each organi­zation will receive a piece of the challenge Fund propor­tional to the number of votes it received. 
For example, wall said if 10,000 donations are made, as he anticipates, an orga­nization will win roughly $20 for each individual vote it receives, though the exact amount will vary based on how many donations come in. 
wall said donors have to give $10 to be able to vote, and while they can give more if they choose, a gift of any size still garners only five votes, and each subsequent gift of $10 or more gets one additional vote. wall said the purpose of these limits is to make sure everyone has the power to direct the challenge Fund regardless of how much they are able to donate. 
“There are so many people that love notre dame, and all of them do not have the capacity to make those large gifts,” he said. “so through this million-dollar challenge fund, we’re putting a genera­tional and income-level eq­uity among all notre dame people, everyone in the com­munity — faculty, staff, al­ums, people who just love the university.” 
as a result, some organiza­tions stand to receive hun­dreds or thousands of dollars through the challenge Fund voting. wall said Knott hall, for example, garnered eight percent of the vote for last year’s $250,000 challenge Fund, allowing the hall to create a new weight room. 
while there are some lim­its on how the money can be used and each organization will not actually receive the money for another six weeks or so, wall said participating organizations will generally be able to spend the money they raise as they see fit. 
“it’s meant to be on a large-scale mission of im­provement,” wall said. “[For example,] if cavanaugh raised $10,000 through notre dame day —[that’s] one per­cent of the vote — the idea isn’t to have pizza every night in cavanaugh. That’s not what the money is used for. it should be to improve the long-term health of the resi­dents, both physically and communally. it could mean that you take 20 girls to costa rica for a service project, but it also could mean new couches.” 
several anonymous fami­lies donated the million dol­lars for the challenge Fund in advance, wall said. as is the case with normal finan­cial gifts, donors who give $10 to participate in the voting can say where they want that money to be allocated: aca­demics, financial aid, mis­sion and service, student life, athletics, any other indicated organization or to “greatest need,” which wall said can be used for any emergency ex­pense but usually ends up in the financial aid fund. 
students can also partici­pate in a tug-of-war tour­nament monday at 3 p.m., where dorms will compete for a $4,000 first prize, wall said. meanwhile, a social me­dia lounge with food in the laFortune student center will be available all day. 


wall said planning for notre dame day required custom-building a mecha­nism for taking and display­ing challenge Fund votes, working out how to distribute the funds and approve how they are used and explaining to clubs and other campus entities how the campaign works. a committee of senior university administrators guided the process. 
“it’s been really fun to work with a lot of the clubs who are really into this,” he said. “They go out, and they’re just promoting to anybody in their listservs and social media.” 
The goal, wall said, is both to celebrate notre dame and to support it. 
“The notre dame family loves what notre dame stu­dents do in the classroom, on the athletic fields, in their clubs and in their residence halls,” he said.  “This is the way that we can help all of these groups that want to raise money, raise money.” 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 
Time Warner, Comcast merger falls apart 
Associated Press 
new yorK — even if comcast’s $45.2 billion bid for Time warner cable is dead, con­solidation among the companies that pipe in our Tv, phone and internet will carry on. 
combining the no. 1 and no. 2 u.s. cable companies would have put nearly 30 percent of Tv and about 55 percent of broad­band subscribers under one roof, along with nbcuniversal. That appeared to be too much con­centration for regulators. 
bloomberg news and The new york Times both said Thursday that comcast is planning to drop its bid, citing unidentified peo­ple with knowledge of the mat­ter. comcast and Time warner cable declined to comment on the reports. 
but cable companies are likely to keep merging as online video options proliferate, the number of cable and satellite Tv sub­scribers slips and costs rise for the shows, sports and movies piped to subscribers. 
at the same time, there will be more competition for young customers seeking stand-alone internet and mobile video of­ferings and cheaper Tv channel packages. 
This is already happening. verizon’s Fios is trying smaller, customizable Tv bundles, while hbo has launched an online version of its content, hbo now, that doesn’t require a cable Tv subscription. 
“i don’t think it’s the demise of the cable industry. but its com­plete dominance of distribution is over,” said randy giusto, a me­dia industry analyst with advi­sory firm outsell inc. 
one of the concerns consumer advocates and competitors had with the comcast deal was that it could undermine the streaming video industry that is reshaping Tv. comcast could, for example, require onerous payments from new online-only video provid­ers for connecting to its network. dish, the satellite Tv company behind the new web video ser­vice sling Tv, and netflix op­posed the deal. 
“it goes to show you how im­portant broadband is,” said amy yong, a macquarie analyst. 
regulators have taken other steps that signal how important they consider internet access. 
The  Federal  communications  
commission  in  February  re­ 
leased  new  “net  neutrality”  

rules meant to keep broadband providers from charging internet companies for “fast lane” access or favoring some content. The broadband industry has sued to stop the rules. 
so how did this play out? opposition from consumer advocates and competitors has been fierce since the deal was announced in February 2014. 
“This is one of those deals where the opponents of the merger have been one of the most vocal i can remember,” said s&p capital iQ Tuna amobi. 
Then on Friday, bloomberg, citing unidentified people, said department of Justice staff attorneys were leaning against the deal. on Tuesday al Franken, d-minn., along with five other democratic senators and bernie sanders, i-vermont, urged the Federal communications commission and the department of Justice to block the merger, saying it would lead to higher prices and fewer choices. 
“it’s a dead end for comcast,” said rob mcdowell, a former Fcc commissioner. 
comcast spokeswoman sena Fitzmaurice confirmed that com­pany executives met wednesday with Justice department and Fcc officials. but she would not comment on what occurred dur­ing the meetings or what other conversations the company was having with regulators. The Justice department and the Fcc declined to comment. 
a dropped comcast-Time warner cable deal means a transaction with charter communications inc. aimed to smoothing the way for regula­tory approval also falls apart. charter’s bid for bright house networks, which it announced in march, could also be killed. 
many analysts expect that charter, which lost out on its bid for Time warner cable to comcast, to resurrect its effort. 
“other cable deals that don’t involve comcast might be al­lowed to go through,” mcdowell said. There “seems to be an an­tipathy towards comcast at the Fcc” because the agency thinks comcast didn’t stick to the conditions of its acquisition of nbcuniversal, he said. 
a combined charter and Time warner cable would have 15 million video customers and 
16.5 million internet customers. That’s still smaller than comcast alone, which has 22.4 million video subscribers and 22 million internet customers. 
and the $48.5 billion combina­tion of direcTv and aT&T is still expected to go through. 
but comcast may have to look overseas for big cable acquisitions. 
“washington’s concern here is excessive control of broadband in the hands of a single com­pany,” wrote moffettnathanson analyst craig moffett in a cli­ent email. “For all intents and purposes, their m&a ambitions would be on ice in the u.s.” 


iNSidE ColUmN 

where is Fr. Jenkins? 
Margaret Hynds 
news editor 

To university president Fr. John Jenkins, 
on monday night, i had the opportunity to cover the “beyond the hunting ground” panel that several university administrators sat on and attended. 
To be clear, by several, i mean fewer than eight. 
during the question-and-answer portion of the evening, one woman stood up and asked the following: 
“why have we not heard from Fr. Jenkins? i would think this would be pretty high on his agenda.” 
with all due respect, Fr. Jenkins, i agree. where are you? 
with the exception of the prayer service at the grotto on Tuesday, you have not attended any public events concerning sexual assault or “The hunting ground” since the film debuted. There have been three separate panel discussions on the notre dame campus about the film and sexual assault since Friday, and you have not been to a single one. 
you need to know — your absence has not gone unnoticed. 
i applaud you for attending the prayer service, but i don’t think that’s enough. 
by failing to speak publicly and personally about the film and how this university handles and prevents sexual assault, you are failing to demonstrate to the community at large that pro­tecting survivors on this campus is something you care deeply about. 
saint mary’s president carol ann mooney at­tended the college’s april 10 screening of “The hunting ground,” and while she didn’t sit on the panel that followed the showing, she did stand up and address the film. she did offer some explana­tion as to why she declined to be interviewed for it, and she did address some of the statements that former students made about her in the documentary. 
so where are you? 

in an interview with ndtv that aired monday night but was taped two weeks prior, you said, “Know that notre dame is no more or less than the people that make it up. … so let’s continue to­gether to make notre dame what we want it to be. The community we want it to be. The intellectual community. The spiritual community. The social community. i can’t do it from my office; all of us need to do it.” 
i think you touched upon an incredibly impor­tant issue in that statement, but i respectfully dis­agree that change cannot come from your office. 
as the face of this university, changing and molding the tone and conversation requires not just student voices, but yours as well. in order for all of us to create the environment we want, we need to know where you, Fr. Jenkins, stand. 
so please, let’s continue together. 
The community i want is one where sexual as­sault is not tolerated, and where everyone — stu­dents, faculty and administration — are on board to stop it. 
i think you want that, too, but if you maintain your silence on the subject then we are left guess­ing what you’re thinking. and with this much on the line, we can’t afford any uncertainty. 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Why this conversation can’t end 

EDITORIAL 
as a renewed discussion of sexual assault heats up on campus following the screenings of cnn’s documentary “The hunting ground,” The observer editorial board believes we must discuss the ways the faculty, staff and administrations of both notre dame and saint mary’s can respond. 
in an email to saint mary’s students last Friday, vice president of student affairs Karen Johnson stressed that notre dame and saint mary’s are two separate legal institutions that handle sexual assaults independently of one another. sexual as­saults committed on notre dame’s campus are handled by ndsp, while st. Joseph county special victims unit handles those committed on saint mary’s campus. but writing off the two schools as separate legal entities isn’t helpful to fighting as­sault in both places. The fact is that while the two institutions are certainly separate, their communi­ties are not. 
notre dame and saint mary’s share a long his­tory, and the administrations should collaborate as much as possible to ensure students are safe on both campuses. 
compared to the other schools presented in the “The hunting ground,” notre dame and saint mary’s have a unique relationship. occurrences of sexual assault within separate jurisdictions can create a division that limits the possibility of com­bined investigative and reporting processes, but we do not have to separate how we assist survivors of sexual assault on both campuses. 
notre dame and saint mary’s have the opportu­nity to lead a movement among college campuses of reporting and handling sexual assault cases honestly and effectively. working together, our schools can create a system that encourages survi­vors to report all instances of sexual assault, some­thing they are too often discouraged from doing. 
we suggest the schools hire a shared third party legal counsel or additional Title iX coordinator to help the existing staff handle instances that include students at both schools. This will help ensure students will be protected no matter which school they attend or on which campus the assault occurs. Though the notre dame and saint mary’s community as a whole must remember its respon­sibility to fight against a culture that allows sexual assault to persist, it is the duty of the administra­tions to work together toward lasting institutional change on how to deal with these tragedies when they occur. 
notre dame and saint mary’s took the initiative to screen “The hunting ground” and host panel discussions about sexual assault on college cam­puses. The documentary features dozens of schools accused of mishandling allegations of sexual as­sault. The conversations created by the film and its screening are a commendable start, but they only matter if they lead to action. 
we also feel the reporting of clery act crimes to students is a part of the ongoing conversation that demands immediate change. Though some records are available in the ndsp crime log, students are not given enough information about reported sexu­al assaults — especially saint mary’s students, who do not receive ndsp crime alerts unless they have taken a class at notre dame and have a notre dame email address. students at both schools need to receive crime reports in a direct and timely man­ner to keep themselves safe and aware anywhere they go. 
in years past, saint mary’s has posted notre dame crime alerts on its campus safety webpage, but the college has not done so in more than a year. because there is so much overlap between the two campuses, saint mary’s students should re­ceive the crime alerts notre dame students receive from ndsp and vice versa. 
additionally, we encourage faculty and staff to continue to speak up for their students and ad­dress sexual assault on both campuses. each and every member of the notre dame and saint mary’s community has the power to keep the conversation moving forward and push for real change. 
with less than two weeks left in the semester, we urge students, faculty, staff and the admin­istrations to work to fully address sexual assault on both campuses. members of our community shouldn’t leave campus for the summer and lose sight of this issue that hurts us so deeply. For the administration, summer break should be an op­portunity to revise current procedures to protect students and adequately prosecute crimes of sexual violence before students come back in the fall, not a time to let awareness drop. we encourage all members of notre dame and saint mary’s to not only keep this discussion in mind throughout the coming months, but to participate actively in con­tinuing to make our community the best it can be. 
notre dame and saint mary’s may be two distinct legal entities, but we are one community. and as a catholic community, we must not let the dialogue we have created peter out. sexual assault is an undeniably critical issue, and when it affects one person in our community, it affects us all. we ask you, members of the notre dame and saint mary’s community, not to let this conversation end when the school year does. Keep pressing it forward, and turn it into meaningful change. 
lETTEr To THE EdiTor 

you simply gotta regatta 
many may often wonder what it takes to establish an espn top-50 college campus event. here at notre dame, there is but one way. Free food, loud music, warm weather, hundreds of beautiful men and wom­en rocking tanks and dozens of amateur sailors brav­ing the high seas of st. mary’s lake, risking life and limb on homemade boats. over the past 25 years, Fisher hall has perfected the recipe, combining all the aforementioned elements once every spring to give you the Fisher regatta. 
widely known as the cadillac of dorms, Fisher is hosting the escalade of dorm events this saturday. The regatta puts all other dorms to shame. if you don’t believe me and think i’m just some random sophomore who has no idea what he’s talking about, ask any nearby upperclassman, “hey, did you go to the Fisher regatta last year?” and watch as a wide grin spreads across his or her face. why are they grinning with such goofy pleasure? simply because at no other time will you be able to chill with a bunch of your friends, your friends’ friends and that cute blonde from class you’ve been wanting an excuse to talk to all semester, eating burgers and dancing to music while watching people aboard an inflatable kiddie pool submerge into a lake. could you pos­sibly need more convincing? it’s time to shelve the sweatpants and winter coats and replace them with bro tanks and bathing suits. put on that expired sun­block (or embrace the tank tan) and those shades that have been gathering dust. This will be an after­noon to remember. echoing the words of ac/dc lead singer brian Johnson, Fisher hall would like to say, “For those about to [regatta], we salute you.” 
Tom Burns 
sophomore Fisher hall april 22 


The observer | fridAY, April 24, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Love thee. However, ... 
Alex Caton 
modest proposals 

at the risk of closing my viewpoint career on a nega­tive note, i need to thank my dad for teaching me the tone op-eds require, my mom for teaching me rhetoric and restraint, my philosophy professors for showing me that making arguments is like laying bricks, The observer’s editors for two years of space, latitude and encouragement; my friends for revisions and new topics; and every main building decider who has ever given me material for a column. This one is for you. 
The second floor study lounge in st. edward’s hall is called the gregorian because of a nearly floor-to­ceiling mural on the east wall painted in 1883 by luigi gregori, the italian artist who also painted the main building murals. The mural depicts an exchange of gold rings between Fr. edward sorin and a head-dressed potowatami man in front of an icy lake. Fr. sorin, i had always assumed or been told or both, was buying the potowatomi’s land to build our university. 
until this week i had no idea the native american is actually giving Fr. sorin the rings for baptizing his children. There’s a plaque next to the painting saying as much. The friend who pointed this out to me asked, “isn’t that corrupter than sin?” 
Frankly i don’t know. i’m just disappointed i’d never stopped to read the plaque. 
The story here isn’t about the morality of paying for sacraments. it’s about adopting a disposition instinc­tively against accepting things as they first appear. writing for viewpoint has been my best attempt to turn that disposition toward something we are taught to take as given — the sublime greatness of the university of notre dame. i’ve tried to follow two rules: don’t give a complaint without a solution, and don’t offer anything unrealistic. 
These are some things i’ve proposed. 
students who want to study abroad in their junior year spring semesters should not have to apply until the fall of their junior year. 
parietals do not serve their desired functions during fi­nal exam weeks and, absent a massive increase in study spaces, should be removed during those days. 
The leprechaun legion overstepped its mandate when it changed the football ticketing policy, and having the officers of this “voice of the student body to the ath­letic department” on the athletic department’s payroll is a conflict of interest. 
eliminating Zahm’s common rooms without consult­ing residents and subsequently stonewalling their at­tempts at an adult conversation was bad precedent. 
good samaritan policies explicitly belong in du lac. 
notre dame should make four classes per semester standard, not five. 
campus crossroads is a flawed arrangement. 
notre dame should take the lead nationally on reduc­ing its advertised tuition. 
“viewpoint wars” are worth having. 
There are topics i missed. The irish guard was gutted last may with insufficient notice or warrant. one day this February, the university failed to plow six inches of snow from the night before, preventing students in wheel­chairs from getting to class. 
These are the problems we have the luxury of hav­ing. we can only discuss them in a place that has the resources to address them (and sometimes to create them). The world awaiting us has more pressing and horrific woes, but ours are nonetheless legitimate. and if our university educations are supposed to acquaint us with some intangible something — grit, practical knowledge, minds that can separate the important from the not— then falling back on the idea that in four years or less these issues will cease to matter can’t be our best choice. 
i have no illusions notre dame is a democracy, but too many crucial and costly decisions have been made in the last four years with negligible student input and no pre­tense of transparency. if this is ever to stop, The observer must be a part of it. on that we have more work to do. 
shortly after a runoff was announced in the 2014 student body president election, mia lillis, class of 2014, a cavanaugh hall ra and supporter of the olivia lamagna-rohan anderson ticket, wrote “round2,” a parody of Kanye west’s “bound2,” to boost her favorite ticket. The post got a sizable amount of traffic due to its creative angle. “bound 2” opens with the line “all them other n****s lame and you know it now.” largely preserving this wording, lillis opened her piece with “all them other tickets lame and you know it now.” That became the basis of the allegation brought before Judicial council by the lauren vidal-matt devine ticket that their opponents had violated student government constitution, which prohibits “insulting or defaming other candidates.” in turn, the vidal-devine ticket was accused of exceeding their $200 pre-runoff spend­ing limit by paying to promote their campaign page’s Facebook posts. 
in its only news article on the matter, The observer was passive on both tickets’ violations, content to quote the Judicial council press release: lamagna-anderson “violated the constitution by insulting the opposing ticket in a Facebook post by a supporter’”. 
in describing allegations against vidal-devine, the pa­per quoted the press release again. The story concluded with quotes from the candidates. both tickets deleted the posts. 
The observer played into the illusion that the facts of two hearings were unknowable to anyone outside the room and chose to let Judicial council dictate the story to them. The paper let go of an interesting story and ar­guably fell into false equivalency. The only real follow-up was a staff editorial arguing that clearer election rules would reduce campaign violations, and ever-so-lightly implying that this looked like a case of equal punish­ments for unequal crimes. That’s worth something, but it’s also a missed opportunity to describe the process and prices of social media campaigns, catalogue what gets construed as “insulting and defaming other can­didates” and profile the exertion and premeditation involved in seeking student government’s highest post. 
The reporters shorted the readers on the interesting stuff. 
i don’t think The observer got that close to the situa­tion without knowing what was going on and being able to report all the facts in a proper journalistic way. rather, i think that, as students, the reporters are not interested in undermining the credibility and effectiveness of the people who will represent them in student government, nor in hurting people they call friends. 
These are the conflicting loyalties that arise when writing for a student paper. They are real, but they shouldn’t steer us. i regret that after typing 1,000 words on this exact topic last year, i chose not to submit the piece. The reasons above were my reasons. i’m not inno­cent here either. 
but we all stand to gain from The observer digging deeper into these kinds of stories and becoming the site for informed student judgment and new student ideas. in the elections case, campaigns simply won’t violate the rules if they know that they will face something more than demonstrably weak Judicial council sanctions. in the broader, more important case of repeated and costly missteps by the university administration, The observer is our shot to airdrop transparency, accountability and students’ common sense into the picture of the adminis­tration’s decisions. 
The observer can gain credibility among the student body as the serious source of notre dame news. our paper is not the harvard crimson, but i don’t think that’s for lack of talent or because original reporting isn’t a fun way to spend your time. i think it’s because The observer has here and elsewhere chosen politeness over persis­tence, pursuing an angle of less resistance in reporting the facts. The paper’s motto, “to uncover the truth and report it accurately,” loses its teeth when reporters stop digging and when editors opt not to go forward with per­tinent information. This is what accountability requires. The stakes are high. 
i’m hopeful though, because every weekday we have a print edition as extensive as any other school’s and because on this campus The observer’s readership ri­vals the new york Times. because a rankings-conscious administration with growing pains and identity crises and $10 billion in the bank will almost certainly con­tinue to cut corners on student self-governance. because the news coverage over the last couple of weeks — from Fr. hesburgh’s death to sexual assault incidences and discussions to the head-scratcher court ruling exempt­ing notre dame security police from open records re­quests — has shown us capable of covering the campus. because covering the campus is a worthy thing to do. 
The good news, in short, is this: the guarantee that our lady’s university will continue to have a story worth telling, and that we have the freedom to choose how we tell it. 
Alex Caton is a senior political science major in the one and only St. Edward’s Hall. He welcomes commentary at acaton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
lETTEr To THE EdiTor 

disconnect to connect 
lately i have been becoming more and more aware of the negative influence cell phones can have on building relationships. i am not writing to put forth the idea that technology is just bad and the only way to fix these negative impacts is to rid ourselves of cell phones all together. cell phones have their purpose in relationships, but i think we should pause and ask if their purpose is being abused? when i am walk­ing around campus or through the dining hall, i see a lot of people looking at little glowing screens and not looking at each other. in an age where phones can help us to get in contact with others with more ease than ever before, are we really connected? are we present to the people around us? or must we always be present to the countless texts, snap chats, notifications, apps, etc. while these may have their purpose, they don’t sub­stitute for people. and we miss out on people when we are always looking down at that little white screen. 
i think we are all thirsting for authentic relation­ships. we wouldn’t check our phones all the time if we didn’t want to be connected with people. why do we settle for the screen? i propose a simple two word phrase: look up. we are looking down so much that we don’t look at each other. choose to wait on responding to a message on a little screen and talk to the person in front of you. pause from that group text or snapchat documenting every aspect of your life and simply live. look up at the ever more present sun shining on cam­pus. look up at all the people around you. eyes are beautiful and we don’t look at them enough. allowing people to look into the windows of our soul rather than words on a screen requires vulnerability which can be scary. but i believe it can open up a happiness no cell phone can create. look up. 
Kat Stultz 
senior pasquerilla west april 21 

The observer | fridAY, April 24, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ERIN RICE, ERIN McAULIFFE and MARY McGRAW | The Observer 
The observer | fridAY, April 24, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene editor 

From south bend to south by southwest, The bergamot’s music spans states and genres. 
south bend natives Jillian speece and nathaniel paul hoff of “indie pop/rock/ folk” band The bergamot are perform­ing at debartolo performing arts center on saturday at 7:30 p.m. 
i spoke with Jillian and nathaniel, who are now married and live in brooklyn, in separate phone interviews wednesday. 
as musicians who first took on the south bend music scene (if you could call it that) back in 2003, they were both excited about the progress and develop­ment it has seen. with venues like The pool and The birdsell mansion attract­ing students and community members to engage in the local arts, and initia­tives like The bridge project and sounds by south bend contributing to that fervor, the south bend music scene is thriving — and in stark contrast to the musicians’ memories of early gigs. 
The first show the two played together was at a loft in Francesco’s, an italian 
By MADDIE DALY 
senior scene writer 

if you’ve ever seen an episode of mTv’s “girl code” (or “guy code” for that mat­ter), you should be ecstatic about the guest comedian coming this Friday to legends, courtesy of sub. nicole byer is one of the show’s most hilarious come­dians, and she is sure to bring plenty of laughs to notre dame this weekend. 
if you’re unaware, “girl code” and “guy code” are comedy shows that fea­ture young, up-and-coming comedians talking about topics that we 20-some­things face in our everyday lives. The show can get raunchy at times, as it ad­dresses some of the more awkward mo­ments of our lives, but the comedians hilariously share their personal expe­riences with absolutely no shame. To get an idea, episode titles range from “dieting, vacations, neediness and restaurant near marian high school. 
“There wasn’t really any place to play [in south bend] besides Fiddler’s hearth 
— and that was mostly for celtic bands,” Jillian said. “so nathan talked to the owner [at Francesco’s] and told him that he would bring out a lot of teenagers and their parents to eat at the restaurant and charge a cover so he could pay the owner.” 
with entrepreneurial enthusiasm like this at only 17 and 15, nathaniel and Jillian have always been believers in a “brute force” tactic. it is this mind­set and work ethic that has taken them from greasy south bend restaurants to venues like The brooklyn bazaar. 
excited to play again in south bend, this time in a state-of-the-art facility, The bergamot have been through 13 three-hour rehearsals and a few live shows in preparation for saturday’s concert. 
statements like those should inspire you to get out and hear live music. however, if you are “busy,” studying preemptively or planning to give in to your eight-year-old self’s begging to go and see Jesse mccartney play the sub 
watching sports” to “The morning af­ter, friends of boyfriends, flirting and decorating.” The girls really cover all the bases, making for a great guidebook for all different types of women. “guy code” follows a similar format, and each episode always features a few of the “girl code” girls in addition to the male comedians. 
perhaps one of the most effective aspects of the show is the diversity of the females (and sometimes males) featured. The women are all different shapes, sizes, hair colors and personali­ties, so that any girl watching can have someone they at least somewhat relate to. byer is loud, curly-haired and over­weight — something she very much embraces, using her curves to her ad­vantage in all situations. she is also one of the many african-american comedi­ans on the show; “girl code” is pretty racially diverse as far as Tv shows go, concert saturday, you can check out their self-proclaimed “indie or alterna­tive pop, rock and folk sound with jazz influences” on youTube or their website. however, be wary of streaming their music. 

The scene staff has addressed stream­ing and its influence on, and sometimes exploitation of, indie bands. To be hon­est, spotify was the first place i went to listen to The bergamot, but front man nathaniel has been working on an art piece exploring that very industry. 
Titled “know spotify,” the piece ex­plores the dynamic of big name artists, “the one-percent,” who benefit from streaming while the other 99-percent come away with micropennies. 
“we get statements from spotify and for 500 plays we make like .0038 pen­nies,” nathaniel said. “i love the ex­posure, and it’s a great concept, but it seems a little lopsided to me.” 
he encourages listeners to do their research on streaming and make an in­formed decision on whether that is how they want to experience music and sup­port musicians. 
“The project isn’t about “no” as in 
which is definitely a refreshing change from other popular yet predominately white shows. 
now, “girl code” is not by any means the only thing on byer’s plate. she moved from new york to los angeles to pursue her comedy career, and since then she has lengthened her bio quite a bit. byer has appeared on several famous shows, namely “30 rock,” “late night with Jimmy Fallon,” “adult swim,” “chelsea lately” and, according to her mTv bio, a nestlé commercial that only runs in israel. in addition, she has been per­forming improv at the upright citizens brigade Theatre since 2010, and she does sketch comedy at ucb sunset on maude night. she has been on countless improv and sketch teams since her arrival in l.a., helping improve her performances as well as meet other similarly hilarious people. 
byer has also been featured in a long n-o, it’s more “know” based on educat­ing yourself on the services,” nathaniel said. “i understand, as an independent musician, that our album will go up on spotify because we don’t have a choice, like Taylor swift, to make a stand. but i do believe there is no reason to ever pay somebody in micropennies — it’s just insulting.” 
support The bergamot, independent artists, the south bend music scene and live music with your full dollars (15 for students) saturday at 7:30 p.m. at debartolo performing arts center. 
extend your experience and get your “scene in south bend” on by eating at rocco’s, The bergamot’s favorite lo­cal restaurant, beforehand. 
“our first hangout of all time was at rocco’s,” Jillian said. “we had our high school graduation parties there, birth­days there, we even had our wedding re­hearsal dinner there. The Julius special salad is our favorite and we always order a classic cheese pizza with extra mari­nara sauce.” 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at                        emcaulif@nd.edu 
list of Tv series and shorts. she’s been in several episodes of “collegehumor originals,” a series similar to “girl code” except with mostly college-fo­cused content, obviously. she nails any sketch involving crude humor, holding back absolutely nothing. she would be the friend you could come talk to about even the most disgusting, awkward and personal things, because she would be brutally honest and hilarious at the same time. 
This Friday, come out to legends at 10 p.m. to see nicole byer live in all her greatness. students can get in free with a valid notre dame, saint mary’s or holy cross id. i can only imagine how her raunchy, inappropriate humor will translate over to a catholic college cam­pus setting. 
Contact Maddie Daly at                           mdaly6@nd.edu 
MARY McGRAW | The Observer 



SporTS AUTHoriTY 

Local’s guide to Kentucky Derby 
Tyler Wojciak 
sports writer 
There truly is nothing like it. 
every year during the first saturday of may, 20 three­year-old thoroughbreds race the length of 1 1/4 miles around a dirt track in “the most exciting two minutes in sports.” 
The beautiful churchill downs racetrack hosts around 165,000 spectators each year to watch the event, and roughly 15 million more people will tune in on their televisions. 
The Kentucky derby, an event oozing with tradition, attracts the finest visitors from all around the world every year and is an essen­tial item on the bucket list for anyone who is a fan of sport. From the bugler piping out “call to the post” to the singing of “my old Kentucky home” to the garland of roses draped over the win­ning horse, few spectacles in sports match the derby. 
as it has become a tradition for many college students to venture to louisville, Kentucky, every year for the derby, i feel it is my duty as a local to tell you a few things you need to know about the run for the roses. 
i must first say, however, i was actually not born in louisville. my love for the derby was not simply some­thing i inherited at birth, but rather adopted when i made the move from cleveland to louisville at 11 years old. at first i had absolutely no interest in a bunch of horses running on dirt (something i’m sure a lot of you still feel), but my mind instantly changed after my first expe­rience at churchill downs. 
The first order of business is the dress code. The basic guideline here is the more ex­pensive your ticket, the more formal your outfit. with that said, it is still the Kentucky derby. if you choose to pay $50 for the general admis­sion ticket just to party in the infield, a button-down (you can wear seersucker if you really want to get into derby fashion) and khaki pants is the way to go for men and a sundress for women. and la­dies, wear a hat. while i may not understand why females are obsessed with derby hats, i recognize one is considered an essential piece to any woman’s outfit when they at­tend the derby, and you will stick out without one. 
second, you have to bring cash. lots of it. nearly ev­erything you will want to do at churchill downs requires cash. parking, drink vendors and betting all require cash payments. so take my advice and avoid being one of the many unprepared people spending their first hour at the track waiting in line at the aTm. 
lastly, don’t be afraid to bet. There will be races go­ing on all day, and rather than the 20 horses racing in the derby, the preliminary races usually do not include more than 10 horses. your odds are slightly better than you think, and there is still a lot of money to be made off the $2 minimum bets. putting just a little bit of money on the races will add some excitement to races you normally wouldn’t find en­tertained and will keep you engaged throughout the day. 
will this be the year a horse finally wins the Triple crown for the first time since affirmed won the derby, preakness stakes and belmont stakes in 1978? will a horse break the two-minute mark at the derby, joining secretariat and monarchos as the only members of this elite club? all these ques­tions will be answered may 
2. Follow my three tips, and your Kentucky derby experi­ence is sure to be a memo­rable one regardless of who wins. 
Contact Tyler Wojciak at twojciak@hcc-nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Nfl 

Duerson family to appeal concussion settlement 
Associated Press 

philadelphia — The family of late pro bowl safety dave duerson will appeal this week’s nFl concussion settle­ment amid concerns it doesn’t include future awards for the brain decay diagnosed after his 2011 suicide. 
an appeal could hold up the settlement approved wednesday by a federal judge in philadelphia. The poten­tial $1 billion deal is designed to monitor more than 20,000 nFl retirees over 65 years and compensate those with de­mentia, alzheimer’s disease and other serious neurological conditions. 
but the plan doesn’t include future awards for chronic traumatic encephalopathy, or cTe, often called the signa­ture disease of football. 
The judge concluded cTe research is in its “infancy” and suspected early symptoms in­cluding violence, mood swings and depression shouldn’t by themselves trigger awards. 
The 50-year-old duerson, who spent most of his 10-year career with the chicago bears, left behind four children and a note asking that his brain be studied. 
lawyer Thomas demetrio said the children “are pretty adamant that their father would want them to forge ahead for the benefit of these unsuspecting former players.” 
“They saw firsthand how mood and behavioral prob­lems impact a man and a family,” he said. “it would have been awfully nice if the nFl — who could well afford it — had allowed cTe to be compensated.” 
senior u.s. district Judge anita b. brody, during more than two years of negotia­tions, persuaded the nFl to lift a $765 million cap on the settlement fund. The nFl, with $10 billion in annual rev­enue, could now spend more than $1 billion over time, in­cluding inflation and $112 million in lawyer fees sought by the other side. 
The judge found many athletes diagnosed posthu­mously with cTe also had lou gehrig’s disease, alzheimer’s disease, parkinson’s dis­ease or dementia, which are compensated. 
she rejected pleas from other nFl families that be­havioral disorders such as de­pression be compensated. 
some experts, including boston university’s dr. robert stern, who has studied cTe­damaged brains, believe they’re early signs of cTe­related illness. 
The judge, citing other ex­perts, said that retired players have higher rates of sleep ap­nea, drug and alcohol abuse, chronic pain, high body mass and major lifestyle changes that could also be risk fac­tors for mood disorders and suicide. 
“an individual retired play­er would have a difficult time showing that head impacts, as opposed to any one of these other factors, explain his symptoms,” the judge wrote. 
mlB | meTs 6, braves 3 

mets match history with undefeated homestand 
Associated Press 

new yorK — with a per­fect ride through their first homestand, the surprising new york mets matched the best start in team history. 
next stop, the subway series at yankee stadium — and a shot at their longest winning streak ever. 
daniel murphy drove in four runs and new york equaled a franchise record with its 11th straight victory Thursday, walking its way to a 6-3 win over the atlanta braves behind bartolo colon. 
“i think it’s so rewarding here in this clubhouse to kind of see the fruits of the labor over the last couple years, to see guys grow,” murphy said. “and i think it’s such a reward for the fans who have been coming out.” 
The streaking mets, with 

FOR SALE 

Full size mattress, box spring and frame; desk, desk chair, dresser. Desk lamp, storage bins. $350 for all, nego­tiable. Chris 914-419-7185 
the top record in the majors despite injuries to captain david wright and several other important players, are 10-0 at citi Field after sweeping all their nl east ri­vals besides heavily favored washington. 
it is the fifth time the mets have won 11 games in a row, and the first since 1990. 
“it’s a huge accomplish­ment,” manager Terry collins said. “i’m very proud of the guys. but it’s over. we’re go­ing to enjoy it tonight, but we’ve got to get ready. we’ve got a tough road trip ahead of us starting on the other side of town.” 
murphy hit an early three-run double, and the 41-year­old colon outpitched all-star Julio Teheran in a matchup of unbeaten starters. new york took advantage of eight walks and tied the 1986 world series champions with a 13-3 start. That club also opened 2-3 before winning its next 11 games — and 18 of 19. 
after beginning this streak april 12 in atlanta, colon (4­
0) overcame a blister on his middle finger Thursday by throwing virtually all fast­balls while pitching in short sleeves on a chilly, 49-degree afternoon. he allowed three runs over six innings to win his first four starts for the first time in his career. 
colon has struck out 23 and walked one this season, becoming the first four-game winner in the big leagues. The last starting pitcher 40 or older to open 4-0 was roger clemens in 2004 with houston. 
“everybody’s chipping in. everybody’s doing their part,” colon said through a translator. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
“I’ve learned one thing, and hanging out with your friends. So that’s to quit worrying about stu-stay out late. Go out with your pid things. You have four years to friends on a Tuesday when you have be irresponsible here, relax. Work a paper due on Wednesday. Spend is for people with jobs. You’ll never money you don’t have. The work remember class time, but you’ll never ends, but college does ... ” remember the time you wasted -Tom Petty 


ndsmcobserver.com | fridAY, April 24, 2015 | The observer 

SmC Golf | miaa QualiFing mlB | piraTes 5, cubs 4 
Carlson and Heffernan ready to lead SMC 
By DAISY COSTELLO 
sports writer 
saint mary’s enters the second day of miaa quali­fying play in fourth Friday at ravines golf club in saugatuck, michigan. 
The belles sit in fourth place after the first round of the tournament with an overall team score of 365. The sec­ond round of the tournament at ravines golf club is a dif­ferent course than the teams saw in the first round, which was played at medalist golf club in marshall, michigan, on april 14. belles head coach Kim moore said she knows preparing for the ravines will be a challenge after playing a completely different course the first time around. 
“we are emphasizing using enough club to get our ball to the target, which is something that is extremely important at the ravines,” moore said. “you cannot leave your ball short of the green and hope that it rolls up to the putting surface at this course.” 
The belles were led in the first round by sophomore courtney carlson, who shot an 81 on the day to end the round in sixth place individu­ally. in a round where many golfers struggled to hit tough shots, moore said she was happy with the way carlson operated well under pressure. 
“[courtney] played well, and she did that by putting well, hitting more greens in regulation and getting up and down with her short game,” moore said. 
carlson and the belles oth­er co-captain, senior Janice heffernan, are the leaders for saint mary’s in postsea­son play, but heffernan did not play in the first qualifying round at medalist. Freshman Kaitlyn cartone shot a 91 to finish 17th in the first qualify­ing round and second on the team. 
The belles last played the ravines course in a confer­ence round hosted by hope, finishing in fourth at the meet with a 353 team score, and moore said the squad’s previ­ous experience on the course will help some of the younger players. 
“both Janice and courtney have played this course and have been helping out some of our younger players that didn’t get a chance to play [the course] when we were there in the fall,” moore said. 
olivet holds the lead in miaa qualifying after the first round with a team score of 323, fol­lowed by hope two shots be­hind at 325 and Trine in third with a score of 343. olivet was led by junior Kirsten langer, who shot a 79 on the day. hope sophomore britni gielow led all golfers on the day with a score of 76 for the first round. 
moore said the belles need to concentrate on course man­agement in the second round in order to dig themselves out of the 42-shot deficit they are currently in to first-place olivet. 
The belles play the second round of the miaa tourna­ment at ravines golf club in saugatuck, michigan. They are set to tee off at 1:30 p.m. 
Contact Daisy Costello at mcostel4@nd.edu 
Polanco, Pirates rally for 5-4 win 
Associated Press 
piTTsburgh — gregory polanco got three hits, including a go-ahead single in the seventh inning off cubs reliever phil coke to lift the pittsburgh pirates over chicago 5-4 on Thursday. 
Josh harrison hit his second double of the game when cubs rookie Kris bryant, making his first start in center field, took a roundabout path on a flyball. That set up polanco’s hit. 
sean rodriguez hit his first home run of the season as pittsburgh rallied from a three-run deficit to manage a split of the four-game series. 
radhames liz (1-1) picked up his first major league win since 2008 with two innings of shutout relief. mark melancon worked a perfect ninth for his third save. 
chris denorfia and starlin castro each had two hits for the cubs. rookie second baseman addison russell doubled in a run for the first rbi of his career. 
brian schlitter (0-2) gave up a double to harrison with one out in the seventh. harrison bolted to second as he took advantage of the play by bryant, who’s normally a third baseman. 
coke intentionally walked pinch-hitter corey hart to for a lefty-lefty matchup with polanco. with the cubs shading him to the right side of the infield, polanco fell behind 0-2, worked the count full and then singled. 
The bullpen did the rest. liz al­lowed just one hit in two innings to win for the first time since sept. 14, 2008, when he played for baltimore. pittsburgh relievers re­tired the last eight chicago batters. 
melancon, who struggled while blowing a save on Tuesday, had little trouble setting down welington castillo, russell and chris coghlan as the pirates end­ed an early 10-game homestand with a 6-4 mark. 
pittsburgh starter Jeff locke lo­cated his fastball well enough to record seven strikeouts but had issues when the cubs managed to put the ball in play. chicago touched him for four runs in five innings. Jonathan herrera hit a two-run double in the second to put the cubs in front. locke walked in a run in the fifth but es­caped without any further dam­age when castro hit into a double play as chicago went in front 4-1. 



paid adverTisemenT 
NBA | bulls 113, bucKs 106 (2oT) 
bulls hold off 
bucks in double oT 
Associated Press 
milwauKee — derrick rose scored 34 points, Jimmy butler added 24 and the chicago bulls beat the milwaukee bucks 113-106 in double overtime on Thursday night to take a 3-0 lead in their eastern conference play­off series. 
butler got the second overtime off to a rousing start, intercepting a backcourt pass from giannis antetokounmpo and racing in for a layup. it set the tone for an 8-0 run that gave chicago a 109­101 lead with 2:44 left to finally shake the pesky bucks. 
rose atoned for a missed free throw with 4 seconds left in regu­lation that left the game tied. he scored six points in the second overtime, including a layup off an offensive rebound with 2:15 left for a 10-point lead. 
antetokounmpo had 25 points and Khris middleton added 18 for milwaukee, which went scoreless for more than 6 minutes between the first and second overtimes. 
The bulls will go for the sweep on saturday in game 4 in milwaukee. no nba team has ever come back from a 3-0 deficit to win a series. 
chicago appeared to have wrapped up the game with 2:50 left in regulation after Tony snell hit his second straight 3 for a 94­84 lead, rousing an often bulls-friendly crowd. The bradley center at times felt like a north­ern outpost for bulls fans who made the barely 90-minute drive from chicago. 
but the young bucks didn’t quit and their fans backed them up, too. 
middleton had eight points over the final 1:27 of regula­tion, including a floater with 10 seconds left that gave the bucks a 95-94 lead. rose went 1 of 2 from the free throw line, and middleton missed a 27-footer at the other end to send the game into overtime. 
it was a fitting stretch run to a wildly entertaining game featur­ing one of the east’s standard-bearers against the scrappy upstarts from milwaukee. 
rose carried the bulls for much of the second half, getting a big assist off the bench from snell as chicago built a late 10-point lead. The bucks blew an 18-point lead in the second quarter. 
it was hard to believe that chicago trailed 49-31 with 4:03 left in the second quarter. 
but the bulls closed the half with an 18-4 spurt to get within 53-49. Former bulls forward scottie pippen rooted them on courtside. 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | fridAY, April 24, 2015 | The observer 




SmC lACroSSE | KalamaZoo 11, smc 7 
Belles hang tough, fall to Kalamazoo 
Observer Staff Report 
saint mary’s fought hard but ultimately dropped its final conference game of the season, 11-7, against Kalamazoo on Thursday night at saint mary’s lacrosse Fields. 
The game was hotly con­tested from the opening draw, though the visitors managed to find the scoreboard first off a free position shot about three minutes into the game. The belles (6-10, 2-7 miaa) fought back quickly, though, scoring twice in a five-min­ute span to claim their first lead of the afternoon. 
Kalamazoo (5-8, 3-4 miaa) would strike back 30 seconds later, scoring its own pair of goals to take a 3-2 lead head­ing into the latter portion of the first half. Freshman mid­fielder clare Theisen closed the gap for the belles on an unassisted shot for her sec­ond goal of the evening to draw the two teams even once more. 
The first half still held more in store for both teams in terms of offense, though. Kalamazoo reclaimed its lead two minutes after Theisen’s goal. They nearly controlled that lead for the remainder of the half, but sophomore attack emilie vanneste man­aged to score on an unassist­ed shot for her second tally of the night with just 32 sec­onds remaining in the half to make it a 4-4 tie. 
The belles managed to strike first in the second half as Theisen completed her hat trick four minutes into the frame and vanneste man­aged two more goals on the afternoon to bring her sea­son total to a team-leading 
42. The belles spent much of the second half on defense, though, as the visitors man­aged to put 12 shots on goal to the home team’s nine. of those 12 shots on goal, Kalamazoo managed to con­vert seven times — six unas­sisted — en route to their 11-7 victory. 
one significant obstacle to the belles possession game in the second half came at center field, where they struggled mightily on the draw. Kalamazoo managed to win eight of 11 draws in the frame, after the belles held the advantage at half­time, 5-4. 


The belles did manage to cause some headaches for their opponents late in the game, forcing 16 turnovers in the second half. however, their aggression also result­ed in foul trouble, as saint mary’s was tagged for 29 to­tal fouls to Kalamazoo’s 22. 
The belles concluded their conference slate with a 2-7 record, relegating them to seventh in the conference. The team will hope to con­clude its regular season on a high note this saturday as it hosts dallas at 1 p.m. at saint mary’s lacrosse Fields. 

rowiNG | dale england cup 
Irish head into final tuneup before ACCs 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE sports writer  in a dual-racing, round-robin tournament, the irish  12th in the country, i think, and had some very good re- what that kind of speed looks like. i think we’ve made  learn and make changes. if it was just a one-shot field  
will face host no. 11 indiana  sults last week down at the  progress in our last race in  with four teams, we’d get one  
after winning group b  at  this evening, followed by no.  clemson  invite.  They’re  california, so we’re excited.  race and then we don’t get  
the lake natoma invitational  12 Texas and  columbia on  showing a lot of speed, so i  “each person needs to do  an opportunity to assess and  
two weeks ago, notre dame  saturday. The competition is  think they’re very good.  her job and play her role for  evaluate until the accs. The  
returns to the water as it  the last event of the regular  “columbia’s always a pret­ her team to the best of her  three-race format allows us  
travels to  lake  lemon in  season for the irish, with the  ty strong program out of the  ability. not to try to row to  to make some adjustments  
bloomington,  indiana,  to  acc championship to follow  ivies, they come from a really  anyone else’s ability, just to  between races.  
compete in the dale england  next month.  strong rowing conference, so  row her best and i think if we  “it also follows very close- 
cup this weekend.  indiana  and  Texas  both  i think that they’ll be a great  do that we should be fine.”  ly to the  acc  format, with  
paid adverTisemenT  picked up race wins at the clemson invitational last  opponent too.” however, despite  their  The irish found some suc­cess the last time they took  a Friday night race and a saturday morning final, and  
week, and irish head coach  opponents’  success,  stone  part in a dual-racing meet,  it also follows the ncaa for- 
martin  stone  said  facing  said he believes his rowers’  winning six races in total  mat, where you race multiple  
teams  with  strong  recent  performances against even  against no. 1 ohio state and  times over the weekend.”  
performances, as well as a  higher-ranked  opposition  michigan  state at the  big  The  irish will begin the  
columbia team that has ex- earlier in the year should give  Ten/acc double dual  meet  dale  england  cup against  
perience against difficult op- them hope of success this  on  march 28 in  columbus,  indiana on  lake  lemon in  
ponents, will make the meet  weekend.  ohio. stone said the format  bloomington at 5 p.m. Friday  
a challenge.  “we’ve had a pretty brutal  provides the opportunity to  afternoon. They take to the  
“They’re  all  very  good,”  race schedule,”  stone said.  make  adjustments  and  this  water again saturday, start- 
stone  said.  “indiana  and  “every weekend we’ve raced  can help his team.  ing at 9 a.m. when they take  
Texas are ranked 11th and  somebody that’s currently in  “i  really like the format,”  on Texas.  
the top 10, and a couple in the  stone said. “The dual for- 
paid adverTisemenT  top five, so i think we’re ready  mat allows us to get mul- Contact Daniel O’Boyle at  
for this one, we understand  tiple races in, do some stuff,  doboyle1@nd.edu  




The observer | fridAY, April 24, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

BooKSTorE BASKETBAll 

Three-time champs advance to semifinals 
Familiar matchup between Holy Cross Seniors and The Drones highlights Friday night’s matchups 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE, MAREK MAZUREK and HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writers 
No. 2 finnigans def No. 7 Team 537, 21-12 
Finnigans made its mark early in the game, scoring quickly on their first posses­sion, but Team 537 was able to match their higher-ranked opponents for a time, reply­ing to each score to keep the game tied at 3-3. 
Finnigans captain and senior peter sullivan said adjusting to team changes prevented his team from controlling the game early on, but in the end the players’ talent shone through. 
“i haven’t been playing the last couple of games,” said sullivan. “we’ve had some new guys in, and i think we definitely started out a little slow, but we knew we were the better team and the bet­ter team won.” 
Finnigans soon pulled away, with its noticeable height advantage in the frontcourt allowing the team to dominate rebounds as it opened up a 7-3 lead and eventually went into the half leading 11-6. 
“i think our size really helps us,” sullivan said. “we’ve got some big boys with big wing­spans and that really helps.” 
Team 537, made up of holy cross college students, struggled to get back into the game or defend with Finnigans’ height advantage, as it eventually faded to a 21­12 defeat. 
“we’re just some guys who like to play pickup basket­ball and hang out with each other, and we want to make a run at the bookstore tourna­ment,” sullivan said. 
“i’m not sure of our chanc­es of going all the way, and of beating some of the teams here, but that’s definitely the goal.” 
No. 3 Boil a Cardinal Sagehen into an irish Cavalier def. No. 6 fallen Ballers, 21-18 
This quarterfinal matchup started off slowly, as neither team managed to connect on their first few attempts from the field through the early possessions. after a while, the scoring started as boil a cardinal sagehen into an irish cavalier led all of the first half and entered half­time with a 11-9 lead. 
The second half stayed even until cardinal sagehen scored on back-to-back breakaways to take a 15­12 lead. cardinal sagehen closed out the game by mak­ing its free throws to win 21-18. 
captain John welsh said the key to the cardinal sagehen victory was defense. 
“i think it starts on the de­fensive end,” welsh said. “we made a little run there, they got back in the game. once we were locked in on defense, we were alright. once we played defense, our offense comes.” 
The second half of the game was also marked by chippy play as an altercation erupted between the two teams after a contested rebound. welsh said scuffles like those are just the nature of the game. 
“you know, it’s outdoor basketball,” welsh said. “Two teams playing hard, there’s going to be some trash talk­ing. i don’t think anyone meant any harm by it.” 
For cardinal sagehen, the key to moving forward will be rebounding, welsh said. 
“definitely rebounding,” welsh said. “we’ve got one guy over 6-foot-3. if we re­bound and play tough d, we should be alright.” 
No. 1 Holy Cross Seniors def. No. 8 little Big Boy, 21-9 
The holy cross seniors are no strangers to the final weekend of bookstore bas­ketball; they are the three-time defending champions of the tournament. The seniors rolled into the semifinals once more, defeating the little big boys, 21-9, on Thursday. holy cross captain Zoe bauer said he was particularly pleased with his team’s defense. 
“i think the key was our de­fense,” bauer said. “we kind of switched to a zone. we played a little man, we played a little zone. we’ll probably switch back to man tomorrow night. 
“Those guys were big, they’re the strongest guys we’ve played in the tour­nament so far. we couldn’t guard them one-on-one, we had to suck down on their bigs that way.” 
offensively, the seniors re­lied heavily on jump shots throughout the game. bauer himself made numerous long-range shots, and he said he was happy their shots were falling. 
“Today, obviously we hit shots,” bauer said. “we’re playing outside, shots are go­ing to fall for us. Tomorrow, it depends on the weather, we’re going to have to move the ball around and get some layups.” 
bauer also said his team’s experience will play a big fac­tor in their upcoming games. 
“we’ve been in a lot of close games over our four years,” bauer said. “The closer the game, the more relaxed we against top-seeded holy cross to the challenge.” are. i think it favors us.” seniors, bradley said his team 


is ready for the challenge. friday’s Semifinals No. 4 The drones def No. 5 “it’s great [to be in the final no. 2 Finnigans vs. no. 3 boil Team 43, 21-15 four.] it’s my first time — in a cardinal sagehen into an 
The drones pulled out a fact, it’s all of our first times irish cavalier, 6 p.m. hard fought victory Thursday in the final four,” he said. no. 1 holy cross seniors vs. against both Team 43 and a “we know that we’re playing no. 4 The drones, 7 p.m. vocal crowd pulling for their a team that hasn’t lost in four opponent, 21-15. years at bookstore basketball, Contact Daniel O’Boyle at 
relying on transition buck-but a couple of our guys have doboyle1@nd.edu, Marek ets and timely shooting, the been teammates with most Mazurek at mmazurek@ drones were able to keep of their team. so it’ll be a fun nd.edu and Hunter McDaniel Team 43 from ever seriously game, we’re looking forward at hmcdani1@nd.edu challenging them, despite the 
paid adverTisemenT 

fact that Team 43 continued to shoot the ball well from long range. 
The drones used transition layups and fast break points in the first half to jump out to an early lead, but fouls and a late run from Team 43 cut the lead to 11-8 by the end of the first half. 
The second half saw much of the same, as the drones raced out to a quick 19-12 lead as the sun was setting. Team 43 mounted a slight rally to make it 19-15, but it was too late. The drones ultimately held on for a 21-15 victory and a spot in the final four. 
“These guys beat us last year when they had (former notre dame captain and starter) garrick sherman playing with them, so we were excited for an opportunity at the rematch,” drones captain michael bradley said. “we came into the game confident we would win, and we got the win.” 
with a match looming 

paid adverTisemenT 



The observer | fridAY, April 24, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

mEN’S Golf | acc championship 
Irish drive for strong conference finish 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
The irish head to new london, north carolina, on Friday to begin their push for an acc championship, with the tournament taking place on the 7,102-yard, par-72 course at old north state country club. The 54-hole championship will take place from Friday through sunday this weekend. 
along with boston college and no. 48 north carolina state, notre dame will begin the championship with an 8:30 
a.m. tee time Friday morning. 
in their last showing, the irish finished in 11th place at vanderbilt’s mason rudolph championship at the legends club, where sophomore matthew rushton paced the team and finished in 27th place with a score of 222 (69-76-77). 
The acc boasts 10 teams in the top 50 of the golfstat.com rankings and five in the top 30, including no. 1 Florida state, defending conference cham­pion no. 11 georgia Tech, no. 19 north carolina, no. 23 wake Forest and no. 28 virginia, while the irish check in at no. 
155 in the national rankings. 
The irish have relied on some of the younger players in what head coach Jim Kubinski called a “transitional season.” 
“even players who had played some in the past were in new roles this year, so we had some bumps in the road early on,” Kubinski said. “it’s exciting, though, to see the evi­dence of our players improving in recent weeks. we didn’t have a senior in the lineup over the two-tournament spring break. 
“we had a sophomore [blake barens] and fresh­man [Thomas steve] lead us [at the Tails park challenge] in naples. in fact, blake had an opportunity going to his last hole of the tournament to set his career-best score three days in a row over break. i don’t think we’ve ever had a player set his personal best on three straight days. The devel­opment of blake and Thomas, with matt rushton’s strong play over our fall season and bookending break with a 69 to start in san diego and finish in naples shows the progress of our young guys.” 
all season long, notre dame’s team has featured pre­dominantly underclassmen. This weekend is no different, with the five players teeing it up at the acc championship being rushton, steve, barens, as well as junior cory sciupider and senior Tyler wingo. 



with arguably the stiffest competition in the country 
paid adverTisemenT 
meeting in new london, the young irish will have their work cut out for them, but they will use the experience as something to build on for the coming season starting in the fall, Kubinski said. 
a season ago, the irish post­ed a seventh-place finish in their first-ever appearance in the acc championship. 
This year’s edition of the acc championship will tee off Friday morning at 8:30 a.m. at old north state country club in new london, north carolina. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com | fridAY, April 24, 2015 | The observer 

Softball 
conTinued From page 24 
north carolina will provide a challenging litmus test for her team. 
“They’re the perfect team for us to see right before postseason,” she said. “i love seeing a team like that because we’ll have to be ready to go, and we have to be playing really good ball [for the acc tournament], and that’s exactly what we want to be doing [this weekend].” 
The irish, however, have a lot of momentum already. since a 12-0 win against the conference leading no. 10 Florida state on march 15, notre dame has been 24-0, outscoring opponents 204­39 in that stretch. 
however, gumpf said the streak is secondary to the overall goals she has for the team and the irish feels no added pressure to keep winning. 
“we don’t really look for­ward, honestly,” she said. “a lot of people are talking about it. i could care less about it because all that matters is the next game. The win streak is great and everything, but it doesn’t matter. all that matters is how we play tomorrow, and the next day. it’s great, and i’m happy, but it’s some­thing that i don’t focus on, and i hope the girls don’t either.” 
sophomore outfielder 


Baseball 
conTinued From page 24 
home, compared to a 7-11 mark on the road. 
although a few minor inju­ries have mixed up the irish pitching staff, it has been for the most part lights out in its past two acc series against Florida state and north carolina state, suffering just a single loss and giving up only 10 runs over the last six confer­ence games. 
The pitching lineup this weekend will have sophomore right-hander ryan smoyer go­ing Friday, freshman right-hander brandon bielak on saturday and most likely junior right-hander nick mccarty on sunday, aoki said. smoyer is 6-0 on the season with a 2.11 era, bielak is 4-1 with a 3.34 era, and mccarty has a 5-3 re­cord with a 2.78 era. 
although the acc standings are cramped and an impor­tant weekend is coming up for his team, aoki said nothing changes in notre dame’s game plan. 
“same mindset,” aoki said. “we’ve got to play each game pitch by pitch and do the very best we can and at the end of the day we’ll look up and hope­fully we’ve got more runs on the scoreboard than they do.” 
First pitch is set for 6 p.m. Friday at wake Forest baseball stadium in winston-salem, north carolina. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at  ilorton@nd.edu 

Karley wester, who was 3-for-3 in the game with a home run and three rbis against Toledo, has been a key contributor for notre dame during the streak, with a .444 average and a team-high 52 runs scored. senior infielder Katey haus powers the team at the plate, leading the irish in 
paid adverTisemenT 
home runs (11), doubles (13) and extra-base hits (25). 
The irish will take on the Tar heels in a three-game set at melissa cook stadium, with matchups saturday at 1 
p.m. and 3 p.m. and sunday at noon. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 



w lacrosse 
conTinued From page 24 
many different things for us; getting the three draw con­trols, forcing turnovers, win­ning ground balls,” halfpenny said. 
at the other end of the field, notre dame was led by sophomore goalkeeper liz o’sullivan, who made 12 saves on 18 goal-bound cavalier shots to help the irish secure the victory. 
“she saw the ball really well, and i think she’ll be the first to tell you it was a big day,” halfpenny said. “ … any day you’re making double-digit saves is a big day, and any day you’re making 12 saves in the acc tournament against a team with revenge on their minds, that’s huge.” 
and while o’sullivan’s 12 saves stand out for notre dame, halfpenny said her de­fense’s effort helped the irish goalkeeper out and sparked the offense in the process. 
“you’ve also got to credit our defense on giving liz the shots she wanted to see,” halfpenny said. “our unit in front of her is so mature and so strong. 
“it was just a tremendous day down there and the more shots they made, the more saves liz made, the more our offense was fueled and that’s where we really saw them come alive in the final 10 min­utes of the game.” 
after the two teams sparred for the game’s first 45 min­utes — the game was tied 3-3 with just over 15 minutes left 
— the notre dame offense came alive late, scoring four times in 10 minutes to take a 7-4 lead. 
sophomore attack heidi annaheim scored to put the irish ahead for the third time with 15:06 to play in the game, before a free-position goal from junior midfielder stephanie Toy gave the irish a two-goal lead with 10:24 left. 

after the cavaliers (11-6, 4-3) answered to cut the lead back to one, a pair of goals from junior attack rachel sexton put the irish ahead three with 5:16 left. 
From there, virginia scored twice more, but could not overcome notre dame’s lead before time expired. 
The win was notre dame’s second this year over the cavaliers in charlottesville, virginia; the irish won 14-4 on april 4. 
“it just so happens these games have landed at a time when we have been focused and ready to go and in must-win situations,” halfpenny said. 
notre dame will get another crack at no. 2 north carolina on Friday in an acc tourna­ment semifinal. 
The Tar heels (14-2, 6-1) won the regular-season con­test, 9-8, at arlotta stadium on march 29. in that matchup, the irish fell behind 7-1 in the first half before rallying to tie the game, 8-8, with just a few minutes remaining. 
halfpenny said her team must concentrate on play­ing its own style, not getting caught up playing the top-seeded team in the field. 
“we need to come out, play our game, focus on us and get to the next play when things don’t go our way,” she said. “we’ve really got to buy into playing this tough, grinding, getting down-and-dirty style of lacrosse that we’re good at.” 
notre dame and north carolina will take to the Klockner stadium turf in charlottesville, virginia, on Friday at 1 p.m. for their acc tournament semifinal. 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu 

m lacrosse 
conTinued From page 24 

notre dame’s man-up offense, which ranks second in the coun­try at 62.1 percent. 
alternatively, the irish man-down defense ranks fifth to last in all of division i lacrosse at a meager 51.9 percent. corrigan chalks up his team’s struggles in that area to youth. 
“it’s an area where we have to get better, no doubt about it,” corrigan said. “anytime you’ve got a young group in the man-down situation. … it takes a lot of understanding, communi­cation and cooperation, and younger groups just tend to be a little behind in that.” 
That man-down group will have a tough task ahead of it try­ing to quiet a duke offense that scores at the fifth highest clip in the nation, averaging 14.71 goals per game. The blue devils are led by junior midfielder myles Jones, who has racked up 35 goals and 65 points, both tops among all midfielders nation­ally. Freshman attack Justin guterding (41 goals, 56 points) and junior midfielder deemer class (32 goals, 47 points) form a strong supporting cast. corrigan said his familiarity with duke’s players and style of play was an immense help during game planning. 
“with a shorter week of prepa­ration … and the end of the year academically and everything else, it’s nice to know that our preparation is a little bit easier,” corrigan said. “it’s an adjust­ment off of what we were trying to do the first time we played them, which was just a few weeks ago.” 
The irish do not, however, have much familiarity with sopho­more midfielder Kyle rowe, who played sparingly against notre dame but has had success re­cently as the blue devils’ prima­ry option for faceoffs. rowe has won 84 percent of his draws over the last two games, supplant­ing his older brother senior Jack rowe, who took 23 of 29 draws the last time these two teams met. 
The irish will counter with a platoon of their own, trotting out sophomore faceoff specialist p.J. Finley (82 for 151, 54.3 percent) while spelling him with fresh­man John Travisano, Jr. (14 for 25, 56 percent) and senior nick ossello (34 for 81, 42 percent). 
“we’ll continue to mix it up,” corrigan said. “i think that’s part of making sure that we are effective in that area of the game.” 
no matter who is taking fa­ceoffs for notre dame, it will be important to keep the momen­tum they currently have going into the ncaa tournament, corrigan said. That is what worked last year, when the squad went from being a bubble team to ripping off six straight victo­ries and making it to the ncaa final before losing to duke, 11-9. 
“The stakes aren’t quite what they were last year, but we don’t want to take any steps backward at this point,” corrigan said. will play in the championship 

notre dame and duke will sunday at 1 p.m. against either clash tonight at 5:30 p.m. in syracuse or north carolina. the acc tournament semifi­nals at ppl park in chester, Contact Brian Plamondon at pennsylvania. The winner bplamond@nd.edu 




ndsmcobserver.com | fridAY, April 24, 2015 | The observer 

CroSSword | will shorTZ 


HiGHlY pUNliKElY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUdoKU | The mepham group 


domE NUTS | aleXandria wellman 

HoroSCopE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: make plans that will help you reach your goal. don’t let anyone sidetrack you or involve you in costly ventures that will waste your time and money. be creative and come up with your own ideas and plans. search for destinations, courses and networking functions that deal with the subjects, interests and industries that interest you most. put yourself first. your numbers are 4, 17, 23, 27, 32, 41, 46. 
Birthday Baby: you have charm, compassion and understanding. you are sensitive and imaginative. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): emotional matters will escalate if you are inconsistent or unpredictable. Try to keep an even, peaceful temperament to avoid an adverse response. put more effort into activities that challenge you mentally and physically. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): be careful not to let your entertaining and social mood lead to costly adventures. pleasure trips will enhance love and romance, but also put you in debt. good opportunities will arise through communication and patience. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): look for new ways to use your talents. opportunities are apparent if you are willing to explore new avenues. believe in your potential. a change at home will bring you greater freedom to do the things you enjoy. love will take a serious turn. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t let moodiness ruin your day. let go of regrets and don’t hold grudges. do what you can to help others, and learn from whatever experience you gain and information you are given. positive, progressive action will bring stellar results. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Keep your intentions and professional strategy a secret from your colleagues. if you let too many people in on what you are doing, you will face stiff competition. hone your skills, gain knowledge and prepare to forge ahead with your plans. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): you have plenty to contribute, so don’t hold back. share your wisdom and make suggestions. Thoughts followed by actions will lead to your success and encourage unexpected and unusual partnerships. don’t hesitate; make your way to where the action is. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): problems due to an emotional incident will leave you feeling like you need a change. do something that makes you feel good about yourself personally and professionally. romance is on the rise, along with greater security and stability. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): you will have a greater interest in cultural differences and traditions. check out your family tree or plan a visit to re-establish family ties. let your intuition lead the way in helping you explore new possibilities and lifestyles. speak from the heart. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): live, learn and prepare to make changes that will improve your life. a new residence or rearranging your furniture to make room for a new pursuit will lead to good fortune. open your heart to someone special. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): live a little. invite friends or colleagues to enjoy a little downtime with you. Turn your home into a place where you can relax and discuss future plans. much can be accomplished if you use empathy, understanding and compassion to get your way. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): make personal changes that won’t affect anyone but you, and you will avoid an argument or interference. someone will blow situations out of proportion if given the chance. Keep your thoughts and plans private for the time being. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): get ready to have some fun. reconnect with old friends, share your ideas and look at your options concerning your professional position and the opportunities that exist. a positive change to the way you live will boost your morale. 

JUmBlE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 




make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | fridAY, April 24, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
mEN’S lACroSSE 

Notre Dame starts quest to defend ACC tourney title 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
after wrapping up its first atlantic coast conference regular season title, no. 1 notre dame will look to re­peat as acc tournament champions this weekend when it opens against no. 6 duke on Friday night in the semifinals. 
The irish (9-1, 4-0 acc), winners of six straight, and blue devils (10-4, 1-3 acc) met fewer than three weeks ago, with notre dame rolling to a 15-10 victory in durham, north carolina. That game saw the irish lead for all 60 minutes, sparked by hat tricks from sophomore mid­fielder sergio perkovic and the starting attack of fresh­man mikey wynne, junior matt Kavanagh and senior conor doyle. That kind of offensive depth will be key moving forward for notre dame, head coach Kevin corrigan said. 
“we’ve got a lot of guys who can score,” corrigan said. “more importantly, a lot of guys that can score 


EMILY McCONVILLE | The Observer 

Senior attack Conor Doyle looks to pass in Notre Dame’s 15-14 win against North Carolina on Saturday at Arlotta Stadium. 
and nobody that cares if — wynne, Kavanagh, they do. we’re a very op-doyle and perkovic — have portunistic team, and we eclipsed the 20-goal mark do a great job taking advan-this season, making it hard tage of what people are giv-for defenses to focus in on ing up, because with a team any one player. all four are like ours you can’t take away also crucial components of everything.” 
each of those four see m lacrosse pAGE 22 
BASEBAll 
squad seeks to improve standing 
By ISAAC LORTON 
senior sports writer 
There’s no catching louisville at this point for the atlantic division crown, even with three conference series left, but the irish will head to wake Forest this weekend looking to move up a couple of spots in the standings. 
notre dame (27-13, 11-10 acc) currently sits in fourth place in the division, right behind clemson (11-9) and Florida state (14-7). The irish, however, are followed closely by north carolina state (9-11), boston college (9-11) and wake Forest (23­19, 9-12), who sits in last place in the atlantic. one weekend could change the whole bottom half of the di­vision, irish head coach mik aoki said. 
“we’re all jammed in there,” aoki said. “everybody could get on a little bit of a hot streak and get going on this thing. we’ve just got to keep grinding along, being the best we can be, and at the end of the year trust that that’s going to put us where we want to be.” 
despite being in last place, the demon deacons swing the bat well, aoki said, and wake Forest baseball park favors their home run hit­ters. sophomore infielder will craig leads the deacons with a .401 batting average and 12 home runs while fel­low sophomore infielder nate mondou is not far be­hind, with a .363 average and nine home runs. 
“They swing the bat, they’re very offensive,” aoki said. “ … They play well in their ballpark; it suits their team. it’s a hitter-friendly park, so our pitching staff will have to go out there and do a good job competing against it, and maybe we can take advantage of a nice hit­ting park at the same time.” 
The demon deacons of­fense is deep as well: six demon deacon batters with more than 100 at bats have an average above .300. The team’s overall average is .303. The deacons are 14-8 at 
see baseball pAGE 21 
SofTBAll 

Still rolling, ND hosts UNC 
By ANDREW ROBINSON  By ALEX CARSON  
sports writer the the  acc and is tied for fourth in ncaa with 21 home runs on  associate sports editor  
notre dame’s spotless 17-0 the season.  on a day where senior de­ 
home record, as well as its 24­“ They’re a really good hitting  fender barbara sullivan and  
game win streak, will be on the tea m,” irish head coach deanna  sophomore attack cortney  
line this weekend when the team gu mpf said. “They’re probably  Fortunato were named two  
takes on conference rival north one  of the best hitting teams, not  of the 25 Tewaarton Trophy  
carolina in a three-game set at onl y in the conference, but in the  nominees, no. 11 notre dame  
melissa cook stadium. cou ntry, so we have to do a good  defeated no. 5 virginia in the  
The no. 24 irish (38-11, 16-5 job  with keeping them off bal­ quarterfinals of the acc tour­ 
acc) are in third place in the anc e. we have to do a good job  nament, 7-6.  
acc and are coming off a con-ma king them hit pitches we want  while it was a quiet day on  
vincing 11-1 win over Toledo on the m to hit, [and] not so much  the scoresheet for the duo  
wednesday, in which a balanced the m hitting our mistakes.”  — Fortunato, notre dame’s  
offense caught fire for a seven-d espite a strong record and a  leading scorer, managed just  
run fourth inning to run away stro ng offense, north carolina  one assist — it was an influen­ 
with a five-inning victory. has  struggled on the road this  tial one in possession, where  
The irish will have a chance to sea son, with just a 6-7 record  sullivan and Fortunato led an  
take advantage of their momen­aw ay from chapel hill, north  effort that saw the irish (10­ 
tum and leapfrog the second-car olina. meanwhile, notre  7, 3-4 acc) control 12 of 15  
place Tar heels (34-11, 15-4) if da me is undefeated at melissa  draws, including all but one  
they can win at least two of the cook stadium.  in the second half.  
three games this weekend. w ith the postseason fast ap­ “i think that barbara  
overcoming north carolina pro aching — the irish have just  sullivan was a key player in  
will be no easy task though; the one  game against michigan state  today’s game,” irish head  
Tar heels have one of the most rem aining after this weekend  coach christine halfpenny  
high-powered offenses in the bef ore the acc tournament be- said. “having the ability to  
ncaa, notching 82 home runs gin s may 7 — gumpf said  win the draw both clean as  
on the year compared to notre  well as to get the ball to our  
dame’s 49. Tar heels junior  see soFTball pAGE 21  side where we can really  

shortstop Kristen brown leads 

Nd womEN’S lACroSSE | nd 7, virginia 6 
Irish defeat Virginia in ACC tournament 

AMY ACKERMANN | The Observer 
Sophomore midfielder Alex Dalton protects the ball from a Louisville defender in Notre Dame’s 10-8 loss Sunday. 
battle out for it. … barbara  Fortunato  —  who  con- 
had five of those by herself but  trolled three draws for notre  
was able to get it obviously on  dame — had a strong all- 
our side of the field, and that’s  around effort on the day,  
where cortney came in big on  halfpenny said.  
a day where maybe they did  “cortney obviously did so  
do a good job of limiting her  
looks at the cage.”  see w lacrosse pAGE 22  





