the iNdepeNdeNt to uNcoVer Newspaper serViNg the truth Notre daMe aNd aNd report saiNt Mary’s it accurately 

VoluMe 48, issue 83 | FridAy, FEbruAry 6, 2015 | NdsMcobserVer.coM 
Conference  to celebrate women in business 
Undergraduate Women in Business conference will focus on non-traditional career paths, networking 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
News writer 
this year will mark the seventh meeting of the annual undergraduate women in business (uwib) professional development conference, which will take place Feb. 13-14 in the Mendoza college of business atrium. 
conference co-chair and junior patricia bartlett said this year’s theme is “Finding a career path you love,” which will focus on the many career paths available to business and non-business majors. 
“the conference is a great opportunity for women to connect with each other on various topics, for un­dergraduates to learn from experienced professionals and for companies to pro­mote their brands,” she said. 
the conference aims to provide undergraduate women the necessary skills to discover their interests and abilities in order to bet­ter understand how those skills translate into a career, bartlett said. 
“we feel that it’s impor­tant to open the eyes of un­dergraduate women to the variety of opportunities, in­cluding non-traditional ca­reer paths, available after graduation,” she said. 
Fellow co-chair and soph­omore whitney spiegel said the conference will in­clude two keynote speakers: kristin boyd, a vice president 
see busiNess PAGE 5 




Sixth annual Polar Bear Plunge to benefit Hope Initiative 
By SELENA PONIO 
News writer 
hundreds of willing partici­pants will pay $5 to submerge themselves in icy water for charity during the sixth annual polar bear plunge on saturday. the event, co-sponsored by badin and dillon halls, will take place in st. Joseph’s lake from 2-4 p.m. 
“we are hoping for record participation this year and would love to see over 500 plungers,” corinne sullivan, sophomore and president of badin hall, said. “the weather looks warm for saturday, so that should help.” 

every year, proceeds from the plunge go to the hope initiative, an organization founded by assistant profes­sor of industrial design and badin’s hall Fellow, ann-Marie conrado. according to sullivan, all of badin’s signa­ture events sponsor the hope initiative. 
see pluNge PAGE 5 

EMILY McCONVILLE | The Observer 
Students plunge into the icy cold water of Saint Joseph’s Lake at last year’s Polar Bear Plunge. 


Poetry reading features student work 
By OLIVIA JACKSON 
News writer 
For saint Mary’s heritage week, seniors kelly konya and sarah prezek hosted a “then and Now” poetry reading featuring professors who read poems by saint Mary’s alumnae and stu­dents who read their own work. 
prezek said the idea for the reading was konya’s [Editor’s note: Konya is Saint Mary’s Editor at The Observer] and was based on a similar event held during heritage week 2014. 

“last year, students did not read their own work, and the poetry was mostly by sister Madeleva [wolff] because it was the 50th anniversary of her death,” prezek said. “John 
see poetry PAGE 4 


observer names new editors 
Observer Staff Report 
seven new departmen­tal editors will round out the observer’s 2015-2016 editorial board, incoming editor-in-chief greg hadley announced wednesday night. 
Juniors erin rice, tabitha ricketts and haleigh ehmsen and sophomores Zach klonsinski, erin Mcauliffe, Margaret hynds and Zach llorens will as­sume control of their de­partments March 15. 
ehmsen, originally from Mt. Vernon, iowa, will take over as saint Mary’s editor. ehmsen is a junior english and communication studies double major. she has been a news writer for the observer 
see staFF PAGE 5 


News PAGE 3 ViewpoiNt PAGE 7 sceNe PAGE 8 MeN’s basketball PAGE 16 woMeN’s basketball PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, Notre dame, iN 46556 024 south dining hall, Notre dame, iN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann Marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
brian hartnett alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: Mary green Scene Editor: allie tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’Mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471
Office Manager & General Info
Fax: (574) 631-6927
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu
Assistant Managing Editors
ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 cene@ndsmcobserver.com
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kk nya01@saintmarys.edu
Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com
Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

the observer is the independent, daily newspaper published
Policies 

in print and online by the students of the university of Notre
the observer is the independent, daily newspaper published dame du lac and saint Mary’s college. editorial content,
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the
dame du lac and saint Mary’s college. editorial content, administration of either institution. the observer reserves
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the the right to refuse advertisements based on content.
administration of either institution. the observer reserves the news is reported as accurately and objectively as
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the
the news is reported as accurately and objectively as majority of the editor-in-chief, Managing editor, assistant
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the Managing editors and department editors. commentaries,
majority of the editor-in-chief, Managing editor, assistant letters and columns present the views of the authors and not
Managing editors and department editors. commentaries, necessarily those of the observer.
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not Viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free
necessarily those of the observer. expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged.
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. information.
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski.

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski.

post office information the observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday post office information
except during exam and vacation periods. the observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday
a subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one except during exam and vacation periods.
semester. a subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one
the observer is published at: semester.
024 south dining hall the observ r is published at:
Notre dame, iN 46556-0779 024 south dinin hall

periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices N tre d me, iN 46556-0779
postMaster p riodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices
send address corrections to: postMaster
the observer send address corrections to:
p.o. box 779 the observer
024 south dining hall 
p. . box 779
Notre dame, iN 46556-077 024 south dining hall
the observer is a member of the associated press. Notre dame, N 46556-077
all reproduction rights are reserved. the observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 

If you could spend the day with a superhero, who would it be? 

Aniekeme Ukpong 


Wilson Barrett 
sophomore 

freshman 
Morrissey Manor 

keenan hall 
“catwoman.” 

“My mom.” 
Jean-Pierre Vertil 


Maddie Hetlage 
junior 

freshman 
stanford hall 

pasquerilla east hall 
“Father hesburgh.” 

“captain america.” 
Bright Gyamfi 


Sara Schunk 
junior 

sophomore 
Zahm house 

badin hall 
“batman.” 

“spider-Man.” 

EMILY McCONVILLE | The Observer 

Notre Dame cheerleaders get into formation during Notre Dame’s matchup against Wake Forest on Sunday. The Irish defeated the Demon Deacons, 92-63. 

Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

emily Mcconville alex carson Email news@ndsmcobserver.com
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Madison Jaros Mike ginocchio peter durbin Matthew Mckenna 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday
erin rice Mike Malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 

Labor Cafe Men’s and Women’s Tennis Match Chili Cook-Off “Beyond Conflict,
Molly o’Neill Mary kate luft 
Snite Museum of Art Swimming and Diving Eck Tennis Pavillion Harper Hall The Power of Shared 
4:30 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. Rolfs Aquatic Center 10 a.m. - 12 p.m. 3 p.m. - 5 p.m. Experience” Artistic 12 p.m. - 2 p.m. Men’s tennis takes on $10/person. Proceeds Law School
Corrections 

representations of Both teams compete Ball State. to benefit ND Relay for 5:30 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. in a Jan. 29 article about a presentation work and workers. against Cleveland Life. Lecture by co-founder
the observer regards itself as to the stude t senate about a new First
a professional publication and 

State. of Beyond Conflict. 
year course, paul Manrique, the program
strives for the highest standards 
Tennis Match Saturday Vigil Mass Mass in Spanish “The University, Stephane Wrembel 
director for New student engagement
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Eck Tennis Pavillion Basilica of the Sacred Dillon Hall Chapel Theology and the and His Band
in th office of the Vice president

however, recognize that we will make 
5 p.m. - 7 p.m. Heart 1:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. Curriculum” Legends
for tud nt affairs, was inaccuratelymistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Women’s tennis takes 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. Worship Geddes Hall 8 p.m. - 10 p.m.
described as the sao program director.
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
on Stanford. Worship service. Service. 7 p.m. - 8 p.m. French-born guitarist.
the observer regrets this error.
we can correct our error. 
Lecture. 



Men’s rowing club to host ergathon for cancer research 



paid adVertiseMeNt 

boyle said an ergathon is “similar to a walk-a-thon or run-a-thon or jog-a-thon” but performed on an indoor rowing machine known colloquially as an ergometer, or erg. 
“the whole men’s team is go­ing to row as many meters as possible in four hours,” boyle said, “we’re getting donations pledged to us per 500 meters. some of us are planning to row 42,000 meters, so that’s 84 500s, so if you donated a dollar per 500, that’d be an $84 donation.” 
a rowing marathon is 42,000 meters, deVenecia said. 
although this year’s ergathon is the first, the team hopes to expand the event in the future. 
“we’re going to make it into an annual event, so some­time in the early spring or late winter every year,” boyle said. “hopefully, every year we’ll raise more money and keep it going in honor of my dad, keep the event alive and see how we can grow it. … we’re trying to get through the first one, but next year we’ll definitely net­work it way ahead of time.” 
“anyone that wants to come out and support us is welcome to,” he also said. “thanks for the support and check us out on Facebook. like it, spread it around. donate a dollar, five dollars, whatever you want — every penny counts.” 
Contact Andrea Vale at  avale@nd.edu 
ND grad named Apache CFO 
Observer Staff Report 
apache corporation an­nounced Jan. 22 that Notre dame graduate stephen riney will become its new executive vice president and chief financial officer. 
apache is a public american oil and gas ex­
ploration  and  production  
company  headquartered  in  
houston.  riney studied fi­ 

nance and accounting at Notre dame and received his Mba from the university of chicago booth school of business. 
riney previously worked for bp and amoco and has extensive knowledge of the oil and gas industry. he re­places steven Farris, who has retired, the wall street Journal reported. 

lecturer discusses concept of black female sexuality 
By ANDREA VALE 
News writer 
the men’s rowing club will host saturday its first annu­al Joseph d. boyle Memorial ergathon to raise funds for pancreatic cancer research. 
the ergathon, to be held in the Joyce center rowing gym from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., will honor the memory of the father wallowing in grief.” 
Junior rower bryce deVenecia said the team invites the entire Notre dame community to participate. 
“we’ve contacted all the alumni, and now we’re trying to reach out to the students mainly and see whoever wants to come and put in a couple meters for the cause and spread awareness about pancreatic 

“My way of dealing with grief has been to give back, do something positive and be optimistic. It’s what what my dad would have wanted, and I decided I wanted to do something constructive in helping other people that have pancreatic 
By GABRIELA MALESPIN 
News writer 

gabriel torres, director of undergraduate studies in anthropology, explored thursday the intersection of race and sexuality and how these shape percep­tions of black female sexu­ality in a lecture titled, “My anaconda don’t: portrayals of black Female sexuality, from saartjie baartman to beyonce.” 
the lecture was the first in a series of talks and dis­cussions hosted by Notre dame’s Naacp chapter in honor of black history Month. the discussions center on topics such as black sexuality, reproduc­tion, love and family. 
torres said perceptions of black female sexuality in contemporary culture his­torically has been shaped by racism. 
“race has always been gendered,” torres said. “racism has never existed in a non-gendered form. everywhere we find an ide­ology of discrimination of one group of bodies against another. there are always sexual and gendered norms that go along with it.” 
torres said current con­versations on race are “grossly misunderstood.” he said that, although he recognizes there are cer­tain trends in perceptions of black women across the world, current conver­sations on black female sexuality do not take into consideration the multiple cultural perspectives that shape black female identity. 
“there is no ‘black fe­male,’” he said. “we know that there is more diversity, heterogeneity and differ­ences in lived experiences that determine what black female accounts for.” 
torres said perceptions of black women and black female sexuality are large­ly influenced by the white european colonial perspec­tive, which has consistently devalued and sought to both desexualize and hyper-sex­ualize black women. 
torres said in order to gain a better picture of how black sexuality is shaped, observ­ers should look at cultural expression in everyday life. he said that, although icon­ic figures such as beyoncé have shaped ideas of black sexuality, it is critical to look at the context in which these ideas surface and grow. 
“i am going to suggest to you that [everyday life] is the primary site we should all be paying attention to when thinking about the embodiment of difference, the embodiment of black­ness, the embodiment of gendered blackness,” he said. “… there has to be a so­cially and culturally viable way of understanding black sexuality and black female sexuality that helps us put beyoncé in a political, social and cultural landscape.” 
torres referenced the works of prominent black feminists such as andrea elizabeth shaw and patricia hill collins. torres said shaw and collins provide critical insights on not only race, but also on how race, gender and body politics function in modern society. 
“in contemporary times, hyper-sexuality is much more multifaceted,” he said. 
torres said dominant indexes exist that shape people’s receptions of black women in contemporary culture, including the invis­ibility/bitch index and the desexualized/hyper-sexual­ized index. the first refers to whether a black woman is perceived as threatening or non-threatening, while the desexualized/hyper­sexualized index refers to how people perceive black female sexuality depend­ing on body type and social presentation. 
torres said these indexes have shaped black women’s experiences and how they decide to portray them­selves in order to achieve acceptance. torres said the hyper-sexualized index is “much more multifaceted” and involves a complex re­lationship between black women and sexuality. 
“No matter how you sit in between these extremes, the way it’s set up in our society is that who you are and your experiences are out of your control,” he said. 
torres later opened the floor for discussion and debated how the represen­tation and perceptions of black women in different ar­eas of life, such as entertain­ment, politics and steM fields, could help overcome these extremes. 
“how do we change the frame through which these images — these extremes 
— are experienced?” torres said. “to what extent does a black woman have the right to objectify herself without being judged?” 
Contact Gabriela Malespin at gmalespi@nd.edu 
cancer.” 
Joe Boyle junior 
of junior rower Joe boyle, who died of pancreatic cancer last october. 
“My way of dealing with grief has been to give back, do something positive and be op­timistic,” boyle said, “it’s what my dad would have wanted, and i decided that i wanted to do something constructive in helping other people that have pancreatic cancer. it would be a good way to give back in his memory instead of just 
paid adVertiseMeNt 
cancer,” he said. 
according to the american cancer society, the five-year survival rate for stage i pancre­atic cancer is 14 percent and 3 percent for stage iii. 
“pancreatic cancer is very under-researched, very un­derfunded, so this event is to spread awareness and raise funds,” deVenecia said. “we’re giving the funds to the harper institute for cancer research, and we’re hoping to raise a lot of money to start a lot of research here on campus and also spread awareness on campus about this terrifying disease.” 



Finance professor recognized for trade research 
By J.P. GSCHWIND 
News writer 
the international economics and Finance society (ieFs) recently elect­ed Notre dame professor of finance Jeffrey bergstrand as president to honor his commitment and research work in international trade. 
bergstrand is also the as­sociate dean of graduate programs in the Mendoza college of business and has a concurrent appoint­ment in the department of economics. he has been at Notre dame since 1986. 
“ieFs is a society of mostly academic economists but also includes some in the government and the private sector who explore research and policy,” bergstrand said. 
bergstrand said he became involved with ieFs approxi­mately 20 years ago while he 

was an associate editor for the review of international economics. although ieFs does not publish research, it has a close relationship the review of international economics and the review of development economics, which both do. 
the ieFs is an associate member of the allied social science association, which hosts annual conferences for researchers from various or­ganizations to present their work and collaborate. the ieFs has three leadership positions: president, execu­tive secretary and treasurer. bergstrand said his role as president will involve coor­dinating annual meetings on a national level and orga­nizing more regional events. 
bergstrand said that re­search associated with the ieFs spans a range of subfields and topics from international trade and macroeconomics, to finan­cial and investment trends. 
“i’ve been studying international trade flows and publishing in there for over 30 years,” bergstrand said. 
bergstrand said that his appointment as president was a way to recognize his contributions in the field, particularly his work on the gravity equation. 
“there is a statistical tool generally referred to as the gravity equation in interna­tional trade, and it borrowed the name from Newton’s law because the trade flows between countries can be very well explained by the economic sizes of the coun­tries as well as the distance between them,” bergstrand said. 
according to bergstrand, the gravity equation first came into use during the 1960s to explain trade flows, but it initially lacked rigorous statistical underpinnings. 
“i worked on it in the 1970s with my dissertation and published several papers based on it that helped pro­vide an economic rationale for this relationship be­tween trade flows between countries, their economic size and similarity, and the distance,” bergstrand said. 
bergstrand said his work with the gravity equation has allowed economists and researchers to study all kinds of trade impediments or fac­tors that help trade. he said free trade agreements and tariff rates asre traditional examples, but  even politi­cal scientists have used the theory to examine the rela­tionship between conflicts, political systems and trade. bergstrand said he also stud­ies foreign direct investment and portfolio investment flows through the prism of the gravity equation. 
bergstrand said these top­ics are crucial for coming up with ways to solve econom­ics problems such as how to raise standards of living. 
“it’s very helpful to under­stand the impact of trade and investment policies on trade flows,” bergstrand said. 
Contact J.P. Gschwind at jgschwind@nd.edu 


Poetry 
coNtiNued FroM page 1 
kovach played a recording of sister Madeleva reading her own poetry, which was a big weekly event on campus when she was president. she would read her poetry for the students.” 
this year, the reading featured poetry taken from past issues of the saint Mary’s art and literary journal chimes and poetry writ­ten by current students, prezek said. 
college archivist John kovach said 2015 is the 123rd year of publication for chimes, which also used to function as a stu­dent newspaper. 
“From 1892 to 1926, chimes contained short stories [and] po­ems and also served as a campus newspaper. even now, if we need to find campus news from that time, i look back to chimes first.” 

kovach said chimes was stu­dent-driven and often published from september to July. he said saint Mary’s has every issue of chimes and all other campus literary periodicals since the date of initial publication in the archives. 
senior catherine sullivan said the poetry reading began with a poem by sister Madeleva. 
“it was nice that we started with a poem by sister Madeleva because her work is such a valued tradition here at saint Mary’s,” sullivan said. 
sullivan said she and the other students who participated in the reading wrote their poems spe­cifically for the event. students were asked to write about their experiences as saint Mary’s women, and sullivan said she enjoyed hearing experiences of past students juxtaposed with her own. 
“hearing [poetry] from girls who are grown up now but were our age once makes the future not so scary,” sullivan said. 
aaron Moe, a professor of english at saint Mary’s, said he was asked to read a poem writ­ten by a 1897 graduate of saint Mary’s. 
“so often with literature in grammatical time, language is just one word after another,” Moe said. “hearing current voices and past voices together gave language a whole new dimension.” 
Junior Jennifer Vosters said she found sharing her poetry in this unique context a positive experience. 
“this [poetry reading] was such a special opportunity to showcase the work of students both past and present,” Vosters said. 
Contact Olivia Jackson at ojacks01@saintmarys.edu 


paid adVertiseMeNt 




business 
coNtiNued FroM page 1 
in equity derivative sales at credit suisse, and laura hollis, an associate profes­sional specialist in Mendoza. other scheduled conference events include a panel dis­cussion and speed-network­ing session. 
“For the conference, the uwib board decided we wanted to highlight indi­viduals with non-traditional career paths as well as give them a broad spectrum of ex­periences,” spiegel said. 
although the conference traditionally hosts a faculty keynote speaker and an out­side speaker, spiegel said the two women will provide dif­ferent perspectives on poten­tial career paths. 
Staff 
coNtiNued FroM page 1 
since her freshman year and served as associate saint Mary’s editor in the fall of 2014. 
hynds, a native of Mclean, Virginia living in pangborn hall, will take over as News editor for the upcom­ing year. a member of the observer staff since the fall of 2013, she has covered 2014 Mental health awareness week, 2015 student govern­ment elections and student senate, and she currently serves as an associate News editor. hynds majors in po­litical science with a minor in business economics. 
klonsinski, the new sports editor, resides in knott hall and is a native of belgrade, Montana. a soph­omore, he is a beat writer for the men’s basketball team and has also covered irish men’s soccer, women’s 
“the uwib conference will allow undergraduate women to network and build relationships with successful businesswomen while learn­ing about their unique expe­riences,” bartlett said. 
this year, bartlett said conference attendees will include the Notre dame career center and 13 compa­nies: kpMg, ernst & young, pricewaterhousecoopers (pwc), deloitte, grant thornton, bp, JpMorgan chase, bank of america, at&t, general Mills, cardinal health, Nielsen and general electric. 
spiegel said conference attendance last year ex­ceeded 120 undergraduate women and included 10 dif­ferent companies as well as two keynote speakers. 
tennis, rowing, fencing and women’s swimming. he is majoring in history and mi­noring in business econom­ics, and he plans to add a minor in Journalism, ethics and democracy in the fall of 2015. 
llorens, born and raised in los angeles and a current resident of Zahm house, will assume the role of photo editor. a sophomore pursuing a double-major in finance and mathemat­ics, next year will mark his third year on staff at the observer. in the past, llorens has covered lec­tures, sporting events and other campus events. 
Mcauliffe, a native of cincinnati, ohio, will be the new scene editor. a resident of pasquerilla east hall, she has been a staff member at the observer for two years. she is a market­ing major with a Journalism, ethics and democracy minor. 
“each year, we have ex­panded in student attendance and company participation, and we hope to continue the trend this year,” she said. 
this year’s conference will host the largest number of companies and undergradu­ate attendees since the con­ference began seven years ago, spiegel said. 
“the undergraduate wom­en attendees will gain in­valuable connections with female professionals across a variety of industries that will help these students discover their passions,” she said. 
the conference will in­clude meals and giveaways and cost $5, according to the event’s Facebook page. 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 
rice, who is originally from lake Forest, illinois, will assume the role of graphics editor. a junior majoring in visual commu­nications, rice joined the observer in the spring se­mester of 2014 as a graphic designer. rice resides in howard hall and has also worked for the dome and the snite Museum of art. 
ricketts will join the board as Viewpoint editor. she began her work with the observer as a news writer for saint Mary’s four years ago and then became a member of the Viewpoint staff. a resident of clarkston, Michigan, she is a member of the Notre dame and saint Mary’s dual degree in engineering pro­gram. she will complete her transfer to Notre dame in the fall of 2015 to finish her 
b.s. in computer science. this spring, she will gradu­ate from saint Mary’s with a 
b.a. in english writing. 

two die in university of south carolina shooting 
The Associated Press 

coluMbia, s.c. — two people died thursday in an apparent murder-suicide inside a building on the university of south carolina’s campus in busy downtown columbia. 
the shooting happened about 1 p.m. thursday as stu­dents were changing classes. even as police cars with si­rens blaring rushed to the new school of public health and the university sent out an alert that everyone should stay inside, people were walk­ing around the sprawling campus. 
state law enforcement division spokesman thom berry said the shooting was “very isolated” but he wouldn’t say who was involved, wheth­er it was a student, professor or someone else. 
one of columbia’s main streets was closed, causing massive traffic problems. security was increased at the statehouse about two blocks away. the university didn’t cancel classes, but planned a candlelight vigil and extend­ed counseling hours. 
by the time the sun set, the increased security was gone and roads were reopened. a number of officers remained at the public health building, many of them crime-scene technicians. 
berry refused to release the names of the dead or their re­lationship. he also wouldn’t specify where the shooting took place beyond a room in the building, not saying if it was an office or a classroom. 
university president harris pastides sent a letter that was texted to students and others, calling the day a great trag­edy, thanking the police for their fast response and send­ing his prayers to everyone affected. 
school officials told profes­sors not to penalize students who failed to show up for af­ternoon classes, even if they missed exams. 
student hayden dunn, a se­nior from Myrtle beach, said he was in the building about 1 p.m., getting in an elevator to change classes, when a police officer also got inside. dunn said the officer asked wheth­er anyone had heard gun­shots, but they hadn’t. dunn said he went to class, then an alarm sounded minutes later, and people rushed outside. another officer told him shots had been fired, he said. 
“otherwise, you wouldn’t have known anything hap­pened,” dunn said. 
workers and others fled the building after police told them to evacuate and they went inside other buildings wherever they could, said barbara reager, an adminis­trative assistant who works nearby. 
“they had no time to get their keys, to pick up their purses,” reager said by phone. 
the university texted alerts and also interrupted pro­gramming on its cable system to warn students and others to stay inside. 


Plunge 
coNtiNued FroM page 1 
“hope initiative works to build schools in Nepal and pro­vides them with an innovative education that focuses on en­trepreneurial thinking [and] 
“It takes a village, all of Badin and Dillon as our co-sponsor, to prepare all the details and make the event successful.” 
Sister Denise Lyon 
rector of Badin Hall 
creativity and helps lift chil­dren out of poverty by provid­ing them [with] the skills they need to work,” sullivan said. 
sullivan said the hope initiative’s commissioners have been instrumental in planning the polar bear plunge. 

Mary howard, sophomore and vice president of badin, said she participated in the event last year. 
“the anticipation of standing in the snow is the worst part,” howard said. “i am definitely doing it again this year. . . . the question is really just what out­fit i will plunge in.” 
Junior lindsay dougherty said she has been doing polar bear plunges since she was 13 years old. she said the plunge on campus is one of her favorite events. 
“Making yourself run into the water is the hardest part because the countdown feels so long, and you think you’re going to lose your nerve,” dougherty said. 
sullivan said every year, waves of people run scream­ing and laughing into the lake while wearing some kind of costume. 
“last year, my friend Meg and i went in on tutus and tights and tank tops [with] bathing suits underneath,” dougherty said. “on the walk home, the tutus froze and became rock hard.” 
sister denise lyon, rector of badin, said planning the event takes six weeks and involves ev­eryone in both co-sponsoring dorms. 
“it takes a village, all of badin and dillon as our co-sponsor, to prepare all the details and make the event successful,” lyon said. “we begin as soon as we return after winter break and start planning.” 
sullivan said the event’s ad­vertising included a polar bear plunge shirt, a “backpack ad­vertising” campaign, and a remake of freshman henry long’s “chandelier” dance for a polar bear plunge promo video. 
“it is a lot of work to pull off an event this size and temperature,” sullivan said. “however, it is definitely worth it to hear everyone screaming in the water.” 
Contact Selena Ponio at  sponio@nd.edu 


inSidE Column 

what i can’t have 
Miko Malabute 
scene writer 

every two weeks, i deposit a small amount of my paycheck into my draftkings or Fanduel account to launch myself into a consistent cycle of futility. in what feels like a horribly repetitive bi­weekly dream, i choose a sport that i con­vince myself i know, incorrectly predict a few athletes i am sure will perform well on that given night and stare at the meter on my phone indicating how hopeless it is for me to win any money. any aspirations at a get-rich-quick scheme evaporate with the color-changing pixels on my phone. 
unlucky? lack of sports knowledge? poor choice in what to do with my five dollars? perhaps. however, in what may be an early dark-horse “blessing in dis­guise” candidate for 2015, i think that this bi-weekly “investment” is beneficial to me and my bank account. and it is because i, like anyone else, am always wanting what i can’t have. 
granted, i’ve been sold a dream. these two daily fantasy sports sites sold me a dream, teasing my ego as a man, impressionable college student and ca­sual sports spectator. and i bought that dream. yet i hold that my financial status has benefited from this, and it is because of this that i know i am not going to win the big prize. 
i may improbably one day win a a few dollars here or there, but realistically, i know that i am more likely to walk on to Mike brey’s basketball team than win any kind of “jackpot” or “grand prize” money. i know that i will more than likely end up losing my small-dollar deposits and so to plan around that, i deposit a larger portion into my savings account. because i want to win — even though i am counting on the fact that i am go­ing to lose — i force myself to save and inevitably win in a different sense (but to those of you arguing that i could simply have just started saving without dabbling in daily fantasy sports: that conclusion makes too much sense and is therefore invalid). 
i want the easy life. i want the freedom and ability to go out every weekend with my friends. i want to sit on the couch on weeknights and watch college and pro hoops (yes, to watch my drafted fantasy team squander my five dollars away into cyber dust). but i don’t have the ability to enjoy all these things right now. i, like the rest of my peers, have responsibilities and priorities. and it is this kind of internal conflict that helps me in the end. this conflict forces me to balance my wants and needs, my desires and responsibili­ties. and who knows, perhaps one day it will lead me to these goals, these desires. and, of course, i need to work hard for them, but i need to want what i can’t have as well. 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Reagan’s ‘liberal’ legacy 

Gary Caruso 
capitol comments 

today marks the 104th birthday of former president ronald reagan — the first authentically ideological conservative elected to the white house since world war ii. republican politicians hold reagan as their gold standard for all things anti: anti-gov­ernment, anti-taxes, anti-unions, anti-regulation, anti-minimum wage and ironically, anti-gold standard. their mythical revisionist history that describes reagan could fill the sequel to the grimm Fairy tales children’s book. in short, much of what they wish reagan had been is simply untrue. 
utilizing metaphors, illustrating poignant examples and link­ing worthy attributes to a candidate are hallmarks of a successful campaign. some gop candidates showcase the feel-good reagan era of standing tall patriotism that contrasted with the malaise of predecessor, Jimmy carter. similarly, democratic candidates have demonstrated how they would mirror the economic success of bill clinton’s second term, but without idolizing or embellishing clinton beyond fact or truth. why should it matter that political discourse today still includes reagan who has been dead for more than a decade and out of office 26 years, which is longer than nearly any student on campus has been alive? 
rhetorically, republicans — most recently gop wisconsin governor scott walker who himself eyes a 2016 presidential run 
— attempt to bestow politically pleasing principles that they at­tribute to reagan upon themselves. unfortunately, most of the bridges they attempt to link their political stands with reagan characteristics are either out of date or were never reagan’s in the way that they describe. they rely on the political expediency of recycled junk to eventually take on a luster when incorporated into mythology. 
once a card-carrying democrat and aFl-cio affiliated union president at the screen actors guild who served six terms as presi­dent, reagan refuted progressive populist thinking to change political parties and join the gop. walker relies on reagan’s anti-union conversion and dismantling of the air traffic controller’s union during his first year in office as traits walker shares with the former president in his battles against wisconsin public sec­tor unions. however, neither walker nor others who place reagan on a rhetorical pedestal ever acknowledge how individualistically reagan acted, thus not always perfectly aligning with today’s far right movement. 
For example, reagan’s cold war mentality against the ussr trumped any anti-union sentiment he may have held. the polish union, solidarity, formed in soviet-occupied poland as an inde­pendent trade union — the first free union ever within the ussr’s sphere of influence. yet, unlike american unions, solidarity political programs were farther to the left than any comparable american-based unions. solidarity’s economic platform advocat­ed worker-owned businesses in which workers decided holidays 
EditoriAl CArtoon 
as well as the social control of the food supply so as to ensure that everyone was fed. in a radio message attacking the polish govern­ment, reagan condemned the outlawing of solidarity saying it was “clear they never had any intention of restoring one of the most elemental human rights — the right to belong to a free trade union.” 
gop operatives not only still cling to the mythical portrayals of reagan being anti-union, but also ignore his massive government expansion of the military to outspend the ussr into bankruptcy. Most notably, though, reagan’s strong military personae pales with his “cut and run” military withdrawal from beirut in 1986 after bombings killed americans. the public becomes fatigued during campaign season when political advertising saturates our waking moments with this “benghazi-like” proclamation. yet, reagan ran. 
Finally, the notion that reagan was a tax cutter who worshiped at the altar of lowest possible taxes is ridiculous. reagan addressed budget deficits with 11 tax increases he signed into law during five of his eight years in office as noted in the congressional record: 
in 1982, the tax equity and Fiscal responsibility act raised taxes by $37.5 billion per year and the highway revenue act raised the gasoline tax by $3.3 billion. 
in 1983, reagan signed off on legislation to raise payroll taxes and tax social security benefits for some higher earners. 
in 1984, the deficit reduction act included increases in taxes on estates and distilled spirits and ended some business tax breaks, amounting $18 billion per year. 
in 1985, reagan signed legislation making permanent a 16-cent federal excise tax on a pack of cigarettes, worth about $2.4 billion a year. 
in 1986, the tax reform act lowered the top income tax bracket from 50 percent to 28 percent, but to pay for the reductions, the law closed a number of tax loopholes. 
in 1987, reagan signed the omnibus budget reconciliation act that extended the telephone excise tax and eliminated a real estate tax deduction loophole. 
overall, reagan’s budget had an achilles heel. it counted “out­lays,” uncontrollable items such as interest savings on reduced debt and “management savings” from agency reductions and reforms. these theoretical savings unfortunately never amassed. 
on this day commemorating reagan’s birthday, may he rest in peace along with those political myths and legends. but may the longstanding liberal policies he employed as president continue to shine daily. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

the obserVer | FridAy, FEbruAry 6, 2015 | NdsMcobserVer.coM 
No, Obama is not “giving away the store” 
Chris Newton 
stepping out of the cave 

i must confess, i do enjoy using a question for a title. it is inviting to the reader and often piques my own curiosity. imagine my disappointment, however, when i receive no answer after an investment of precious minutes. i feel betrayed by the author, having been duped into delving headlong into his or her article after being promised the bestowal of an illuminative argument upon me. 
this article is a response to dan sehlhorst’s Jan. 27 piece, “is obama giving away the store?” Not only do i remain uncertain as to where the author stands regarding his own title question, but i also feel that several factually incorrect statements and a number of contentious claims require addressing. Mr. sehlhorst stated that “a more nuanced approach is warranted” in analyzing the foreign policy of president obama. i readily concur. 
“evidently, al Qaeda is still relevant in that they are capable of toppling a u.s. ally in the Middle east,” the article states regarding the recent houthi-rebel seizure of sana’a, the yemeni capital. this is akin to claiming it is hezbollah that seized raqqa, syria, instead of the islamic state (is). the group in yemen that seized the presidential palace in sana’a, along with sizable portions of territory, is not al-Qaeda. indeed, the proper moniker for the yemen-based affil­iate of al-Qaeda is al-Qaeda in the arabian peninsula (aQap). 
this longer variant denotes the world’s most dan­gerous offshoot of the highly decentralized group, whereas the shorter title commonly refers to al-Qaeda central (aQc), the remains of the central command structure of the group based in the tribal areas of pakistan. Nomenclature aside, the houthi rebels cur­rently rampaging through yemen are Zaydi shia from the north of the country that have an undetermined level of support from iran, not radical salafist sunni based out of northwestern pakistan. 
“in china, the human rights record has improved drastically with greater trade with the west,” the arti­cle stated in a wildly optimistic assertion more expect­ed from an apologist for state capitalism than anyone concerned with human rights. if our point of compari­son is the genocide wrought by Mao during the great leap Forward, then yes, i concede that china has drastically improved its human rights record. if we instead use basic morality for reference, i am forced to find significant fault with the article’s claim. 
i am also highly skeptical of the causation implied by this statement — that china’s human rights im­provement, whatever we take that to mean, has oc­curred due to western engagement. the article applies the same logic to its approval of rapprochement with cuba, yet the track record of this theory is dubious. where are the reforms in saudi arabia, a longtime ally, or in israel, an even closer friend? while the for­mer still engages in public beheadings, the latter flips the u.s. obscene hand gestures while evicting tens of thousands of bedouin arabs from their Negev desert homes. 
“i was troubled to hear the president declare that american air strikes have stopped the advance of isis. this, undoubtedly, is no success,” the article said. allow me, then, to introduce a bit of doubt. the halt­ing of isis advances are not only quite the success, but also all american policy can hope to accomplish in the short-term. as i began arguing in september, isis has occupied a large area of land only tenuously held by the iraqi and syrian governments. after pick­ing the low-hanging fruit, the isis tide crashed against the american-backed redoubts of baghdad and irbil, damascus and the borders of turkey, Jordan and lebanon. Moving any further will draw additional countries into direct confrontation with isis and force those already engaged with it to intensify their efforts, overextending the is. even with the american­supported city of kobani, syria, having been held, isis is experiencing defeats it has not encountered since the sunni awakening in 2007-2008. 
in its analysis of iran, the article argues that, in re­gards to the iranian nuclear program, “the suspected connections between iran and terrorist groups across the Middle east are raising more immediate con­cerns” and that “there is little that the united states can do to force iran’s hand short of an invasion or direct action,” as it is unlikely to respond to sanctions. Mr. sehlhorst underestimates the consequences of iran’s acquisition of a nuclear weapons program, over­estimates the dangers of its patron-client relationships and outright dismisses the value of the u.s. and iran to each other. 
if iran acquires a nuclear weapon, the geopolitics of the Middle east would experience a highly destabi­lizing shock and the global non-proliferation regime would experience an unprecedented defeat. in combi­nation, this outcome alone would amount to president obama “giving away the store.” as i have previously written, iran does indeed back the likes of hezbollah, bashir al-assad and the houthis. yet as the u.s. wades into conflict with is, it is these connections that make iran invaluable to american policy in the region. we need iran to rein in hezbollah, engage with assad and assist in holding an increasingly fragile yemeni state together. iran needs the united states to assist with is and to orchestrate the lifting of sanctions, which have devastated the iranian economy and brought the aya­tollahs to the negotiating table. 
unequivocally, obama has not “given away the store” in his foreign policy. when nuance is indeed utilized, it demonstrates numerous successes, a few failures and a number of situations in which it is sim­ply too early to pass judgment. 
Chris Newton is a senior formerly of Knott Hall. He is a political science major and international devel­opment studies minor. He can be reached at cnewton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
lEttEr to tHE Editor 

Make this lent count 
traditionally, lent is a time of preparation for christians, in imitation of the 40 days christ spent fasting in the desert. but whether you’re catholic, protestant, Muslim, buddhist, atheist or none of the above, you should be giving something up for lent this year. it’s a good character builder and a practice in humility, a really underappreciated virtue around here. 
lent is characterized as a liturgical season that emphasizes the necessity of prayer, fasting and almsgiving. For many, it serves as a sobering re­minder of their mortality and fragility and for others, a personal challenge of self-denial. i’m sure we’ve all made good lenten promises before, giving up fro-yo, Netflix, or — if you have the mindset of a third-grader like i do — homework. i’m sure we’ve all also tried doing something new instead of giving something up: being nicer to our siblings, praying more or exercising more (you know ... the things we all probably should do anyway). even in doing those, however, we’re still giving something up, whether its the time we would have spent doing other things or the pride that would have made us act otherwise. 
lent is very practical.  by giving up even something small, our inconveniences bring our attention to the sheer abundance we live in and those who go without (at least, in theory). unfortunately, this isn’t always the case and our inconveniences bring cynicism and complaints. i’ve got a few tips that i have picked up over the years to help make this lent the most productive one yet. i’m by no means a lenten expert; these are just what have worked well for me in the past. 
1.  
Make it something quantifiable. something like “be nicer” or “pray more” is great in senti­ment, but won’t get you very far in practice. giving out three compliments per day or praying 10 minutes after you wake up and 10 minutes be­fore you go to bed will get you much further. 

2.  
don’t complain. i know it sucks not to have your morning coffee (believe me — i’ve grown dependent on the stuff), but complaining in this case helps nobody. it just annoys your friends and makes you more unhappy, ruining the spirit of the season. 

3. 
don’t bring it up. unless the topic gets brought up explicitly, try to avoid bringing up your sacrifice at all. it just becomes a fuel for your ego, and you’re not really giving up anything if that’s the case. (this is probably the hardest one for me.) 


4.  
don’t give up. even if you slip up, get right back to it. Missed your daily rosary yesterday? Just continue on the next day. don’t even feel bad about it. well, maybe a little bad. but we’ve all been there. 

5.  
always keep the “why” in mind. whether it is a religious motivation or not, there has to be a reason you’re purposefully abstaining from some­thing. bringing yourself closer in spirit to those who are less fortunate or christ (who is especially close to the less fortunate) is always a righteous thing to do. 

6.  
(optional) if it’s something you know you’re going to screw up, make some sort of reparation. i once knew a friend who wrote a tick on her hand every time she swore during the day and would say a prayer for each of the ticks at the end of the day. Not surprisingly, the ticks eventually disap­peared. but don’t abuse it. 


lent is a time of personal and spiritual growth. let’s make it count this time around. 
Brad Stalcup 
senior Fisher hall Feb. 4 



By MARC DRAKE 
scene writer 

there is no denying that there has been a boom in craft products in the past several years. Viewed by some as a revolutionary reconsideration of the quality of our food and by others as a clever marketing strategy to exploit those who spend extra money for specially labeled products, craft products can be found on menus all throughout the country. Most notably, this boom has affect­ed the brewing industry, with an explosion in demand for high-quality and local beers. increasingly, however, this artisanal spirit is being applied to other culinary realms. 
For most people, chocolate is a cursory in­dulgence. saved as a special treat or used to modify another dish, little thought is given to the actual quality or the processes that go into chocolate making. considered a mar­ket dominated by giants such as hershey’s and cadbury, one south bend resident is slowly taking steps to bring mindfulness back to the process of chocolate-making. hans westerink and his company, Violet sky, have quickly made a splash among those who are pushing for greater quality in what they eat and drink. 
westerink’s passion for chocolate-mak­ing goes hand-in-hand with his love of qual­ity beer. 
“For me beer came first, but at this point, it’s kind of a saturated market,” he said. “i knew i wanted to do something with food, and there was definitely no one else do­ing this. i used to make handmade truffles for christmas, five or six years ago. then at some christmas party some lady told me, ‘oh, you should sell these.’ so about three 
MARC DRAKE | The Observer 

years ago, i began selling them at the [south bend] Farmer’s Market.” 
the fascination with truffles, however, soon became a wider interest in the art of chocolate-making: 
“i didn’t make the chocolate myself, i was just making truffles and selling them,” westerink said. “and then, i just stumbled upon this place that sold beans and had a whole description on how to make choco­late, which i didn’t realize was even pos­sible for me. i was actually looking up cacao beans for home brewing to make a choco­late beer, and this website had 20-25 origins of cacao beans at a time.” 
over the course of the year, this hobby grew into a full-fledged business as more and more individuals were able to taste the chocolate and learn about his process. 
as westerink walked me through the chocolate-making process, i realized how little i actually knew about chocolate or where it comes from. in between descrip­tions of roasting and “cocoa nibs,” one thing in particular stuck out to me: the location of the beans matter. despite my rudimentary knowledge of coffee, i knew that one of the important consideration for coffee lovers is the origin of the beans, and this is a princi­ple that also translates to cacao beans. after tasting samples of the different chocolates, i was shocked to learn that the only differ­ence between the bars was the origin of the beans and that something so small can make a large difference in the overall taste. 
“all four chocolates that i have and that i make are just cacao beans and sugar, no ex­tra ingredients,” westerink said. “the roast levels are different, but you could just eat the raw beans, and they would taste drastically different. ... it’s the genetics as well as the soil, the altitude and the climate.” 
with bars named after the country of ori­gin of the beans, tasters know exactly where their chocolate is coming from. upon sam­pling the four bars that Violet sky currently offers, i was shocked at the differences be­tween the fruity “Madagascar” chocolate versus the very bitter “Venezuela,” differ­ences that arose solely from geographical diversity in the beans. 
westerink not only varies the locations of the beans that he uses, but also the concen­tration of the cacao beans that goes into his chocolate. 
“chocolate in the united states has to have 10 percent beans to be milk chocolate,” westerink said. “dark chocolate in the u.s. only has to have 15 percent cacao beans to legally be dark chocolate, which is pretty low, and i’m using 77 percent. in europe, i think chocolate has to be over 30 percent ca­cao beans to be considered dark chocolate … here they use tons of cocoa butter and lots of sugar. it comes from the bean, but it doesn’t taste like much, and is kind of just crummy filler.” 
westerink’s devotion to the science of chocolate-making is palpable. he showed me the difference between propane and electric in chocolate-making, precise temperature ranges and large machines performing a dizzying variety of tasks. westerink carefully shows me all his equipment, and the process behind choc­olate-making slowly starts to make sense. however, as westerink began to show me the molds he used for the bars, the art be­hind what he does slowly began to shine through. 

“you don’t want the science to get in the way of the creative aspects,” westerink said. “a lot of it for me is that there’s a lot of science to it, but there’s not a lot of science to base it off of. so it’s kind of trial and error too, and i think that’s where a lot of the creativity comes in, seeing what i like more.” 
acknowledging the balance between the two enriches the experience of tasting the chocolate, according too westerink. as we joke about the lingo that surrounds choco­late and beer tasting, the reality of chocolate as an artistic medium starts to make sense to me. 
with the new year in full force, westerink and Violet sky have gotten off to a strong start. 
“i want to do as much wholesale as i can, because it’s definitely a much lower price for me,” he said. “however, i’m definitely going to be selling to the lasalle grille. i want to sell as far as i can, and right now i can sell anywhere in indiana. i want to see how much i can make, especially selling at the [south bend] Farmer’s Market. purple porch, oh Mamma’s, those are places that are both interested in having my chocolate, and those are the kinds of places that i want to be in. oh Mamma’s makes their own cheese, and the people who come in there are the people who are interested in hand­made, local stuff.” 
Violet sky doesn’t seem to display any signs of slowing down, and with Valentine’s day right around the corner, westerink al­most certainly has something special in the works. 
Contact Marc Drake at                    mdrake@nd.edu 
the obserVer | FridAy, FEbruAry 6, 2015 | NdsMcobserVer.coM 

By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene writer 

screen stars on a theatre stage on film. 
this is what i was treated to at the debartolo center for the performing arts on wednesday at the National theatre live recording of the 2014 broadway pro­duction of “of Mice and Men.” 
the play marks National theatre live’s first venture into broadway after success with airing british theatre productions on screen — and a better choice could not have presented itself for the opportunity. 
James Franco (“127 hours,” “the interview,” a bunch of other things) plays proactive, fiery and compassion­ate george Milton, while chris o’dowd (“bridesmaids,” “st. Vincent”) plays cum­bersome, innocent and dependent lennie small. 
leighton Meester (“gossip girl”) plays curly’s “tart” wife. desperate for any con­versation or connection, but presenting trouble any time she is around because the jealous, vindictive, “handy” curly doesn’t want any competition, Meester stirred empathy in a character that can 
Onyinye Naomi Igboanugo 
scene writer 

if you’re an avid reader of the scene section of the observer, you might have noticed this curious new column — the stylin’ irish. slightly similar to Fashion by Felicia, this column is dedicated to all things fashion from trends and style on campus to style advice to fashion show reviews and features of your favorite style icons. i am onyinye Naomi igboanugo, a senior accounting major with restless fingers. when i’m not crunching num­bers and learning about sec regulations, i love honing my passion for the cre­ative. in addition to running a personal style blog — the Vain sport — i also act as Notre dame’s head style guru for collegeFashionista.com. when i discov­ered that the observer was one fashion columnist short, i jumped at the chance to fill that opening. i will be writing this bi-weekly column on Fridays, so be on the lookout for great advice on style and fashion deals. 
be a pretty flat read. it was almost as if she was playing a retro “Queen b” stuck in the west, when she longed for New york and to be “in pictures.” 
directed by anna shapiro, the play did not lack star power. broadway plays do not normally draw crowds via household names or playbills featuring attractive a-list actors — however, shapiro is trying out this tactic so frequently used in film. 
she casted the same way in her more re­cent production, “this is our youth,” star­ring Michael cera (“Juno,” “superbad”) and tavi gevinson (“rookie” author and “Nylon” Magazine’s “it girl”). 
with a cast of stars used to cameras, the show lent itself to a recording. however, a filmed version of a play is like a three-ringed circus with curtains over two rings at all times. the camera decides what is important on stage, not you. an inher­ent part of broadway is the stage setting enveloping your eyes with no interrup­tions or instructions. the filmed version, although allowing for up-close shots of emotions that would be missed in the nosebleeds, limits your visibility and in­terpretation. it is like bowling with the 
Valentine’s day: three outfits for three occasions 
i’m sure we all share the same senti­ments about Valentine’s day falling on a saturday. whether you are having a single ladies’ night/bros’ night (wait, do guys do that?), spending the day with your family or maybe doing something romantic with someone special, a great outfit can really set the tone for the day or night. here are three outfit ideas for three possible events you might be attending next weekend. 
dinner date 

while cliché, dinner dates on Valentine’s day are certainly not over­rated. i mean, anything involving food simply can’t be overrated. as expected, a red dress would be perfect for this occa­sion. depending on how fancy your ven­ue is, your options range from a low-back midi dress to a white blouse paired with a red high-waisted mini skirt. personally, i’m a rebel when it comes to fashion. and if you’re like me, you can go against the bumpers raised — a nice guide that pro­vides a less fulfilling outcome. 
the film works in an intermission fea­ture that allowed the audience to hear shapiro, Franco and o’dowd voice their opinions of John steinbeck’s 1937 novel­la. they discuss the themes of the futile american dream and loneliness. 
the production emphasizes the lone­liness ranchmen feel as they move from job to job with no one stable in their lives. lennie frequently pesters george to de­scribe why they are different from those men. 
“guys like us, that work on ranches, are the loneliest guys in the world. with us it ain’t like that. we got a future. we got somebody to talk to that gives a damn about us,” george explains to lennie. 
“because … because i got you to look af­ter me, and you got me to look after you,” o’dowd chimes in, delighted grin on his face as he is about to break into lennie’s signature laugh-and-clap sequence. 
their relationship stuck out to shapiro as similar to her own relationship with her children. 
“you look at these guys and see this 
norm by spotting a velvet dress. Finish your look off with red lipstick and keep your accessories simple, tasteful and classy. 
More dapper is always better for men. there are very few things sexier than a man in a nice suit. while a blazer is an essential piece, you can switch be­tween matching pants and jeans depend­ing on how formal your venue is. 
Girls’ night out/in 
calling all my single ladies. don’t have plans for Valentine’s day? call up (or in the case of our generation, text) your girlfriends and plan a night out/night in with lots of wine, gossip and danc­ing. alternatively, you can hit the bars and clubs to mingle with other single people. Jumpsuits are fun, flattering and flirty. they also allow a wide range of motion, making them perfect for a great night out. 
boys, if you’re hitting the night spots, you should dress to impress. this means, button-down shirts, jackets, jeans/chi­nos and loafers. 

weird match of competency and incom­petency,” she said in the intermission feature. “and then i thought, that is what i am — a capable person in charge of a few incapable people.” 
of course, george does wonder what his life would be like without lennie “making messes and causing trouble.” 
“if i was alone, i could live so easy,” he says as they lay by the river — i couldn’t help but flashback to Franco in “127 hours” in my head and laugh about the irony of this statement. 
to counter this statement, lennie of­fers to leave for the mountains, at which george laughs and does not even consider the prospect. 
the love between the two will remind you of the love you felt for this novel in 10th grade english and the love you will find for the story told in a new medium. 
“of Mice and Men” will play at debartolo performing arts center at 3 p.m. on saturday. tickets are $16 for students. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at                         emcaulif@nd.edu 
movie night 
while movie night is usually casual, you can still look stylish without compromis­ing comfort. girls, trade in your plain top for a sleeveless chiffon blouse and pair it with a pair of ripped boyfriend jeans. throw on a leather jacket and a pair of booties, and you’re good to go. if you want something a little fancier, try wearing a plain red dress with a statement necklace, a leather jacket and booties. 
a nice button-down shirt and a pair of jeans will just work fine for boys. 
ladies, you can find more out­fit ideas for Valentine’s day on my collegeFashionista. 
then again, maybe you are just getting some personal time with Netflix or hulu. in that case, your pajamas will work just fine. 
keep stylin’ irish! 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
     Contact Onyinye Naomi Igboanugo at oigboanu@nd.edu 

ERIN RICE | The Observer 


the obserVer | FridAy, FEbruAry 6, 2015 | NdsMcobserVer.coM 
SPortS AutHority 

praise belichick, patriots’ defense 
Daniel O’Boyle 
sports writer 
Now that the red, white and blue confetti has settled on super bowl XliX, we can look back on the seattle seahawks’ last offensive play with a little more thought. 
at the time of the play, of course, the reaction was near-outrage. emmitt smith tweeted that seattle’s decision to pass was “the worst play call i've seen in the history of football.” deion sanders, brian dawkins and torry holt were among the many other names who expressed a similar senti­ment. Jon gruden said seattle was wrong to choose a quick slant play instead of “spider 2 y banana." donald trump’s explanation was that "it must have been president obama that called" the play. 
but was pete carroll wrong to call the now-infamous play when he had Marshawn lynch, the best power runner in the NFl, in the backfield? in some ways, yes he was. Malcolm butler picked off russell wilson’s pass, the patriots got the ball and won the game. clearly, something didn’t go right. otherwise it would have been ricardo lockette in a Minion hat chugging a beer during the victory parade, while tom brady would have been left with a mere three super bowl rings, two league MVp awards, millions of dol­lars and a supermodel wife. 
Just because the play didn’t work, though, doesn’t mean we should see it as a disastrous call from seattle’s coaching staff. bill belichick, butler and the patriots deserve plenty of credit for their work in forc­ing the interception, while the decision to pass the ball or run it was not as easy at it may appear. 
First, we need to dispel the myth that handing the ball to lynch for a one-yard touchdown was a sure thing. Marshawn lynch is one of the hardest players to tackle in the league, and it seems like he was made for these short-yardage situations, but he was 1-for-5 this year in converting touch­downs from the one-yard line. when teams knew that they needed to stop “beast Mode” getting into the endzone, they usually could. and let’s not for­get, russell wilson is a top-10 quarterback who was having a brilliant game — he’d executed a short-yardage passing play for a touchdown when fight­ing the clock late in the first half, so there was no reason why he couldn’t do it again. the seahawks didn’t take the ball from a sure-thing scoring machine and give it to some scrub; one option was not clearly better than the other. 
then, there are the steps New england took that ulti­mately won them the game. First,  belichick made the de­cision not to call a timeout. after letting the giants score a touchdown quickly in super bowl XlVi so brady had time to get the ball back, it would make sense to think that belichick would again want to give brady some time. but instead, belichick trusted his defense and let the clock run down. the seahawks offense certain­ly didn’t seem to expect this, and took a whole 35 seconds to snap the ball. while their lack of awareness and timing would rival that of the halftime show’s left shark, their lack of speed was almost certainly at least partly due to belichick’s surprising tactics. 
the seahawks, with one timeout of their own, now had to make a choice: they had time to run the ball once and use their timeout if they didn’t get it in, or pass it, knowing the clock would stop with an incompletion. if they had cho­sen to run instead of pass, their options would have been in­credibly limited on third down: either run it again and let the clock expire, or pass it against a defense expecting just that. passing on second should have kept their options open. 
of course, it didn’t because butler picked off the pass, and the seahawks didn’t get an­other play. but that shouldn’t be held against carroll or the seahawks coaching staff. butler’s movement to win the ball was extraordinary, which he said was attributable to be­ing beaten by that exact play in practice. less noticeably, brandon browner, formerly of the legion of boom, jammed Jermaine kearse perfectly at the line. kearse was supposed to run a rub route and get in butler’s way, but browner left the rookie free to be where wilson would never expect him to be. 
in each part of the play, it was clear that the patriots knew exactly what to expect from the seahawks. carroll doesn’t deserve criticism, belichick deserves praise for yet another piece of proof that he’s the best coach in the league. if carroll’s decision looked foolish, it’s because belichick can make a fool out of anyone. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
PGA tour | FarMers iNsuraNce opeN 

 Woods withdraws from tournament with injury 
Associated Press 
saN diego — in an omi­nous start to his season, tiger woods walked off the course after 11 holes thursday at the Farmers insurance open be­cause of tightness in his lower back that he attributed to a fog delay. 
woods began reach­ing for his lower back mid­way through the round on the North course at torrey pines, and his grimace be­came more pronounced. billy horschel picked up the tee for woods on their 10th hole and took the ball out of the cup for him when woods made birdie. 
woods hit a safe shot to the middle of the par-3 third green. when it was his turn, he had caddie Joe lacava pick up his ball marker and he waited for horschel and rickie Fowler to finish before getting into a cart and driving to his car. 
in his last six tournaments since returning from back surgery a week before the Masters, woods has missed the cut three times, with­drawn twice and finished 69th in the british open, his lowest 72-hole finish in a major. 

he had said at his unoffi­cial hero world challenge in december and last week in the phoenix open, where he had a career-high 82, that he was at full strength. 
he blamed this on having to stand around in the cool pacific air during a fog delay. 
woods warmed up for his 
9:20 a.m. tee time and was near the 10th tee when play was suspended because fog rolled in. Fog delayed the start by an hour, and the next round of fog led to a 90-min­ute stoppage in play. 
"i was ready to go," woods said. "i had a good warmup session the first time around. then we stood out here and i got cold, and everything started deactivating again. and it's frustrating that i just can't stay activated. that's just kind of the way it is." 
asked if it was new pain from the back injury that forced him to withdraw at Firestone in august, woods said his "glutes are shutting off." 
"then they don't acti­vate and then, hence, it goes into my lower back," he said, sounding more like a physi­cal therapist than a 14-time major champion. "so i tried to activate my glutes as best i could in between, but they never stayed activated." 
woods was 2-over par through 11 holes and in a tie for 130th when he withdrew. 
he will fall to his worst world ranking since before he won his first pga tour event as a 20-year-old in 1996, and he most likely will not qualify for a world golf championship for only the second time in his career. woods is not expected to play again until the honda classic in three weeks. doral is the following week. he did not in­dicate earlier in the week that he would add tournaments to his schedule ahead of the Masters, which is april 9-12. 
nbA 

Paul George hopes to return to court 
Associated Press 
iNdiaNapolis — two-time all-star paul george said thursday he is hopeful of re­turning to play for the indiana pacers this season after suf­fering a gruesome leg injury, though he remains uncertain it will actually happen. 
george took larry bird's playful jabs for months and he said he was pleasantly sur­prised when the pacers' presi­dent of basketball operations suggested george should play this season if he could. 
"i always talk to larry about the situation. he always tells me how bad i look, being out there, so for him saying March, i was just playing off that," george said referring to a one-word tweet "March?!" he sent out after bird's com­ments on tuesday. 
"ideally, that's a great time where i want to be there. i'm obviously a long ways away from it because i've got so many steps that i've got to take," he said. "but that's when i want to be back." 


george had not taken ques­tions since late November when he was just doing some light shooting work. 
even then, it seemed un­fathomable that george could contemplate a return this sea­son after his right leg snapped in a collision with a basketball stanchion during the u.s. na­tional team's aug. 1 scrim­mage in las Vegas. george left the court on a stretcher and had surgery that night to re­pair the compound fracture. 
bird, coach Frank Vogel and george took turns answer­ing questions in mid-august about the long road back, but nobody ruled out the possibil­ity of a return this season and they still haven't. bird's com­ments raised the idea once again. 
the comments could have been intended to convince players, fans or perhaps po­tential trade partners that the pacers (18-32) remain all in this season. 
but bird usually doesn't resort to sending messages through the media, and on thursday, Vogel provided a different explanation. 
"i think he (bird) basically was just clarifying sort of the difference between paul's situation and i guess what chicago encountered with derrick rose where they just said he's out this year no mat­ter what," Vogel said. "we're not going saying that. we think he (george) is likely out this year, but i think larry was just stating that if he's able to play then we're going to open-minded to that." 
team doctors told the pacers it would take seven months for george's injured leg to heal completely, mak­ing a possible return in March plausible. 
Vogel said the latest update he's gotten is that the bone is almost completely healed. 
george's activity also has picked up. he's now partici­pating in some one-on-one drills and has increased his shooting tempo at practice, and george went even fur­ther thursday by saying he's able to do everything except 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


mEn’S tEnniS 

Irish prep for Ball State, Wisconsin 
the same day this season. 
By RYAN KLAUS 

sports writer despite having two oppo­nents, sachire insisted that 
coming off a home vic-the irish were not taking tory over Northwestern different approaches with last Friday, Notre dame wisconsin (1-3) and ball finishes off its five-match state (2-3). homestand against ball state “(we’re) taking the same and wisconsin on sunday. approach with both,” sachire 
the irish (3-1) were said. “both wisconsin and scheduled to play illinois ball state are good teams. on Monday, but the match both teams have had a histo­was postponed due to ry of Ncaa success over the weather. that match is now last few decades. we know scheduled for Feb. 28. they will be good, competi­
“certainly we were disap-tive matches this sunday.” pointed that we weren’t able one benefit to the two to play illinois on Monday, matches sunday is that it but there is a silver lining opens up more playing spots for every situation and hav-for the irish, sachire said. ing Monday off gave us a “it will give us the op-few extra days rest to get portunity to get other guys us fully recovered after the in our lineup and get a few Northwestern match,” irish more guys the opportunity we’re looking forward to the sachire, however, denied home team so sunday gives coach ryan sachire said. to play, which will be really opportunity.” that the impending road us that chance, but i don’t “it’s allowed us to have a good for them and the depth sunday will also be dif-contests will add any extra know that there’s any extra really full week of training of our team because i think ferent for the irish in that urgency to the matches this urgency because we’re very this week. we really have it’s probably unrealistic to it will be the first time weekend. comfortable going on the been able to take advantage think that over the course this season that they play “i don’t think there’s any road too.” of the time off, and i feel of the season we’ll stay to-unranked opponents. extra urgency before going Notre dame plays ball like we are a better team be-tally healthy,” sachire said. the two matches sunday on the road,” sachire said. state at 10 a.m. sunday and cause of the last four days of “For the guys that have been will be the last matches “i think you’re always ur-wisconsin at 6 p.m. the same practice.” starting, it gives them the Notre dame will play at gent to play your best tennis. day. both matches will be 
sunday will be unique for opportunity to potentially home before the Feb. 28 certainly, we want to take held at eck tennis pavilion. Notre dame in that it will play two matches in a day. makeup, as road contests advantage of every home be the first time the irish i think that you get better at Michigan and ohio state opportunity that we have. a Contact Ryan Klaus at will face two opponents on every match you play, so follow this weekend’s play. big key for us is to be a great rklaus1@nd.edu 

womEn’S tEnniS 

Nd to compete against pair of ranked opponents 
getting to play Michigan 
By BENJAMIN PADANILHAM 

sports writer again. and then the team at three, [sophomores] Mary 
No. 19 Notre dame will closs and Jane Fennelly, host No. 8 stanford on Friday hadn’t played since early fall, and No. 31 ohio state on so it was good for them to not sunday in a pair of matches only get to play together, but this weekend at eck tennis play well.” pavilion. regardless of what the 
the irish (2-1) are com-scoreboard might have in­ing off their first loss of dicated after a 5-2 loss, the season against No. 15 louderback said that the Michigan and now welcome team played well against two more ranked opponents Michigan and that he would in the cardinal (2-0) and the like to see them carry that buckeyes (3-0). effort forward to this week-
despite the loss saturday, end’s matches. irish coach Jay louderback “we were right there with said his players performed them early, and i really felt well and were able to learn a like we played well last week-lot about themselves in the end,” louderback said. “i felt matchup. like the intensity we had last 
“i thought we played re-week in singles and doubles ally well in the doubles,” was great. we’ve got to carry louderback said. “we felt like that over to this week.” probably going in, our No. having moved on from last 2 doubles team [freshman weekend’s match, the irish their top five are as good as do and not worry about or been right there with them, allison Miller and junior will now look ahead to their any other top five in the coun-overlook the two teams they so i think that’s a big thing. Julie Vrabel] might be our matches against stanford and try. the thing that’s great are set to play. and we won’t let them over-strength. they went [to the] ohio state, a pair of ranked for us is getting both those “we’ve got to go out there look ohio state because semifinals at [the Midwest teams that louderback con-teams here on our courts. … and not worry about who they’re good.” regional] playing No. 2 for siders to be two of the better stanford doesn’t play a lot of we are playing,” louderback Notre dame will square off us, and what do we do? we teams in the country. indoor tennis, and they’re said. “stanford has always against stanford on Friday win at one and three. “i think this might be the going to have to come here been one of the top teams at 5 p.m. and ohio state 
“our one team [junior best team that [ohio state] and play us indoors, which is in the country for 30 years. on sunday at 2 p.m. at eck Quinn gleason and sopho-has ever had since i’ve been good.” at times, they’ve been like tennis pavilion. more Monica robinson] had here,” louderback said. in order to come out of this [connecticut] and our wom­lost to that team in the re-“they’re very good. and then weekend with two victories, en in hoops; they’ve been re-Contact Benjamin gional finals, so they were stanford is No. 8, but they’re louderback said the irish ally really good. but in the Padanilham at really looking forward to actually better than that. must focus on what they can last six to eight years, we’ve bpadanil@nd.edu 


the obserVer | FridAy, FEbruAry 6, 2015 | NdsMcobserVer.coM 

nd SoFtbAll 

Irish look to further program’s success 
By MANNY DEJESUS 
sports writer 
after ending last season with a 1-0 loss to ucla in the Ncaa regionals in los angeles, Notre dame begins its 2015 cam­paign with a trip back to south­ern california for the so cal collegiate classic this weekend. 
the irish posted a 41-13 re­cord last season, reaching the 40-win plateau for the sixth straight season, and finished in the top 25 en route to setting program records in team on-base percentage (.419), batting average (.357), total hits (533) and doubles (107). 
this season, two senior cap­tains will lead the irish: second baseman Jenna simon and out­fielder emilee koerner. 
“we’re excited to get our season started,” simon said. “everyone has put in a lot of hard work this offseason in order to make this team suc­cessful, and we’re excited to show what we have to the rest of the country. we want to dominate in the acc this year, win a regional and continue to take Notre dame softball to dominance.” 
simon, who was named to the National Fastpitch coaches association (NFca) Mid­atlantic second team last sea­son, helped lead the irish to an appearance in the acc cham­pionship game in just their first season in the conference. simon hit for a .359 average along with 20 stolen bases and 39 runs scored last season. 
Notre dame starts its week­end off with a pair of games Friday. the irish will take on utah before playing No. 6 ucla in an Ncaa regional rematch. 
the irish have used the sea­son-ending loss to ucla as mo­tivation for this season, simon said. 
“ending a season is a horrible feeling any way it happens, and we have used that loss as fuel to motivate ourselves and our team to be better this year,” simon said. “we have worked really hard on the fundamen­tals of the game, which will help us continue to win late in the season. we have a very ex­perienced team, and we are confident in our ability to beat any team we play.” 
koerner said she is confi­dent in Notre dame’s chances to win the program’s first acc title. the two-time NFca all­american and california native set the single-season program record for doubles (28) last year and the record for most doubles in a career with 61. 
“every year we’ve played here the experience gets more and more special,” koerner said. 
“with that being said, this year does not feel different from any other year we’ve played. our goals are still the same, and that’s to bring Notre dame soft­ball to dominance and go some­where we’ve never been before. we have small goals within our season as well, such as hosting our own regional and dominat­ing the acc.” 
after playing ucla, Notre dame faces Northwestern state on saturday morning and cal state Fullerton later that evening. the irish wrap up the so cal collegiate classic on sunday with a second matchup against cal state Fullerton. 


this season, koerner and the irish have shifted their focus to their own game. 
“we have made it a point to focus much more on ourselves and not on our opponents this year,” koerner said. “we believe if we can make ourselves the best Notre dame softball team possible, there’s no one out there that can beat us.” 
the irish start their season Friday at 4 p.m against utah and 9 p.m. against ucla at easton stadium in los angeles. Notre dame continues play saturday at anderson Family Field in Fullerton, california, taking on Northwestern state at 2 p.m. and cal state Fullerton at 4:30 p.m. before wrapping up against cal state Fullerton at 1 
p.m. sunday. 
Contact Manny DeJesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 
womEn’S SwimminG 

Notre Dame to race Cleveland State at home 
regular season. Facing the 
By BENJAMIN PADANILHAM 

sports writer Vikings (4-7) provides the 
team with additional race 

Notre dame will dive into experience to make im­the pool saturday at rolfs provements moving for-aquatic center for the last ward, welsh said. time this season when it “it gives us one more hosts cleveland state. chance to race,” welsh said. 
the irish (6-9) are com-“racing is a skill, and the ing off two victories in more you practice your skill, what was a strong showing the better you get at it. and i for the team at the annual think that for several people, shamrock invitational. they the season has pretty much beat iowa 282.50-87.50 and been same event, same defeated incarnate word event, same event. when we 292-62 before wrapping up get to the acc meet, they’re the weekend with senior day going to swim three events; festivities. with this per-they might only be swim­formance just two weeks ming two at a regular meet. ahead of the upcoming acc so we have some events peo­championships, irish coach ple need racing experience tim welsh said he was quite in, and we all need a little pleased by what he saw from more preparation and a little his team. more polish on our skills. so 
“i was so excited for them i’m looking forward to that and pleased for them and this weekend, and i hope proud of them,” welsh said. that it shows up.” “i thought the team swam after last weekend’s per-very well over the week-formance, welsh said that position to do well. [but] you this weekend’s competi-it to this point and made it end. i hope they took away he hopes to see more of the know, always fingers crossed tion will also be the last time that far — it’s been an unbe­a lot of confidence, a lot of same spirit from his team because the pool never, ever the eight seniors on the team lievable journey.” trust and a lot of eagerness this weekend. if the irish owes you a fast swim. you take the pool at home for a the irish will take on to see how much faster they can continue to compete at a always have to be prepared, race. cleveland state on saturday can go at the conference high level, then the irish can and you always have to go “it actually feels real-at 12 p.m. at rolfs aquatic championships.” put themselves in a position get it. but we appear to be in ly weird,” senior bridget center. 
this weekend, the irish to succeed in the stretch run a very good place, and we’ll casey said. “it’s very bitter-take to the pool at home of their season, welsh said. be even more ready, we hope, sweet. My class, we’ve been Contact Benjamin against cleveland state for “we’re definitely poised,” when we get to georgia tech through so much together, Padanilham at the last dual meet of the welsh said. “and in a for the acc championships.” and the fact that we’ve made bpadanil@nd.edu 





paid adVertiseMeNt 
nd Hockey 
coNtiNued FroM page 16 

with eight conference games remaining, the irish are just two points behind providence for the all-important fourth slot in the conference stand­ings. the top four teams in the hockey east host a best­of-three quarterfinal series in the hockey east tournament and do not have to play in the tournament’s one-game first round. 
hinostroza tallied a trio of as­sists against New hampshire, and his recent offense has been integral to Notre dame’s recent turnaround on the power play unit. through Jan. 10, the irish power play unit ranked last in the country in goals scored. since that date, the irish have scored a power play goal in seven straight games, with hinostroza notching one goal and four assists in extra man advantage situations. 
irish coach Jeff Jackson said his team’s newfound offensive firepower is due to finding the right chemistry with the power play units. 
“the last [seven] games the power play has been a big posi­tive,” Jackson said. “i think those groups that we have now are pretty much set for the most part.” 
in addition to continued suc­cess on the power play, Jackson also said the irish will need to take care of the puck at the blue lines, something his squad has struggled with at times this year. 
“there are certain things that have haunted us consis­tently this season, and one of those things is the players’ will to make good plays with the puck and not turn it over at the blue lines,” Jackson said. 
Jackson think that this will be a difficult road test for the irish, describing alfond arena, the home of the black bears, as a “very tough building to play in.” 
“it’s a smaller venue, but the fans are right on top of you, and when you have that kind of crowd, you have to be prepared for the intimidation factor as a visiting team,” Jackson said. 
given the expected raucous­ness of the home crowd this weekend, Jackson said he views the two games as an opportu­nity for the young irish squad to mature. 
“My hope is that we’ll be able to grow this weekend because this is the toughest place that we’ll have played in since prob­ably Minnesota [on Nov. 7-9],” Jackson said. 
to prepare his team for the type of road environment he expects, Jackson said he has increased tempo during team practices this week. 
“we’ve been practicing at a higher pace and trying to cre­ate a little chaos during prac­tices because that’s the kind of atmosphere we’re going to face when we play there,” Jackson said. 
hinostroza said he feeds off energetic environments, as he enjoys “trying to shut the home crowd up.” 
“in stadiums like that, some­times it starts to feel like the game starts to move a little fast­er, but we just need to realize that if we play our own game, we’ll be good,” hinostroza said. 
Jackson also mentioned the game speed as a factor in this weekend’s matchups and said taking care of the puck is cru­cial in making sure the black bears’ team speed is kept in check. 
“they’re a quick team,” Jackson said of the black bears. “but their team speed and tran­sition game can be eliminated if we protect the puck and do a good job of handling it around the blue lines.” 
Notre dame will square off against Maine tonight and saturday at alfond arena in orono, Maine, with the puck dropping both nights at 7:05 p.m. 
Contact Benjamin Horvath at bhorvat1@nd.edu 
Cooks 
coNtiNued FroM page 16 

theFootballbrainiacs.com first reported sunday afternoon that cooks would be named the defen­sive backs coach at oklahoma. 
cooks spent five seasons on staff with the irish, most recently as the secondary coach this past season. 
in 2012 and 2013, cooks served as Notre dame’s co-defensive co­ordinator and cornerbacks coach. the irving, texas, native joined irish head coach brian kelly’s staff in 2010 as the outside linebackers coach and tutored the cornerbacks in 2011. 
cooks spent stints coaching at kansas state, western illinois, Minnesota and wisconsin prior to his time at Notre dame. 
cooks, who played safety at iowa, was drafted by the Minnesota Vikings in the fifth round of the 1998 NFl draft, and also played for the green bay packers, atlanta Falcons and Jacksonville Jaguars before re­tiring from the league in 2001. 



m bball 
coNtiNued FroM page 16 
Just under two weeks ago, blue devil freshman center Jahlil okafor, a leading candi­date to be this year’s first pick in the draft, tore up the small­er irish defense. okafor nearly finished with a double-double in the first half, recording 11 rebounds and nine points in the opening 20 minutes on his way to finishing with 23 points and 17 boards. 
“we just don’t want [okafor] to get 32 [points] and 22 [re­bounds],” brey said of guard­ing the chicago native this time around. “we have not been a team, a program that [double-teams]. we crowd off of who we can crowd off of, which is a little bit limited, the way they shoot the ball. 
“our game plan has got to be similar. we don’t want [duke] to light us up from the 3-point line, different bodies on okafor, crowding of the right guy at the right time, mixing in some zone and then, as i said 10 days ago, we’ve got to score that ball to escape there.” 
offense has been Notre dame’s strength all season. the irish rank in the top-10 nationally in both points per game (eighth, 80.8) and field-goal percentage (second, 52.1 percent), while also averaging 
40.4 percent from beyond the 3-point arc, good for 14th in the nation. 
“okafor has got to guard my guys,” brey said with a smirk on his face, flipping the tables after being asked another question about how the irish will adjust to okafor. “and if they’re playing man-to-man, he’s going to be on a lot of ball screens.” 
brey also said that for all okafor’s success inside, Notre dame found one way to at least slow him down: fresh­man forward bonzie colson. 
using his seven-foot wing­span, the 6-foot-5 colson hounded okafor for large chunks of the last game, de­spite giving up six inches and 44 pounds to his larger adversary. 
“his length and his gangli­ness and unorthodox way of kind of draping himself on a guy really helped us,” brey said of colson. “you get fooled playing against him — big­ger players get fooled play­ing against him. because of his length, he can bother a shot or even block a shot from behind.” 
this is Notre dame’s third trip to “the triangle,” the area home to North carolina, duke and North carolina state, a trio of schools that boast tra­ditionally tough home envi­ronments. so far the irish are 2-0 in the area, beating the tar heels, 71-70, on Jan. 5 and the wolfpack, 81-78, in overtime Jan. 25. a win over duke to go 3-0 in the triangle would be a powerful statement for the irish to make, brey said. 
“i’m looking at the sched­ule when it came out and i’m thinking, ‘has anyone had to go through and play all three [triangle] teams on the road since they did the old round-robin [regular-season format] 


w bball 
coNtiNued FroM page 16 
from the field for 14 total points. however, she found other ways to be effective, and tied allen with a team-high four assists. 
“we had a game where Jewell was a little bit off, and we still were able to score 75 points, and i think we need to see that more often, where Jewell’s not carrying us,” Mcgraw said. “[Jewell] wants to make every shot, like all good players do, and i think she was a little frus­trated because she missed a couple of easy ones.” 
the irish jumped out to a 13-4 lead in the first five minutes of the game, and at one point in the first half went up by a comfortable 30­16 margin before Virginia could get a rhythm going. 
Virginia narrowed the lead to five with 2:10 left in the first half, but a five-point run by the irish in the fi­nal two minutes of the first frame left them with a se­cure 41-31 lead at halftime. 
both teams would proceed to tighten up on defense in the second half, and the irish lead hovered in single digits early in the half before they started to run away with the game about halfway through the second frame. 
Notre dame pressured Virginia into reducing its perimeter opportunities, something the irish have rarely done this season. 
“i was really happy with the defense in the sec­ond half,” Mcgraw said. “i thought we had a lot more intensity and focus and re­ally guarded the 3-point line pretty well and guarded the inside pretty well. overall, just a much better effort in the second half.” 
however, Mcgraw said there is still room for im­provement on defense. 
“i don’t think we’re there yet [defensively],” Mcgraw said. “you saw the first half where they shot pretty well, almost 50 percent, and that was disappointing to me. i think the second half was much better, but i’d really like to play 40 minutes of re­ally good defense.” 
there is still plenty of work to be done on the offensive side of the ball as well, Mcgraw said, and she had high hopes that the irish could continue to minimize turnovers. 
“we need to still get better offensively,” Mcgraw said. “tonight we had 12 turn­overs, that’s pretty good. in that way, we’re getting a little bit better. …we need to add a lot more things offen­sively, put some new plays in, put some out-of-bounds when there were only eight teams in the acc?” brey said. “they’re already talking about us a lot down there on tobacco road because of who we’ve beaten, but that would add to it.” 

Notre dame will look to 
complete its season sweep of duke and the triangle at 
1 p.m. saturday at  cameron  
indoor  stadium in  durham,  
North carolina.  

Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 

plays in. i think we’re a team that has been relying on some things quite a bit, and people are going to try to take that away, so it’s a time for us to really shake things up.” 
after playing a strug­gling boston college (10-12, 0-4 acc) on sunday, Notre dame will have a bye week. still, Mcgraw emphasized a need for the irish to look at the next team up. 
“February is a long month,” Mcgraw said. “it’s a real grind. getting to the end of the season, you start looking ahead to March and wonder­ing where you’re going to be, and it’s really important es­pecially for a young team to keep that focus on one game at a time. …this is a time of upsets, this is when you’ve really got to be careful. hopefully, our veterans will make sure our underclass­men are ready.” 
Notre dame will visit the eagles on sunday at 1 p.m. at conte Forum in chestnut hill, Massachusetts. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6 @nd.edu 

paid adVertiseMeNt 




CroSSword | will shortZ 
Across 
1 Gremlins of the ’70s, e.g. 5 Logic problem 9 Neighbor of Lydia 14 ___ Capital (investment firm) 15 Q7 maker 
16 Like a national flag with a swordon it 
17 Rising star? 18 One blatantly disobeying traffic
laws 20 Pitcher Bedard 21 Tropical
aquarium plants 22 Like small potatoes? 24 Greven who wrote the 2008 best seller “How to Talk to Girls” 25 Holy higher-ups 

28 “All in the Family”exclamation 
32 Cell group 

33 Creep’s peep 
34 With 11-Down, bugging no end 
35 Aperture in some 
drills 

37 Used bikes 
38 It prompts tipping 
in a bar 

40 Accessory near a basin 
41 Relative of a man crush 
42 Calls from a 
27-Down 

43 Reluctant wearer of a cap 
46 “I’m not upset, really” 
52 Classic covered walk 
53 Composition of some orangespheres 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
FIRE A  T W  I L  L  L I  N E O F FIRE  
A  L  I  E N E  E  I  S  E  E N O W  
L  A N D S  A  T  S  A N R E M O  
A M Y  T  R  I  E  S  T  E  P  E R  
R  E  T  A R  T  S O  S W A N K  
M D  I  V  FIRE B O M B  H  I  T  S  
A M E B A E  E A  T  E R S  
R U R  C H E  
P S A  L M S  S K Y  L  A B  
R A N G  S  P  I  T FIRE  I  M A C  
A R  I  E  S  O R  E  O N R Y  E  
P A P  A M U S  E R S  A  L  A  
I  M P  E  T  U S  P O M A D E  S  
D U E D A T  E  E  T A  L  I  A  E  
FIRE S  T O N E  S  R  I  N G O F FIRE  

54 Word with letters? 55 They take people out 56 Play to ___ 57 Commend 58 Flavian dynasty ruler 59 The opposition 60 Heat meas. 
Down 
1 ___ J. Mikva, White House counsel under Clinton 
2 Much-tattooed people 3 What a mayor tries to instill 4 Carver of Hells Canyon 5 Die 6 It’ll help you get a bite 7 Flatter to a fault 8 Flexibility 9 Hull of the Constitution 10 Propulsion gear 11 See 34-Across 12 Flash d’inspiration 13 Isn’t fine 19 Shakespearean title character 23 First name in ’50s TV 26 Into-the-stands homer, say 27 Mohair source 

HiGHly PunlikEly | christopher brucker 

domE nutS | aleXaNdria wellMaN 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  
22  23  24  
25  26  27  28  29  30  31  
32  33  
34  35  36  
37  38  39  
40  41  
42  43  44  45  
46  47  48  49  50  51  52  
53  54  
55  56  57  
58  59  60  

Puzzle by Barry C. Silk  
28 “High Fidelity”  36 Hit the dirt?  47 Move before  
star, 2000 29 Like a diva 30 W competitor 31 First character seen in “Zelig” 32 Boat stem 34 2009 Grammy winner for “Crack  39 Start to tank 42 Bill of fashion 44 Italian for “baked” 45 Flip chart supporter 46 “Law & Order:  taking off 48 Vexation 49 1943 U.S.-vs.­Japan battle site 50 ___ Taylor, old sitcom character  
a Bottle,” briefly  SVU” co-star  51 Believe  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Sudoku | the MephaM group 

HoroSCoPE | eugeNia last 
Happy Birthday: take a practical approach to partnerships and avoid the pitfalls that can happen if you try to do too much for others. imbalance will be the enemy, making it vital for you to delegate jobs to everyone in a fair and responsible manner. Much of your success will depend on how you handle people in your personal and professional life. your numbers are 3, 11, 18, 26, 32, 45, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t mess with people who can influence your future. do whatever it takes to get along without compromising your integrity. listen attentively to others. being accommodating will help you get what you want in the end. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don’t take anything or anyone for granted. you may know what you want to do, but expect to face opposition. don’t be daunted by comments or criticism. Focus on finishing what you start and accommodating others only when possible.  

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t expect to receive help from others and you won’t be disappointed. Making changes to your home or professional direction will turn out to be a good investment. learn new skills and don’t let a personal relationship limit what you can do.  

CANCER (June 21-July 22): get down to business and you will excel. a partnership will be problematic if you are too compliant. don’t make a hasty decision that can have costly results. it’s ok to do things differently or to follow your own path.  


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you may be all wrapped up in your personal relationships and trying to make changes to the way you live, but you should be focusing on financial and contractual matters that have the potential to turn costly.  


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): keep your thoughts and feelings to yourself. someone will use personal information against you if you are too open. take time out for self-improvement and raising your level of confidence. don’t give in to emotional blackmail or demanding individuals.  


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t fight the inevitable. go with the flow and see where it takes you. the changes that take place will turn out surprisingly well. use your intelligence and take advantage of an emotional opportunity. don’t limit what you can do.  


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Follow your heart, not what you hear. gather information and come to your own conclusions before you make a choice. a change in the way you do things will help you avoid someone who wants to take control or shove you aside.  

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): listen carefully, but do your own fact-finding. the information you gather will clear up issues you have been concerned about, allowing you to move forward and make positive personal changes at home. act fast and finish what you start.  


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): take care of pressing family matters. get involved in your community and you will be able to control the outcome of a situation that could affect an investment that concerns you. an old friend or lover will give you something to think about. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): emotional matters will surface. don’t put off what must be taken care of immediately. you can’t move forward without clearing a path. it’s out with the old and in with the new. raise pressing issues and secure your future.  


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): get involved in organizational events that allow you to meet interesting and informative individuals. sharing your thoughts will spark interest and lead to unexpected opportunities. Mix business with pleasure and you’ll make a new and very valuable acquaintance. 



Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
LAISA  

 
 
 
 
 




Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
AND 


(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: FURRY GAMUT ZOMBIE VANISH Yesterday’s 
Answer: The math class on the space station featured this — ZERO GRAVITY 

Make checks payable to and mail to:  the observer  
p.o. box 779  
Notre dame, iN 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year  
enclosed is $75 for one semester  
Name  

address 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an 

the obserVer | FridAy, FEbruAry 6, 2015 | NdsMcobserVer.coM 
nd womEn’S bASkEtbAll | Nd 75, VirgiNia 54 
mEn’S bASkEtbAll 

Irish aim to beat 
Turner, Notre Dame coast 
Duke in Durham 
past Cavaliers at home 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
Freshman forward brianna turner earned the sixth dou­ble-double of her career, as she led the No. 4 irish to a decisive 75-54 win over acc opponent Virginia on thursday at purcell pavilion. 
Notre dame (22-2, 8-1 acc) faces a quick turnaround this weekend, as it will travel to chestnut hill, Massachusetts for a matchup against boston college on sunday. 
turner led the irish with 26 points and 13 rebounds, both team highs, as the cavaliers (15-8, 5-5) had no answer for the irish inside presence; 50 of Notre dame’s points came in the paint, compared to just 18 for Virginia. 
“i thought brianna had a re­ally phenomenal game,” irish coach Muffet Mcgraw said. “we were able to go inside early and were able to get lobs to her. [sophomore guard] lindsay [allen] found her a number of times and really just executed 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 

after playing in front of one of the largest, rowdiest crowds in purcell pavilion history the first time around, the rematch between No. 10 Notre dame and No. 4 duke now shifts to the place where the word ‘crazy’ is a term of endear­ment and cries for revenge will shake the rafters. 
Just 11 days after irish senior guard Jerian grant and sophomore guard steve Vasturia delivered the final blows in Notre dame’s 77-73 win Jan. 28, the two teams meet again saturday in a crucial regular-season acc matchup at cameron indoor stadium. this time, though, the confines won’t be as friendly for the irish (21-3, 9-2 acc). 
the blue devils (19-3, 6-3) and their ‘cameron crazies,’ which were recently ranked the most passionate college basketball fans 
well. i thought lindsay had a turner and junior guard Jewell 
by Ncaa.com, create what irish good offensive game and played loyd. loyd had a quiet game 
coach Mike brey called the “ulti­well defensively, too.” by her standards, going 4-of-15 
mate road venue” during his press allen finished with 12 points, 
conference thursday. third on the team behind see w bball PAGE 14 
“[our guys will] be really excited to play,” brey said. “i just don’t want them to get too revved up. i think what happens in that place a lot of times … is teams get a little out of character or play too fast because of the crowd. 

“overall, though, we’ve done a pretty good job in loud atmo­spheres of staying poised, but i’m just thrilled that this team has put themselves in a position for a mar­quee game in that environment.” 
up by one with just over a min­ute remaining in the first meet­ing between the teams, grant had the ball knocked loose as the shot clock wound down but snatched it back and hit a floater from the free-throw line to put Notre dame up three. after the blue devils cut the lead back to one on a pair of free throws, grant drove the lane and threw a pass to Vasturia, who was all alone in front of the Notre dame bench. the sophomore’s 3-pointer, his only basket of the night, put the irish up by four with 22 seconds remaining. after a duke timeout, grant sealed the victory with an emphatic block on a layup 
see M bball PAGE 14 
FootbAll 

cooks takes job at oklahoma 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre dame defensive backs coach kerry cooks has accept­ed a position as the secondary coach at oklahoma, according to his twitter account. 
cooks changed his twitter biography wednesday night to read “secondary coach at university of oklahoma.” 
thursday morning, cooks tweeted, “New chapter in my life starting w the crimson & cream! can’t wait to meet my new fam­ily! #boomersooner” 
oklahoma assistant athletics director/communications pete Moris wouldn’t confirm the hir­ing of cooks when contacted wednesday night, according to Jason kersey of the oklahoman. 
sooners head coach bob stoops said in his National signing day press conference on wednesday that he hopes to have his assistant coaching search fi­nalized “between this week and next week.” 
oklahoma’s previous second­ary coach, bobby Jack wright, announced his retirement from coaching in January. 
irish head coach brian kelly wouldn’t address talk of cooks’ departure in his National signing day press conference wednesday. 
“we got nine coaches today,” kelly said. “we’re going to talk recruiting today. any changes that we have on the staff we will definitely get you up to date on it, but i’m not going to get into it to­day talking about coaches, who’s coming, who’s staying.” 
theFootballbra iniacs.com first reported sunday afternoon that cooks would be named the defensive backs coach at oklahoma. 
cooks spent five seasons on staff with the irish, most recently as the secondary coach this past season. in 2012 and 2013, cooks served as Notre dame’s co-de­fensive coordinator and corner-backs coach. the irving, texas, native joined irish head coach brian kelly’s staff in 2010 as the outside linebackers coach and tutored the cornerbacks in 2011. 
cooks spent stints coaching 
see Football PAGE 13 
HoCkEy 

Nd heads to Maine for conference series 
By BENJAMIN HORVATH 
sports writer 
Notre dame travels to the east coast this weekend to take on Maine in a pair of crucial hockey east conference games. 
the irish (11-14-3, 6-5-3 hockey east) split this past weekend’s series against con­ference foe New hampshire, losing 5-2 Friday night and win­ning 5-3 saturday. 
currently, Notre dame is tied for fifth place in the hockey east, trailing first-place boston university by nine points. Maine (10-16-2, 5-8-1) is 10th in the conference, trailing the irish by four points. 
sophomore center Vince hinostroza, who is currently tied for the team scoring lead with 25 points on the season, said that despite the team’s inconsistencies this season, the irish are still within strik­ing distance in the conference standings. 
“we’re still in pretty good shape in our conference, and we only have conference games left, so we just have to take it period-by-period and game-by­game,” hinostroza said. 


with eight conference games remaining, the irish are just two points behind providence for the all-important fourth slot in the conference standings. the top four teams in the hockey east host a best-of-three quar­terfinal series in the hockey east tournament and do not have to play in the tournament’s one-game first round. 
hinostroza tallied a trio of as­sists against New hampshire, and his recent offense has been integral to Notre dame’s recent turnaround on the power play unit. through Jan. 10, the irish power play unit ranked last in the country in goals scored. since that date, the irish have scored a power play goal in seven straight games, with 
see hockey PAGE 13 





