The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 55 | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
University, College respond to sexual assault 
Initiatives and campaigns at ND promote awareness 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
associate news editor 
Editor’s Note: This is the sec­ond installment of a five-part series on sexual assault at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s. Today’s stories focus on the administra­tive responses to sexual assault. 
in recent years, both notre dame administrators and student gov­ernment leadership have focused on ending sexual violence on cam­pus with, among other initiatives, campaigns to promote awareness and bystander intervention. 
The committee on sexual assault prevention (csap), com­prised of faculty, staff and student representatives, offers recommen­dations to the office of student affairs on supporting victims of sexual violence, encourages col­laboration in programming and promotes educational initiatives. 
csap was born out of a reso­lution from student senate in december 2008, which asked for a review of “the effectiveness of the university’s sexual assault, rape and sexual misconduct policy, resources for victims of sexual assault and the university’s disciplinary options available 
see noTre dame PAGE 4 




SMC task force encourages conversation 

By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 
Editor’s Note: This is the sec­ond installment of a five-part series on sexual assault at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s. Today’s stories focus on the administra­tive responses to sexual assault. 
The saint mary’s admin­istration and the student government association (sga) have responded to the nationwide movement of col­lege students pushing schools to take more action against sexual assault on campus by creating a more open dialogue among notre dame, saint mary’s and holy cross, as well as implementing a Task Force to focus on the issue. 
in a letter to the students apr. 29, college president carol ann mooney an­nounced the creation of the presidential Task Force. she said the task force would be comprised of students, faculty and staff and would promote the conversation about sexual violence. 
“This task force will recom­mend ways to further improve 

ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer see sainT mary’s PAGE 3 


prayer service examines perceptions of assault 
By SELENA PONIO 
news writer 
Just one day after the campus-wide launch of greendot, an ini­tiative committed to replacing violent and sexual injustices on campus with positive acts, stu­dents received an email nov. 7 alerting them to a reported sex­ual assault. students and other members of the notre dame community prayed for healing at the grotto on monday evening after this most recent report. 
“we are privileged to attend a school whose campus is beau­tiful in every season,” junior natalie vos said during the ser­vice. “but i think far too often people are in denial. They see the beauty of this campus and feel the sense of family on foot­ball weekends and focus on the positives of this campus. They feel so safe and at home that they cannot comprehend that such disgusting acts occur on this campus.” 
vos said due to the busy lives many students lead, many find it hard to take a moment to put these issues in perspective and look at the situation around them. 
“we forget to look up at mary in awe; we forget to look down at the rainbow of colorful leaves. 
see service PAGE 3 


KATHRYNE ROBINSON | The Observer 

Students gather in front of the Grotto during Monday evening’s prayer service. The service was held in the wake of a reported campus sexual assault and included prayers for healing in the face of sexual violence. 

news PAGE 2 scene PAGE 5 viewpoinT PAGE 6 FooTball PAGE 12 men’s baskeTball PAGE 12 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                   Jack rooney                       cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green
           Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



News Sports 
catherine owers renee griffin andrea vale hunter mcdaniel nicole caratas molly murphy 

Graphics Scene 
eric richelsen miko malabute 

Photo Viewpoint 
emmet Farnan austin Taliaferro 



Corrections 
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. we do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. if we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


Who would play you in a movie about your life? 


Audrey Cross 


Kathleen Nester 
freshman 

junior 
regina hall 

le mans hall 
“myself.” 

“Tom hanks.” 

Gina Craig 


Kat Morris 
junior 

junior 
le mans hall 

le mans hall 
“miley cyrus.” 

“shia lebeouf.” 

Jackie Rooney 


Stephanie Villareal 
junior 

junior 
le mans hall 

le mans hall. 
“shakira.” 

“50 cent.” 

Want your event included here? 
Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 



THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Tuesday  Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  Saturday      
“Crafting a Strong  Physics Colloquium  2015 Laura Shannon  Mammograms  Men’s Basketball vs.  
Grant Proposal”  Nieuwland Science  Prize Lecture  Library Circle  UMass-Lowell  
Brownson Hall  Hall  Jordan Hall  9 a.m.-4 p.m.  Joyce Center  
4 p.m.-5 p.m.  4 p.m.-5 p.m.  5 p.m.-6:15 p.m.  This preventative  2 p.m.  
Workshop to find best  “Galaxy collisions in our  Sir Christopher Clark  offering is free to  The Irish take on the  
funding sources.  local neighborhoods.”  will present.  women over 40.  River Hawks.  
Men’s Basketball vs.  ND Women’s  “For Freedom Set  ND Volleyball vs.  “Little Shop of  
Milwaukee  Basketball vs. Toledo  Free”  Georgia Tech  Horrors”  
Purcell Pavilion  Purcell Pavilion  McKenna Hall  Purcell Pavilion  DeBartolo Performing  
7 p.m.-9 p.m.  7 p.m.-9 p.m.  all day  7 p.m.-9 p.m.  Arts Center  
The Irish take on the  The Irish take on the  Part of the 16th annual  The Irish take on the  7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m.  
Panthers.  Rockets.   fall conference.  Yellow Jackets.  Musical production.  

Faculty panel discusses European migration crisis 
country because if they are inside their carpenter on the island of lampedusa dem-
By EDDIE DAMSTRA 

news writer home country, they are internally dis-onstrates this connection. placed,” she said. according to groody, the carpenter, 
Three faculty members examined the refugees are different from economic Franco, helped save 358 migrants when current migration crisis in europe in a migrants, Fardi said, because economic their ship crashed. panel discussion titled titled “migration to migrants are those pursuing better living “Franco found driftwood along the coast­europe: situating the current crisis,” held standards, not fleeing persecution. line, and he felt like he wanted to give expres­monday afternoon in andrews auditorium “refugees can not return home because sion to what was going on there,” he said. of gedddes hall. karen richman, director of fear of persecution, while migrants groody said Franco began making pro­of undergraduate academic programs for could,” she said. cession crosses out of the driftwood he the institute for latino studies, moderated maurizio albahari, assistant professor of found and made 400 crosses in three days. the event. anthropology, said 819,218 refugees arrived eventually, news broke that pope Francis 
alia Fardi, a master of laws candidate in europe in 2015 and another 3,460 refu-was coming to the island, and Franco was in international human rights law, quot-gees died or went missing at sea. in charge of preparing the liturgy, he said. ed the fourteenth article of the universal he said these statistics motivate him to Franco carved a chalice out of the drift-declaration of human rights, a document work towards a solution. wood, made a lectern out of boat rudders promoted by the united nations that es-“my priority, my concern is preventing and a ship wheel, and formed an altar out of tablishes a set of inalienable rights for all further loss of life at sea. i’m not convinced a small refugee boat. people. it’s a universal objective,” he said. “it is from this place that the pope de­
“everyone has the right to seek and to en-he said he proposes working to allow clared the gospel,” groody said. “To steer joy in other countries asylum from persecu-those seeking refuge to enter countries as the church in a new direction, to steer it tion,” she said. legal immigrants. back to its foundations, back to deep waters, 
The term “refugee,” she said, is a person “let’s start doing what can be done, im-back to the place of human vulnerability, who faces persecution because of his or her mediately,” albahari said. back to the margins and from there to an-race, religion, nationality, political prefer-Fr. daniel g. groody, associate profes-nounce the good news.” ence or membership to a particular social sor of theology, said there is a connection group. between the refugee crisis and the call of Contact Eddie Damstra at  
“They have to be outside of their home christians. he said the recent story of a edamstra@nd.edu 

ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2015 | The observer 


Saint Mary’s 
conTinued From page 1 
our efforts to prevent sexual assault and sexual miscon­duct and to assist and support student survivors of sexual assault,” mooney said in the letter. “it will also examine procedures for handling cas­es of sexual assault when they occur.” 
The task force held its first meeting sept. 18, according to an email dated sept. 22 in which mooney announced she would send a campus-wide email summarizing each meeting. she said the task force will address three issues: steps to reduce and eliminate sexual assault, ways to improve the college’s procedures for handling claims of sexual violence and ways to better support students who have survived sexual violence. The email also announced the forma­tion of three subcommittees 
— education, procedures and support — to address each of these issues. 
Building a task force 
regina wilson, director of campus ministry and chair of the support committee on the task force, said the task force meets once a month. 
“The three committees are working independently, and at the larger task force meet­ing we share our minutes and the work we’ve done, and then there’s interaction,” she said. 
wilson said the future of the task force after this school year is unknown; mooney, who commissioned the group, will retire at the end of this school year. 
Junior caylin mccallick, a member of the procedures committee, said specific de­tails about the group’s meet­ings cannot be made public until the task force releases its official minutes. Though it was originally announced that the task force would re­lease the previous meeting’s minutes after the following meeting, mccallick said the task force currently plans to wait for the college’s new website to launch before do­ing so. 
The procedures committee in particular has been tasked with updating the Title iX pro­cess at the college, mccallick said. 
“There’s a set [way] to handle Title iX,” she said. “Just because you’re com­plying with the rules doesn’t mean it’s on time or doesn’t mean it’s going as smoothly as possible for all the parties involved. 
“we really want a system of accountability for all parties involved in the claim,” she said. “we’re working to make sure everyone is held respon­sible for their individual parts of the Title iX process.” 
“my goal is to make [the task force] a voice for stu­dents,” mccallick said. “i’m open to people telling me what they’ve experienced and seeing if i can bring that to the discussion and seeing what we can do about it. i’m also hoping that it brushes off the cobwebs of things we didn’t used to talk about. 
“i know that this is a hot topic on campus, and i think it should be because it’s something that affects all of us,” she said. “i hope that it accomplishes the goals that mooney set out to accomplish.” 
mooney sent an email monday with the most recent update on the task force. The email included names of all current members on the task force, as well as specifica­tions for the intended end re­sult of the task force. 
“The taskforce will write a report that will be delivered 
paid adverTisemenT 

to the community no later than may 1, 2015,” the email said. “The report will con­tain: a list of what measures we currently take to educate our students; what is current­ly available for our students; suggestions and recommen­dations for improvements to what we are currently doing and recommended next steps and suggestions for change.” 

Finding support in ministry 
wilson said campus ministry’s role in the issue of sexual assault is for the most part one of support. 
“we are all trained,” wilson said. “we have professional ministry degrees so we are all trained to spend time with students and to provide pas­toral care to them.” 
she said the college recent­ly defined campus ministry’s role in the sexual assault pro­cess for students. 
wilson said. “all the cam­pus ministers are a confi­dential resource for students who have experienced sexual violence.” 
wilson said her role in the process is meeting with stu­dents and listening to any­thing they have to say. she said she will encourage the students to seek other re­sources if the student wishes. 
“because we’re pastoral care, we’re here if they want to pray,” wilson said. “if they have questions related to their faith or spirituality that have been affected by their experience…we’re here to be with them and to in a sense be a presence of god offering them care and attention and assurance that they’re sup­ported and loved.” 

Working within SGA 
student body president kaitlyn baker said although sga’s role in dealing with sex­ual violence has largely been 



Service 
conTinued From page 1 
we forget to look around at faces of people that we share this beautiful campus with,” she said. 
she said that the hectic nature of study and work at notre dame means the email alerts can be in danger of get­ting lost in the flurry of no­tifications that students are already receiving. 
“however, as we are sit­ting with our friends, we re­ceive a notification on our phones and suddenly the dome doesn’t shine as bright and the colors of the leaves seem a little more brown than red,” vos said. “Too often we choose to ignore the pain be­cause we don’t need any more stress in our lives … because we feel that the email does not affect us personally.” 
she said although many times people will not know turned over to the task force, they still have done some work in terms of addressing the issue. 
“[vice president] maddie [kohler] and i meet once a month with the presidents and vice presidents of holy cross college and notre dame,” baker said. “The sex­ual assault topic is something we touch on every time. … we’ve been giving them feed­back on our students’ expe­riences and changes we’re making over here as well as things they can do over there to help and vise versa.” 
baker said notre dame’s student council consulted sga in regards to their pro­posal to the university’s board of Trustees, which out­lined four categories on the issue of sexual assault for the board to address. 
“we worked together to help them get in contact with different students who have had experiences over at notre dame dealing with sexual assault,” she said. “They reached out to saint mary’s students to get that feedback. … They did a good job in getting a lot of different stu­dent perspectives from saint mary’s as well as notre dame, and pointing out some of the changes that need to be made over there, especially when it comes to how their process works.” 
sga does not plan on de­livering a similar propos­al to saint mary’s board of Trustees; however, the college’s board interacts with students on a regular basis, and discusses issues includ­ing sexual assault, baker said. 
she said sga also part­ners with the college’s belles against violence office (bavo), and there are plans to have an sga representative work closely with bavo and sit on bavo’s green dot campus committee, which consists of 
the victim personally, there is a solidarity that comes with the victim being a person one has never met before but shares the same experiences as a notre dame student. 

“It might take years, and it will require the conscious effort of every person on this campus. Legislations, policy and rules will not fix this - people will.” 
Nicole McAlee 
senior 
Notre Dame 
“sexual assault is more than that crime alert. it does not simply happen and then get forgotten. it destroys trust and hope,” she said. 

20 faculty, staff and students and whose goal is to promote campus culture change. 
although baker said she does not work closely with the administration on sexual as­sault, she said she does bring issues to their attention when students express concern. 
“i meet with administration multiple times a week … if students come up to me with concerns or things they want to see changed, i’m always bringing it up,” she said. 
baker said the biggest con­cerns students raised were about the investigators in­volved in the Title iX process and the fact that the college’s legal counsel is also the Title iX coordinator. 
“The three investigators were hired out,” baker said. “The task force is deciding on if the legal counsel and the Title iX coordinator need to be two separate positions or not.” 
in addition to acting as an intermediary between stu­dents and administration, baker said she wants to en­courage more students to at­tend the Title iX trainings that occur each semester. 
“The Title iX training ac­tually brings representatives from notre dame who are fa­miliar with their system and talk to our students about what that process would look like if you were to go over there,” she said. 
“ … i don’t think anyone re­alizes how much that train­ing encompasses,” she said. “it’s not just going over what Title iX is. it’s really going over what it is, how that looks on our campus, what that looks like if it’s violated, and it also goes over what that looks like for a saint mary’s student over on notre dame’s campus.” 
Contact Nicole Caratas at  ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 
senior nicole mcalee said every occurrence of sexual violence on campus is a gross violation of the university’s values, and there is still more to be done. 
“it might take years, and it will require the con­scious effort of every person on this campus,” she said. “legislations, policy and rules will not fix this — peo­ple will.” 
members of this shared community must stand in hopeful support of all survi­vors, mcalee said, and one step towards healing is re-framing the conversation around sexual assault in a way that places responsibility on the whole of the community. 
“we are notre dame, and we are a powerful force of good in this world. we can change this. be hopeful, be angry, be courageous,” mcalee said. 


Contact Selena Ponio at  sponio@nd.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


and heather [ryan, deputy Title major programs other universi-issues, junior danny Funaro, said. spoke to The observer on the re-



Notre Dame 

iX coordinator,] is in the process, ties are using, how they’re trying Funaro said the department of port student government delivered 
conTinued From page 1 

she’s three weeks into her new role, to change their culture,” he said. gender issues has participated in to the board of Trustees on sexual to victims of sexual assault.” and actually one of her responsi-“no one has the absolute one right the green dot launch as well as violence on notre dame’s campus. bilities is to analyze this climate approach, and what everyone is worked on promoting the “it’s on “sexual violence is something 2012 Campus Climate Survey survey. trying to do is understand what ap-us” campaign, the university’s it-we’ve been talking about on our in 2012, the first campus climate “our intention is again to share proaches have been working.” eration of the national movement campus for a long time now,” survey was administered to stu-the results with the csap, which christine caron gebhardt, di-commissioned by the white house ricketts said. “… There’s a lot of talk dents to gauge areas of need, the is a cross-campus and cross-com-rector of the gender relations to end sexual violence on college about prevention and what we’re results of which vice president for munity survey, and to utilize those center (grc) said one of the chal-campuses. doing on front, and in addition to student affairs erin hoffmann results in a way to improve com-lenges in choosing a violence “‘it’s on us’ tries to get people that it’s sort of widely accepted as harding said were “extremely munication on campus.” prevention program is the lack of to take ownership of the issue, so a rule — but also statistically at helpful.” research on the effectiveness of the the main thing that goes with that notre dame — that the number of 
hoffmann harding said the 2012 Benchmarking programs. is the ‘it’s on us’ pledge,” he said. reported assaults does not nearly survey demonstrated that non-un-deputy Title iX coordinator “… because what’s your measure “pledge cards were last year’s ver-match the number of actual as­dergraduate and post-baccalaure-heather ryan said more and more of success? your cases increase? or sion of this pledge — this year saults that we have on campus. ate students had lower awareness colleges have begun to administer your cases decrease? and how do we’ve put more of a focus on the “Those are still issues that we’re than undergraduates on university climate surveys, as well. you know the case decrease isn’t itsonus.nd.edu pledge.” trying to work through,” he said. policies and support services deal-“as we go back and forth, we merely [the cases] going under-more than 200 students have “That was a big reason behind the ing with sexual assault. haven’t had any data available ex-ground? so part of it, what we’re signed the pledge this year, Funaro impetus of this report, to give some 
“so in response, what we’ve done ternally, from institutions, prior trying to do is to find a way, how do said. context to where we are on campus over the last few years is add a va-to this year,” ryan said. “and so you measure success,” she said. “The main way we’ve done that as well as to do a little digging what riety of different training programs i think that this next year or two caron gebhardt said green dot’s is by going door-to-door in differ-we need to do better and where particular to those two student are really going to be key in gain-measure of success is that when 15 ent dorms,” he said. “you can ac-we’re not meeting the standards.” populations,” she said. ing that information, to figure percent of the student body is by-tually get good conversations with The report focused on four ma­
in response to students’ demon-out what are the best practices stander-trained. at the 15-percent people … [and] get people that re-jor topics: campus conversation strated confusion on the concept possible.” point, incidence of sexual assault ally want to get involved.” surrounding sexual violence, the of consent, hoffmann harding matt lahey, associate general should decrease, measured in re-Funaro said he has noticed trajectory of change on the issue at said the university has added counsel for the university, said ports to both confidential and non-there is sometimes more difficulty notre dame, alcohol culture’s role clarification points and training notre dame annually examines its confidential resources. getting men involved in program-in sexual violence and a process for students, “to try to better ar-policies and compares it to bench-she said the university is one of ming and campaigns to end sexu-overview, supplemented by stu­ticulate those nuances and provide mark schools. several institutions studying the al violence. dents’ experiences. it concluded information.” “we made revisions this sum-effectiveness of green dot, and “To get the general male popula-with a series of recommendations 
“Following the survey in 2012, mer to our policies, as we did the therefore has been very deliberate tion involved is a little bit harder, to the trustees on how to curb the next year we additionally con-summer before, and benchmark-in its implementation on campus. but i think we’ve made inroads in sexual violence on campus and ducted a series of focus groups with ing these policies helps us with that, versus last year, when the ‘it’s how to improve the process of re-students, particularly around areas that effort, he said. “we do a lot of Student government on us’ pledge was signed mostly porting and navigating the Title iX we wanted to better understand,” benchmarking related to educa-student government has played by women,” he said. “This year process. she said. tion, those initiatives. a large role in creating student body there’s a much better balance.” 
“now, last spring, we adminis-“green dot came out of that engagement on the issue, the di-in october, student body presi-Contact Catherine Owers at  tered our second climate survey benchmarking, looking at what rector of the department of gender dent and senior bryan ricketts cowers@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



Nick Laureano 
scene writer 
i’m a film and television person. so when i hear “the ’80s” i think of terrible movies like “red dawn,” pat tales of quarter-life crises like “The breakfast club,” and sitcoms like “Full house,” which feel facile when compared to current comedies like “Transparent.” and while it’s not fair to characterize an entire decade of audiovisual media as glib — we’re talking about the decade that gave us “caddyshack,” after all — i do think the ’80s suffer in comparison to its bookends. The ’70s saw the rise to prominence of robert altman and martin scorsese, whose ’80s work is arguably less significant than that from the ’70s. in the ’90s, indie filmmakers like wes and paul Thomas anderson broke onto the scene, and the coen 
By KELLY McGARRY 
scene writer 
The entrance into adulthood is an in­teresting one for any teenage heartthrob, and Justin bieber has had his share of bumps along the way. no longer a pup­pet of the industry, bieber emerges as an artist with the new album “purpose.” 
working with the progressive produc­tion of skrillex and diplo was a power move for the pop star, resulting in an alternative electronic vibe that screams out a deviation from the crowd-pleasing days of the past. and it turns out bieber’s smooth, seductive voice comple­ments the electronic beats well. 
a barrage of powerful singles preceded the release of this album. “where are Ü now” is hardly recognizable as a bieber track, because it was truly part of a proj­ect by skrillex and diplo. bieber’s emo­tional vocals took the backseat to the toned-down yet danceable version of the characteristic electrostep and trap styles characteristic of the edm dance duo. 
“what do you mean?” could have marked bieber’s peak, but he impressed again with another dance track, “sorry.” The muted reception of “i’ll show you” brothers became The coen brothers. The ’90s also claims the earliest televi­sion show i love, “seinfeld” (which, yes, technically premiered in the ’80s. but that first season is practically unrecog­nizable. “seinfeld” became “seinfeld” in the 90s). one aspect of ’80s culture, however, that is every bit as good as that of the ’70s and ’90s, is the music. 
The 1980s birthed the glorious al­ternative rock movement. piercing, syncopated guitar chords contribute to a sound whose best analog is that mo­ment when your headphones become partially unplugged but crackly music is still making its way into your ears. The movement was also characterized by defiantly realist lyrics delivered in an almost deadpan tone. This was an era when dancing and jumping up and down meant the same thing. 
The reason i love The Jesus and mary chain, particularly their 1985 album 
feels right for the slowed-down track. 
only days before the album, he re­leased “love yourself,” an infectious heartbreak redemption song in the vein of ed sheeran’s “don’t.” unsurprisingly, sheeran himself was behind biting lyr­ics like “my mama don’t like you and she likes everyone.” 
These singles were expected to domi­nate the album, but it was complete with 13 carefully produced tracks on the standard version, and 19 on the deluxe, taking on hip-hop and r&b styles with mixed results. big sean’s awkward verse in “no pressure” interrupts the smooth track, a disappointment from such a big name. Travis scott’s contribution to “no sense” is more natural, flowing from the hip-hop beat of the song. closing out the trio is “The Feeling,” a true edm track, complete with obscure lyrics and a nod to hedonism. The chorus featuring halsey is airily brilliant. 
it seems like the songs on this album come in categorical threes, and the sen­timental next group is a time capsule back to old bieber. ironically, “life is worth living,” which is intended to dem­onstrate bieber’s new wisdom, is one of the most immature tracks of the album “psychocandy,” is because they use this strange, alt-rock aesthetic to deliver an emotional punch — a seemingly contra­dictory feat. you and your friends can be jumping up and down to the wall of sound that is “The hardest walk,” when the band pulls the rug out from under you, as Jim reid sings, “oh, and it’s plain to see that it’s dead / The thing swims in blood and it’s cold stony dead.” There’s a certain cognitive dissonance that comes with dancing to a song about a stillbirth. 

“my little underground,” the best track on “psychocandy,” is more ba­roque than the sensory assault of tracks like “in a hole,” which mimics tinnitus with its discernable melody. it’s the melody that allows childlike, innocent lyrics like “i’m gonna run and find / a place where i can hide / somewhere that no one knows / someplace that no one goes” to work. and yet, reid sings in an exasperated run-on sentence, 
with its simple progressions, whiney vocals and cliché lyrics. The title track and final song on the standard length album, “purpose,” follows the trend of the attempting to be profound but end­ing up cheesy and most characteristi­cally bieber, it even includes many lines of spoken word. 
“children” appears to be another ex­ample of sentimentalism, but with a closer listen to the lyrics and taking into consideration the dance beat, i hope the irony of this track was intended. The competitive or glamorous attitude re­flected in lines like “whose heart is the biggest?” seems more likely to occur in this dance club than actual worry about the well-being of the children. 
a huge part of the excitement of the album’s release was the release of 13 accompanying music videos – only three of which (“mark my words,” “i’ll show you” and “what do you mean?”) include bieber himself. To me, this says that despite the sexuality of many of the tracks, bieber isn’t trying to be the teen idol sex-symbol he once was — he’s in­stead taking part in a piece of art. The videos featured various forms of in­terpretive dance: “love yourself” is an suggesting he doesn’t really believe what he’s singing. it’s an ironic mix of youthful naiveté and adult ennui, and is reminiscent (or prescient) of the works of wes anderson. 
i would be remiss if i didn’t mention the album’s most famous track, “Just like honey.” The lyrics don’t particu­larly make sense (“i’ll be your plastic toy”), but that’s not exactly a necessity. “Just like honey” — perhaps by virtue of being so closely associated with one of my all-time favorite films, “lost in Translation” — delivers pure, ineffable emotion. it’s everything i love about “The Jesus and mary chain,” and music in general: it makes me feel. 
Contact Nick Laureano at nlaurean@nd.edu
 The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
expressive duet; “what do you mean” features the return of the upbeat “sorry” girls, but this time with a few guy friends and “life is worth living” is a cathartic, emotionally heavy ballet duet. 
with this latest album, bieber seems to have make the opposite transition of The weeknd’s “beauty behind the madness” earlier this year. while The weeknd went from mysterious electronic production to a more transparent pop star, bieber has veered in the opposite direction, with the two albums just barely meeting somewhere in the middle — a direction sure to spawn new beliebers. 
Contact Kelly McGarry at kmcgarry@nd.edu 
“Purpose” 
Justin Bieber 
Label: Def Jam 
Tracks: “The Feeling,” “No Sense,” “Love Yourself” If you like: The Weeknd, Diplo 


ERIC RICHELSEN and SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 


The observer |  TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Open to all suggestions 
Clare Kossler 
associate news editor 
“what? you’re majoring in history and math?” 
“… interesting …” 
“so what exactly do you plan to do with that again?” 
To all those who have asked me this ques­tion, today i can announce with complete and utter confidence: i don’t know. 
perhaps i should qualify. it’s not so much that i don’t know as i don’t want to know. ever since i first came to notre dame, i’ve been putting off trying to find an answer to the dreaded question of what i want to do with my life. during my time here, i’ve gen­erated rather a nice list of jobs i can rattle off whenever someone asks: lawyer, histo­rian, journalist, consultant, entrepreneur 
— the list goes on. and for the most part, my list satisfies — at least temporarily — who­ever is wondering. The real problem is that it doesn’t satisfy me. 
This is not to say that i don’t want to be a lawyer, that i can’t see myself as a histo­rian, that i would rather not find a job as a journalist, a consultant or an entrepre­neur. Quite the opposite, actually — i want to be and do all of those things. i want to stand inside a courtroom, channeling Jack mccoy as i assert that the jury should re­turn a ruling of guilty. i want to travel to sites of historical importance, making some ground-breaking discovery after months of seemingly fruitless research. i want to relay the news instead of receiving it passively; to solve problems and analyze outcomes; to start my own business and experience the thrill that accompanies risking your money and your pride. i want all of it, and i can’t bear to think i must limit myself to just one path. 
i had the same trouble choosing my ma­jor freshman year, which is how i wound up with the — i’ll admit, rather strange — combination of history and math. i couldn’t decide between the humanities and sci­ences, so i picked a major in each. i wanted to major in all the humanities, so i settled upon one that seemed to include a little bit of each: history. i was wavering between the course offerings of the science department, and finally chose math, the logic being that every one of the sciences relies upon math to some extent. choosing history and math was my way of not choosing, of keeping my options open, of delaying the moment when i would have to decide more definitively the course of my life and in so doing, close my­self off to my other interests. 
but now, nearly halfway through junior year, that moment when i will have to de­cide is drawing nearer, and i am still no closer to an answer than i was coming in freshman year. The plan for now? To con­tinue my policy of denial and indecisiveness and hope inspiration will strike me some­time in the near future. i’m open to any and all suggestions. 
Contact Clare Kossler at  ckossler@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Lend me your ears 
Stephen Raab 
let’s Talk smart 

more than 121,000 people are currently waiting for organ transplants in the united states. Today, 22 of them will die. The deaths of these people are particularly tragic because they are largely caused by one factor — low donor turnout. although 95 percent of americans support organ donation, only 40 percent of eligible donors have registered. as of 2013, there were but 14,250 donors in the entire country. 
To be fair, the various agencies in charge of managing donation have gone a long way towards dispelling some of the myths that have previously discouraged donations. no, there is no possibility of your organs being extracted while you are still alive on the operating table. no, your dependents won’t be charged for the costs of donation. and if you’re a roman catholic, muslim or a member of most protestant or Jewish branches, no, organ donation is not against your religion. 
a single organ donor can save the lives of eight people. corneal and tissue donation can improve the lives of many others. in fact, if you aren’t already an organ donor, i strongly recommend you to go out and become one at your first opportunity. but even that is still not enough to balance the books, and this failure has life-or-death consequences. Firmer measures are necessary than mere encouragement. 
a law ought to be passed requiring all americans to be­come organ donors upon their death. The sole permitted exceptions would be for religious reasons, in keeping with the First amendment; as previously discussed, the impact on the total organ supply due to these objections would be minimal. such a law would go far towards clearing out the backlog of patients awaiting donations. it would also elimi­nate the dangerous practice of “organ tourism,” by which desperate patients seek transplants outside the united states. These procedures are often unsafe, resulting in a high rate of rejection and infection. 
moreover, the impact on the citizen will be almost nonexistent. a dead man certainly does not need his or­gans, and the extraction procedure is so non-invasive as to allow for open casket funeral services. The adoption of such a law stands to secure a great good at minimal cost; every day that passes without such legislation condemns another 22 people to death. 
That being said, i know there are some who will object to government-mandated organ donation. while the constitutional basis for the law through congress’s au­thority to “promote the general welfare” is strong, there are sure to be plenty of objections on grounds of personal autonomy. after all, if we eliminate a citizen’s control over his or her own body parts, haven’t we sort of given up on the fundamentals of private property? even after i’m dead, shouldn’t i be allowed to determine what happens to my body? 
i understand such concerns even if i do not entirely agree with them; therefore, i suggest a compromise. a so-called “opt-out” system would begin with all persons registered to donate organs, and they would check a box to remove their donor status. when tried elsewhere, this strategy has mark­edly increased donation rates; germany’s opt-in system yields 12% donation, while austria’s opt-out system results in 99% donation. after all, there’s only one thing most peo­ple object to more strongly than gratuitous and sustained violations of their civil liberties, and that is being moder­ately inconvenienced in any way. if you think this isn’t true, think about the last time you answered “yes” to the prompt “i have read and agreed to the Terms and conditions.” 
we must take action to prevent the needless deaths of those awaiting organ transplants. voluntary increases in donation are a good first step, but the ultimate solution to this problem will be mandatory donation. lives are at stake. 
Stephen Raab is a senior studying chemical engineering. He resides in Alumni Hall and welcomes discourse at sraab@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the  author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

perfect place to grow 
“For everything there is a season, and a time for every matter under heaven.” ecclesiastes 3:1. 
wednesday at 5 p.m., the veteran’s day ceremony filled north Quad as notre dame roTc servicemen stood to show respect for all the living and deceased men and women who served before them. at the same time, just steps away from the ceremony, students gathered to dem­onstrate their support for students of color at the university of missouri. 
students across the country have written countless ar­ticles and social media posts about the issues taking place at mizzou and other college campuses. The events that occurred and continue to occur at mizzou have illustrated the unacceptable results of racism, institutionalism and bigotry that unfortunately are more widespread than any­one can fully comprehend. This letter is not meant to be­little the severity of the incidences at mizzou. rather, it is to communicate three things: 
First, that the actions of the student demonstrators at notre dame were inconsistent with their proclaimed values. 
second, that the timing of the “nd for mizzou” event lacked discernment. 
Third, that it is possible to respect others and disagree with them simultaneously. 
in theory, the “nd for mizzou” event on wednesday was dedicated to the support and respect of our fellow humans and their dignity. however, the video from this gathering shows a greater tendency towards appeals to emotion, an­ger and passion than to morality and solidarity. 
“To the students of color at mizzou, we, the students of color at notre dame, stand with you in solidarity. To those who would threaten their sense of safety, we are watching.” 
posted on Facebook timelines again and again, this statement employs a similar exclusive and threatening disposition that the students communicating it so actively combat. why do the statuses not read, “we, all the students of notre dame, support all the students at mizzou who need our support.” The issue is not simply wording, but rather a deeper-rooted issue of exclusivity in a movement that calls for widespread unity. 
as adults, we need to have the maturity to control our emotions and not act in a reactionary manner. as notre dame students, we are especially called to approach every decision with thoughtful principle, conviction and faith. if wednesday’s “nd for mizzou” event was focused on the respect for human life and dignity, it lost credibility when its organizers scheduled it at the same time as the veteran’s day ceremony. There is no excuse for this conflict. 
it is our moral responsibility to respect one another, but it is not anyone’s responsibility to be politically correct. political correctness is defined as, “agreement with the idea that people should be careful to not use language or behave in a way that could offend a particular group of people.” people across the country can always grow in their understanding and treatment of others, especially towards those who are different from them, but it is ultimately up to each individual to choose how to react towards political incorrectness. whether they choose to be offended by or empathetic towards the offender, individuals can still ulti­mately respect that people have different cultural, religious and political opinions, without having to agree with the opinion itself. until we can coexist with that understand­ing, conversations will divide, movements will exclude and progress cannot be made. Thankfully, our university is the perfect place to grow together. 
Lauren Hill 
sophomore breen-phillips hall 


We keep living anyway 
Scott Boyle 
The sincere seeker 
chances are we’ve all had moments that capture our attention to such a degree that we can’t stop focusing on them. For me, those moments usually come in the form of music. if i hear a song that grabs me, i’ll listen to it on repeat — sometimes hundreds of times over multiple days. 
The first song that i can remember listening to extensively was coldplay’s “viva la vida.” The year was 2008 and i was a high school senior. The door to my room could not contain chris martin and the rousing, sweeping arrangements that accom­panied his vocals. 
not much has changed in the years that have followed. i never know when there might be an­other song that might capture my attention and imagination. now, if you were to walk down the halls of my office in geddes hall, you would be likely to hear “wait for it,” a song from lin-manuel miranda’s new musical “hamilton.” 
miranda wrote the show under the inspira­tion of a biography of founding father alexander hamilton. while the show shines a light into the depths and complexities of hamilton’s life, its true genius lies in its ability to draw insights into uni­versal values and timeless themes. miranda’s show molds complex arrangements, rap and up-tempo beats into a not-so-subtle examination of the hu­man condition. 
in this particular song, rival aaron burr la­ments the adulation that has been directed to­ward alexander hamilton. Jealously in the face of hamilton’s success causes burr to revisit his own hurts. The song finds burr turning toward big questions, searching for faint whispers of consola­tion in face of greater pain. 

we discover this pain stems from a life filled with great loss. we discover that burr has been an orphan from a young age, having lost his mother, father and paternal grandfather to smallpox. 
burr reflects on the lessons he’s learned from loss, proclaiming, “death doesn’t discriminate between the sinners and the saints. it takes and it takes and it takes, and we keep living anyway.” 
These lines have taken on much greater meaning for me as i have found myself in a state of mourn­ing these past days. not only do i mourn with the notre dame students who grieve the loss of one of their own, but alongside the world community as well. once again, we are left to sift through the residue of the great evil that has been left in the wake of the heinous terrorist attacks in paris. 
“death … takes and it takes and it takes.” while the narrative of our lives often offers us innumera­ble joys, cases of unexplainable tragedy like these often give us pause and cause us to revaluate who we are and what we believe. 
in my case, tragedies of inexplicable evil that “take and take” still render me speechless. one might think that after six years of theology stud­ies, i might have some answer, some words that might get rid of the pain or the questions. 
but i don’t. what follows in the wake of evil is scary precisely because defies explanations. 
but death and evil, i’ve learned, never make sense, and this is the source of their power. They want to shake our foundations to such a degree that we lose our trust in one another and in god. if they cause us to see the world as fundamentally flawed, if we are consumed with constant eyes of suspicion toward others, there’s a good probability we turn in on ourselves, away from sources of light and truth. 
Turn in too much and we risk losing the ability to live our lives in and for communion. we risk losing our ability to look out for one another, to reach out to support each other during those times of vulnerability, struggle and loss that will still plague the living. death, evil and sin win if they leave us paralyzed and incapable of loving one another. 
but god does not promise that evil will not exist in the world, only that it will never have the last say. Through his resurrection, christ promises us that it is life, his life, which will have the last word. 
and we must make sure that it does because “we keep living anyway.” yes, those of us who are left to journey and tarry in the world cannot take any of this pain away. but we are the sinners and saints who can make sure life is lived differently. we must meet each other with open eyes and hands so that we can know each other’s pains, and bear and shoulder them together. 
even if we cannot see the results, we can never give up hope that we can be god’s mouthpieces. until we, too, are called home, we must unceas­ingly proclaim that goodness and love will ulti­mately win and work to make sure that they do. 
A 2012 and 2015 graduate of Notre Dame, Scott currently serves as the assistant director for Notre Dame Vision in the Institute for Church Life. He can be reached at sboyle2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The name’s bond, barely adequate bond 
Kitty Baker 
british invasion 
good morning everyone. 
morning, mike. 
we’ve got a great new bond film for you. it’s go­ing to be bigger and better than the last one (and at least $100 million more expensive). picture this. camera pans over mexico city, daytime day of the dead. Thousands of extras kick dust up on the most beautiful main road leading out to this gor­geous open plaza. massive skeleton puppets snake through the air, dancers in elaborate costumes parade down the main street, cutting through the onlookers. cut to a man in a skeleton mask, dressed in an armani suit, with an attractive mexican woman in a low-cut, fitted corset by his side. we follow them through the city in one continuous camera shot, and they end up in a hotel room. They almost end up having sex with each other, and then the man in the mask turns out to be bond, and he goes out to save the world. 
That sounds amazing. what happens next? 
ergh, haven’t quite got that far yet. 
This, ladies and gentleman, must have been the pitch for the latest bond film. “spectre,” bond’s lat­est enormously successful stint, could be described as a kind of lacklustre stab at the old spy motif. There’s guns, there’s girls, there are classic shots of bond almost dying but just straightening his cuffs and moving along, and that’s about it. The movie plays like a bunch of really aesthetically beautiful scenes strung together with no actual storyline or plot. 

The opening scene described above basically sets the the bar for the rest of the film, and also proves that it is impossible for any production team to ac­tually sustain such a high quality of extravagance. “spectre” went way over budget (as mentioned above $100 million more than what “skyfall” cost), and they ended up having to cut scenes and replace some actors (most significantly, cutting chiwetel ejiofor for andrew scott, as revealed in the sony hackings a while ago, because ejiofor’s salary was just too expensive, and they really needed to fly out to middle of nowhere in a desert for a half hour of film. They just needed to.). in the weeks leading up to its release, hosts of problems about the produc­tion were brought to light, and they are very obvi­ous throughout the film. 
other than the obvious production issues, the bond franchise is inherently problematic in a pro­gressive society. The familiar tropes of bond girls, and bond’s inexplicable lack of sTds or alcoholism, run rampant throughout this film, although they try to solve the bond girl problem by having him “fall in love.” granted, the girl that he falls in love with is about 20 years younger, blonde, busty and rather bland, leading us to wonder just how long that will probably last (most likely answer, she’ll be murdered in the next movie, and bond will have to avenge her death). 
don’t get me wrong, i love bond films, probably more than is good for me. i love the classic suave spy who gets his way with women, knows his way around a gun and drives the most beautiful car known to man, an aston martin. and if there is one good thing to say about this movie, viewers should go just to witness the sheer beauty and power of the custom-made aston martin, enough of a draw in itself (also, a classic example of why they went over budget). but this movie was such a letdown after the brilliance of “skyfall.” 
perhaps the biggest problem lay in the lack of vil­lain. christoph waltz, the man who won an oscar for his portrayal of the grotesque nazi general hans landa in “inglorious basterds,” was picked as the follow-up to Javier bardem’s brilliantly creepy raoul silva, and he couldn’t have done a worse job. it wasn’t really his fault though — the script and organization of the movie barely helped us to understand anything. There was too much mys­tery for the audience to have to wrap their heads around, and by the time the big reveal actually occurred, all that was in your head was, “why, i don’t understand, what do you mean?” There was no lead-up, no follow-up and you just had to wrap your head around the fact that all these characters were somehow related. it was a confusing mess, that so obviously demonstrated that “spectre” had not gone into filming with any kind of plausible script. 
The takeaway from this for sam mendes i hope will be: if you have to, make a film that goes through all the original bond tropes. i can stom­ach attractive girl plot devices and car chases, but please tell a story 
Kitty Baker is a senior program of liberal  studies and film, television and theatre major and proud Cavanaughty. She can be reached at  cbaker7@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
happy birthday: speak your mind and follow through with hard work, practicality and confidence. let past experiences help you make good choices and bring about the changes that will allow you to use your skills to their fullest. a wide variety of opportunities await you if you are progressive and ready to put yourself on the line. your numbers are 3, 8, 19, 23, 32, 39, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): show some initiative. if you wait too long, someone will outmaneuver you. look out for yourself and refuse to let anyone charm you into taking on responsibilities that don’t belong to you. compliments will not pay the bills. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): consistency will make you look good and help you outperform anyone who is trying to beat you at your own game. it’s vital for you to stay focused and do your best to finish what you start. don’t let emotional issues cost you financially. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): get involved in activities that are conducive to meeting new people or sharing something special with someone you love. Take pride in the way you look and put your best foot forward. don’t neglect your responsibilities. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): do the things you enjoy. Take care of your health and be careful while doing anything that requires physical action or working with dangerous equipment. a financial investment looks inviting. check out a piece of property. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t back someone else financially. a deal being offered isn’t as good as you are being led to believe. invest in your skills and knowledge, not in what someone else is trying to accomplish. romance will improve your life. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): share concerns with friends and you’ll come up with a solution to a problem that has been keeping you awake at night. honesty will bring emotions to the surface. confront anyone who has been leaning on you too heavily. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): you’ll face problems at home if you try to ignore the emotional issues that are bothering you. check out ways to cut corners or bring in extra cash if your finances are getting you down. update your look for a quick pick­me-up. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): expand an idea you have and share your plans with the people you feel can contribute. a steady approach and a unique presentation will capture attention. short trips will pay off as long as you are open to suggestions. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): doubt will set if you aren’t precise and detailed in all that you do. it’s important to express your thoughts and ask questions if something is unclear. you can bring about positive changes at home that will improve your love life. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t let a last-minute change of plans end up costing you financially. stay on top of your money matters and avoid joint ventures. a discussion with someone you work with will help you advance. protect your health. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): someone will provide you with poor information. make changes based on what works best for you. There is money to be made if you invest in your abilities, your appearance and your future. romance will lead to a commitment. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): The information you pick up at a tradeshow, conference or just by listening to someone who has more life experience will help push you in a favorable direction. a partnership or contribution will be the influence and boost you need. 


Birthday Baby: you are relentless and courageous. you are a perfectionist and a humanitarian. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 






The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


To
 receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable to and mail to: The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 
address 
city     state Zip 

ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2015 | The observer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 
manning better as a backup 

Daniel O’Boyle 
sports writer 
Five-for-20. 35 yards. no touchdowns. Four interceptions. 
peyton manning will forever be associated with those stats. The stats from sunday’s game, in which he broke brett Favre’s all-time passing yardage record and was subsequently pulled in the 3rd quarter. The stats from what might be his last game. even those stats are generous to the 5-time mvp. The under-thrown deep balls are one thing; those can be blamed on inju­ries. after all, it was a miracle manning came back so well from those neck surgeries to be­gin with. but some of manning’s decisions seemed completely inexplicable for the greatest mind in the game. 
in January, when i started writing this column, i said it was time for the broncos to move on from manning. now, it’s hard to imagine anyone thinking otherwise. brock osweiler is set to take the reins at least for this week against chicago, but it wouldn’t be surprising if we see the 6-foot-8 monster, who looks more suited to gary kubiak’s offense, for a few more games beyond that. 
but manning is still on the broncos roster and still earning $15 million. so what can he do while osweiler takes the reins of the offense? 
well, the answer is obvi­ous, isn’t it? did you see drew stanton on the sidelines against seattle? his dance moves, which bore a certain amount of resemblance to holly holm’s moves to defeat ronda rousey on saturday night, were surely some of the highlights of this season. and competing in the aFc against formidable patriots and bengals teams, denver could benefit from having a legendary figure like manning on its sideline. 
i’m not talking about manning’s legendary career as a quarterback here, though i guess that might come in handy at some point. but it’s manning’s advertising career that should really come in handy as a backup. 
if stanton’s moves can inspire andre ellington into the end zone for cardinals, what kind of impact can manning’s iconic seven-syllable nationwide jingles have? with that power to remain stuck in your head for weeks or months, manning’s tunes could keep osweiler mo­tivated for the remainder of the season and even into a deep postseason run. 
“good job brock, i’m proud of you.” 
it’s memorable, it keeps osweiler focused, it sells in­surance. it’s just what an ex­perienced head like peyton manning (and as far as experi­enced heads go, there are none bigger than peyton’s) should do. in today’s nFl, where small margins could be the difference between winning and losing, manning’s classic jingle could prove the difference. 
if that doesn’t work, there’s always manning’s most iconic brand of all: papa John’s pizza. peyton is pretty much a father figure to young players on the broncos roster. so why shouldn’t he play the twin roles of adver­tising symbol and father by pro­viding a pizza party to osweiler and company after victories to celebrate, courtesy of papa John’s? That kind of publicity could make him millions and boost team morale. after all, af­ter taking more and more from college and even high school offenses, it’s about time nFl teams looked to pee-wee foot­ball for inspiration. 
peyton is a legend on the field, but he’s a legend of the commer­cial break too, and if he wants to contribute to a new brock osweiler-led denver broncos team, he needs to play to his strengths. if he can’t perform with his arm, he’s got to do it in the marketing game, where he’s still number one (as much as luke mccown has been chal­lenging him this season). Think of how much he can still do in selling insurance, pizza and maybe even jeans if he wants to break another of brett Favre’s records. 
and if osweiler doesn’t work out at quarterback, maybe kubiak could try starting “really high voice” peyton manning instead. 
Contact Dan O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

ND VOLLEYBALL | Florida sTaTe 3, nd 0; miami 3, nd 1 
Irish drop a pair of ACC matches in Florida 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 

The irish continued their tough season in conference play with a pair of losses over the weekend, stretch­ing their losing streak to 11 games, though they did show some improvement in sunday’s loss at miami. 
notre dame (6-22, 1-15 acc) spent the weekend in Florida, starting with Friday’s match at no. 20 Florida state. The irish and the seminoles (21-6, 13-2) started the match trading point for point and working to a 13-13 tie, but Florida state pulled away in the first set and never looked back. 
after securing a 25-18 first set win, the seminoles cruised to a 25-14 second set. The irish came back strong from break to fight to a 9-9 tie early in the third set, but Florida state was simply too much for the young irish, who fell 25-19 in the final frame as the 
seminoles  completed  the  
three-set sweep.  
sophomore  outside  hit­ 

ter sam Fry again led the irish against Florida state with seven kills and fin­ished with a .400 attacking percentage. 
Then on sunday after­noon, notre dame made the trip from Tallahassee to miami to take on the hurricanes (18-8, 11-4), who came into the match riding an 11-1 record at home this year. with a 3-1 victory over notre dame, they secured their twelfth home victory of the season. 
however, for a team in the midst of an extended losing streak, the irish were able to hold their own against a solid miami team. Though miami dominated the first set, the irish were able to take the second set and tie the match at one. notre dame closed out the second frame by scoring 10 of the last 14 points and limited the errors that have plagued them all year. 
The irish struggled to keep the momentum they gained in the second set and ultimately dropped the next to on the way to yet an­other conference loss. 
much of the irish suc­cess in the match as a whole can be attributed to fresh­man middle blocker meg morningstar, who turned in the statistically stron­gest match of her brief acc career with six blocks and eight kills for a .727 attack percentage. 
morningstar recognizes what even the smallest im­provements can mean for a team that is looking to the future with hope, she said. 
“i think that moving for­ward, it’s always good to be making individual improve­ments and as a team we’re beginning to take steps for­ward,” morningstar said. “we’re making strides in practice and in matches and it’s good to see for us.” 
Though this season has been a long one for a team dominated by underclass­men, morningstar said that the future is bright for the team as they get used to first-year head coach Jim mclaughlin’s system. 
“it’s all about improv­ing and trying to put to­gether games and points the way we’re supposed to,” morningstar said. “a big part of it is getting more consistent, and moving into next year the new system will be a bigger part of us. 
“with not many upper­classmen, it’s hard to come into a brand new system. i think that we’re getting much more familiar with the system and that will be something we can build on heading into next year.” 
The irish have just four matches left on their sched­ule with the final two com­ing next weekend. notre dame has a couple more chances to break its los­ing streak before turning to next season, starting with georgia Tech (17-11, 8-8) on Friday night. They then close out their home schedule against the only team they’ve beaten in conference play this sea­son as clemson (6-22, 1-15) comes to purcell pavilion on sunday.. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 





The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


W Bball 
conTinued From page 12 
“she is hands down the best perimeter player out there that can shoot the ball from three,” mcgraw said. “she’s a big guard, about [6­foot-2]; she can rebound; she can do so many other things as well. [she’s] going to fit in perfectly with our offense, so [we’re] really thrilled with her. 
“she’s really going to be able to stretch the defense. we’re going to be able to get so much more out of the post with her at the four spot be­cause they’re going to have to come out and guard her so they won’t be able to pack it in around [sophomore for­ward brianna Turner]. i think she really helps the offense.” 
additionally, mcgraw said young provides further ver­satility and an ability to score that complements boley well. 
“Jackie young set the [indiana] single-season scor­ing record [and] led the state in scoring last year,” mcgraw said. “The girl can put the ball in the basket, and we certainly need that. she re­minds me a little bit of [kayla mcbride], and i think the fans are really going to love watching her. 
“she is someone that can pull up and shoot the mid­range jumper; she’s got a three; she can rebound; she can do a lot of things in tran­sition; so she’s a very versatile guard [and] can help us in a lot of different ways.” 
with the strength of the in­coming class, mcgraw says she is content with the class’s size and will not be looking to further bolster it. 
“we’re done,” mcgraw said. “we had 13 this year and re­ally wanted to get back down to 12. now with [freshman guard ali patberg] dropping down a class, we have three in that class so we’ll graduate four, bring in three, and that will be exactly the number that i’m looking for.” 
in the end, the irish re­cruiting staff set out to re­place this season’s upcoming losses to the roster and found the best fit to replace them, mcgraw said. 
“we look at what we’re los­ing,” mcgraw said. “we’ve re­ally just tried to replace what we’ve had. [we] always want to look at the best players in the country, but it’s all about the fit. it’s not necessarily the most talented; it’s always how it’s going to fit with the rest of the team.” 
That said, for next year’s class, notre dame seems to have been able to get both. now, with next year’s re­cruiting class rounded out, mcgraw and the irish will return their focus to this season, which continues wednesday at 7 p.m. when the team welcomes Toledo to purcell pavilion. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil1@nd.edu 
MEN’S TENNIS 

monaghan, lawson fall in semifinals at championships 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame concluded its fall season this weekend as two seniors competed in the usTa/iTa national indoor intercollegiate championships while eight more team members played in the bulldog scramble. 
For the indoor championships, the irish sent senior Quentin monaghan, who is ranked no. 5 nation­ally, to compete in the sin­gles tournament and senior alex lawson to compete with monaghan in the doubles tournament. monaghan had received an at-large bid to the singles competition due to his high ranking, while he and lawson, the no. 28 pair in the country, qualified for the doubles event as a result of their win at the regional championships, which the irish hosted october 22-26. 
in Thursday’s round of 32, monaghan drew a matchup with stanford sophomore no. 20 Tom Fawcett. Fawcett up­set monaghan, defeating him in straight sets, 6-2, 6-4. 
however, monaghan re­covered with two wins in the consolation bracket Friday and saturday, defeat­ing oklahoma junior alex ghilea and indiana senior samuel monette in straight sets. That would be as far as monaghan would advance, however, as he then fell in the semifinals of the consolation bracket to dartmouth senior no. 23 dovydas sakinis on saturday to end his run in the tournament. 
monaghan found more suc­cess in the doubles tourna­ment with lawson. as the nation’s 28th-ranked doubles team, the duo received a first round bye on Thursday before defeating stanford’s team of Fawcett and sophomore david wilczynski in straight sets (6-2, 6-3) to advance to the quarterfinals. 
in the quarterfinals on Friday, lawson and monaghan ran into the no. 23 pairing of seniors diego hidalgo and gordon watson of Florida. in a back-and-forth, tightly-con­tested match, the irish duo was able to win in three sets, 6-3, 6-7(4), 10-7. 
however, in the semifi­nals on saturday, lawson and monaghan were unable to defeat north carolina’s no. 18 pair of senior brett clark and sophomore robert kelly, falling in another close match, 7-6(3), 4-6, 10-6, end­ing the irish duo’s run in the tournament. 
while lawson and monaghan were competing at the indoor championships, eight other team members competed at the bulldog scramble, which georgia hosted at dan magill Tennis complex. 
overall, the team found only moderate success in the event, as the irish compiled a record of 13-16 in singles play and 6-10 in doubles play over the course of the weekend. 
highlights  for  the  irish  
included  senior  kenneth  
sabacinski  and  freshman  

daniel rayl posting 3-1 re­cords in the singles play, leading the way for the team. additionally, the irish as a team went 3-1 on sunday in doubles play to round out the tournament after getting off to a 3-9 start. 
notre dame will return to the courts when they open their regular season on January 16, welcom­ing michigan state and youngstown state to eck Tennis pavilion. 
M Bball 
conTinued From page 12 
“he was more aggressive [Friday] than he’d been in prac­tice hunting his stuff, and i love it,” brey said. “i think we’re go­ing to need him to do that. great start for him, just kind of keep growing his confidence as our quarterback.” 
despite Jackson’s strong play Friday, brey was quick to point out the importance of hav­ing sophomore guard matt Farrell so that the irish can play Jackson at multiple spots on the floor. Farrell, who figures to be the team’s sixth man this year after serving in a reserve role last season, scored 7 points in 17 minutes off the bench. 
“matt Farrell coming in helps [Jackson] though — he can slide off the ball and matt can handle the ball,” brey said. “i thought matt gave us really good min­utes again in that role.” 
while players like Farrell and two freshmen, forward matt ryan and guard rex pflueger, try to find their roles on the team, brey confirmed that freshman forward elijah burns will be on the five-year plan due to nag­ging injuries and a crowded depth chart. 
“i think he has a really bright future, but let’s get him healthy,” brey said. “also, there’s a logjam of big guys if you look out there. we got some big guys stacked on each other. … he doesn’t need any more surgery — just a mi­cro fracture — just needs time to heal.” 
even without burns in the fold, the irish still have a deep contingent of players jockey­ing for playing time. despite 12 players seeing minutes Friday, brey said he’s starting to see what his team’s identity is. 
“i’ve gotten on our front line guys to really go to the boards 
— to get to the offensive board,” brey said. “and we have empha­sized that more. 
“… when [senior forward] Zach [auguste] did that, he’s fabulous. and that’s what he did the last six weeks of the season last year. he was on the offensive board like a maniac. and now he knows when he gets fouled, gets three-point plays on put-backs, he’s more apt to do it.” 
auguste, who totaled 14 rebounds Friday, will be matched up in the post with milwaukee senior forward matt Tiby, a preseason all-horizon league selection. so far this season, Tiby is averaging 13 points per game to go along with eight rebounds, consistent with his numbers last season. Tiby leads a two-pronged panther at­tack along with junior forward austin arians (15.3 points per game), who sat out last season but was the leading scorer for milwaukee in their most recent ncaa Tournament game, a 2014 loss to villanova. 
although notre dame opened as a 13-point favorite, Jackson said early in the season it is al­ways hard going against teams with which the irish are not familiar, but he trusts their preparation. 
“our coaches do a great job of letting us know what [each team is] going to be running on offense, how they’re going to play defense, their tendencies,” Jackson said. “They do a great job of educating us. but at the same time, we need to go out there and play, be smart, and stay together.” 
notre dame will look to halt milwaukee’s hot start when it welcomes the panthers to purcell pavilion on Tuesday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2015 | The observer 

face wholesale changes two shoulder injury suffered in we return our entire top sev-
ND XC 
Football weeks in a row. last wednesday’s practice. 
en [runners]. both [seniors] 
conTinued From page 12 
conTinued From page 12 “They’re a different ani-kelly estimated he would be 

michael [clevenger] and mal in terms of how they out for six weeks. 
Tim ball have a fifth year of Forest’s new scheme, the play in the back end,” kelly The irish head coach also 
races and we’ve got that un-eligibility...it sets us up for a demon deacons also kept said. “i would expect them noted a minor ankle injury 
der control. we just need an-good 2016.” the irish off the field — to be a little bit more like to graduate student receiver 
other performance like that and while the men’s team notre dame ran just 23 who they are.” amir carlisle. 
out of her at the national did not make the champi­plays in the first half and The eagles are the top-
meet.” onships, standout michael 49 in the game, more than ranked unit in total defense Shamrock Series 
with the second-place fin-clevenger will be compet­10 plays below its previous this year, allowing just saturday’s contest will 
ish, the irish finished be-ing as an individual at the season low. 236.5 yards per game, as be the seventh install-
hind michigan but edged out championship meet for the “i think what the real is-well as the third-best scor-ment of the now-annual 
defending national cham-second straight year follow-sue was that wake Forest ing defense, ceding 14.4 neutral-site game, and 
pion michigan state, which ing a third place finish with controlled the foot-points per game. boston’s Fenway park will 
finished third. sparks said a time of 30:21.5. sparks ball,” kelly said of the of-take its name alongside 
beating the spartans will said that clevenger has done fense’s low yardage output Injury update new york’s yankee stadium 
give the team confidence. a lot for the team, both on saturday. a trio of irish players — and chicago’s soldier Field 
“michigan and michigan the course and in the locker outside of freshman run-sophomore defensive line-as historic venues to host a 
state, the two teams we com-room. ning back Josh adams’ man daniel cage, senior shamrock series game. 
peted with, are two of the “[clevenger] is the guy, record-breaking 98-yard running back c.J. prosise “we love these shamrock 
top teams year-in and year-when it comes time to race, touchdown run, the irish and sophomore tight end series games,” kelly said. 
out in the country,” sparks who is always up front,” offense struggled against nic weishar — missed “we play great venues 
said. “michigan state won sparks said. “he’s the guy the demon deacons, and saturday’s game with con-throughout the country, 
the ncaa title last year and that runs the locker room as kelly said he thinks teams cussions. however, kelly and this will be another 
we beat them. The girls on well. i think the component coming off a bye have an expects the three to be great one in an iconic ven­
the team know that and they to have a successful team is edge when facing notre available for this week’s ue in Fenway park, and the 
respect those programs, when you’ve got the same dame. shamrock series clash with guys were really excited 
and for them to do that lets guy leading things in the “it’s an advantage, clear-boston college. about playing in a sta­
them know that we’re at the locker room that’s leading ly,” he said. “i’ll be honest; “i’d say probable on all of dium that has such great 
right place at the right time things on the course.” when you get a week off this the concussion guys,” kelly tradition.” 
as far as competing when it wand so this saturday late in the season, just like said. notre dame, who is 6-0 
matters.” the women will head to [boston college] will, we James onwualu suffered in shamrock series games, 
Though the women re-louisville, kentucky, for the have to do a really good job an mcl injury against will wear special uniforms 
ceived an automatic berth in ncaa championships. last of looking at our own self-wake Forest, and kelly said saturday, taking the field 
the ncaa championships, season, the irish came away scouting and analyzing the junior linebacker won’t in an all-green uniform 
the men finished fourth at in 29th place behind an all-what we do because they re-be healthy for saturday’s matched with a special gold 
the great lakes regional american performance from ally were totally different in game. helmet. boston college will 
and did not qualify for an seidel. This year, however, the way they defended our “onwualu will be out. throwback to a set worn in 
at-large selection. Though sparks has his eyes on a big-run game and things in the he’s got a second-degree 1984 when doug Flutie, now 
the season is over for the ger result. back end of their defense.” mcl,” kelly said, later not-the color commentator on 
men’s team, sparks said the “we’d like to be in the top as kelly noted, the eagles ing onwualu’s injury would nbc’s notre dame broad-
fourth place finish will give 15,” sparks said. “i think (3-7, 0-6 acc) had the not require surgery. cast, quarterbacked the 
the team momentum for we’re ranked somewhere in weekend off prior to their kelly also updated fresh-eagles. 
next year. that ballpark. if we put it all showdown with the irish man receiver equanimeous 
“[The fourth place fin-together we can maybe be in boston, but he said he st. brown’s status, who Contact Alex Carson at  
ish] was a big step in the top 10, and we’d like to have doesn’t expect to have to will undergo surgery for a acarson1@nd.edu 
right direction,” sparks two all-americans in that said. “The men were picked group.” 
paid adverTisemenT 

ninth going into that race. it The ncaa championships gave the guys some respect will take place saturday at points throughout the col-12:00 p.m. for the women legiate cross country world and 1:00 p.m. for the men. that we are one of the better programs in the country. we Contact Marek Mazuerk at missed out this year ... but mmazurek@nd.edu 




The observer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 
Kelly discusses BC matchup, injury updates 
By ALEX CARSON 
associate sports editor 
For the fifth time in as many games — and sixth in seven — no. 4 notre dame will take the field saturday against a team that had more than seven days of rest prior to playing the irish when they take on boston college at Fenway park in boston. 
wake Forest, last saturday’s opponent in a 28-7 irish (9-1) win, had a bye week before coming to south bend — and irish head coach brian kelly said the demon deacons (3-7, 1-5 acc) made adjustments to their defense in the 13 days they had between games. 
“They played their front totally different than they had all year,” kelly said dur­ing his sunday teleconfer­ence. “so clearly they game planned a lot of the stuff for us, specifically with that week off.” 
in addition to wake 
see FooTball PAGE 11 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Boley, Young commit to Irish 
By BEN PADANILAM 
sports writer 
Two of the nation’s top high school women’s basketball players signed their national letters of intent to attend no. 3 notre dame starting next fall, the team announced monday. 
with the early signing period coming to a close wednesday, the irish (1-0) were looking to lock in their class for next season, and they did just that when erin boley, a stretch forward from elizabethtown high school in hodgenville, kentucky, and Jackie young, a guard from princeton community high school in princeton, indiana, each made their of­ficial commitments to the program. 
irish head coach muffet mcgraw said this recent re­cruiting class fills the team’s needs and has the program in a strong position for next season. 
“i couldn’t be happier with the two we got,” mcgraw said. “They are exactly what we needed. we were look­ing for some good guards, obviously, losing some great shooters in [senior] michaela mabrey and [graduate stu­dent] madison cable [after this season]. 
“They’re both willing to go inside, to rebound, to be physical inside defensively, and that is something that we also need very much.” 
according to the espnw 100 rankings, boley is ranked no. 5 and young is ranked no. 11, but both players are ranked in the top 10 of many other recruiting services’ rankings. as a result, it is all but certain that notre dame will have a top 25 recruiting class for the 20th straight season. 
mcgraw said she was ec­static with the way the class has rounded out. in particu­lar, mcgraw said boley pro­vides the irish with the best perimeter player in the coun­try, filling a need with the best available talent. 
see w bball PAGE 10 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

seidel, rohrer lead nd to second place 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
For the second straight meet, all-american senior molly seidel and freshman anna rohrer finished first and second in the ncaa great lakes regional to lead the women’s team to a sec­ond place overall finish and an automatic berth in the ncaa championships. 
“They’re just confident people,” irish assistant head coach matthew sparks said of the pair. “it’s champion­ship season and when elite-level people are confident, that’s a hard combination to match. The talent and confi­dence is all there at the same time for both these two.” 
sparks said seidel, who finished the six kilome­ter race in 20:04.4, benefits from having rohrer, who finished in 20:18.4, around to push her during training and on race day. 
“i think it’s a real tribute to molly,” sparks said. “[she is] a senior that knows what it takes to be successful and she knows how helpful it is to have a teammate to work with throughout workouts and throughout races. she’s always doing what she can to help teammates have success.” 
behind seidel and rohrer, the women had their top five runners finish within the top 30 spots with freshman rachel dadamio finish­ing 21st, graduate student karen lesiewicz finishing 27th and freshman annie heffernan finishing 28th. sparks said a top-30 show­ing from heffernan is what put the women’s team over the top in the regional meet. 
“That’s something we’ve been looking for all season long: our fifth runner to step up and contribute right there with our third and fourth [runners],” sparks said. “and annie, in prac­tice, has been doing that. she just had some breath­ing issues when she got into 
see nd Xc PAGE 11 

Notre Dame looks to cool off hot Milwaukee 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
after opening its season with a convincing victory, no. 18 notre dame will stay at home at purcell pavilion when it welcomes milwaukee to town Tuesday night. 
notre dame (1-0) will look to build off its 87-56 win over st. Francis (pennsylvania) on the same night that the irish unveiled their 2015 acc championship banner. 
milwaukee (3-0) will try to improve upon its hot start, which included three wins over the weekend in santa clara, california, to take home the cable car classic Title. 
although one game isn’t enough to judge how the sea­son will turn out, irish head coach mike brey said he was pleased with his team so far, particularly junior guard and 

captain  demetrius  Jackson.  
Jackson  tallied  a  career- 
high  27  points  on  10-of-14  

shooting against st. Francis. see m bball PAGE 10 








