the independent to uncover newSpaper Serving the truth notre dame and and report Saint mary’S it accurately 

volume 48, iSSue 122 | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015 | ndSmcobServer.com 
Sgt. Tim McCarthy retires 
After delivering 55 seasons of safety messages, former police officer announced he will not return for 2015 season 
By MADISON JAROS 
news writer 
“may i have your attention please. this is tim mccarthy for the indiana State police.” 
these words have charac­terized notre dame football since 1960, the year former indiana State police Sergeant tim mccarthy began deliver­ing safety messages between the third and fourth quarter of every home football game. 
mccarthy announced his re­tirement last wednesday, after delivering 55 seasons’ worth of messages. but what really caught the crowd’s attention, mccarthy said, weren’t his 
see mccarthy PAGE 5 




clothesline project supports for victims of sexual violence 
By CLARE KOSSLER 
news writer 
t-shirts with striking messages about sexual and interpersonal vi­olence were strung from clothes­lines outside of o’Shaughnessy hall on monday at noon, and will remain hanging for the duration of the week. 
each one of the 15 shirts — dec­orated with phrases such as “She turned her shame into power” and “it was not your fault” — is the work of a survivor of sexual assault or of someone impacted, directly or indirectly, by interpersonal violence. 
regina gesicki, assistant director of educational initiatives for the gender relations center (grc), said the idea behind hang­ing the shirts is to allow victims of assault to speak out in an anony­mous yet still highly conspicuous fashion. 
“they [the shirts] are right in that high traffic area outside o’Shaughnessy, so students walk­ing to debartolo in that corridor can see them, faculty and people in o’Shaughnessy can see them, and it’s really just a reminder of people in our community who have been hurt by things that hap­pened in their past or things that happened to them here,” gesicki 
see clotheSline PAGE 4 



Campus leaders host sexual assault prayer service 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
news editor 
Student body president bryan ricketts, vice president nidia ruelas and the gender issues department hosted a prayer service last evening in response to a notre dame Security police (ndSp) crime alert email the university community received early Sunday morning. the email said that a sexual assault had occurred in the late hours last Friday in a South Quad men’s residence hall. 
campus ministry director Fr. pete mccormick led the prayer service, which took place at the grotto, and Folk choir led the group in the alma mater. 
Senior erin Stoyell­mulholland delivered a reflec­tion, in which she pondered the intrinsic beauty of hu­mans because “we are made in the image and likeness of god.” 
“it is our job to remind vic­tims of sexual assault, as well as ourselves, of the beauty that each of us holds,” she said. “we are all called to build people up, affirm them of their beauty through our actions and our words. we need to be that hope, so that they can begin to see beauty again, begin to rebuild trust and begin to heal, because there is so much beauty in healing. 
“healing can be one of the most beautiful processes, filled with god’s grace and love. it is in the recognition that god loves all his creation that he hurts when you hurt, that healing can more easily be found. we have a respon­sibility to manifest god’s love and hope for others.” 
university president Fr. John Jenkins and ann Firth, his chief of staff, were also in attendance at the service. ricketts said he especially ap­preciated the presence of the university administrators. 
“a sexual assault on campus is always hard, but it is espe­cially difficult in the midst of our discussions on ‘the hunting ground,’” ricketts said in an email. “the prayer services are an important first step in the healing process, and i’m thankful to those who joined us. 
“it was especially hearten­ing to see Fr. Jenkins and ann Firth in attendance, standing with our community and sup­porting survivors of the sexu­al assault.” 
the prayer service is the first the ricketts-ruelas ad­ministration has planned; 
see Service PAGE 4 


ND, SMC to host ‘Take Back the Night’ event 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 
the belles against violence office (bavo) at Saint mary’s and the gender relations center (grc) at notre dame will hold the annual take back the night (tbtn) event tongiht as part of an international move­ment to raise awareness of sexual assault, relationship violence and stalking and to provide a space for survi­vors’ voices. 
director of bavo connie adams said the event will kickoff at lake marian at 
5:30 pm and participants will then walk to notre dame. there will be a prayer vigil at the grotto, followed by a march around notre dame’s campus. 
adams said the night will end with a speak out, which is “an opportunity for any­one impacted by sexual as­sault, relationship violence 
see tbtn PAGE 5 







Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 South dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney alex Jirschele Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: lesley Stevenson Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: brian lach Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, lsteven1@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
the observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and Saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. the observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
the news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of the observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information the observer (uSpS 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. the observer is published at: 024 South dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices poStmaSter Send address corrections to: the observer p.o. box 779 024 South dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 the observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 



What is the weirdest way a barista has spelled your name? 

Leila Ellis 
senior regina hall 
“lola.” 

Mallory Fowler 
junior le mans hall 
“malery.” 

Marissa Gallaway 
junior le mans hall 
“merisa.” 



Mimi Nary 
sophomore le mans hall 
“mymy.” 

Morgan Micetich 
first-year mccandless hall 
“merghan.” 

Nellie Petlick 
junior le mans hall 
“melly.” 




Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

margaret hynds Zach Klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: Selena ponio rachel o’grady Jennifer Flanagan nicole caratas 

Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
emily danaher maddie daly 
Photo Viewpoint 

“Artist Talk” “Calvary” “Pitch Perfect 2” Tennis Mixed Muddy Sunday 
caitlyn Jordan gabriela leskur 

Snite Musuem of Art DeBartolo Performing DeBartolo Performing Doubles Tournament White Field 
5:30p.m.-7 p.m. Arts Center Arts Center Eck Tennis Pavilion 8:30 a.m.-7 p.m. Featuring Stephen 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 6:30 p.m.-8 p.m. 9 a.m.-12 p.m. Sponsored by Keenan 
Corrections 

Wilkes. European cinema. Movie sneak preview. Aces for Science. Hall. 
the observer regards itself as a professional publication and 

ND Softball “Kant, Aristole, and “Lunchtime Labor ND Softball The Shirt 2015 
strives for the highest standards 

Melissa Cook Stadium the Aesthetics of RAPS” Doubleheader Unveiling Ceremony 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

5 p.m.-7 p.m. Life” Geddes Hall Melissa Cook Stadium Hammes Notre Dame 
however, recognize that we will make 

The Irish take on DeBartolo Hall 12 p.m.-1 p.m. 1 p.m.-5 p.m. Bookstore 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 

Toledo. 4 p.m.-5:30 p.m. Research, advocacy The Irish take on North 5:30 p.m.-7:30 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 

Lecture by Jim Porter. and policy series. Carolina. Unveiled at 6:57 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 



SMC talks sustainability 
By MEGAN UEKERT 
news writer 
assistant professor of 
biology and Saint  mary’s  
environmental  action  
coalition  faculty  advisor  

dr. cassie majetic kicked off Saint mary’s earth week on monday with a discussion about the world today and topics within sustainability. 
majetic said she first ex­perienced a sustainable lifestyle as a child, when her father and grandfather would take her fishing. 
“they would let me ex­plore,” she said. “i would track birds and look at plants. i became a pretty good fisherwoman. all of these trips with my grandfa­ther and father allowed me to truly appreciate nature.” 
majetic said her grand­father, who grew up dur­ing the great depression with a sustainable mindset, first taught her about sus­tainability and its benefits, which she later studied as an adult. 
“i then googled sus­tainability on wikipedia and found that it had some unique descriptions from the united nations environmental program,” she said. “in 1987, they had a large conference relating to economic development. they defined sustainabil­ity as meeting the needs for the present without compromising the future generations.” 
majetic said the pool of re­sources available worldwide is not only for humans, but it extends to other organisms. 
“if we need resources, so do they,” she said. “most people argue that humans should come first, that we hold superiority. i don’t al­ways agree with that. there are some great organisms that are capable of manip­ulating their environment like us.” 
while discussing the aes­thetics and beauty of raw nature and the surrounding environment, majetic quot­ed the late environmental­ist John muir: “everybody needs beauty as well as bread, places to play in and pray in, where nature may heal and give strength to body and soul.” 
majetic said there is sci­entific evidence that being in nature is good for hu­man health, physically and mentally, though it is diffi­cult to achieve a sustainable society. 
“the elephant is in the room is that sustainabil­ity is hard,” she said. “hard with a capital h, especially in economically developed countries like the united States. i think it has to do with the fact that we are resource-rich, meaning that we have plentiful access to food and water. we are fi­nancially rich compared to people elsewhere. there are also socioeconomic di­vides based on race, gender and ethnicity, not only in underdeveloped countries, but also in places within america.” 

majetic said the changes people undergo to make their lives more sustainable depend on each person’s own preferences and ethi­cal code. 
“enforcing a list of man­dates on how to live sustain­ability is like finding a pair of shoes that fits everyone,” she said. “i subscribe to the idea that every bit helps. if you want to be sustainable, sit down and look at your life and see how you can reduce your impact. Start small.” 
majetic described what students can do cut down energy usage. the list in­cluded turning off lights, walking more often, watch­ing how you charge your ap­pliances, minimizing water waste, being conscious of food distance and being conscious about purchases. 
“these are things that anyone can do,” she said. “college students can do these.” 
Contact Megan Uekert at muekert01@saintmarys.edu 
paid advertiSement 


AROUND CAMPUS 
“Fixed: the Science/Fiction of Human Enhancement 
the center for nano Science and technology and the nano impacts intellectual community will sponsor a screening of “Fixed: the Science/Fiction of human enhancement” on wednesday at 7 p.m. at the debartolo performing arts center. the film ex­plores the ethics of tech­nological changes to the human body and how soci­ety discriminates against the disabled, notre dame research scientist and nano impacts leader Kathy eggleson said. 
“the root of ableism is so­cietal regard for the value of human life that is merely conditional on the basis of functionality,” eggleson said. “in asking what tru­ly stands in need of being fixed — the body or soci­ety — the film serves as a plea for human dignity at the technology-society in­terface, making it relevant to the entire notre dame community.” 
the film’s director, regan brashear, will attend the screening, which is also sponsored by dpac, the reilly center, the colleges of Science and engineering and disability Studies, and a panel discussion will fol­low. the screening is free but ticketed. 
M.F.A Thesis Reading 
eleven students graduat­ing from the two-year m.F.a. program in creative writ­ing will read five-minute excerpts from their theses thursday at 7 p.m. in the philbin Studio theatre of the debartolo performing arts center. according to an event description, paul cunningham, Jonathan diaz, Suzi F. garcia, Julia harris and rachel Zavecz will read poetry, and Jace brittain, thirii myint, Jessica newman, Sarah roth, garret travis and dev varma will read prose. 
“writing is so essential to any and all parts of life,” coleen hoover, coordina­tor of the creative writ­ing program, said. “these writers who have achieved the terminal m.F.a. degree can therefore go on to be­come professors and chairs of english departments; they have the clichéd sky as their limits — imagine not being able to write! Students should attend because of the diversity our students display in culture, gender, writings, enthusiasm for their art. remember this: if you take the art out of earth you are left with — eh.” 
the event is free and open to the public. 
“Sound in Unison” 
vocalists umakant and ramakant gundecha, sax­ophonist ignio brunori and silverflautist virginial nicoli and pakhawaj player manik munde will per­form a concert of dhrupad music, the oldest style of hindustani music, at 
geddes  ha l l’s  a nd rew s  
auditor ium  on  t hursday  
at 7: 30 p.m.  

the concert, spon­sored by the asian indian classical music Society (aicmS), liu institute for asia and asian Studies, and the center for Social concerns, is a unique combination of ancient eastern music and west­ern music, aicmS pro­gram coordinator and physics professor umesh garg said. 
“it’s a very different musical experience but very soothing and very high quality,” he said. 
Bernstein’s “Voltaire” At DPAC 
this weekend, opera notre dame will per­form leonard bernstein’s candide at the debartolo performing arts center. the operetta, based on the novella by voltaire, follows the adventures of the ev­er-optimistic title charac­ter as he travels the world searching for, finding, los­ing and again finding his lover. 
Samuel bellafiore, who plays candide, said the opera is “a classic work of american theatre.” 
“candide depicts what happens when we’re pushed beyond what’s fa­miliar,” he said. “the ‘real world’ challenges what we’ve always thought.” 
tickets are $7 for stu­dents and $19 for seniors. 



the obServer | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015 | ndSmcobServer.com 

Clothesline 
continued From page 1 
said.  “it’s up to us to notice that and see what we can do to change that for the better.” 
according to the grc web­site, the shirts are part of a grc initiative for Sexual violence awareness month called the clothesline project. gesicki said notre dame has participated in the clothesline project since 2009, although the project first began in massachusetts in 1990 and has since become a national movement. 
the national website for the clothesline project stated the original purpose of the project was to commemorate victims of sexual assault and to provide “a vehicle for women affected by vio­lence to express their emotions by decorating a shirt.” 
the clothesline project here at notre dame has similar ob­jectives, gesicki said, but notre dame’s installment of the proj­ect commemorates all victims, male or female, of interpersonal violence. 
She said the shirts are a visual, artistic protest against violence, which, by nature of their very vis­ibility on campus, raise commu­nity awareness about assault. 
“it’s visible, but it’s not forceful,” gesicki said.  “it allows people to encounter it in whatever way they feel comfortable. 
“it’s just another way to reach a different group of people and bring this issue that is in the news on our campus and in the wider news to people’s attention, and to challenge them to think of what they can do personally to make the community safer for everyone.” 
Senior deirdre harrington, a Fire Starter for the grc, said the clothesline project helps to draw attention to the fact that sexual assault and violence impact the entire community. 
“it’s important to realize that this is an issue that affects every­one regardless of whether or not you actually think you know a sur­vivor or consciously know a survi­vor,” she said.  “it really is such a harm to our community at notre dame and we all do have the re­sponsibility to step up and be our brother’s and sister’s keeper.” 
harrington said the clothesline project also provides a way for stu­dents and faculty to engage in a dialogue about how to address the issue of sexual violence — an issue which has received renewed at­tention owing to recent reports of sexual assault and campus view­ings of “the hunting ground.” 
“i think it’s really important to continue these conversations that have been happening on cam­pus, especially surrounding ‘the hunting ground,’” she said.  “and i think this is a way that this con­versation can keep going.” 
other events happening this week regarding sexual violence awareness and prevention include the annual take back the night, which will begin tonight at 5:30 
p.m. and consist of a prayer vigil, march and dinner, and denim day, an all-day event occurring this Friday to bring attention to the issue of victim-blaming. 
gesicki said that in conjunc­tion with take back the night and denim day, the clothesline project demonstrates the notre dame community’s desire to im­prove campus safety and to reach out to victims of violence. 
“i think it [the clothesline project] operates in tandem with the other events this week, to bring awareness to the fact that we do have a community that is supportive of those who have ex­perienced violence,” she said. “it’s a community that includes sur­vivors, and also people who have walked with them through the violence that’s been committed against them. 
“we’re not perfect yet — i think that’s one takeaway — but we continue to work towards ways to make this community safer for ev­eryone in it.” 
Contact Clare Kossler at  ckossler@nd.edu 

ricketts said his admin-Service istration hopes to promote 
continued From page 1 
open and honest discussion 

about sexual assault on cam-the policy of planning prayer pus during their term. services after sexual as-“we are always open to sault crime alerts began in carrying on dialogue about fall 2013 under then-student sexual assault and are com­
“We are always open to carrying on dialogue about sexual assault and are committed to preparing for fall programming invovling our partners in the Committee for Sexual Assault Prevention and the Gender Relations Center.” 
Bryan Ricketts 
student body president 

body president and vice pres-mitted to preparing for fall ident alex coccia and nancy programming involving our Joyce. partners in the committee for Sexual assault prevention and the gender relations center,” he said. 
ruelas reflected on gender issues department director danny Funaro’s call to action that closed the service. 
“danny’s call to action also stood as a firm testimony that our work in combating sexual violence is not done and that it is up to us to go beyond our comfort zones to prevent vio­lence on campus and in our society,” she said. “as erin in her reflection said, ‘apathy is the antithesis of beauty.’ 
“we are committed to combating apathy and ris­ing together to actively stand against sexual violence.” 
Contact Margaret Hynds at myhnds@nd.edu 



paid advertiSement 


TBTN 
continued From page 1 
and stalking to share their story.” 
“take back the night is a unique event as it promotes healing, activism and aware­ness within one evening,” adams said. “For individuals who have been impacted, it provides a space to see that a community visibly sup­ports them. For individuals who don’t believe they know survivors, it provides a space to recognize the impact of these issues on our commu­nity. For those who are seek­ing an opportunity to speak out and demonstrate their beliefs, it provides a space for activism within our cam­pus community.” 
Junior ashley watkins, a member of the bavo student advisory committee, said it is important for students to partake in tbtn because it fosters a relationship of sup­port between the different 
“It is a chance for students from all three campuses to come together and express support for one another as well as raise awareness about issues regarding sexual violence.” 
Ashley Watkins 
junior 
campus communities. 
“it is a chance for stu­dents from all three cam­puses to come together and express support for one an­other as well as raise aware­ness about issues regarding sexual violence,” watkins said. “take back the night is an event where students have the ability to demand change from the institutions.” 
adams said the event is a collaborative event with notre dame, involving stu­dents and staff from both campuses in the planning process and the event itself. 
“the issues of sexual as­sault, relationship vio­lence and stalking impact our campus communities,” adams said. “while there is certainly a place for educa­tion and engagement on our respective campuses, it is also important to have op­portunities to unite in our holy cross missions.” 
“although Saint mary’s and notre dame are sepa­rate, there is a lot of crossover between the institutions,” watkins said. “when talking about sexual violence within 
these two campuses, it is hard not to talk about the 
“The work we do to prevent, reduce and address violence on our campuses is part of a larger international movement. The problem, as well as the solution, is broader than our local community. What we do here matters. It has an impact ... ” 
Connie Adams 
director, Belles Against Violence 
student body’s relationships with each other.” 
tbtn is not unique to the Saint mary’s and notre dame communities. it is an international movement, though it is tailored to fit the needs of individual campus­es, according to adams. 
“the work we do to pre­vent, reduce and address violence on our campuses is part of a larger, internation­al movement,” adams said. “the problem, as a well as the solution, is broader than our local community. what we do here matters. it has an impact, but we must recog­nize the work being done in other areas throughout the world, as well as, in decades past. 
“after all, a movement is nothing more, nothing less, than collective action. we are part of a movement.” 
Contact Nicole Caratas at ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 


McCarthy 
continued From page 1 
messages, but his puns. 
“when i first started doing the announcements, every­body was more concerned about having a good time, and what was going on at the game and so forth, and they really weren’t listening to the safety message,” mccarthy said. “and at that time, they were having quite a lot of trouble in indiana with fatal accidents, just all kinds of really bad accidents. and a lot of those were to and from notre dame. 
“ … i thought you know, [the fans are] here for a weekend of fun, and they could care less about a state policeman telling them to be careful on the way home. i thought maybe if i attracted a little attention — so that was when i started using the quips, the very next season. luckily, at that time, the sta­dium was unusually quiet because the referees were discussing something on the field … so i went in with a message. i did a warning on drinking and driving, and the punch line was, ‘the au­tomobile replaced the horse, but the driver should stay on the wagon.’ and the crowd heard that, and i heard boos and groans and catcalls.” 
but a negative reaction was better than no reaction, mccarthy said. that meant people were listening. So he continued with his quips. 
“the next game i did an­other quip — it was on driver attitude, and the punch line was ‘some drivers are like steel, no good when they lose their temper,’” mccarthy said. “and gee, more boos and groans and so forth. but toward the end of the sea­son, i started to realize that people were quiet just to hear how corny — and i’m the first one to admit they’re quite corny, many of them — but just to see how corny [the punch line] is. From there i just continued, and it got to the point where people were looking forward to hearing the quip that i had at the end of the message. and in the meantime, they’re listening to the message, which deals with their personal safety.” 
mccarthy, who grew up in Fort wayne, indiana, said he was “born and raised a notre dame fan.” his life was also characterized by police work. 
“The one thing I 
didn’t like about 
retiring from 
the state police 
was that I’d have 
to leave Notre 
Dame.” 
Tim McCarthy 
former state police sergeant 
mccarthy’s father was a city policeman in Fort wayne. 
“i just kind of grew up lik­ing police work,” mccarthy said. “it always kind of fas­cinated me because of my father. So eventually, that’s how i ended up on the state police. 
mccarthy’s wife was also a police officer — they met at a manslaughter trial in 1956, mccarthy said. 
“i was a young trooper, sin­gle,” he said. “i had arrested a fellow for manslaughter, and she happened, at that time, to be working for the county clerk’s office and would walk into the court room to have the judge sign papers. … and i got the prosecutor to in­troduce me to her. later on i called her up for a date, and we started from there.” 
For years, mccarthy’s an­nouncements at football games were a “hobby” while he worked as a detective ser­geant at the indiana State police. but when mccarthy retired from the state po­lice, he continued to deliver safety messages at football games. 
“the one thing i didn’t like about retiring from the state police was that i’d have to leave notre dame,” mccarthy said. “but then moose Kraus, who was athletic director — i told him i was retiring from the state police, and he said, ‘hey, we’d like to have you keep doing this.’ and i said, ‘hey that’s fine with me.’ So that’s why i’ve been there so long.” 
mccarthy can quote many of his quips from memory 
— he said two of his favor­ites were, “drinking drivers are not very funny, but they can still crack you up” and “remember, do not let your driving make you grumpy or dopey when the roads are snow white.” 
mccarthy said writing the punch lines to his messages was a gradual process — he was always on the lookout for a new play on words. Sometimes, though, he did get a little help. 
“i had some people send me some — i had notre dame stu­dents and some Saint mary’s students send me different quips that they thought were good,” mccarthy said. “Some of them i could use, and some of them i didn’t dare use.” 
mccarthy’s love for notre dame, and for notre dame students, is what kept him and his puns here so long, he said. 
“i did it for so long because i liked doing it,” mccarthy said. “i liked the atmosphere over there on game day, and i’ve always been a notre dame fan. i really enjoyed working with the students on different occasions, attend­ing some of their events was always a lot of fun. i just en­joyed it.” 
Contact Madison Jaros at  mjaros@nd.edu 


INSIDE COLUMN 
On the basic white girl 

Nicole Caratas 
news writer 
i am a 19-year-old student at Saint mary’s college. i’ve done loads of laundry that consist en­tirely of leggings and yoga pants. i love my iphone and anything that tastes like pumpkin spice. i wear uggs in the winter, i drink Starbucks regularly and yes, i own a selfie stick. basically, i’m what you would call a basic white girl. and while i’ve always embraced this stereotype, i think it’s about time we stop shaming girls for liking what they like and realize that saying, “wow can you be anymore of a white girl?” is not only stupid, but also harmful. 
what i don’t understand is society’s need to make anything a teenage girl does into a joke. i can’t count how many “here come the hunter boots” or “does every girl have to wear a north Face, leggings and uggs now that it’s getting cold out?” yaks there are every time the weather changes. 
newsflash: hunter boots keep your feet dry in the rain, uggs keep your feet warm in the cold, north Face makes quality jackets, and leggings are comfortable. 
growing up as a girl is a lot harder than society gives girls credit for. you have to have a thigh gap and small waist, accentuated by your bigger butt and chest. you can’t let people walk all over you, but the second you stand up for yourself, you’re looking for attention. you can’t eat too much be­cause that’s unattractive. but you can’t eat too little because no guy likes the girl who orders a salad. and heaven forbid your bra strap is showing; ev­eryone knows that that particular item of clothing must remain top secret. 
a lot of people joke around about the white girl stereotype. they say they don’t mean it mali­ciously, and they think it’s just something funny, but then they add, “except for actual basic white girls. they’re annoying.” and why are they annoy­ing? the only answer i’ve heard to this question is “because they’re so basic.” 
while society has made strides towards gender equality, we’re not there yet. and not just legally. yes, women earn less money than men and that is a problem. but also, gender discrimination is in­fused in our culture. take bands for example. one direction has a largely female fan base, and, not only does the band gets shade for that, but the girls who like the band are ridiculed. of course you like one direction; you’re a white girl. and, of course, they’re not a real band. they’re nothing like the beatles, who by the way had a largely female fan base and are in fact the original boy band. 
the problem with this stereotype is that girls have always been second class citizens, and even though it isn’t as obvious as it was a few decades ago, the underlying ideas still plague society. people need to stop shaming women for liking what they like. So what if everyone dresses the same? maybe what we wear is practical or com­fortable or just what we want to wear. it shouldn’t matter to anyone else what women do, and call­ing us basic white girls is just perpetuating a toxic culture. 
So ladies, the next time someone judges you for being a “basic white girl,” forget the haters, get yourself a latte and remember that you’re #blessed. 
Contact Nicole Caratas at       ncaratas01@saintymarys.com 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

i am notre dame (and so can you) 
Billy McMahon 
blue collar blues 
i’ve spent a lot of column inches over the past year criticizing the university’s policies or admin­istration. From what i’ve said about the adminis­tration caring too much for wealth or my tangles with the more ridiculous side of university dis­cipline, it would be easy to conclude that i didn’t much care for this place. in fact, it’s meant a great deal to me, so i think my last column should be this one. 
when i’m somewhere i don’t like, i leave. it’s pretty simple, just look for the nearest door. liking a place is the hard part. when i’m somewhere i like, i try to make it better. my method may feel like a shove — a largely ineffective one, if we can be hon­est about the impact of student newspapers — but it’s no less an effort at bettering my home. 
as a member of the working poor, my background is not typical for a student here. notre dame pulled me out of my family’s struggles through foreclo­sure, eviction and periods of homelessness. it has been my home more than anywhere else for the past four years. i’m not talking about the magic others have felt from looking at the golden dome and sentimentally calling this place “home” in its own special way. i’m talking about the university, and now the neighboring part of South bend, being my home in a real and practical sense. it’s been the most stable living arrangement i’ve had in a while, whereas i’m always worrying about where my fam­ily is going and how they’re doing. i love my family more than any home, but that didn’t change the reality of my situation. throughout my four years, my friends would talk about going home for breaks. i was leaving it. 
this university is more than just a school, it’s a community. i don’t mean that in the cheesy way a tour guide might say it (sorry tim), but with the weight of all the real conditions, problems and opportunities that define any community. notre dame can do great things. it has done great things, but it can do more. it can use its status as the largest employer in the area to set living wage standards. it can use its billions of dollars of en­dowment and fundraising strength to invest in revitalizing South bend. it can tell its own students that no religious belief can justify discriminating against their peers. these are a few of the things i think it can do, but i’m just one of thousands in this community. i can’t speak alone. 
i can’t stay here forever, that’s the nature of a university. even if it was different, i think it would be time for me to leave anyway. i’ve made some of the best friends of my life here, and it’s been great engaging with the passionate academics on the faculty. Still, there’s always been a part of me that’s felt out of place. it might be hard to know what i mean if you’ve had different experiences in your life, but in many ways this university isn’t made for people from my class. the students here can talk dante, but not desperation. the culture seems to assume a certain upbringing. the university has set about increasing racial diversity, but the stu­dent body can still feel pretty homogenous when it comes to class, which most shapes our conditions in life. there’s much to be said for speaking and living with others of different backgrounds, but when it seems like they’re all from the same differ­ent background, you realize you need people who understand the shape of your life. i always knew it would be like that, of course, and i love notre dame for what it’s been for me these past four years. 
i don’t know what’s ahead of me. i’ve got some ideas, but i don’t commit myself to more than a few years at a time. there’s too much to do. but even if nothing in the classroom could prepare me for it all, i’ll still be better for having been here for this moment in the history of a university that will out­last us all. 
in the lifetime of the bricks that we all pass by ev­ery day, many generations of young students have come here, made it their home, and passed into old age. those bricks haven’t changed, but what we make of them has. So here’s what i have to say to all present and future members of this commu­nity — making this place your home means making yourself responsible for it. don’t shirk that respon­sibility, and no matter how good it already is, keep pushing for a better notre dame. 
Billy McMahon is a senior studying Latin American history and is active in the labor movement. He welcomes all comments at wmcmahon@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


Four years and one lifetime ago 
Tim Scanlan 
pardon the prose 
with only two weeks left until graduation, my procrastination level has hit an all-time high. i’ve cooked, cleaned, called my parents and high school friends and even started this column before the day it was due. big stuff. i stumbled across a gem the other day though, and i haven’t been able to shake it from my mind since. i read my college admissions essays. 
almost five years ago, 17-year-old me decided to apply to college, and specifically to notre dame. i had dreams and goals and a vision of myself. after four years under the dome, some of those aspirations have even come to fruition. everyone changes, but rarely do we get the op­portunity to observe ourselves change. all i’ve been able to think about these last few days is how i would have filled out those questions if i would have known what my time here would be like. 
if you could teach a course, what would it be? although “politics and religion” was a pretty good answer, it turns out notre dame has like seven of those classes, so back to square one. i’ve had some incredible classes here, taught by pro­fessors i couldn’t possibly replace. i also haven’t thought of an academic topic that someone here isn’t already an expert in, so my class would have to be more… practical. “relaxation in the Face of unrealistic expectations” would be a mandatory course for all notre dame freshmen. required activities would include: watching three-minute videos your friends want you to see, learning how to nap, and (more importantly) learning how to wake up on time to alarms. weekly affirma­tion exercises will involve reminding students that the job/school/career they’re vying for is well within reach. this affirmation will be the most important part of the class, and certainly the most difficult for notre dame’s occasionally stressed student body. 

what’s my grotto? although this was a painful­ly difficult question for me to answer five years ago (i said the driver’s seat of my car – super un­inspiring, tim), now it’s way easier. “my grotto” is the grotto, obviously. i lived in morrissey for three years and the walk to the grotto was four minutes long. before exams, elections, dates and games, the grotto was the perfect place for me to seek peace with a dozen or so strangers search­ing for the same. Four days ago, i proposed to my girlfriend there. as the question prompt sug­gested, the grotto is my “cherished destination on notre dame’s campus … to pray and take time for reflection.” 
why notre dame? almost five years ago i wrote about why i wanted to be here. i talked about the holy cross mission and educating the whole person. i mentioned the time i spent on campus during a high school program, and the over­whelming feeling of “home” i got even before i was a student. all of which still apply today. but if i were to answer the question now, i wouldn’t write about why i wanted to be here, i would write about why i needed to be here. notre dame is where i made friends with guys from ohio, nebraska, minnesota and new Jersey, fell in love with a girl from illinois and lived in washington, 
d.c. i’ve learned about business, politics and a tiny bit about calculus. i have cried, smiled and laughed (and laughed and laughed) at all hours of the night. 
notre dame helped me become the student, leader, friend and catholic i have always wanted to be. i ended that admissions question by say­ing, “most colleges open doors for the mind. only notre dame does so for the heart as well.” after four years, i can confidently say notre dame has done that and so much more for me. 
reading those essays brought back great mem­ories, and reminded me that high school tim knew what he was talking about sometimes. i know i’ve changed these last four years. So have most people. new friends, new experiences and new perspectives are what college is about. if there is any advice i feel comfortable giving from my graduating-senior soapbox, it is to embrace the changes — but with one caveat. change in ways that would make that optimistic high school senior proud. i can only pray that my former self would approve of my new answers and who i have become. i hope you are changing in ways that your high school self would applaud. i love this school, and i am overjoyed at the fact that i was able to shape myself as a student here. i have found friendship, family and love that i couldn’t have dreamed of when i wrote those essays. 
thank you to 17-year-old me for getting in to this incredible university, and thank you to notre dame for the best four years of my life. 
Tim Scanlan is a senior finance major with a minor in public service. He is a former resident of Morrissey Manor. He encourages debate on his columns, and can be reached at tscanlan@nd.edu with any comments or questions. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
‘Jail and bail’ fundraiser is disrespectful 
many people in the notre dame community sup-evidence, such as the Justice department’s report sisters. ported and participated in relay for life events last on policing in Ferguson, mo., demonstrates that next year, i implore nd relay for life to find a week. i would like to acknowledge their good in-discriminatory police practices contribute to the new way to raise money for the cause of cancer re­tentions and the time, money and hard work they disproportionate arrest and incarceration of black search. Singing telegrams? Skywriting? i can think committed to raise money for cancer research. or brown skinned individuals. against this back-of a hundred other fundraisers that both align with with that being said, i must express my disgust drop, prank “arrests” such as the “Jail and bail” are catholic Social teaching on human dignity and with the notre dame chapter’s annual “Jail and in extremely poor taste. i believe we only find them respect the tragic reality of 2.3 million incarcer­bail” fundraiser, in which people pay a fee to have funny because we at notre dame are members of a ated americans. their friends and co-workers “arrested” for a cause. privileged community. 
we live in a time of unprecedented mass in-Few of us will ever be arrested in real life; when Amy Jonason carceration in the united States. a staggeringly we do have encounters with police, we can expect ph.d candidate disproportionate number of incarcerated indi-them to be reasonable and respectful. this is not sociology viduals have black or brown skin. and emerging true for many of our black and brown brothers and april 20 




By CAELIN MILTKO 
Scene writer 
i’ve been relatively lucky with this column. before this, i had yet to read anything i really didn’t enjoy. while i wouldn’t say that every book i’ve ever read was my favorite, i was usually able to find something i liked about the book. and when i finished, i was always glad i’d taken the time to read it. 
unfortunately, this was not the case with “the color of Secrets” by lindsay Jayne ashford. i rarely read books that i want to put down halfway through, but this was one of the exceptions. to put it mildly, i was not a fan. 
i thought the plot sounded mildly compelling. if i hadn’t, obviously i wouldn’t have bought it. the abstract said that the book was about a couple in wolverhampton, england, during world war ii. She is married, but her husband has been missing, presumed dead for two years while in the british army — he is an african american gi. during their time together, she gets pregnant. presumably, then, i thought the plot would follow the trials and tribulations of their relationship. 
By JIMMY KEMPER 
Scene writer 
if you only listen to one album this month, make sure it’s alabama Shakes’ “Sound & color.” don’t even finish this review, just go find the album and give it the attention it deserves. 
with “Sound & color,” alabama Shakes has done some­thing incredible. they have redefined the vision for their sound, shattered all expectations and brought many new colors to the band’s palette. 
as with their 2012 debut album “boys & girls,” lead sing­er brittany howard’s soulful vocals are powerful, gritty and downright wonderful. who could possibly forget the first time they played “boys & girls” and heard howard croon on “hold on?” “Sound & color” displays an expan­sion of howard’s vocal prowess that she didn’t share on “boys & girls,” whether she’s screaming like a banshee, sinking into the low notes or showing off her falsettos. 
as great as “boys & girls” was, the instrumentals lagged far behind howard’s vocals. the band had clearly mastered and really dug into their Southern rock sound, but they were unwilling to give that sound and their skill the opportunity to explore new things. but in “Sound & color,” the instrumentals act as more than just a back­ground to support howard’s talent; they complement her style and drive the music forward in new directions. it’s 
that’s sort of what i got. but not really. there were a number of problems with this book, but the biggest one was the way ashford would randomly drop charac­ters for 200 pages or so, no matter how big a role they’d played earlier in the story. perhaps the weirdest fact about this novel is that the two “main” characters, eva and bill, almost literally disappear from the novel after their child is born. 
eva is mentioned occasionally, but not nearly as of­ten as her presumed dead husband, who magically re­appears about 40 percent through the novel. they both reappear at the very end, but by then, it’s really too late to make much sense of what has happened. 
the issue of race is central to the novel’s plot, as can probably be guessed by the title. but this plays out in a number of strange ways. perhaps the most confusing was the family’s return to wolverhampton from wales when louisa (bill and eva’s child) is about nine-years­old. her first day there she goes to a shop and is instant­ly recognized as a black person. She is kicked out of the store, and is forced to realize that she is of a different race from the man she has presumed was her father. 
this would be fine. however, upon going to school, 
absolutely amazing what the past few years on the road have done for the band. now, the Shakes tinker with a wide variety of sounds, instruments and moods through­out the album. 
Sometimes, alabama Shakes even explores multiple tempos and moods within the same track. “gimme all your love” is a prime example of this, and it's one of my favorite tracks on the record. it’s a love ballad with airy, soulful guitar riffs interposed with striking chords and howard’s haunting screeches on the chorus that send shivers down the spine. 
“the greatest” is another great track that shows the value of what a little wanderlust can do for the Shakes. the song starts off with a muted, distorted and grungy sounding guitar that could have come straight out of an early Foo Fighters album. right in the middle of the song, we’re thrown forward into the future with some elec­tric, whistling synth noises. by the end of the track, “the greatest” is a full out jam with banging drums, pound­ing basslines and rocking screams from howard. “the greatest” takes listeners on a journey across genres and decades within the span of a few minutes that is simply unprecedented for the Shakes. 
experimentation is obviously a risky move and can potentially lead to a disjointed album. “Sound & color” avoids this setback because every single track is anchored by howard’s emotional powerhouse of a voice and by the louisa’s skin color is made out to be light enough that she passes as a tan white person for the rest of her time in wolverhampton. as a reader, i didn’t quite know how she could do both. 
Stylistically, the hard-to-follow plot was made more confusing by ashford’s tendency to jump from view­point to viewpoint at will. occasionally, this shift would be marked by the beginning of a new chapter. more often, the point-of-view simply changed, and the reader was stuck playing catch-up with the story. 
when i was attempting to explain all of this to my roommate, she laughed and said that it sounded like a bad fanfiction. upon reflection, i kind of agreed. however, there is one very important difference be­tween this and your average fanfiction. this novel wants to be an insightful look into race relations from the 1940s to the 1960s in england, while your average fanfiction is really meant to be primarily self-indul­gent. Still, due to stylistic flaws and unbelievable plot points, “the color of Secrets” can’t quite pull off what it set out to do. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 
band’s deep love of Southern rock. this affection gushes throughout the album and settles into the little details, whether it be a quiet, bluesy guitar riff hidden in the very back of the song or a thumping bassline intertwining with howard’s vocals in the very front. 
altogether, this focus on little details creates a much more intimate experience than the loFi “boys & girls” and the need to give this album multiple playbacks in order to absorb everything that the Shakes have accom­plished. and they have accomplished quite a lot with “Sound & color,” embracing and infusing several decades worth of new sounds to create a masterpiece of a Southern rock album that shines with the brightest colors. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
“Sound & Color” 
Alabama Shakes 
Label: ATO Records 
Tracks: “Gimme All Your Love,” “The Greatest,” “Don’t Wanna Fight” If you like: Father john Misty, The Black Keys, Dr. Dog 


EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 



By KATHY MINKO 
Scene writer 
Summer. pleasure. hoodies. all these things come to mind upon listening to matt and Kim’s most recent album “new glow.” released on april 7, this collection of songs channels a punk-rock spin on a contemporary — and by contemporary, i mean ryan Seacrest’s american top 40 
— genre. though they meet the upbeat-speakers-bump­ing criteria of the billboard's top 100, the entirety of their album fails to instill any lessons or deep thoughts. then again, that may be the entire point. 
while society has certainly made the (somewhat unfor­tunate) shift from indie-rock to pop-hits, matt and Kim, along with the producers of “new glow,” had the right idea to follow suit. listening to the very first song on the album, “hey now,” i was overcome by an introduction of mixed beats more powerful than many other matt and Kim songs i’ve heard thus far. Finding the difference a nice change of pace, i began to flip through other songs within the album to discover the same trend. Soon after, i started listening to the words, which instilled a feeling 
By ALEXANDRA LOWERY 
Scene writer 
with finals looming and the thought of cleaning out your cluttered dorm room always gnawing at the back of your mind, it’s hard to remember that there are still things in this world to look forward to. Soon, we will have escaped the clutches of higher education, and we will have all the time in the world to binge-watch, stalk people on social media and for those of us who are cin­ematically-obsessed, get excited for the summer movie line-up. 
“The Avengers: Age of Ultron” — May 1 
while technically this movie premieres on our first reading day and not during the stress-free bliss that is summer, there is no reason why this highly an­ticipated superhero sequel shouldn’t be one the most exciting things to happen in your life in the next two weeks. whedon is back with the entire marvel crew — minus Spiderman — and everyone’s favor­ite genius, billionaire, playboy philanthropist at the helm. the trailer itself is chill-worthy, so it’s pret­ty obvious why this one is worth the study break. 
of light-heartedness and a yearning for summertime. repetitive as usual, the matt and Kim song lyrics failed to encompass anything deep or meaningful. while the recurrence of “look lookin’ like a king look lookin’ like a king with a hoodie on” or “at 1:00 a.m.” with a techno beat doesn’t provide any contemplation, i found it a valid tran­sition into a season filled with fun and carefree attitudes. maybe even some hoodies? 
at any point in time — and randomly in “get it” — i an­ticipated an epic rap verse, but alas this was not the case. that being said, though, the enjoyable beat provided a unique variation of genres: punk rock mixed with tech-no, indie and even a little hip-hop. the constantly san­guine beats within “new glow” never failed to make my head bob while mindlessly working on homework, and while this stylistic mix makes a fair competitor against american top 40, matt and Kim sustains more of an inter­est through its entire album then, say, a Zedd album. 
now, back to the lyrics. while i’ve already made it known that the lyrics don’t provide anything thought-provoking or satirical like courtney barnett, they pro­vide a cheeky vibe some people just want or need to hear. 
“Pitch Perfect 2” — May 15 
whether you can quote every line or can’t stand the sound of cups moving rhythmically on a flat surface anymore, there’s no denying that “pitch perfect” left its mark on your life and essentially our generation when it premiered october 2012 with overall rave reviews. rebel, anna and their aca-homies will all reprise their roles in what is sure to be one of the highest selling openings this summer, if not the whole year. luckily, here at notre dame, universal pictures is presenting a special sneak preview in dpac this Friday. you should check it out. 
“Jurassic World” — June 12 
i should be able to just type the words chris pratt and have that be enough to explain why you should be ex­cited for this movie. however, in case any of you are anti­pratt — you’re not, those people don’t exist — i will also type Steven Spielberg, long-awaited sequel to the classic “Jurassic park” movies and “the park is open,” which is probably one of the best tag lines for a movie ever. get excited. 
“Paper Towns” — July 24 
John green’s uncanny ability to connect with however, the interpretation — or lack thereof — becomes completely dependent on an individual’s taste. though they may not have done anything for me, another person could very well find them enjoyable. 
all in all, the vibe of “new glow” comes at a perfect time in the year. if not for the impending summer season, its miscellaneous vibes may not have taken it as far. if you’re in need of some head-bobbing tunes with feel-good lyrics, matt and Kim will provide you with a glowing new album. 
Contact Kathy Minko at kminko@nd.edu 
“New Glow” 
Matt and Kim 

Label: Harvest Records Tracks: “Get It,” “Hey Now,” “Hoodie On,” If you like: Bastille 

millennials will once again make its way to the big screen when the adaptation of his third young-adult novel, “paper towns,” is released this summer on the one-year anniversary of the premiere of “the Fault in our Stars” (adapted from green’s most successful novel of the same name). From the trailer, the movie does not seem lack­ing in quotable dialogue or ample amounts young love, both staples from green. it’s pretty much a must-see for anyone with a heart. 
“Fantastic Four” — Aug. 7 
in an attempt to revamp the critically-panned, albeit commercially successful, “Fantastic Four” franchise, marvel will drop its second-biggest superhero block­buster this summer. while the original series left a lot to be desired and failed to garner full-on trilogy status, the comic community has high hopes for this latest remake. with big names like miles teller, Kate mara, michael b. Jordan and Jamie bell making up what’s hopefully the most entertaining fearsome foursome we have seen on screen thus far, we’re not ready to give up on this super­hero craze quite yet. 
Contact Alexandra Lowery at alowery1@nd.edu 

EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 
AL Central draws interest early on 
Samantha Zuba 
Senior Sports writer 
and the award for most inter­esting division race before any mlb team has played 20 games goes to … the american league central. 
calling it a “race” might be a stretch because there is still a marathon’s worth of games left to play. there’s a lot of time for teams to fade, and there always seems to be a streaking team that makes a final-week push to the playoffs. 
but so far, the al central has put on the best show with two of mlb’s top records in the 11-2 detroit tigers and 10-3 Kansas city royals. no division has a better 1-2 combination right now. 
the tigers have stumbled only twice, in a 5-4 loss to the pittsburgh pirates on april 13 and in a 12-3 loss to the chicago white Sox on Saturday. 
the tigers have won because they’ve performed extremely well both offensively and de­fensively. detroit’s pitchers have combined for five shutout wins already, and the tigers lineup has scored seven-plus runs six times. 
the royals have been similarly consistent. they’ve notched seven-plus runs five times. they haven’t managed a shutout yet, but they’ve al­lowed two runs or fewer six times. 
that both teams are winning isn’t a surprise, exactly. detroit won the al central with a 90­72 record. Kansas city snagged second in the al central and advanced all the way to the world Series. 
one easily wondered how good both teams will be this season, however. 
the tigers made the play­offs last season, but they ex­ited quickly as the baltimore orioles swept them in the al division Series. 
and as Kevin helliker pointed out in the wall Street Journal last week, after the royals lost in the 2014 world Series, many dismissed them as “a mediocre squad that got hot at the right time.” 
but this evidence is mislead­ing. the orioles clobbered the tigers in game one of the aldS, but games two and three were decided by one run each. and for the royals: hot streaks don’t carry over several months into a new season. 
most importantly, both teams have dropped strong hints early this season they’re for real. they’ve won at brisk clips that might not be sustain­able, but they’ve done it with a solid balance of offense and defense. Kansas city’s 7-0 start might not be regularly repeat­able, but both teams look capable of consistency — the quality that really carries a team through a season. 
added to the intriguing al central mix are the chicago white Sox. 
admittedly, they sit in third with an uninspiring 5-7 record, but the team has potential with a rotation led by chris Sale and Jeff Samardzija and a revamped lineup built around first baseman Jose abreu. 
acquiring first baseman adam laroche in the offseason and the return of right fielder avisail garcia from injury make this team more interest­ing than last season’s squad, which finished fourth in the division with a 73-89 record. 
on monday, the Sox eked out a win against the cleveland indians, 4-3, with a four-run bottom-of-the-ninth. that’s the kind of game chicago didn’t win last year, and it’s the type of game a contending team has to be capable of pull­ing off. 
as for the indians, they finished third with an 85-77 record in 2014, just four games behind the royals. cleveland hasn’t amazed yet this season as they sit in last in the central with a 4-8 record, but having manager terry Francona at the helm is usually a good sign. 
the twins complete the al central after finishing last in the division this past season with a 70-92 record. it’s tough to tell how much they’ll im­prove this season, but they do have longtime fan-favorite torii hunter back patrolling the outfield for the first season since 2007. 
all in all, even though the al central hasn’t been known for its strength in the past decade, it has improved over the last few seasons and will be one of the better divisions to watch. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu
 The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


BOSTON MARATHON 

last racer finishes boston marathon in 20 hours 
Associated Press 

boSton — a venezuelan man with muscular dystro­phy was honored at city hall on tuesday after enduring about 20 hours of sometimes drenching rain, wind and cold to complete the boston marathon in the early morn­ing hours. 
maickel melamed finished at about 5 a.m., becoming the last athlete to complete the storied 26.2-mile race, which started monday morning. 
“his story is truly one of inspiration,” mayor marty walsh said as he bestowed a medal for completing the race to melamed at a gather­ing with supporters and city officials. 
the 39-year-old, who has a form of muscular dystrophy that severely impairs his mo­bility, praised bostonians for embracing his efforts. 
“after 20 hours of rain, wind and cold, boston is still strong,” melamed said from a wheelchair, echoing the “boston Strong” catchphrase that became the city’s rally cry after two bombs exploded at the finish line in 2013, kill­ing three people and injur­ing over 260. “the whole city has been so helpful and so loving.” 
melamed, who was joined by a volunteer team from vamos, a caracas-based organization focused on youths, said he completed the marathon to give hope and inspiration to others. 
“the message here is that love is so much stronger than death,” he said. “it was an honor to the run the streets of this city.” 
boston marks the fifth marathon melamed has com­pleted, including chicago, new york, berlin and tokyo. he says boston holds a spe­cial place for him because it’s where his parents brought him as a child for medical treatment. 
but melamed acknowl­edged boston’s hilly course was one of the most challenging. 
he and his team of vol­unteers endured torrential downpours, thunderstorms, biting wind and cold before being greeted at the boylston Street finish line by doz­ens of cheering friends and supporters. 
“it was real tough,” melamed said. “especially around mile 24. but my physi­cal trainers came up with an amazing way to keep going. i’d rest 10 seconds, then (take) four to six steps. it was a real exciting way to finish.” 
by way of comparison, the winner of the boston marathon, 25-year-old ethiopian lelisa desisa, com­pleted the race monday in 2 hours, 9 minutes, 17 seconds. 

NBA | warriorS 97, pelicanS 87 
Warriors take 2-0 series lead against Pelicans 
Associated Press 

oaKland, calif. — golden State warriors coach Steve Kerr likes to say his team tee­ters on “explosive and care­less” basketball, pulling off an astonishing play one mo­ment and a perplexing one the next. 
Kerr saw both extremes monday night. 
and the better half was just good enough to defend home court. 
Klay thompson scored 26 points, Stephen curry had 22 points and six assists and the warriors regrouped from an early deficit to beat the new orleans pelicans 97-87 and take a 2-0 lead in their first-round playoff series. 
“we still get excited at times and do some crazy things. i kind of like the fact that we walk that line,” Kerr said. “it’s what makes us who we are.” 
the top-seeded warriors fell behind by 13 points in 

FOR SALE 

Full size mattress, box spring and frame; desk, desk chair, dresser. Desk lamp, storage bins. $350 for all, nego­tiable. Chris 914-419-7185 
the first quarter after a strong start by anthony davis and eric gordon quieted an an­nounced sellout crowd of 19,596 wearing golden yellow shirts. but a big burst before halftime pushed the warriors ahead, and their defense clamped down in the closing moments to put away the pes­ky pelicans. 
game 3 of the best-of-seven series is thursday night in new orleans. 
davis had 26 points and 10 rebounds, and gordon scored 23 points for a pelicans team that played with more poise and passion than it did in the series opener. 
“we just have to stick with it,” gordon said. 
“we’re playing the best team in the league and we’re fight­ing tooth and nail,” pelicans coach monty williams added. “our guys are grouping up on the fly.” 
in the end, the warriors were just better when it mattered most. 
golden State turned up the nba’s top-rated defense late, holding the pelicans to 35 points in the second half. new orleans shot just 37.8 for the game. 
the pelicans still pulled within one in the final min­utes before draymond green and center andrew bogut — golden State’s defensive stop­pers — helped the warriors shut down davis and new orleans again. green finished with 14 points, 12 rebounds and five assists. 
thompson also converted a running bank shot over gordon to start a three-point play, and bogut followed with a two-handed slam to give golden State a 97-86 lead with 
1:02 left, fending off a tough­er-than-expected fight from the west’s eighth seed. 
“we know we’re going to have turnovers or lapses. but it’s the defense that won us the game,” thompson said. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Did you see the shooting star to-bright. And I see colors in a different night? Were you dazzled by the same way. You make what doesn’t matter constellation? Did you and Jupiter fade to grey. Life is good and that’s the conspire to get me? I think you and the way it should be. You make me sing, moon and Neptune got it right. Cause oh la la, you make a girl go oh, oh I’m I’m shining bright, so bright. Bright, so in love, love. 


Belles hit the road to take on rival Hornets 


SMC TENNIS 
By DAISY COSTELLO 
Sports writer 
Saint mary’s returns to ac­tion wednesday night for its final match of the regular season. 
after having their noncon­ference match against north central canceled because of inclement weather tuesday, the belles (11-8, 5-2 miaa) will travel to Kalamazoo, michigan, to take on confer­ence rival Kalamazoo (12-6, 5-1 miaa). 
the match could have a large impact on the belles’ seeding in the miaa tour­nament, which includes the top four teams in the confer­ence. as it stands, Kalamazoo is second in the conference and Saint mary’s sits third. aside from the importance of the match for postseason play, belles head coach dale campbell said he places an even bigger emphasis on the match for morale and ener­gizing the team going into postseason play. 
“it would be a huge win, as we have not beaten them in many years,” campbell said, “it would be a great victory for our team and for Saint mary’s.” 


paid advertiSement 
the belles have not earned a win against the comets since the spring of 2008, near­ly seven years ago. this year, the belles will be coming off two-straight conference wins against adrian and albion, both by scores of 8-1. the belles need to close out the regular season with the same dominance they have shown recently, because the comets are a well-rounded squad and their doubles game is espe­cially strong, campbell said. 
“we will have to add vari­ety to our strategy against the [comets’] no. 1 doubles team which has only lost one match this year,” campbell said. 
Since late march, the belles top doubles team has been comprised of senior captain Kayle Sexton and sophomore Sam Setterblad. campbell said improved communica­tion has helped the duo, and the pair have recently come into their own and posted a combined score of 16-6 over their last two match­es. the comets top doubles team, made up of junior Sarah woods and sopho­more Sabrina dass, has not dropped a game since early april. campbell said his team is not daunted by these num­bers, however, and believes the success his team has had throughout the season will show wednesday against the comets. 
“we match up fairly well against [Kalamazoo] so we will stick with our style of play in those matches,” campbell said. 
that style, according to campbell, will focus heav­ily on aggression and communication at the net in both singles and doubles play. he also said senior Jackie Kjolhede could have both a tangible and intangi­ble impact in the match. 
“[Jackie is] in the heart of our lineup and has been one of our solid performers all year,” campbell said. 
Kjolhede’s only loss of the season came march 25 in the team’s 9-0 loss to nonconference opponent indiana wesleyan. Since then, Kjolhede has won all of her matches at no. 3 singles, dropping just 20 games of a total 92. 
campbell said it will not be easy to win against Kalamazoo, but his team has put in the time and energy on specific aspects of the game, whether it be play at the net or endurance in the back-court, in order to win. 
“we just have to bring our a-game and work together,” campbell said. 
with a win against Kalamazoo, the belles would improve to 6-2 in the miaa and move into the second spot in the conference to close out the season. as the belles look toward postsea­son play starting april 30, a win against the comets would go a long way in giv­ing the belles confidence in their pursuit of a conference tournament championship, 
campbell said.  
the  belles  close  out  
their  season  wednesday  
in  Kalamazoo,  michigan.  

matches are set to begin at 4 p.m. 
Contact Daisy Costello at mcostel4@nd.edu 




SMC SOFTBALL | Smc 9, Kc 6; Smc 8, Kc 3 SMC LACROSSE | alma 19, Smc 3 
Belles take two from Kalamazoo 

alma overwhelms Smc in conference blowout 


Observer Staff Report 
after being swept by hope on Senior day, Saint mary’s rebounded against Kalamazoo with two wins of their own during tuesday’s doubleheader. 
Freshman outfielder cassie young hit a walk-off grand slam to give the belles (22­10, 9-5 miaa) a 9-6 win in the first game, and fresh­man pitcher morgan raymer held the hornets (8-20, 5-11) in check as Saint mary’s took game two, 8-3. 
the belles are currently battling for the fourth and final spot in the miaa tour­nament and needed a suc­cessful outing to keep pace over surging adrian. 
Junior Sarah burke took the hill against the hornets in game one. burke was in a groove early, not allowing a hit in the first two innings 
however, the hornets final­ly broke through in the third inning. the offensive out­burst put Kalamazoo up 4-1. 
the score remained un­changed until the bottom of the fifth, when Saint mary’s freshman second baseman Kelsey richards tripled off hornets starter erin duross, scoring junior third baseman Kayla chapman. 
Kalamazoo tacked on an­other run in the top of the seventh and put the pressure on the belles’ bats to respond. 
leadoff hitter and shortstop Jamie young started the rally with an rbi double — one of two hits for the freshman. 
young scored shortly af­ter on a one-out single from junior left fielder Sarah callis. 
the belles were down to their last out when fresh­man right fielder makenzie duncan delivered at the 
plate. her single to center drove in callis and knotted things at five apiece. 
an rbi groundout in the top half of the extra frame put the hornets up by one going into the home half of the inning. 
duross — who pitched the entire game for Kalamazoo 
— loaded the bases with a two-out walk to callis. once again down to their final out, the belles turned to a fresh­man for the big moment, and young responded, blasting a duross offering deep over the center field fence for a walk-off grand slam. 
raymer pitched a five-hit complete game for the belles in the day’s second game. She surrendered three runs, only one earned, while striking out seven and not walking a batter. 
the belles offense provided more than enough support for raymer. 
the young sisters combined to go 5-for-8, drive in three rbis and score four runs. duncan also took hornets junior pitcher victoria najact deep for her fifth long ball of the year. 
the sweep keeps the belles 
1.5 games up on adrian (21-13, 7-7) in the miaa standings. 
the belles will look to keep things rolling as they play host tomorrow to nonconfer­ence foe aurora. the game is scheduled for 3 p.m. at Saint mary’s Softball Field. 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
Sports writer 

the belles struggled to pro­duce offense for the third game in a row as they fell to alma, 19-3, in their final road game of the regular season tuesday. 
Saint mary’s (6-9, 2-5 miaa) struck early as sophomore at­tack and leading scorer emilie vanneste tallied her 39th goal of the season only four minutes into the game, but the belles struggled to retain possession for the remainder of the game. the Scots (4-10, 3-3) rattled off 11 consecutive goals over the next 15 minutes of the first half, establishing dominant possession numbers early and never allowing the belles an opportunity to retaliate. 
Freshman midfielder clare theisen managed to score her 29th goal of the season with two minutes remain­ing in the first half, providing Saint mary’s with a temporary reprieve from the alma of­fensive push. the home team responded, however, scoring three more goals in 60 seconds to close out the first half with a 14-2 advantage. 
the second half brought more of the same for both teams, with alma dictat­ing the pace of the play and Saint mary’s struggling to retain possession. alma se­nior midfielder and leading scorer tracy gallihugh scored four goals in a row during one stretch. gallihugh netted sev­en goals on the evening, bring­ing her season total to 45. 
Saint mary’s head coach amy long said her team needs to focus on increasing posses­sion numbers and shot selec­tion as it moves towards the end of its season. 
“we will look to control the ball more in our next game and will work on improving the quality of shots we take,” long said. 
the belles’ loss to alma marked their first three-game losing streak of the season, and they now find themselves seventh in the miaa. 
Saint mary’s now moves into the home stretch of its season with two home games remaining. the belles will host conference foe Kalamazoo on thursday afternoon before hosting dallas on Saturday for their final game of the regu­lar season. as of tuesday, Kalamazoo sits just one game ahead of the belles for sixth place in the conference. 
long said she hoped her young team would finish out the season strong. 
“we have two games left in the season, and i expect our team to fight until the end to finish our season with two wins,” she said. “Finishing our season strong is important, and we cannot focus on games in the past or our current los­ing streak. our focus is on our next game and coming up with a win against Kalamazoo.” 
the belles host the hornets on thursday at 5 p.m. at Saint mary’s lacrosse Fields. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at  boconne1@nd.edu 


paid advertiSement 



W Tennis 
continued From page 16 
the irish have already faced both of their potential opponents already this sea­son, louderback was quick to point out. 
“we’ll play the win­ner of the [Florida State/ pittsburgh] match first, and we won both of those 4-3 on the road,” louderback said. “we figure which ever one wins it’ll be a tough match, especially since we’ve seen them both already.” 
looking back on the reg­ular season, the doubles point has made a big dif­ference on the outcome of notre dame’s matches in acc play, and with the tournaments approaching louderback made it clear this has not been lost on his team. 
“we put quite a bit of time into singles recently, but we’ve been struggling in doubles in recent match­es,” louderback said. “this week we’re putting more time into doubles. in tour­nament play, that doubles point seems to be even more important, so we’re work­ing on making sure we have a chance at grabbing the early lead with the doubles point.” 
a season ago, the irish were victorious in their first round matchup against boston college before fall­ing to miami in their second match of the tournament. they will look to start off strongly once more this year before making a deep run and competing for an acc championship over the weekend. 
the irish will commence their part in the acc tour­nament thursday when they will take on either Florida State or pittsburgh. all matches through the cham­pionship Sunday will take place at cary tennis park in cary, north carolina. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 


paid advertiSement 


M Tennis 
continued From page 16 
doubleheader for the irish, and notre dame prevailed with a 6-1 victory. despite the win, the irish are not tak­ing the yellow Jackets lightly, lawson said. 
“they had a huge win over duke, a top-10 team, this past weekend, so we know they’re playing some really good ten­nis right now,” lawson said. 
the winner of the match thursday morning will play virginia tech, the second-overall seed, Friday morning. the hokies (19-3, 10-2 acc) beat both notre dame and georgia tech in blacksburg, virginia, earlier this season. 
the story of notre dame’s year has been its success in the doubles game; the irish won the doubles point in eight of their 12 acc matches. 
“it’s huge to get the match started off on a good note when we get on top with that doubles point quickly,” lawson said. “that’s a big point of confi­dence for our team, and usual­ly if you get off to a good start and get that doubles point, ev­eryone’s flowing. they’re feel­ing good, and we get rolling in singles then too. So that’ll be a big focus for us too.” 
the duo of lawson and se­nior billy pecor has paced the irish at the top of the doubles lineup for most of the year. the pair, ranked 12th nation­ally, went 6-1 in acc play, and lawson said the two have been able to find success in part because of their similar personalities. 
“we have great chemis­try, just as a doubles team,” lawson said. “we feed off each other emotionally really well, and our games match up really well. … the main thing is just emotionally, we’re both pretty passionate and loud and ener­getic on the court, and i think we feed off each other really well in that regard.” 
in its first time participat­ing in the acc champion­ships last year, notre dame was a four seed and defeated fifth-seeded clemson after receiving a first-round bye. the irish then lost to eventual champion virginia, 4-0, in the semifinals. 
notre dame and georgia tech are set to square off at cary tennis center at 9 a.m. thursday. the winner of the match will play the second-seeded hokies at the same time Friday morning. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at  rklaus1@nd.edu and Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 


Softball 
continued From page 16 
streak beginning after sopho­more rachel nasland’s no-hitter in a 12-0 victory at Florida State on march 15th. 
irish head coach deanna gumpf said she and her team are not necessarily focused on the historic streak, and it’s something that’s not even brought up when she talks to her team. 
“we don’t really talk about the streak, we just focus on the ways we can get better,” gumpf said. “it’s not really something that gets brought up, it’s always about the next game ahead of us.” 
gumpf had a similar response when asked about the possibil­ity of a perfect 2015 home re­cord. the irish are 16-0 at melissa cook Stadium, with the game wednesday afternoon and a three-game home series against north carolina this weekend remaining on the schedule. 
“haven’t thought about it, don’t want to [think about it],” she said. 
although she said her team is playing well in many areas right now, gumpf said “it starts with pitching.” 
“we’ve done a great job of using our pitchers, and they’ve done a great job of containing hitters and giving us a chance to win,” gumpf said. 
the irish have given up just 54 runs in the past 23 games, mean­ing their opponents are averaging just 2.3 runs per contest. 
the irish, on the other hand, have scored 193 runs over that same stretch, averaging 8.4 runs per game. 
gumpf said she has seen con­sistency from her team in many aspects of the game. 
“it’s all areas of the game for us right now, pitching, with hitting, we’re making solid contact, and defensively, we’re playing well too,” gumpf said. 
with just five regular season games remaining, gumpf said it is a positive to be playing so well dur­ing the homestretch of the season. 
“we want to finish the season strong to put us in a good position going into the acc tournament,” gumpf said. 
currently, the irish are in third-place in the acc standings, trail­ing first-place no. 10 Florida State (17-3 acc record) by two games and one behind the second-place tar heels (15-4). 
the irish welcome toledo (19­26 overall, 4-10 mac) to campus wednesday. 
gumpf said tomorrow’s con­test will test her team’s defensive and pitching abilities, citing the rockets’ offensive talent as some­thing the irish must contain. 
“they like to run, so they’re go­ing to be hitting and running, so we just have to do a good job of keeping them in check, getting outs and playing good defense,” gumpf said. 
in last season’s matchup, the irish defeated the rockets 17-2 in five innings. 
the first pitch in tomorrow’s contest at melissa cook Stadium is scheduled for 5 p.m. 
Contact Benjamin Horvath at bhorvat1@nd.edu 


the obServer | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2015 | ndSmcobServer.com 


within one of the irish, 3-2. 
bull again separated notre dame from the hoosiers, smacking the first pitch he saw in the top of the fourth over the right field fence to give his team a 4-2 lead. 
the hoosiers continued to nip at notre dame’s heels; in the bottom of the sixth, they got a leadoff double, sacrifice fly and rbi ground out to cut the lead again to one, 4-3. 
Senior right fielder ryan youngdahl added an insurance run with one out in the top of the eighth with a towering home run of his own over the right field fence. the irish hit well, aoki said, with 10 hits and a handful of extra base hits; however, they lacked timely hitting, he said. 
“we swung it pretty well to­day,” aoki said. “we put some good swings on some balls and put together some pretty good at bats. on the flip side of it, we left a couple of runs out there that would have been nice to have converted, especially if had i known ahead of time that we were going to play the night the way we did.” 
Sophomore left-hander Scott tully earned a quality start for the irish, pitching 6 1/3 innings while giving up only three runs (one earned) and three hits and fanning four. 
the ninth-inning errors, though, proved to be too much for the irish to overcome. 
“we pitched pretty well,” aoki said. “we just didn’t play very good defense and gave them far too many opportunities. it was one of those nights, i guess, for whatever reason. we just couldn’t play it as clean as we typically do.” 
the loss is notre dame’s first at a neutral site this season (7­1). the irish also drop to 15-3 in nonconference games. 
notre dame will look to re­bound when the team returns home to take on chicago State on wednesday. 
“i impressed upon them very quickly after the game that one of the nice things about base­ball is the idea that you get to come right back and play; whether you’ve had a good game or a poor game, there is a new opportunity tomorrow,” aoki said. “So, we’ll go out there and play it a little bit cleaner and a high level. Just more than anything i think it is an oppor­tunity for us to get out there and play again.” 
notre dame will face off with chicago State (9-28-1) tonight at 6 p.m. at Frank eck Stadium. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 


Baseball 
continued From page 16 
lane richards fielded a deep ground ball but threw it away to allow indiana’s sixth run to score. 
“it just happens sometimes,” aoki said. “unfortunately for us we were in a position to win, and we kind of just had a night­mare of an inning from a defen­sive standpoint.” 
the irish (26-13) jumped to an early 1-0 lead in the top of the first on a single from senior left fielder ryan bull with the bas­es loaded. Sophomore catcher ryan lidge then brought in the second run of the inning on a fielder’s choice. richards singled to left field to cap off the stretch and give notre dame the early 3-0 lead. 
despite only committing three errors in their past 12 games, notre dame’s five errors cost the irish dearly. two er­rors in the bottom of the second sparked the hoosier offense, and indiana (22-15) pulled 





CROSSWORD | will ShortZ 

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chriStopher brucKer 

DOME NUTS | alexandria wellman 



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | the mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia laSt 
Happy Birthday: you’ll have a huge impact on others. you can influence and persuade people to pitch in and help your cause. your persistence and desire to make a difference will lead to greater opportunities for personal and professional partnerships. don’t hesitate to move forward because of emotional reasons that will prove to be inconsequential. Focus on making gains. your numbers are 6, 13, 21, 25, 32, 39, 47. 
Birthday Baby: you are innovative, imaginative and outgoing. you are dynamic and progressive. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): let your charm help you define what you intend to do and how you expect to reach your goals, and you will impress someone with connections. Simple but definite personal changes will enhance your appearance and improve important relationships. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): experience will be your ticket to success. listen, learn and implement what you pick up into your everyday routine, and you will up your chance to get ahead. limit your expenses at home. cut corners and avoid unnecessary purchases. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): be secretive about the changes you want to make. don’t give anyone the benefit of the doubt. revealing the way you feel about someone or something will leave you in a precarious position. protect against being taken advantage of. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): you will face restrictions if you neglect to take care of your responsibilities. don’t give in to demands that will keep you from completing your tasks. ask for help rather than offering to do things for others. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): trying to make a difference will bring you great satisfaction along with interesting new connections. getting involved and using your skills to set new standards will lead to an opportunity to step into the spotlight and present what you have to offer. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Keep business and pleasure separate. emotional matters will lead to setbacks, depression or a misunderstanding that will be difficult to rectify. Focus on what you can do and put your best foot forward. don’t dwell on regrets or the past. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): put travel, pleasure and romance at the top of your list. changing the way you approach projects, your philosophy and your relationships with others will put an interesting slant on the responses you get. express your desires. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): consider an investment opportunity, but do your own research instead of buying in to the hype. disagreements will be a waste of time. discuss plans and be willing to compromise or go it alone. make love, not war, and you’ll get your way. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): your emotions will lead to all sorts of interesting encounters. a last-minute change will spin into an adventure you don’t want to miss. an investment will lead to an opportunity that can help you stabilize your current standard of living. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you will experience a change of heart regarding your professional direction due to an unsettling occurrence. take some time to observe and re-evaluate your next move. it’s best not to be impulsive if you want to avoid a financial setback. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Fix up your home or make plans that will help you form closer relationships. don’t argue a moot point when you should be adapting and making changes that are in the best interest of everyone you care about. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): don’t spare detail. honesty and integrity will be essential if you want to avoid being blamed for offering false information. put your effort into your work as well as connecting with people who share your interests and skills. 


JUMBLE | david hoyt and JeFF KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  the observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city  State  Zip  


ND TENNIS 
Irish tennis prepares for ACC tournament 
Women earn first round bye as seven seed, await winner of Pittsburgh, Florida State 
By  HUNTER McDANIEL Sports writer  tournaments, the atlantic coast conference championship and the  
ncaa tournament, the first of which  
after a marathon of a regular  starts thursday afternoon in cary,  
season in which the irish travelled  north carolina.  
all across the country, they now  Since notre dame (14-9, 8-6 acc)  
turn their focus to two postseason  finished conference play in seventh  
place, they earned a bye into the sec­ 
ond round of the tournament and  
will await the winner of wednesday  
afternoon’s match between 15-seed  
pittsburgh (2-17, 0-14) and 10-seed  
Florida State (13-10, 6-8).  
coming off three consecutive loss­ 
es within the conference, irish head  
coach Jay louderback said he does  
not think this will hurt his team.  
“we think that even in the matches  
we’ve lost recently, we’ve been play­ 
ing really well,” louderback said. “we  
didn’t play well against clemson.  
that’s really the only match all year  
where we didn’t compete well at all.  
“we had won a lot of tight 4-3  
matches, and the other two losses  
were similar. the duke match, even  
though it finished at 4-1, was a lot  
closer than that and was really tight,  
like a lot of the matches we’ve played  
in all year. even though we lost a  
few recently, i don’t think our con­ 
fidence is shaken at all. the duke  
match actually probably helped our  
MICHAEL YU | The Observer  confidence, after our poor showing  
Irish freshman Allison Miller serves   against clemson.”  
during Notre Dame’s 6-1 loss to Stanford on Feb. 6 at Eck Tennis Pavilion.  see w tenniS PAGE 13  

Men set for matchup with Georgia Tech, look to ride strong doubles lineup to advance 
By RYAN KLAUS and ZACH KLONSINSKI 
Sports writer and Sports editor  
after finishing off its regular season  
Saturday, the irish will head to cary,  
north carolina, for the acc cham­ 
pionships, which will be held from  
thursday through Sunday at cary  
tennis center. as the no. 7 seed, notre  
dame (14-10, 6-6 acc) is set to face  
georgia tech, which earned the 10  
seed after posting a 4-8 record in acc  
regular season play.  
the irish split their final two match­ 
es of the regular season last weekend.  
notre dame fell to no. 11 wake Forest,  
4-3, on Friday and then defeated north  
carolina State, 4-3, in the season fina­ 
le Saturday.  
“we’re feeling really confident,” ju­ 
nior alex lawson said. “we had a solid  
win last weekend, and we’re definitely  
building momentum, and i think ev­ 
eryone’s pretty excited for the oppor­ 
tunity we have to make a run in this  
EMILY McCONVILLE | The Observer tournament.  
Irish junior Quentin Monaghan rips a “this is the toughest conference in  
shot during Notre Dame’s 4-3 win over the country, and every team in the  
North Carolina State on Saturday. tournament is really good, so you  
can’t overlook any matches, and we  streak and was their first victory in  
can’t take anyone lightly. anything  april.  
can happen this weekend, so we’ll  notre dame and georgia tech met  
need be at our best.”  once previously this season, a march  
the yellow Jackets (12-11, 4-8) fin­ 22 contest at eck tennis pavilion. the  
ished their regular season last Sunday  match was the first of a Sunday  
with a 4-3 win over no. 9 duke. the  
win snapped a five-match losing  see m tenniS PAGE 13  

BASEBALL | indiana 6, nd 5 
Notre Dame throws one away 
By ISAAC LORTON 
Senior Sports writer 
after a 17-year drought, notre dame renewed its rivalry with in-state foe indiana in front of 8,728 fans in indianapolis in the teams’ 100th meeting by com­mitting two errors in the ninth inning to give indiana the 6-5 win. notre dame committed five errors tuesday, the most in a sin­gle game this season. 
“we just made a few uncharac­teristic errors today,” irish head coach mik aoki said. 
notre dame’s fourth and fifth errors of the night proved to be too costly. with the bases load­ed and one out in the bottom of the ninth, the irish got a pos­sible double-play ground ball to short, but on the turn sopho­more cavan biggio threw the ball low, it skipped past junior first baseman Zak Kutsulis and the hoosiers tied the game 5-5. notre dame compounded the problem with an error on the very next play. Junior shortstop 
see baSeball PAGE 14 


ND SOFTBALL 
nd set to host toledo 
By BENJAMIN HORVATH 
Sports writer 
notre dame’s home contest against depaul was cancelled tuesday due to the heavy amount of rain the field has taken on in the past few days, but the irish are still set to square off against toledo on wednesday afternoon at melissa cook Stadium. 
no. 24 notre dame (37-11 over­all, 16-5 acc) is in the midst of a 23-game win streak, the second longest in program history. in 2001, the irish strung together 33 straight victories. 
the current irish streak includes 16 straight home victories and five straight three-game series sweeps against acc opponents. 
it’s been 39 days since the irish last lost a ballgame, with the win 
see SoFtball PAGE 13 






