The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 60 | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Committee proposes changes 
Core Curriculum Review Committee releases recommendations for courses 
Observer Staff Report 
after more than a year of deliberation, the core curriculum review committee, tasked with evaluating university re­quirements for undergradu­ates and proposing necessary changes, released a draft report monday containing recommendations for cer­tain changes to the courses that currently constitute the university’s core curriculum. 
The draft report, which is a preliminary write-up of the committee’s recommenda­tions that will be followed by a final report to faculty and administration in fall 2016, proposes modifications to several of the current core requirements, as well as a reduction in the total num­ber of requirements from 12 to 11 courses, excluding the moreau First year experience course. The decrease in the number of required courses comes from the recommen­dation of the committee to eliminate one of the four cur­rent core requirements 
see curriculum PAGE 4 



sga promotes dialogue at smc 

By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
saint mary’s editor 
The student government association (sga) and student diversity board (sdb) will co­sponsor an opportunity for stu­dents to come together and talk about controversial issues at a catholic institution tonight in rice commons, according to orgsync, the saint mary’s stu­dent activities portal. 
The event will last one hour, beginning at 7:30 p.m., and will be closed to faculty, staff and media. 
The opportunity to come to­gether follows campus controver­sy about planned parenthood but also in light of the harassment ju­nior maranda pennington faced when a homophobic slur was was written on her whiteboard. 
“we have broadened the event to be an opportunity to discuss 
see dialogue PAGE 4 




Campus Ministry hosts Las Posadas 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
The catholic liturgical season of advent, which be­gan sunday, marks a time of preparation for the cel­ebration of christmas, and campus ministry is hosting a corresponding celebration of las posadas, a traditional procession that celebrates the journey of mary and Joseph to bethlehem be­fore christ was born. las posadas, which means “lodg­ings” in spanish, will be cel­ebrated Tuesday, wednesday and Thursday at 9:30 p.m. at the grotto. participants will then continue to Fisher hall, Farley hall and the coleman-morse center, all of which are co-sponsors for the celebration. 
campus ministry intern and senior steven Fisher, who focuses on latino min­istry, said in an email that the event will be a con­densed version of the tradi­tional celebration. 
“if you were to grow up in mexico, central america or the southwest united states, the celebration of las posadas would be a hallmark for nine days of your advent season,” he said. “each day you and your family would 
see las posadas PAGE 4 



news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 5 insider wiThin 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                   Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green 

Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 

Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite Thanksgiving food? 

Abdel Madina 
junior off campus 
“baked mac and cheese.” 

Meg Dalton 
junior walsh hall 
“mashed potatoes.” 

Scott Nussbaum 
freshman Knott hall 
“stuffing.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



Nick Rajewski 
junior 
Zahm house 

“sweet potato casserole.” 

Eric Schnurrenberger 
senior 
off campus 

“apple pie with whipped cream.” 

Meghan Till 
junior lewis hall 
“ribs.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
catherine owers renee griffin Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
andrea vale rachel o’grady nicole caratas 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
eric richelsen miko malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 

“Facilitating Change” “Mastering Silent Auction Laudato Lunch Shakespeare Festival 
emmet Farnan austin Taliaferro 
Geddes Hall Leadership” LaFortune Student Geddes Hall DeBartolo Performing 
8:30a.m.-9:30 a.m. Hammes Bookstore Center 12:30 p.m.-1:30 p.m. Arts Center Center for Social 4:30 p.m.-6:30 p.m. 6 p.m.-9 p.m. Notre Dame at Paris 10 a.m.-6 p.m. 
Corrections 

Concerns seminar. Bob Anderson Fundraiser for Climate Conference. Auditions for “Pericles” 
The observer regards itself as launches his new book. Hannah’s House. and “The Tempest.” a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Theile Lectureship Women’s Basketball Father Ted Talk: Ed Hockey vs. “Anchored in Hope” 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Ecks Visitor Center vs. Ohio State Hums Massachusetts Keenan Hall 
however, recognize that we will make 
3:30p.m.-4:30 p.m. Joyce Center Reckers Compton Ice Arena 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Lecture on 3D tissue 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 8:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 7:35 p.m.-9:35 p.m. The Voices of Faith 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
engineering by Notre Dame takes on Lecture on an Notre Dame takes on Gospel Choir Fall 
we can correct our error. 

Professor Samual Sia. the Buckeyes. integrated life of faith. the Minutemen. Concert. 

ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2015 | The observer 

speaker discusses state formation, economy 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
associate news editor 
sebastián mazzuca, as­sistant professor at Johns hopkins, delivered a lecture on the relationship between state formation and econom­ic failure in south america on monday in the hesburgh center for international studies. 
in mainstream history, state formation in latin america is essentially about fragmentation, mazzuca said. 
“if you compare two maps, compare the map of colonial latin america to contempo­rary latin america, there’s an obvious change in num­ber, in size,” he said. “There were five political units in colonial latin america, and there are 20-plus countries today.” 
The income per capita in latin american countries is a fifth of the income of ad­vanced economies, mazzuca said. 
“The question is, ‘why does it exist, why is it there?’” he said. “of course, the gap be­gan more than 200 years ago. it began small, but it began and remains.” 
intermediate maps pro­vide a fuller story, mezzuca said. 
“if you look at intermedi­ate maps, you will see that in the very first decades after independence, even in what today is argentina, you have at least four distinct politi­cal units,” he said. “so in be­tween these two things, you have a different trajectory, which is atomisation first and then reaggregation. it is not a history of fragmenta­tion, it is a more complicated story — it’s not that compli­cated, but it’s more interest­ing and more complicated.” 
mezzuca said coun­tries in south america that have the potential to be­come advanced economies with sustained growth but failed were “perverse com­binations” of subnational regions. 
“The second question, which has to do with state formation, is, ‘why did state formation in south america result in the creation of economical dysfunctional national arenas?’” he said. “although most state forma­tion in early modern europe were military conquests … [in south america] you also don’t see economic merg­ers, which is another path to state formation. it is neither a military conquest nor eco­nomic merger, but it is ac­tually a process of coalition 
“If you compare two maps, compare the map of colonial Latin America to contemporary Latin America ... There were five political units in colonial Latin America, and there are 20-plus countries today.” 
Sebastián Mazzuca 
assistant professor 
Johns Hopkins University 
building.” 
state formation from the 1840s through the 1860s led to the creation of coun­tries as dysfunctional ter­ritorial matches, mezzuca said, which then resulted in economic failures in these countries. 
examining “quasi take­offs” in south american countries provide a shortcut to understanding 200 years of complicated economic history, mezzuca said. 
“The quasi takeoffs are the moment in which some countries were really likely to start sustained economic growth, or they initiated it and then reversed,” he said. 
From 1817 to 1903, argentina experienced a pe­riod of sustained economic growth, mezzuca said. 
“it went from 55, 60 per­cent of the income per capita of rich countries, and i mean France, the uK, england and australia, to 98 percent the income of those countries,” he said. “it became an ad­vanced country by 1908, but not only that — it stayed there for another twenty-two years and a half. … it stayed there, and then it reversed back in a sustained fashion until it’s back to 40 percent of the income of advanced countries.” 

From 1950 to 1970, brazil experienced a period of economic growth, mezzuca said, and from 2002 to 2022 there has been another op­portunity for economic growth. 
“it is really too tell. we don’t know if anything’s go­ing to happen. we are almost sure chile is going to make it into the income bracket of the advanced economies,” he said. “it has been growing faster, by half a percent fast­er than advanced economies for 25 years already. That’s really a lot — it’s very hard to derail chile from that.” 
mezzuca said the first emerging market in latin america in the 1870s had many short-lived booms. Two regions had “winning tickets” for the commodity lottery and the potential to be growth engines for entire continent. 
“The paraiba valley, is one, that’s in the sao paolo area in brazil,” he said. “The main product there is cof­fee. of course, coffee, you do not know for sure if it’s a winning ticket ticket … but brazil, coffee production was so big — actually it was a quasi-monopoly — that it could create price-setting mechanisms.” 
The pampas in argentina was another area that had a “winning ticket” in the commodity lottery, mezzuca said, and experienced ex­ceptional growth. 
“There it was not coffee, it was wool, it’s wheat, it’s beef,” he said. “There was a string of booms, and they were sustained booms.” 
economists believe inno­vation and investment equal growth, mezzuca said. There are fundamental answers, which include culture, geog­raphy and institutions, but have a serious flaw in that there is competition among the factors instead of inte­gration and interaction. 
“There’s nothing system­atic. so that to me is the main limitation, so we’re trying to combine stuff a little bit, combine classes of economic causes,” he said. 
The answer to the question of economic failure in south america is perverse combi­nations of subnational re­gions, mezzuca said. 
“The first reason why countries can be perverse combinations [is that] of course, national income lev­el is an average of subnation­al income levels,” he said. “while this is sort of trivial, but it points to the fact that in latin america income in­equality is very bad in terms 
“It went from 55, 60 percent of the income per capita of rich countries, and I mean France, the UK, England and Australia, to 98 percent the income of those countries.” 
Sebastián Mazzuca 
assistant professor 
Johns Hopkins University 
of social groups and classes, but there is a huge inequal­ity across regions.” 
There are also econom­ic mechanisms at play, mezzuca said, if there are countries that contain “backwards” and “dynamic” regions. 
“The dynamic sector ex­ports and then the exports from the dynamic sector produce an influx of hard currency donors that over­values the exchange rate, and that overvaluation pushes the other regions into a complete lack of com­petitiveness — they cannot be competitive because of 

the exchange rate that’s giv­en by the dynamic regions,” 
he said.  
mezzuca  said  political  
mechanisms  are  the  key  
contributor  to  economic  
failure in  south  american  
countries.  

“it’s a two-sided thing. one is the exploitation of the center by the periphery, so the surplus of the center can be transferred to the periph­ery at a high cost, in terms of sustainability,” he said. “so there’s an inefficient trans­fer of resources from the center to the periphery. … second, not only the center gets weakened, but also, the periphery gets weakened in the long run.” 
mezzuca said another po­litical geography was pos­sible for south america, and said new evidence suggests that for a time, argentina could be an “obvious yes,” after the creation of the argentine republic in 1861. 
“a few months later, af­ter what is considered to be the moment of unifi­cation, [the spanish con­sul in montevideo] wrote to his boss, wrote to the crown in spain, to say that, ‘i foresee partition and se­cession within argentine confederation,’” he said. 
comparative history de­picts brazil as the strongest south american state in terms of post-independence secession risks, mezzuca said, but even independent brazil was contested. 
mezzuca said local divi­sion and national unifi­cation can actually help aggregate an entire country. 
“division within a subna­tional reason drives the two factions within that region to compete for allies, and maybe under some condi­tions that search for allies in subaggregating regions into a national arena,” he said. 
There is a clear trade off as local factions search for ex­ternal allies, mezzuca said, and trade economic devel­opment for political power. 
Contact Catherine Owers at  cowers@nd.edu 




Las Posadas 
conTinued From page 1 
join a procession led by two individuals dressed as mary and Joseph, and together, ev­eryone reenacts their jour­ney to the inn in bethlehem. you’d arrive at certain des­ignated homes in the neigh­borhood and in song ask for lodging until the homeowner finally recognizes mary and Joseph. once inside every­one joins together for prayer and good tamales, piña­tas, punch and, if you’re my grandmother, a hidden bot­tle of tequila.” 
Fisher said the notre dame version will start with a short gathering at the grotto be­fore two students, in the role of mary and Joseph, lead a musical procession to each building, where there will be a short prayer service and gospel reading before re­freshments are served. coro primavera, a spanish choir, and mariachind will lead the songs. 
“The song we sing goes back and forth between the procession and the hosts playing the role of the inn­keepers,” Fisher said. “it’s one that illuminates my own childhood memories in mexico of days leading to christmas and allows my heart to swell with love for my own faith and heritage. To ask for lodging not only from the cold, but also from our own loneliness and long­ing to be loved and love oth­ers invites everyone to open their hearts. Together as a community, we serve as each other’s shelter.” 

offering different catholic traditions at notre dame is important because it ex­poses students to different “modes of expression that the catholic faith offers for everyone’s spiritual growth,” Fisher said. 
“For latino students and all who participate, las posadas presents an oppor­tunity to forge culture and identity in creative alliance for an understanding of faith that collaborates with tradition, local experience and scripture, and as a re­sult, reclaims the diversity of catholicism as a source of vitality,” he said. 

elaine debassige, rector of Farley hall and the woman who brought las posadas to campus, said in an email that including cultural catholic traditions is impor­tant because it embodies the catholic faith. 
“christ invites everyone to the table, and by including other cultural celebrations, it gives light to the many ways people from around the world come together to hon­or and praise god.” 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 
analysis — one course taken recommendation that the so designated in the course accepted in lieu of college, in each of the two categories core curriculum should con-school and major require-
Curriculum catalog.” 
conTinued From page 1 and a third in the category of tinue to require two courses according to the First ments at the discretion of 
the student’s preference — each in theology and phi-year of studies website, cur-the colleges, schools and in mathematics and the would take the place of the losophy, with the modifi-rent students can test out departments.” sciences. four courses currently re-cation that students may of writing and rhetoric by in addition to outlining 
“building on a vision of the quired in mathematics and substitute a “catholicism scoring either a 4 or 5 on these changes to university catholic liberal arts, notre the sciences, according to and the disciplines” course the advanced placement requirements, the report dame’s own mission and his-the report. for their second philosophy (ap) english literature or also states the principles un­tory, the reflections of our The other three liberal arts requirement. Furthermore, ap english language and derlying the committee’s faculty, students and alumni, courses, chosen from the the committee encouraged composition exams. The recommendations. and the university’s exist-five listed categories, would the department of theol-draft report states “more concerning the actual de­ing structures and practices, replace the three current re-ogy to continue developing than 60 percent of notre livery of core curriculum the committee recommends quirements in history, the so-a system to allow incom-dame students … test out courses, the report recom­a new structure for gener-cial sciences and the fine arts ing students with previous of the current writing and mends “that introductory al education requirements or literature. Two of the five coursework in theology to rhetoric course.” courses in the core curricu­at notre dame,” the report categories — integration and test into a more advanced “To strengthen the writ-lum be taught by regular states. advanced language and cul-first course. ing requirement further, the (i.e. tenure-track and spe­
“in the proposed structure, ture — do not currently form “as central threads in the advanced placement focus cial professional) faculty.” six courses would be required part of the core curriculum. catholic intellectual tradi-group recommended that This comes as a response in the general liberal arts, according to the report, tion, theology and philoso-the university (1) should to the findings of the office with more student choice the integration course would phy have played and should not allow any ap english of strategic planning and than at present and with the be a brand-new offering at continue to play a central literature exam score to be institutional research that new option of an integration notre dame and would be role in notre dame’s core used to test out of the writing “only 37 percent of the first course. Four courses would team-taught by faculty from curriculum,” the report and rhetoric course and (2) philosophy courses, 31 per-be required in the explicitly separate departments or aca-states. “ … in placing theol-should consider raising the cent of the first math cours­catholic dimensions of the demic units. ogy at the core of its catholic requirement for credit based es, and 30 percent of the first liberal arts, with the new op-“courses in the integra-liberal arts education, notre on the ap english language theology courses in the core tion of a catholicism and the tion category must have dame is not merely adding and composition exam to a curriculum were taught by disciplines (cad) course. as a primary goal the pur-another discipline to the score of 5,” the report states. tenured or tenure-track fac-Finally, to enhance students’ suit of knowledge that inte-existing educational para-The report additionally ulty in the 2013-14 academic writing skills, the core would grates and synthesizes the digm. instead, it embraces states the committee’s rec-year.” include a second required perspective of two or more a paradigm of the intellec-ommendation that students The report further names writing course for all stu-disciplines to address a tual life that posits the com-should no longer be able to flexibility as one of the ma-dents, including those who particular issue that is too plementarity of faith and use ap credit to test out of jor concerns of the com-test out of the writing and complex to be adequately reason.” any of the core requirements. mittee in evaluating the rhetoric course.” addressed by a single field The final core requirement “The committee … recom-curriculum, stating that its 
The six general liberal arts of study,” the report states. recommended by the report is mends that the university no proposals are designed to requirements as outlined in “They must be interdisci-a writing and rhetoric course, longer accept ap credit to test allow students of all majors the report consist of three plinary courses whereby which is currently taken dur-out of core requirements,” greater flexibility in choos­courses taken in the catego-each represented discipline ing freshman year along with the report states. “ap credit ing courses to fulfill core ries of “quantitative analysis” makes an explicit and sig-the university seminar. The would, however, continue to requirements. and “scientific and technical nificant contribution to the report recommends that both be accepted for placement “all students in all col-analysis,” and an additional analysis, and the course ac-writing and rhetoric and the purposes — including in the leges will see an increase three courses chosen from tivities require the students university seminar “con-writing requirement, where in flexibility with a greater the categories of  “aesthetic to identify commonalities tinue to count toward the students can place out of the variety of courses fulfilling analysis,” “social sciences and differences, as well as university’s writing require-writing and rhetoric course requirements in philosophy, inquiry,” “historical analy-strengths and weaknesses, ment” and furthermore, “stu-but would therefore take a theology and quantitative sis,” “advanced language and among the various disciplin-dents who test out of writing second university seminar reasoning, and with more culture” and “integration.” ary perspectives.” and rhetoric be required to or other writing-intensive choice in other liberal arts 
The three requirements concerning the philoso-take not just the university course to satisfy the two-courses because of the addi­in quantitative analysis phy and theology require-seminar but also a second course writing requirement. tion of integration and cad and scientific and technical ments, the report states its writing-intensive course, ap credit can also still be courses as possible options.” 
and say, ‘i respect your opin-
Dialogue 
ion, but i believe this.’” 
conTinued From page 1 

student body vice president all of the types of controversy maddie Kohler said sga hopes that have been occurring and the event will be a learning how we can move forward, opportunity for students who make changes and be better as attend. a community,” student body “we will close the event president Kaitlyn baker said. knowing that we are still one 
“students will have an op-community [and] it’s okay portunity to voice their opin-that we are at a catholic insti­ions and why they believe tution and have different be-what they believe,” she said. liefs,” she said. “we are all still belles, and it’s important for students to lis-Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at ten to other students’ opinions hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

The observer | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By JACK RIEDY 
scene writer 

erykah badu is back, and it seems we have drake to thank for it. 
in early october, the neo-soul song­stress released a cover of the omnipres­ent “hotline bling” on her soundcloud. in trademark fashion, things got weird quickly. what begins as a straightfor­ward rendition with some modified lyrics leads to a hilarious voicemail message meant to ward off opportu­nistic acquaintances. The nearly eight-minute track wraps up in a lush coda where the percussion loop of the origi­nal song is bolstered by chimes, organ and brushed snare drum. while other musicians covered drake’s hit as a way of generating headlines, badu made it clear that she had found inspiration when she announced that the track would be part of an all-new mixtape. 
on black Friday, badu released “but you caint use my phone” as an apple exclusive, her first new music in five years. such a long gap may have made her an unknown to some modern lis­teners, but this album works well as a summary of where she’s been and an in­dication of where she’s going. after all, the title comes from her song “Tyrone,” released in 1997. 
while badu has previously focused on bringing her uniquely funky sensibility 
By MIKO MALABUTE 
scene editor 

with the beginning of december comes the latest in scene series, “25 days of christmas,” in which the staff will highlight and share some of our fa­vorite bits of christmas-related pop cul­ture to get into the holiday season. 
as a yearly tradition, my brother and i watch the movie “This christmas,” star­ring the likes of chris brown, lauren london and loretta devine. as routine, we gather on my mother’s couch while chris brown’s character “baby” carols and sings to the audience on set and at home. 
to acoustic instrumentation, this new tape also shows her being more engaged with contemporary hip-hop than ever. on “phone down,” the second single, badu builds an eerie atmosphere out of trap drums and pitch-shifted backing vocals. a thin sheen of auto tune cov­ers her formidable voice as she croons “i can make you put your phone down.” it’s part boast, part come-on, part plea for some old-fashioned FaceTime. 
badu has a lot to say about cell phones and their peculiar influence on today’s world. as she wrote in an anticipatory press release, each song references “our own reliance on staying intercon­nected.” she’s far from a luddite; she frequently talks to fans on Twitter, and part of her pre-release publicity in­volved streaming on periscope, the live broadcasting app for Twitter. it’s not the technology itself she has beef with, but rather the way so-called communica­tion devices can widen the distances between people. oh, and also, they’re killing bees, as she explains in the intro to boom-bap throwback “dial’afreaq.” 
Fittingly, badu is not the only voice on the record. Two songs feature a voice so close to drake’s as to fool a major­ity of early listeners, if the internet is to be believed. badu’s denial then led to speculation that the rapper might be seven benjamin, her 18-year-old son with andré 3000, making his musical 
For those unfamiliar with the film, the story looks at a typical family gath­ering setting for the holiday season, but starring an atypical family, filled with enough interesting characters and hi-jinx to fill the quota for a feel-good, if not cheesy family holiday movie. 
The screenplay and dialogue is rela­tively subpar and won’t exactly be con­fused for an all-time english classic anytime soon. however, for a holiday movie, it is simple enough to follow and enjoy without thinking too hard, which is honestly a top-notch quality after a long, exhausting year. 
however, the understated genius of the movie is in the chemistry between debut. investigation into songwriting credits and genius pages ultimately revealed the mysterious rapper to be itsroutine, an atlanta-based unknown born aubrey davis. it’s always great to see established artists putting on up­and-comers, but when this guest shares his flow and legal first name with the biggest rapper in the world, it’s hard not to feel a little tricked. 
closing track “hello” features andré 3000 with his first new verse since his re­union tour with outkast, and the native aTlien does not disappoint. rhymes pour out of him as rapid and as smooth as a waterfall over the minimal mu­sic. he urges his lover to “leave [their] phone unlocked and right side up.” it’s difficult to imagine a more momentous expression of trust. Though the two musicians haven’t been romantically involved since the late ’90s, their rela­tionship is clearly intimate, evidenced by the confounding lyrical substitution of “squirrel” for “girl.” it makes no sense, but it’s funky and adorable. Their com­fort with each other shines through on this ode to loving the one you’re with, even if it means ignoring the small feel­ing of missing out (“Fomo”) in the back of your head. 
The intimate vibe does not always connect so beautifully. The telephone theme becomes too repetitive when the lyrics echo the same conversational 
the actors, playing the roles of siblings coming home for the holidays after ex­tended periods of time away from each other. The little sister who brings home the new boyfriend to show off to the family; the little brother who is still liv­ing at home with the parents but tries to prove to the big siblings how grown up he is; the oldest sister who attempts to take control of the family finances and affairs, now that the parents are getting a bit older — all of these personalities truly underscore the reality of the fam­ily dynamic at the dinner table around the holiday season. 
The movie truly hits home be­cause it captures an essential, if not phrases frequently. The music repeats itself as well, with several short tracks replaying motifs from earlier songs. it’s cohesive, but not exactly exciting. at only 37 minutes, the mixtape feels somewhat minor. 

in the same press release, badu writes that she fine-tuned details “with the goal of creating a sound that brings peace and tranquility to its listener.” The songs on “but you caint use my phone” conjure up those feelings and more, as badu analyzes cell phones from all angles. she incorporates seem­ingly every style from her past, going from old-school soul to modern trap. Though it’s less vital than her previous albums, badu’s new mixtape is a great reminder of its creator’s talent. here’s hoping inspiration rings her up again soon. 
Contact Jack Riedy at jriedy@nd.edu 
“But You Caint Use My Phone” 
Erykah Badu 
Label: Motown Records Tracks: “Hello,” “Mr. Telephone Man” If you like: D’angelo, Sza, Missy Elliot 

underappreciated, part of the holiday season — simply coming home to see family. none of the pageantry or deco­rations is really all that important when it comes really comes down to it. The only thing that truly matters is the fam­ily. This is well-reflected in the movie, as throughout the course of the movie, plans for a peaceful family reunion go awry; yet, the season simply feels like a success because at the end of it all, de­spite the frustrations and disappoint­ments, the family is still together and stronger for it. 
Contact Miko Malabute at                  mmalabut@nd.edu 
ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 



The observer |  TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Coming to America 
Wei Cao 
mulimedia editor 

about six years ago, i took a flight from pudong international airport in shanghai to los angeles international airport that changed my life. no, i was not com­ing to america for the first time. i’m an american citizen who was returning to my home in california. 
i was waiting behind an indian family of five in the chinese airport security line. The security officer was frustrated and instructed the family before me in heavily accented english, “put your jacket in the bin.” of course, when she saw me, a fellow chinese person, she was relieved as she was operating under the false assumption that we would be able to flawlessly com­municate in chinese. 
never could she have been more wrong. 
in chinese, she asked me to place my jacket in the bin. i did not understand her words for “jacket,” “bin” or even “place,” and so i uttered a quiet “i’m sorry, what?” in the most apologetic english to have ever been said that day in all of eastern china. she repeated the question, her dwindling patience punctuated by the sharp rise in her tone of voice. 
i could feel my impending execution for my cultural betrayal. how could i, a chinese person, not understand a simple mandarin command? apologizing for a second time, she broke out in english, “put your jacket in the box.” This was then followed by a phrase that i understood perfectly well, “ni shì zhongguó rén ma?” in english, “are you a chinese person?” 
This phrase was the blade that slighted my identity as a chinese person. some say the eviscerated remains of the meta­phorical equivalent of a body for my honor continues to rest in that airport security line. in hindsight, it is a poignant memory that i am still able to write about today, so i guess it turned out to be a net positive experience. well, you know what they say, “ròu bao zi da gou.” 
as a first generation chinese-american, i have the privilege of walking the line between two incredibly different cul­tures. i can give credit to my parents for a successful immigrant story: com­ing to america with an educational visa, working knowledge of english, $200 and the motivation to make it all work out. Then there’s me: i love staple dishes like three cup chicken, roast duck and mapo tofu, but i order them in english because i’m embarrassed to speak in broken mandarin. 
because i had that hybrid chinese and american upbringing, i can clearly see the quirky qualities of both cultures. They’ve both got their pros and cons with plenty of parallels between them. so to answer that airport security lady — who, in hind­sight, may have just been having a bad day — yes, i am chinese, and i am also american. 
Contact Wei Cao at  wcao@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The importance of free speech 
Neil Joseph 

viewpoint columnist 
i’m thankful that notre dame hasn’t been in the news this past month. we’ve seen plenty of our peer institutions in the news for the wrong reasons, and i’m glad we haven’t followed. yale, mizzou and scores of other universities have been in national news because of student unrest due to racial issues. why haven’t we? it may be because notre dame has a unique sense of community, because students here are uniquely open-minded or because we are able to have civil discussion. i really don’t know. regardless, our students and our university have a lot that they can learn from the issues that other colleges have faced, particularly related to speech and racial issues on college campuses. 
one thing must be clarified first. commentators and students alike frequently cite the first amend­ment when they talk about places like yale; spe­cifically, in order to defend what students say. They say that the First amendment protects free speech, and thus anything (aside from the explicit exceptions) can be said on campus. Quite clearly, however, the First amendment doesn’t apply to places like notre dame. The First amendment only protects people from the government restricting speech; as a private university, notre dame is free to do what it wants. if it wanted to, notre dame could ban all hate speech or racially insensitive speech. so why shouldn’t it? 
Free speech is vital at a university for a variety of reasons. First, there is the theoretical reason. college is a place for learning in a variety of ways. as a university committed to the liberal arts, we are committed to (and should continue to be com­mitted to) being challenged, discussing difficult topics and learning from other opinions. The best way to learn about yourself and what you believe in is by confronting people who believe exactly the opposite of what you believe. educationally and academically, free speech is the best way to pre­pare students for the future and for life. 
but most people who oppose free speech don’t oppose the theoretical and academic reasons. They believe that speech that offends is wrong and has no place in society. most people who advocate for restricting some speech have legitimate gripes that some things that people say are patently wrong. so much so, in fact, that people feel disrespected and marginalized what other people do. culturally insensitive halloween costumes, ignorant com­ments about race or just blatant hate can have real, tangible effects on people of all kinds. a lot of peo­ple may not understand, and it may sound simple, but words and actions can have a real negative im­pact on people. but the solution isn’t getting rid of these words and actions: history shows it. 
in the 1960s, the KKK had tens of thousands of members spread all over the country, particularly concentrated in southern states. in addition to their (illegal) acts of violence and terror that they perpetrated, the Klan (and other racist groups and people) enjoyed popularity partly due to the le­gal actions that they took. in states such as north carolina, Klan rallies (which were protected by free speech and the right to assemble) would occur daily. The Klan and other racist groups surely per­petuated hate, albeit in a lot more drastic way than we see today. 
but the solution wasn’t to censor or outlaw these rallies. rather, civil rights activists pushed for ac­tion. using their freedom of speech, these people changed minds, changed laws, but never took away the freedom that all people had to speak their minds. Today, the KKK has significantly fewer members than they did in the 1960s and continues to be on the decline. nothing they have said and nothing that they do say is illegal or banned, yet today they’re ostracized and stigmatized by most of the country. we don’t need to censor to create change. 
There is no right to not be offended, and there is no right to censor opinions that you disagree with. but there is a right, a duty even, to change the things that you believe are wrong. and the ability to speak freely guarantees everyone can do that. The best way to affect change is to encounter what is wrong, acknowledge it and do all that you can to make sure that it doesn’t happen again. if someone says something racist, acts insensitively or offends someone, the solution isn’t to punish and forbid their action. That breeds hostility and doesn’t ac­tually create change — it merely enforces it upon others. There will always be racist people, racist thoughts and insensitive actions. To change, to really have an impact on people, we must change how they think, not how they act or speak. only then will we see progress. only then will society change. 
Neil Joseph is a junior in Stanford Hall majoring in political science and economics. He welcomes all thoughts and suggestions, and can be reached at  njoseph2@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Thank you from the class of 1978 
To our players, coaches and athletic director: 
we want to thank all of the seniors and the entire notre dame organization for an incredible season. For the last four years you have provided us with so many great victories and brought great pride to our school. 
as graduates of the class of 1978, we’ve wit­nessed the rebirth of the program from its heyday. The transformation this team has made from one that struggled to break into the top-25 rankings, to a national championship contender each year, has been special to watch. 
we’ve been lucky enough to meet several players over the years, and we can truly say that this year’s seniors are not only great athletes but even better people. your accomplishments on and off the field have been amazing. 
we would like to wish you the best of luck in this year’s bowl game. a nice win would be a terrific sendoff for such a talented group of young men. 
go irish!  
John Coyne  Rich Riley  
class of 1978  class of 1978  
Jimmy Dunne  Stan Ziherl  
class of 1978  class of 1978  
nov. 30  
Jimmy Martin  
class of 1978  


sTanFord 38, noTre dame 36 | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Dreams dashed 
Last-second field goal dooms Notre Dame as playoff hopes vanish in California 

Irish fall short of completing fairy-tale season 

Zach Klonsinski 
sports editor 
sTanFord, calif. — saturday night we watched what seem­ingly could have been a dream season, the type they make movies about, come to an argu­ably unfitting end at stanford stadium. 
instead of defying all the odds, overcoming a staggering amount of adversity and making a run at college football’s greatest prize, notre dame had its heart ripped from its chest by a rising rival. 
as is always the case in college athletics, one side erupted in ju­bilation as stanford senior kicker conrad ukropina struck the win­ning blow. seeing his kick travel straight through the north end-zone uprights, the senior created his own fairy-tale moment, going from walk-on freshman to senior hero. 
on the opposite side of the field, notre dame watched si­lently as ukropina’s boot burst the bubble on its own fable, one 
see KlonsinsKi PAGE 3 
By ALEX CARSON 
associate sports editor 

sTanFord, calif. — as he had done at virginia, clemson and Temple earlier this sea­son, sophomore quarterback deshone Kizer led a trailing no. 6 notre dame down the field late in the fourth quarter and into the end zone. 
down 35-29 to the no. 9 cardinal, the irish (10-2) took over on their own 12-yard line with 6:48 to play, needing a touchdown drive to keep their playoff hopes alive on a chilly night in palo alto. 
Fifteen plays and 88 yards later, they delivered. 
after converting a third-and-10 early in the drive and a fourth-and-1 late, Kizer rolled out on a naked bootleg, powering through stanford defenders and across the goal line to tie the game. Freshman kicker Justin yoon’s point after gave notre dame the lead, 36­35, with just 30 seconds left. 
it seemed that notre dame was going to wrap up its reg­ular-season résumé with 11 wins. but stanford senior quar­terback Kevin hogan had other ideas. 
aided by a facemask penalty called on irish junior defensive lineman isaac rochell, hogan moved the cardinal (10-2, 8-1 pac-12) 45 yards in 19 seconds to set up a game-winning, 45-yard field goal from stanford senior kicker conrad ukropina, lifting the cardinal to a 38-36 win. 
“Tough to talk to our team in the locker room after a game like this,” irish head coach brian Kelly said. “Two very good football teams playing today. … stanford made a play that they needed to make to win the game, and we didn’t make it.” 
Two plays after rochell’s pen­alty, hogan connected with fifth-year senior receiver devon cajuste for a 27-yard gain that moved the cardinal into field-goal range with nine seconds left. 
“we thought it was some 
see comebacK PAGE 2 

PLAYER OF THE GAME 
KEVIN HOGAN 

CARDINAL SENIOR QUARTERBACK 
in his final regular season game, hogan shined, throwing as many touchdowns as incompletions in stanford’s win. The son of a notre dame grad­uate, hogan’s 27-yard pass to devon cajuste with seconds left set up the game-winning field goal. 
QUOTE OF THE GAME 
“Fact of the matter is, we’re not going to get that chance.” 
irish head coach brian Kelly after saying he’d “put his team up against anybody in the country” saturday following the loss that knocked notre dame out of playoff contention. 
Defense struggles in key third-down situations 

By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports editor 
sTanFord, calif. — despite holding the pac-12’s record hold­er for all-purpose yards in a single season in check all night, the irish defense still couldn’t find a way to stem the cardinal attack for much of no. 6 notre dame’s 38-36 loss to no. 9 stanford on saturday night at stanford stadium. 
That defensive weakness came to a head in the form of a 27-yard pass from cardinal fifth-year se­nior quarterback Kevin hogan to classmate receiver devon cajuste that set up senior kicker conrad ukropina’s game-winning field goal as time expired. 
“we’ve got to close down in­side out on that seam route,” irish head coach brian Kelly said after the game. “i thought we prob­ably played it a little bit too much outside in, worried about backing up. we got to be more aggressive to a seam route.” 
on a night when its offense moved the ball so well it didn’t have to punt until the fourth 
see deFense PAGE 3 



REPORT CARD 







QUARTERBACKS 

while he only completed 13 of 25 passes saturday, deshone Kizer still had a solid game against stanford. his involvement in the ground game, rushing for 128 yards on 16 carries, was key as the notre dame offense marched down the field time and time again. however, he couldn’t finish those drives, leaving points on the board three times in the red zone. 
RUNNING BACKS 

like he did a few weeks ago against pittsburgh, freshman Josh adams had a standout performance for notre dame on saturday. he ran for 168 yards on 18 carries, including a 62-yard touchdown rush that put the irish on top in the third quarter. 
RECEIVERS 

irish fans saw both will Fuller’s best asset, his speed, and his biggest spot for improvement, his hands, saturday. his 73-yard touchdown reception energized irish fans in california but also dropped a key third-down pass earlier in the day. The rest of the corps had a solid, if unspectacu­lar, day against the cardinal. 
OFFENSIVE LINE 

after a few substandard performances, the offensive line blossomed against the cardinal. notre dame ran for 8.5 yards per carry and 299 yards, and deshone Kizer was well-protected: Kizer wasn’t sacked and was hurried once. 
DEFENSIVE LINE 

stanford fans waited all day for christian mccaffrey to break a big gain — and he didn’t, as the irish defense held him to just 3.5 yards per carry. however, Kevin hogan didn’t face much pressure, enabling his stellar day. 
LINEBACKERS 

brian Kelly called Jaylon smith’s 15-tackle effort “normal” against stanford, and the irish head coach wasn’t wrong. greer martini was disruptive in the backfield with the game’s only sack, and the unit aided the defensive line in the containment of mccaffrey. 
DEFENSIVE BACKS 

To say Keivarae russell’s absence was felt saturday may be an understatement. devin butler whiffed on a tackle on a stanford touchdown, and the secondary routinely lost devon cajuste, who had 125 yards on five receptions — including the crucial 27-yard one that set the cardinal up for their game-winning touchdown. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

Throughout the course of the season, this unit had been plagued by inconsistency — but saturday, the special teams crew put it all together in a brilliant performance. c.J. sanders returned notre dame’s first kickoff in four years, a veteran kick coverage crew kept mccaffrey from breaking a big return, Tyler newsome had two 50-plus-yard punts, and Justin yoon was perfect en route to scoring 12 points. 
COACHING 

while the offensive game plan worked well, the defensive one didn’t. brian vangorder’s defense couldn’t get off the field and consistently blew coverages downfield. 
OVERALL GPA: 3.26 (A-) 

despite suffering a loss that ended its playoff hopes, notre dame played one of its best games of the season saturday at stanford — it just ran into another talented team that played a little better. in a high-profile game, notre dame looked like it belonged in the middle of the national discussion. but the offense’s lack of execution in the red zone and the defense’s inability to get off the field hampered irish playoff hopes. 
PLAY OF THE GAME 
CONRAD UKROPINA’S GAME-WINNING 45-YARD FIELD GOAL 
when deshone Kizer led a touchdown drive to put the irish ahead with 30 seconds left, it looked like notre dame was set to keep its playoff hopes alive. but the former walk-on flipped the script with his right leg, booting the game-winner through the uprights as time expired. 

Comeback 
conTinued From page 1 
lanes inside,” stanford head coach david shaw said of the seam route cajuste ran. “so we weren’t trying to score a touch­down, we were just trying to get in field-goal range.” 
irish graduate student corner­back matthias Farley was in cov­erage on the play. 
“we’ve got to close down in­side out on that seam route,” Kelly said. “i thought we probably played it a little bit too much out­side in, worried about backing up. we’ve got to be more aggressive to a seam route.” 
From there, stanford sopho­more running back christian mccaffrey ran two yards to the irish 28-yard line to set up ukropina’s game-winner. 
“you’re talking about a walk-on kicker that came in as a young guy, earned his stripes, learned, grew, earned a scholarship and he’s our guy now,” shaw said. “and he’s done a phenomenal job and he’s become one of the best kickers in the nation.” 
stanford’s last-second drive overshadowed notre dame’s fi­nal possession, where Kizer ac­counted for 23 of his team’s final 29 yards to give the irish the lead. 
“i thought it was as good as it could get, right?” Kelly said of Kizer’s drive. “[he] eats up the whole clock, makes an incredible play on the third down, throws a big route under duress, runs the ball physically. i think he handled himself like a fifth-year senior, and he’s just a [redshirt] freshman. so, if there’s a bright spot there, obviously, the way deshone Kizer played was pretty bright.” 
Throughout the night, notre dame struggled in two areas — the red zone and on third downs 
— it has had trouble with all year. 
a week after turning the ball over three times inside boston college’s 20-yard line, the irish managed to collect points on each red zone trip saturday. but the final drive was the only time notre dame scored a touchdown, as the offense settled for three field goals on three trips inside the stanford 10-yard line. 
“we’ll evaluate it, we’ll go back and check it out,” Kizer said of notre dame leaving points on the board saturday. “i know some of the decisions i made down there weren’t obviously the best. 
while the final stanford drive secured the cardinal victory, Kelly pointed to his team’s red-zone struggles as a reason why the irish fell saturday. 

“it’s never about the last 30 sec­onds,” Kelly said. “we had a num­ber of opportunities in the red zone that we should have con­verted or could have converted into touchdowns that we had to settle for field goals.” 
on the other side of the ball, notre dame’s defense struggled on third down. The cardinal con­verted their first five third-down tries en route to an 8-for-12 mark on the day. 
“They executed better than we did on those third down situa­tions and it’s something where it’s very crucial and it’s hard to defeat them when it’s a lot of third-and­shorts, a lot of third-and-ones,” irish junior linebacker Jaylon smith said. 
stanford got out to a strong start saturday, when hogan led an 11-play, 75-yard opening drive that culminated in a 1-yard touchdown pass to fifth-year se­nior senior remound wright. 
but the irish answered with­out the offense touching the ball when freshman receiver c.J. sanders sprinted 93 yards for notre dame’s first kickoff return for a touchdown in four years. 
The cardinal hit right back, though, with hogan connecting with cajuste, who finished with 125 receiving yards, for a 6-yard touchdown. 
“[cajuste hadn’t] really had a breakout game all year, and he’s had probably his best year of blocking,” shaw said. “ … and today was the day. The coverage dictated it. The right plays were there, the quarterback saw it and hit him and he made them.” 
on the ensuing irish posses­sion, Kizer led notre dame down inside the stanford 10-yard line 
— and that’s where the red-zone woes started. with fourth-and-1 coming from the 4-yard line, Kelly was set to go for it. 
but a snap infraction on gradu­ate student center nick martin forced the irish to settle for a 26­yard yoon field goal. 
after a defensive stop, the next drive ended in the same way, with yoon kicking his second field goal of the game from 25 yards out to cut stanford’s lead to 14-13. 
notre dame avoided the red zone completely on its next drive. 
Kizer hit junior receiver will Fuller, who blew past his defend­er, for a 73-yard touchdown pass. 
“i thought the throw to will Fuller was as good as it gets,” Kelly said. 
The score put notre dame ahead 20-14 late in the first half, but hogan led a quick drive to put stanford back in the driver’s seat. a big completion to cajuste got the cardinal in range before hogan threw his third touch­down pass of the day, a 14-yard completion to senior receiver michael rector, giving stanford a 21-20 lead. 
a 48-yard Kizer rush got notre dame inside the stanford 25-yard line late before the half, but Kizer fumbled on the next play, com­mitting the game’s only turnover. 
yoon’s third red-zone field goal of the day put the irish back ahead coming out of the half, but another stanford touchdown drive flipped the score once more when wright carried it in from a yard out to put the cardinal ahead 28-23 midway through the third quarter. 
but for the second time on the night, the irish used a big play to avoid the red zone, as freshman running back Josh adams broke free for a 62-yard touchdown rush. after a failed 2-point con­version, notre dame led 29-28. 
adams finished with 168 of notre dame’s 299 rushing yards saturday and credited the suc­cess to the offensive line. 
“The offensive line, they’ve been working great all season,” adams said. “That’s always the key. whenever we’re having great games, they’re running hard. you’ve just gotta do your job be­cause they’re doing their job … [to] make their five-yard push into a 10-yard gain.” 
on the first play of the fourth quarter, stanford regained the lead, 35-29, when hogan tossed a 10-yard touchdown pass to junior tight end austin hooper. 
That set the scene for the de­fenses to both string together a pair of stops, before Kizer and hogan led their respective touch­down drives. 
“i’m completely blank inside,” Kizer said. “it’s hard to really de­scribe how you feel in a time like this. obviously, i’m disappointed. not in the fact that we lost, but more in the fact that some of the most amazing football players i’ve ever been around and lead­ers, just walked off their last regu­lar season game and didn’t have a 
w. and that’s just, that’s the hard­est part about it all.” 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2015 | The observer 

Defense 
conTinued From page 1 
quarter and scored on seven of its 10 possessions, the notre dame defense rarely capital­ized on chances to get the ball to its offensive counterparts. 
“we didn’t execute on third down. That’s the fact of the matter,” irish graduate stu­dent Joe schmidt said. “it wasn’t on game plan. we had a good game plan. i thought we had good calls. we just didn’t execute. it was something we knew we needed to do in this football game. 
“stanford’s a dang good football team, and they ex­ecute on third down. They had a good plan. They’re well-coached, and we just didn’t get it done on third down tonight.” 
stanford converted its first five third-down attempts, and the irish handed the cardinal a sixth first down with an off­side penalty against fresh­man defensive lineman Jerry Tillery as the home team marched down the field for touchdowns on its first two drives. excluding freshman receiver c.J. sanders’ 93-yard touchdown return following stanford’s first score, notre dame didn’t have the ball in its possession until 1:54 re­mained in the first quarter. 
Klonsinski 
conTinued From page 1 
that had been in the works since spring football and seem­ingly added another major twist with every chapter. 
in many ways, it might have been one of the great stories in recent college football history. instead, it came to an end in the most merciful way pos­sible: on the football field, not at the hands of a committee. 
notre dame is a top-10 football team this season. unfortunately for the irish, there’s only a four-team playoff. 
To say notre dame is one of the top four teams in the coun­try at this moment in time is impossible, even had the irish defense held the cardinal on that fateful final possession or the offense capitalized on three of its red-zone trips with touchdowns instead of field goals. 
i’ll take flak for it, but notre dame was at the mercy of the teams in front of it saturday night had it done anything less than perform ‘Texas, part ii.’ none of the teams notre dame needed to lose lost though, so barring a clemson or alabama loss in their respective confer­ence title games this weekend, the irish weren’t going to make the playoff anyway. 
yet to discount this season as anything but a testament to the guts and drive of this year’s squad would be unfair, too. For 11 games, 59 minutes and 54 seconds, the irish kept building 

“They executed better than we did on those third-down situations,” irish junior line­backer Jaylon smith said. “and it’s something where it’s very crucial, and it’s hard to defeat them when it’s a lot of third­and-shorts, a lot of third-and­ones. so it’s just a matter of we were able to figure it out at the end, [but] it’s just sometimes things can be too late.” 
The irish defense finally forced a cardinal punt with 
9:21 remaining in the sec­ond quarter and got another stop on the next possession, a stretch in which the irish con­trolled the line of scrimmage, Kelly said. 
“i thought we were much better up front,” Kelly said. “we got pushed around a little bit in the first couple of drives and then we settled down and played much better. … i think a lot of that was just we settled into our game plan and played just better football defen­sively. it starts with your front four.” 
but in the final minutes of the first half the cardinal broke through again with a four-play, 75-yard drive to re­gain the lead after the irish scored on three consecutive possessions. 
stanford then converted on three third-down attempts during its first two drives of the second half, both of which 
a plot line that had many across the nation hooked right until the end. 
it started in may when everett golson transferred and gave way to renewed hope in the shape of junior quarterback malik Zaire. Zaire continued breathing new life in the irish and their faithful with a re­sounding, season-opening vic­tory over Texas despite the loss of junior running back Tarean Folston. still, aided by the rise of senior receiver-turned­running back c.J. prosise, Zaire appeared set to write his name in all the storybooks. 
Then Zaire went down in the season’s second game against virginia, lost for the year with a broken ankle, and sophomore quarterback deshone Kizer suddenly found himself cap­tain of a ship that continued to fall apart around him: The length of notre dame’s injury list this season was eclipsed only by the number of starters it trotted out to combat them: 37. 
yet Kizer responded. 

he steered his crew through troubled waters multiple times during the season, highlighted by a pair of game-winning touchdown throws to junior receiver will Fuller against virginia and Temple. he led a march through a hurricane late in the fourth quarter against clemson, falling just a yard shy of tying a game in which he carried the team. and then again saturday night, he led what was seemingly the game-winning touchdown drive, capping it himself by barreling resulted in go-ahead touch­downs in a game so close that each of the final eight scor­ing drives resulted in a lead change. 
The irish defense forced stanford to punt twice in the fourth quarter with its offense trailing, but just as in the first half, it couldn’t quite hold on after sophomore quarterback deshone Kizer’s touchdown run and the subsequent ex­tra point by freshman kicker Justin yoon put notre dame ahead with just 30 seconds re­maining in the game. 
hogan found cajuste streak­ing down the middle of the field wide open and ukropina ended the contest with a boot that split the uprights. 
cajuste stole the show on his senior day, hauling five re­ceptions for 125 yards in his fi­nal game at stanford stadium with notre dame’s focus on sophomore running back and jack-of-all-trades christian mccaffrey. The irish managed to slow mccaffrey down, hold­ing him under 100 yards rush­ing for the first time in his last ten games and limiting him to just 228 all-purpose yards. 
in the end, though, it wasn’t enough to keep notre dame’s shot at the college Football playoff alive. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
over a cardinal defender at the goal line. 
prosise, for his part, shocked everyone coming to become the first irish running back to eclipse the 1,000-yard mark since cierre wood accom­plished the feat in 2011. and when prosise ran into in­jury trouble late in the season, freshman running back Josh adams proved he was more than ready to carry the load, amassing four 100-yard games this season and setting a pro­gram record with a 98-yard touchdown scamper against wake Forest. 
Junior linebacker Jaylon smith, who will be the subject of much media scrutiny until he decides whether or not to declare for this spring’s nFl draft, continued to showcase his freakish abilities on the defensive side, and senior cornerback Keivarae russell made his return following his academic troubles last season to come up with game-sealing interceptions against usc and Temple. even graduate student linebacker Jarrett grace made his fair share of appearances after suffering a devastating leg injury in 2013. 
so no, notre dame just didn’t have enough gas left in the tank to make the playoff this year. but it was still one hell of a ride. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SCORING SUMMARY 
1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  TOTAL  
7  13  9  7  36  
14  7  7  10  38  

STANFORD 7, NOTRE DAME 0 
remound wright 1-yard pass from Kevin hogan (conrad ukropina kick) 
9:29 remaining 

Drive: 11 plays, 75 yards, 5:31 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 7, STANFORD 7 
c.J. sanders 93-yard kickoff return (Justin yoon kick) 
9:18 remaining 

STANFORD 14, NOTRE DAME 7 
devon cajuste 6-yard pass from hogan (ukropina kick) 
1:54 remaining 

Drive: 12 plays, 78 yards, 7:24 elapsed 
STANFORD 14, NOTRE DAME 10 
yoon 26-yard field goal 
12:26 remaining 

Drive: 10 plays, 70 yards, 4:28 elapsed 
STANFORD 14, NOTRE DAME 13 
yoon 25-yard field goal 
5:02 remaining 

Drive: 11 plays, 84 yards, 4:19 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 20, STANFORD 14 
will Fuller 73-yard pass from Kizer (yoon kick) 
2:15 remaining 

Drive: 1 play, 73 yards, 0:08 elapsed 
STANFORD 21, NOTRE DAME 20 
michael rector 14-yard pass from hogan (ukropina kick) 
00:48 remaining 

Drive: 4 plays, 75 yards, 1:27 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 23, STANFORD 21 
yoon 29-yard field goal 
11:03 remaining 

Drive: 11 plays, 73 yards, 3:57 elapsed 
STANFORD 28, NOTRE DAME 23 
wright 1-yard rush (ukropina kick) 
6:58 remaining 

Drive: 7 plays, 76 yards, 4:05 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 29, STANFORD 28 
Josh adams 62-yard rush (2-point conversion failed) 
5:24 remaining 

Drive: 5 plays, 86 yards, 1:34 elapsed 
STANFORD 35, NOTRE DAME 29 
austin hooper 10-yard pass from hogan (ukropina kick) 
14:55 remaining 

Drive: 9 plays, 74 yards, 5:29 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 36, STANFORD 35 
Kizer 2-yard rush (yoon kick) 
0:30 remaining 

Drive: 15 plays, 88 yards, 6:18 elapsed 
STANFORD 38, NOTRE DAME 36 
ukropina 45-yard field goal 
0:00 remaining 

Drive: 5 plays, 45 yards, 0:30 elapsed 
STATISTICS 





TOTAL YARDS 
533 422 



The observer | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Irish sophomore quarterback DeShone Kizer prepares to take a snap in the final minute Saturday. Kizer scored on the play to lead the Irish comeback, but it was all for naught as Stanford rallied to win. 
DOWN TO THE WIRE 
ON THE WEST COAST 
COMMENTARY 

Irish, Cardinal building rivalry 

Alex Carson 
associate sports editor 
sTanFord, calif. — That was unbelievably fun. 
but it’s also par for the course as far as these two teams are concerned. 
For the third time in four years, notre dame and stanford played an instant classic. unlike the defensive slogs of the 2012 and 2014 games, where the irish pulled out late wins, it was the no. 9 cardinal winning in a bril­liant display of offense saturday, toppling no. 6 notre dame with a last-second, 45-yard field goal. 
“Tradition” is a word used a lot 
— probably too much — around campus in south bend. be it the band, uniform or rivalries, it’s the buzzword used to describe what makes notre dame football special. 
and as far as rivalries are con­cerned, there’s certainly more traditional ones: usc and navy are obvious, while there’s a ton of history between the irish and michigan, michigan state, purdue — even pittsburgh and boston college. 
but amongst the litany of traditional rivals the irish have, there’s no annual game on notre dame’s schedule that’s been more meaningful than this one since brian Kelly took over as irish head coach prior to the 2010 season. 
Take a look at Kelly’s brightest moments at notre dame, and you’ll find wins over stanford had as many touchdowns as incompletions, four, while irish sophomore deshone Kizer turned in one of his best perfor­mances yet. 

when it looked like the de­fenses were finally bearing down to win the game in the fourth quarter, Kizer stepped up. he led a drive worthy of the win, taking notre dame 88 yards on 15 plays, running 6:18 off the clock. 
on most nights, going ahead 36-35 with 30 seconds to go would’ve been enough for the win. 
but hogan wasn’t having it. a 27-yard completion to fifth-year senior receiver devon cajuste got the cardinal in field goal range, and senior kicker conrad ukropina, a former walk-on, drilled the 45-yard try to pull the upset. 
with both notre dame slim­ming and stanford’s very slim playoff hopes hanging in the balance, these two teams — ri­vals — turned in one of the best games in either school’s history. 
“we’ve got to make up a name,” Kelly said last week about the annual game. “i think it’s up to you guys to come up with a name for this game so we can get in with the in-crowd, and then i think people will pay more at­tention to it.” 
he’s right. 

For years, notre dame and stanford seemed like a forced rivalry at best. it was a conve­nient fit for the irish, who saw the cardinal as a chance to get to california every season. 
near the center of two of them. sure, we were supposed to care 



The 2012 irish win is an obvi­ous one. with espn’s college gameday in town, notre dame shot itself into the top five and the national championship dis­cussion with a 20-13 overtime win over the cardinal in a driv­ing rainstorm, standing up the powerful stanford offense at the goal line to win an all-time clas­sic at notre dame stadium. 
of course, when it comes to the irish that season, you know the rest of the story. 
but for stanford, that overtime loss in south bend was the dif­ference between playing in the rose bowl and playing in the bcs national championship, taking notre dame’s spot. 
and a year ago, when quarter­back everett golson found tight end ben Koyack for the winning touchdown with just over a minute to go, it moved the irish to 5-0, once more at the center of the national conversation, though this time for a playoff berth. 
so when these two played a brilliant game saturday at stanford stadium, it shouldn’t have been a surprise to anyone. 
we were treated to a classic duel between two quarterbacks 
— stanford senior Kevin hogan because both schools have high graduation rates or fairly similar academic profiles, but at the end of the day, there wasn’t much of a rivalry there. 

They even introduced a tro­phy, the legends Trophy, to try and a bit of meaning to the series. 
There’s only one true way to build a strong rivalry: through competitive, meaningful games on the field. and these two have certainly done that as of late. 
a few days ago, notre dame’s rivalry trophy collection stood complete. but today, the legends Trophy sits in control of stanford. 
you think that’s not going to irk Kelly until oct. 15, 2016, when these teams renew this rivalry? 
The much-maligned (at least in south bend) stanford band plays Free’s “all right now” as its de facto fight song throughout the game. 
but those three words may be an understatement for how good this rivalry has become. 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Enhancing your core curriculum 
every 10 years, the university president and provost ask the faculty to review notre dame’s core curriculum for undergraduates (your general education requirements) and make recommenda­tions about if and how it could be improved. since the beginning of the fall 2014 semester, a commit­tee comprised of faculty from across campus and charged with leading our latest review has been doing just that. 
many of you as current students participated in this process last academic year when members of the core curriculum review committee (ccrc) consulted with students, alumni and fellow faculty to assess the core and consider possible revisions. 
our goal? To identify how our general education program might better fulfill its goal of identifying and developing “the knowledge, dispositions and skills every notre dame undergraduate student should possess upon graduation.” 
yesterday, the ccrc presented a draft report to the faculty for comment, opening up another phase of conversation and deliberation that will last through the rest of this academic year. 
we encourage you to read the report, too. (it is available for download on curriculumreview. nd.edu.) after all, this report is in large part the result of your questions and feedback. 
more than any previous review, the process led by the ccrc included outreach and activities designed to engage the entire notre dame com­munity. we surveyed all current undergraduate students (thank you for the impressive response rate of 45 percent) as well as a selection of alumni from various years. we invited a wide range of student groups, faculty and staff to participate in meetings, focus groups, open forums and informa­tion sessions. and we found this process of gather­ing responses both stimulating and inspiring. 
The charge to the committee from president Jenkins and provost burish was wide-ranging, and the breadth of the committee recommendations in the just-released draft report reflect this. 
That said, our recommendations are prelimi­nary. we plan to invite the notre dame commu­nity to discuss the draft report in various venues and ways over the next semester. Following this period of formal faculty comment and broader community discussion, the ccrc will gather all suggestions and decide what changes might be warranted in the draft report before presenting a final report to the university’s academic council for approval. 
already, however, we think our findings are sig­nificant. we emerged from this initial period of reflection on the core curriculum convinced that the current structure has many strengths — but also contains opportunities for improvement and innovation. 
in the draft report, we make a number of propos­als for change intended to provide an even richer educational experience for all notre dame stu­dents. These proposals include: 
enhancing faculty ownership of the curriculum and increasing student flexibility by framing the core around “ways of knowing” and related learn­ing goals, rather than by individual courses in a limited number of departments. For example, we propose that instead of simply setting a “math” requirement to be satisfied by faculty in one de­partment, the requirement be reframed as “quan­titative reasoning” so that courses from multiple departments that satisfy the learning goals asso­ciated with this way of knowing would be able to fulfill the requirement. 
recommending that a new type of “integration” course be allowed to count for core credit. inspired by your request to have more of your classes con­nect across disciplines, these courses would be team-taught by faculty from two disciplines and would tackle pressing contemporary issues and enduring questions from a multidisciplinary van­tage point. already, faculty have come forward with ideas for course proposals covering topics and problems in both the present and the past, from human development to the environment to diversity. 
deepening our catholic identity by cultivat­ing a renewed appreciation of required courses in Theology and philosophy, as well as introducing a second new type of course called catholicism and the disciplines. The new “cad” course would ex­plore how dimensions of catholic thought are inte­grated into areas of study across the university. 
diminishing the number of core curriculum requirements for many students. at the same time, we encourage departmental programs to place upper limits on major credit hour requirements. our goal is that every student entering notre dame should have at least three free electives before graduation. 
ensuring that our most experienced faculty teach a much higher percentage of introductory courses in the core. especially in the first year, taking classes from accomplished teachers can be a transformational experience for students. 
encouraging academic advisors across campus to work together in a more collaborative fashion. increased coordination among advisors can also help students schedule core classes across their entire four years at notre dame, not simply their first year. 
eliminating the use of advanced placement credit to test out of core requirements altogether. we believe college courses typically do not and should not simply replicate a student’s high school experience — but strongly encourage the use of advanced placement courses and high school re­cords for appropriate placement. 
The report contains other ideas and proposals, and we look forward to discussing any and all with the notre dame community as the core review process continues. 
we leave the initial phase of this process im­pressed by the energy students and faculty have already put into this effort and heartened by what we saw as a campus consensus around the shared value of a catholic liberal arts education. we are particularly proud of the idealism notre dame stu­dents display when discussing their highest intel­lectual aspirations. 
in that spirit, we look forward to resuming the conversation next semester. 
Michael Hildreth 
professor of physics college of science 
John McGreevy 
i.a. o’shaughnessy dean 
college of arts and letters nov. 30 

saint mary’s and planned parenthood 
in response to dr. mooney’s statement regard­ing the planned parenthood display on the saint mary’s campus, i see it to be inadequate, hiding behind the secular “academic freedom.” as pope John paul ii said, “Freedom consists not in doing what we like, but in having the right to do what we ought.” my family has had three young wom­en (two of my sisters and myself) graduate from saint mary’s, ’04, ’08, ’10 and my brother who graduated from notre dame in ’12. my parents gave us a wonderful gift by supporting us there. we have a true love and devotion for the school and have kept in close contact with other alum­ni, affiliated families and present employees. we hope to see future generations from our family attend saint mary’s college and notre dame. 
unfortunately, in spite of dr. mooney’s expla­nation of what occurred, i fear the bulk of those who hear of this affair,  which is now nation­wide, will not respond in a positive way to what they “perceive” has occurred. perception can be just as vital as the reality. planned parenthood was started by a woman who believed strongly in controlling population by contraceptive methods and abortion. she was a eugenicist. and while planned parenthood offers other ser­vices (services offered by many other organiza­tions that are in line with church policy), their mainstays, both philosophically and economi­cally, are abortion and contraceptives — most significantly abortion, as it provide the greatest amount of financial return to the organization. 
so, for those people “out there” who are strongly pro-life, in line with catholic teaching, they are seeing this episode in a very unfavor­able light towards the college. and, for those who are seeing this demonstration in a posi­tive light, they are apparently being deceived into thinking saint mary’s is open to planned parenthood. a loss to saint mary’s on both sides. it will be very hard to explain this to all those to whom we have previously spoken, with such affirmation, for saint mary’s. i think that sometimes, even an educational institution, no, especially an educational institution, needs to take a stand against a few students and faculty members who desire to misrepresent to others a position that is opposed to a core foundation of the catholic institution. 
with great respect and admiration, 
Francesca Morgan 
saint mary’s class of 2004 nov. 18 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 


Happy Birthday: Keep everything in order. preparation and organization, as well as moderation and sticking to a budget will be critical in reaching your goals. stick to the facts or you will be blamed for being misleading. bring about positive change that will have an impact on yourself and others. update and expand your skills and qualifications. make romance a priority. your numbers are 7, 15, 21, 24, 33, 36, 40. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): invest more time in yourself. update your look and add more skills to your resume. set up interviews or attend a networking function. express your thoughts and bring about positive changes. romance will improve your personal life. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Friends or relatives will offer information or suggestions that will help you make an important decision about your work. send emails, make phone calls and engage in conversations that will allow you to present what you have to offer. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t take an unnecessary risk. The information you are given will be confusing or incomplete. ask questions and be moderate if asked to make a donation. it’s what you do, not what you say that will make a difference. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): you’ll have to balance your time between home, family and work responsibilities. be careful how you handle demanding people. if you take on too much in order to please others, you will end up exhausted. gauge your time carefully. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): step into the spotlight and take on the role of leader. your take-charge attitude will bring about a favorable change that will help you attract help from your peers. romance is on the rise, but overspending on entertainment is best avoided. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): problems at home will escalate. listen to the problems being voiced, but don’t buy into a plan that leaves you in a precarious position. overreacting or giving in to demands will result in more problems than benefits. don’t share personal secrets. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Take care of personal responsibilities and you will find it easier to deal with work-related matters. discuss your options, expectations and plans for the future. love is highlighted, and planning a romantic getaway is encouraged. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): learn from past experiences and make adjustments that will help empower you to make better choices. be creative in how you live. work on improving your neighborhood and community facilities. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): uncertainty, inconsistency and overextending yourself must all be avoided. Focus on saving and cutting your overhead. look for opportunities that will allow you to use your talents to bring in extra cash. a change in an important relationship will be beneficial. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): money matters look promising. steer clear of individuals who are unpredictable or inconsistent. Take pride in what you do and opt to work alone in order to avoid taking care of other people’s responsibilities and problems.  


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t let medical, financial or legal matters make you angry. do what needs to be done and keep moving. a chance to make professional progress is apparent if you are willing to take the necessary steps to promote what you have to offer. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): don’t be tempted to get involved in gossip or take action based on hearsay. nothing will be as it appears, and closer consideration must be made before you make a move. Keeping your plans simple and moderate is favored. 


Birthday Baby: you are curious, unique and worldly. you are energetic and playful. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
CHHUN  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
MOPTS  

GBREGI WRENIN  
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 


Print your answer here: 


(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: UNWED YUCKY AFLOAT DEPICTYesterday’s 
Answer: The parking enforcement officer was having — A FINE DAY 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
To
 receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable to and mail to: The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 



name 
address 

city     state Zip 



ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2015 | The observer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Closing the chapter on an era 

Miko Malbute 
sports writer 
“my heart can take the pounding / my mind can handle the grind / but my body knows it’s time to say goodbye.” 
it really is tough to turn back, or even to maintain the status quo once that word is said: goodbye. rather, one has to embrace the conclusion of the story and turn the page to the next chapter. 
Kobe bryant’s announce­ment sunday night that he plans to retire after his 20th season marked the official confirmation of what ev­eryone knew was inevitable and for the best, though many fans of the los angeles lakers and the nba in gen­eral also dreaded it. on the one hand, bryant’s retire­ment announcement marks an official conclusion of the Kobe bryant reclamation project, where head coach byron scott seemingly believed that if he played bryant enough minutes, his legendary shooting guard would rediscover his pre­injury form. This would allow the forgotten team of los angeles to fully ac­cept the rebuild, and — in theory at least — relinquish the reigns of the franchise to up-and-comers d’angelo russell, Jordan clarkson and Julius randle. on the other hand, however, the lakers and the league are forced to say goodbye to the player many consider the closest thing the league has had (or possibly ever will have) to michael Jordan, and a legend in his own right. 
in a peculiar analogy, bryant is similar to that significant other who you know you need to break up with for each other’s mutual benefit. and yet, each of you finds a reason to stay togeth­er for just a little bit longer — it’s hard to let go after such a glorious past. The lakers and bryant would benefit from moving on from each other, and with bryant’s looming retirement now of­ficial, there can be a full commitment to the rebuild, especially with massive amounts of salary cap room opening up with bryant’s contract off of the books. 
with how poorly bryant has been playing to start the season, many have wondered why he is announcing his retirement now for the end of the season; he should sim­ply retire today and walk out on a high note, while every­one still thinks of him fondly and before they are exposed to even more grimace-induc­ing air balls and bricks. yet, there is something invalu­able about having bryant’s 20 years of experience on the court to close out the season. 
For one, bryant will get his farewell tour, something that has been generally ac­cepted in the mlb for fading franchise icons, but not so much in the nba (as a mat­ter of fact, the lone player i can think of with a positive, well-publicized farewell tour in the nba has been michael Jordan himself). This is in spite of the fact that bryant has admitted to feeling “un­comfortable” about such an unapologetic outpouring of love for the once-most­feared player in the league; this tour is less for him, and more for the fans and oppos­ing players to say their last goodbyes and pay their final respects. For two, bryant has also described the “beauty,” in a masochistic kind of way, in the struggle of finishing out the season — even if the legs are gone, the fire in the heart forever burns brightly. For three, bryant’s influence on his young teammates is something that could last for the next decade and shape the impressionable young­sters’ careers. 
but most importantly, the league will just need time to say goodbye to the sporting icon. while there will assur­edly always be great players in the league, and there may even be someone who could go on and break bryant’s 81-point record, there will simply never be another player like him. even though he is only a shadow of the player he once was, his re­tirement announcement reminds us of his longev­ity and lasting endurance through the evolution of the game that occurred during his storied career. 
Contact Miko Malabute at  mmalabut@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


ND VOLLEYBALL | syracuse 3, nd 1; bosTon college 3, nd 2 
notre dame falls to acc opponents to end season 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame wrapped up its season with a pair of road loss­es in the acc, falling to both syracuse and boston college. 
after grabbing just their second conference win last weekend in their home finale against clemson, the irish (7­25, 2-18 acc) were unable to carry any momentum into the Thanksgiving stretch of games. 
on wednesday, notre dame took the first set from the orange (23-8, 14-6 acc), but fell in the next three sets to drop a 3-1 decision (27-29, 25­12, 25-17, 25-16). 
sophomore outside hitter sam Fry led the irish against syracuse with 14 kills and a .357 attack percentage as well as two blocks. meanwhile, sophomore setter maddie dilfer added a double-double on 45 assists and 11 digs while sophomore outside hitter maddie plumlee led the team with 15 kills. 

The irish had one final chance to close the season on a high note, but they ended up dropping a close match to the eagles (12-20, 4-16) in five sets (25-19, 14-25, 23-25, 25-18, 15-13). 
after dropping the first set to boston college, notre dame came roaring back to take the next two sets for a 2-1 lead in the match before the eagles closed strong to take the 3-2 win. 
boston college and notre dame were virtually equal in every statistical category, as the irish led in both blocks (10-8) and attack percentage (.259­
236) but trailed slightly in kills, assists, aces and digs. 
Fry again led the team, this time with 18 kills, eight blocks and a .571 attack percentage. 
dilfer posted another double-double with 51 assists and 14 digs, and this time she was joined in the double-double club by sophomore outside hit­ter sydney Kuhn, who had 12 kills and 12 digs. 
before the final match of the season, both Fry and fresh­man middle blocker meg morningstar were honored by the acc, as Fry was named a second team all-acc member and morningstar made the all-freshman team in the confer­ence as well. 
The two losses mark the end of the campaign for notre dame and the end of head coach Jim mclaughlin’s first season at the helm. mclaughlin and the young irish, who started fresh­men and sophomores through­out the majority of the year, will now begin looking toward next season. 
NCAAW | uconn 79, chaTTanooga 31 

No. 1 Connecticut breezes past Chattanooga 
Associated Press 
chaTTanooga, Tenn. 
— in the moments af­ter his team’s 79-31 blow­out victory, connecticut coach geno auriemma gave chattanooga’s Jim Foster a pat in the back as the two hall of Famers briefly chat­ted at midcourt. 
auriemma understands all too well how it feels to get beaten soundly by a good friend. 
“i remember when i was early in my career at connecticut and Jim was at vanderbilt,” auriemma said. “honest to god, it crossed my mind (that) we were in a game like this with them, but it was reversed. we couldn’t get any offense going, and they pretty much did what­ever they wanted. i do re­member it kind of flashed across my mind. i’ve been there. it’s not a fun place to be.” 
moriah Jefferson scored 15 points and didn’t miss a shot monday night as the top-ranked huskies breezed 
past  chattanooga for their  
41st  consecutive  victory.  
The  three-time  defending  

national champions have beaten each of their first four opponents by at least 40 points and haven’t lost since falling 88-86 at stanford on nov. 17, 2014. 
“The intensity and at­tention to detail that they play with, as a coach, it’s refreshing to watch,” Foster said. “in this day and age of dribble-drive and ‘i want to get my own,’ it’s kind of re­freshing, whether it’s the golden state warriors or connecticut women’s bas­ketball, there are some teams playing basketball the way you’d like to see it played.” 

Jefferson made all five of her shots and four free throws. breanna stewart and gabby williams each added 14 points for the huskies (4-0). williams also had 12 rebounds. 
Jasmine Joyner and Keiana gilbert each scored eight for chattanooga (5-3), which ended a 17-game home win­ning streak. 
after Queen alford’s 3-point shot in the first min­ute of the third quarter got chattanooga within 37-26, connecticut outscored the mocs 42-5 the rest of the way. chattanooga shot 3 of 23 in the second half. 
“we were able to keep run­ning - and they got tired,” stewart said. “i think that just has to do with our stam­ina and endurance through­out the game.” 
connecticut scheduled the home-and-home series with chattanooga due to the long friendship between the two coaches. auriemma be­gan his coaching career by working as an assistant on Foster’s staffs, first at bishop mcdevitt high school in the philadelphia area and later at st. Joseph’s. 
This marked the seventh time the two good friends had faced off, and it was auriemma’s fourth straight victory over his former mentor. connecticut beat Foster’s ohio state team in 2010 and knocked off Foster’s vanderbilt squads in the 1996 ncaa Tournament and the 2001 preseason wniT. Foster beat connecticut while at st. Joe’s in 1987 and while at vanderbilt in the 1992 ncaa Tournament and in december 1992. 
connecticut is six victo­ries away from matching the third-longest winning streak in school history. connecticut won 90 consec­utive games from november 2008 to december 2010, 70 straight from november 2001 to march 2003 and 47 in a row from march 2013 to november 2014. 
chattanooga had won 57 of its last 58 home games before monday. That stretch includ­ed victories last season over a fourth-ranked Tennessee team and a seventh-ranked stanford squad. 
having the top-ranked team in town attracted a boisterous crowd of 6,104 for chattanooga’s seventh-largest home crowd ever — and its biggest since 8,468 watched the mocs upset Tennessee 80-71 on nov. 9, 2012, in the lady vols’ first game of the post-pat summitt era. 


The observer | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

W Bball 
conTinued From page 12 
junior forward Taya reimer was limited to 11 minutes in her return from an achilles injury, while graduate stu­dent guard madison cable and sophomore forward Kathryn westbeld each col­lected three or more fouls in fewer than 20 minutes on the court. 
in their place, mabrey and fellow freshman guard arike ogunbowale both posted career highs in minutes, but it was mabrey who stole the show. she collected 18 points, 10 assists and a team-record 12 steals for the program’s fifth-ever triple-double and first by a freshman. 
“marina came off the [valparaiso] game with a tri­ple-double and really hasn’t looked back since then,” mcgraw said. “she can score, she can rebound, she can defend, she can do a little bit of everything. i’m really pleased with where she’s at right now.” 
The crusaders never led the irish at any point and were outscored in the paint, 72-10 and off turnovers, 51-5. 
in the bahamas, notre dame’s injury woes contin­ued, as sophomore forward brianna Turner suffered a right shoulder injury in prac­tice Tuesday that forced her to miss the team’s match-ups with denver and ucla. her absence, combined with reimer’s slow start following three months on the sideline, meant notre dame suffered in the paint, mcgraw said, which made the team’s wins all the more satisfying. 
“ucla is a great team, they’re a top-15 team,” mcgraw said. “They need to be getting more votes, be­cause they are just so ath­letic in the post, they’re just so talented. ... That was a huge win for us, to be playing without [Turner] on such short notice, not really knowing what we’re going to get from the rest of the team. so i was really, really pleased to come out of there with the championship.” 
The bruins (3-2) topped the irish in rebounds, 42-40, and points in the paint, 48­24, but still trailed for most of the game, until sophomore guard Jordin canada collect­ed a layup with 4.3 seconds left to tie things up. 
reimer scored two points and grabbed three rebounds in 24 minutes of play, but mcgraw said that her mere presence in the lineup was a boost for the irish. 
“without having [Turner], we really needed a big body in there to guard ucla, be­cause they have such great post players,” mcgraw said. “and you’re going to be a lit­tle rusty when you’ve been out for three months and haven’t been able to really practice, so i think it was great having her back in the lineup, and that’s all i can say about that.” 


mostly, however, the irish relied on mabrey and cable, who scored a career-high 22 points and pulled down nine rebounds to tie for the team lead, with 12 of her points coming in the second half. she also scored 13 points against denver and was named tournament mvp. 
“[cable] came back really ready to take on a bigger role, and i think that she has done it so well,” mcgraw said. “she’s been playing great basketball, and she changed her mindset from being a role player to being a star player. she’s the one who’s taking the big shots, she’s doing all the little things, and she’s doing anything she can to help the team win. she’s really shoot­ing the ball, she’s rebound­ing the ball well, she’s really doing everything well.” 
mabrey scored 18 points, nine in overtime, and added four rebounds and six steals. she was the benefactor of allen’s foul trouble, as the ju­nior collected four personal fouls in 32 minutes. allen has 14 fouls on the season, lead­ing all starters and second overall on the team. 

“we need to keep [allen] on the floor and she needs to stay out of foul trouble,” mcgraw said. “but it gave marina mabrey a chance to really run the team, which is something new for her. michaela mabrey is more the vocal leader, and marina is going to handle the ball a little bit more. so between the two of them i think we’re going to do it a little bit by committee.” 
The irish return to purcell pavilion to face no. 10 ohio state in the big Ten/acc challenge on wednesday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Greg Hadley at  ghadley@nd.edu 

Hockey 
conTinued From page 12 
Tournament, was able to preserve their three-goal lead through the end of the game, taking the irish down on Friday night. 
The irish returned to action saturday against western michigan. The broncos (4-8-1, 2-4-0 ncac) were coming off of a 4-1 de­feat against rpi on Friday night. 
The irish struck first against the broncos, netting the first of their three goals in the second period. irish sophomore center dawson cook scored his first goal of the season off of assists from senior defenseman andy ryan and freshman left wing Joe wegwerth with under seven minutes to go in the second period. 
Five minutes later, the broncos evened the score off of a goal by western michigan sophomore center Frederik Tiffels with a min­ute and thirty seconds left in the second period. 

The score remained tied for much of the third peri­od until notre dame senior left wing sam herr with under six minutes remain­ing in regulation, putting the irish ahead by one goal. with less than one minute remaining, senior center Thomas dipauli sealed the victory for the irish by slip­ping past broncos senior goaltender lukas hafner for his sixth goal of the season and sealing the 3-1 irish victory. 
notre dame returns to ac­tion this weekend as hockey east rival massachusetts comes to town for a two-game set. The puck will drop on Friday at 7:35 p.m. 
ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2015 | The observer 

M Soccer 
first 40 minutes. barely two injured the past few weeks minutes after the Terrapins but he was fantastic.” 
conTinued From page 12 

doubled their lead, though, with time running out, 
a corner from senior mid-the irish gained an advan­of the game. when it flew fielder evan panken found tage for the latter stages of past notre dame’s static sophomore defender the game, as the Terrapins junior goalkeeper chris patrick berneski, whose low were reduced to 10 men hubbard, it also proved to header sent the ball into as the referee showed be the first goal. the net. magalhaes a second yel­
irish head coach bobby it was the Terrapins who low card after a tangle with clark said giving away set had the first chances of the gallagher. clark said the pieces in dangerous areas second half, though. sejdic red card gave his team a against the Terrapins was had a chance to bring the chance to equalize. always likely to be costly. difference back to two “obviously they were just 
“That goal came off a free goals with an acrobatic vol-going to try to hang on for kick,” clark said. “if we ley, but hubbard got down the last 12 minutes, so we don’t foul, we don’t give the low to save the shot. knew we could push people free kick away. we talked but after the 60th-higher forward,” clark said. about it before and we knew minute re-introduction “we kept playing and we that they’ve got a few big of sophomore forwards kept taking chances, but we weapons and very good de-Jon gallagher and Jeffrey just couldn’t make them.” livery from their free kicks. Farina from the bench, The irish worked hard to between the delivery and the irish looked hard for make the most of the extra the big targets, set pieces an equalizer. a powerful man. Farina and panken were very important.” shot from sophomore mid-both headed over the bar, 
after the goal, maryland fielder blake Townes, two while the undermanned pressed hard for a second. shots from far out by grad-maryland defense held firm Freshman midfielder amar uate student defender max against long spells of irish sejdic shot wide from the lachowecki, a close-range possession. after an off-edge of the box, senior chance for Farina and a low target header from junior forward david Kabelik at-cross by gallagher all came defender brandon aubrey tempted an audacious close, but notre dame and a blocked shot from back-heel flick that just couldn’t tie the game. clark gallagher, team captain narrowly sailed over the said he was impressed with hodan had the final chance goal and junior midfielder how his team fought back for the irish with 15 sec­michael sauers headed a in the second half. onds left, but his shot from cross wide before a dip-“The second half, we ob-an angle was too high. ping free kick from corboz viously had to go for it, be-clark said failing to win on the very edge of the box cause you’re a goal behind, is always a disappointment, struck the top of the cross-so you’ve got to chase the but that he was proud of his bar and bounced clear. game, and i thought we team. 
after the dominant spell, chased it really well,” clark “unless you win the maryland’s second goal said. “when Jon and Jeffrey whole thing, it’s always go-did eventually come in the came on in the second half, ing to be difficult — you’re 
a 4-2 record. 

38th minute, as freshman i thought they were superb. always going to be disap-
M Bball 

forward eryk williamson Jeffrey especially was tre-pointed,” clark said. “This The weekend was undoubted­
conTinued From page 12 

brought down a header mendous, holding balls senior class has just been travel to illinois on wednesday. 
ly a setback for the irish, who will 

from corboz and slotted and linking with players. i such a terrific group of many drivers and their transi-however, the team remains 
the ball into the corner of thought our fullbacks were young men. i wish we could tion is so effective.” confident, said auguste. 
the goal. getting into wide areas; have taken them a bit fur­notre dame rebounded with “it’s a long season,” auguste 
The irish had few chanc-they were really auxiliary ther, but they’ve won a lot a 68-62 victory over iowa (4-2) said. “There’s going to be some 
es for most of the first half. wingers in the first half, and it’s been a fun group of on Friday with beachem lead-bumps that we face; there’s go-
senior midfielder patrick so that gave us a lot offen-boys to coach.” ing the team with 16 points ing to be some adversity. but we 
hodan curled a free kick sively. [senior midfielder] and five rebounds. The irish have to continue to work hard 
wide to the right in the best connor Klekota too, put in Contact Daniel O’Boyle at again held a halftime lead, but and have short memories.” 
irish opportunity of the a fantastic shift — he’s been doboyle1@nd.edu iowa went on a 16-0 run in the Jackson echoed auguste’s middle of the second half to comments and added that an take the lead 47-46. The game important takeaway from the remained neck-and-neck until weekend was that the irish were two layups by irish sophomore in every game at the end. forward bonzie colson capped “obviously [it is] disappoint-a 9-2 notre dame run to seal the ing losing; no one wants to lose,” game. Jackson said. “but we gave our­
sunday, the irish came up selves a chance to win at the end short again in a 74-73 loss to of every game. That was some­alabama as Jackson missed on thing to take away from [the a last-second layup. unlike the tournament] — we always gave first two games of the tourna-ourselves a chance to win.” ment, notre dame trailed at going forward, brey said the halftime, 43-39, but went on a most important thing for the 14-7 run to start the second half. irish to improve upon is the 
senior guard retin obasohan defense. led the crimson Tide back “offensively, we’ve been with 19 points in the game, but pretty efficient,” brey said. “i’ve with 1:29 left, the irish held been disappointed with our a 73-72 lead. senior forward defense. i thought we could be Zach auguste missed two free a little more consistent down throws with 28.6 seconds left there and certainly [sunday], to give alabama a chance, and we just could never get a key obasohan took advantage, driv-stop to get it to two possessions ing through notre dame’s zone or to win a game. and i think defense to make the game-win-that’s something we really have ning layup with eight seconds to talk about and address and remaining on the clock. hold guys accountable to.” 
auguste recorded his fourth notre dame’s next contest is double-double of the season wednesday against illinois at with 16 points and 10 rebounds. 9:15 p.m. Junior guard steve vasturia tallied 18 points and Jackson Contact Marek Mazurek at chipped in 16 as the irish fell to mmazurek@nd.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S SOCCER | maryland 2, nd 1 
Irish season ends with 2-1 loss to Terrapins 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
down 2-0 in the face of heavy pressure, a goal late in the first half kept no. 7 notre dame’s tournament hopes alive for 45 more min­utes. still needing a goal, a red card for a maryland de­fender raised those hopes for the final 12. but the season ended for the irish on sunday as they couldn’t score again, losing 2-1 to the no. 10 Terrapins in the tour­nament’s third round. 

The rematch of the 2013 ncaa championship game started slowly, as neither the irish (11-4-6, 4-2-2 acc) nor the Terrapins (11-5-5, 3-2-3 big Ten) could create any­thing resembling a serious chance for 20 minutes. when a free kick from maryland se­nior midfielder mael corboz 30 yards from the goal met the head of junior defender ivan magalhaes in the 21st minute, it was the first shot EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 
Junior defender Brandon Aubrey passes the ball during Notre see m soccer PAGE 11 Dame’s 1-0 loss to Syracuse on Nov. 15 at Alumni Stadium. 

MEN’S BASKETBALL | advocare inviTaTional 
Team suffers  pair of losses 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
it was a tough weekend for notre dame as the irish dropped two out of three games at the advocare invitational in orlando, Florida. 
The irish headed into the tour­nament ranked no. 17 nationally but have fallen out of the rank­ings after losses to monmouth and alabama overshadowed a win against iowa. irish head coach mike brey said the week­end was a learning experience for the team. 
“i’ve learned that we’ve got a lot of growing pains that we’re working through,” brey said. “i thought we learned a lot about our group. i would have loved to learn it going 2-1 instead of 1-2. but i think for us, and i try to re­mind myself, this group is going to be a longer-term developing group.” 
The irish (4-2) started their tournament against monmouth (4-2) on Thanksgiving day but were upset by the hawks, 70-68. monmouth junior guard Justin robinson scored 22 points, including two free throws with 

3.6 seconds left in the game, to seal the comeback victory. 
notre dame led 37-29 at half­time, but were unable to finish the hawks off as monmouth went on a 12-4 run coming out of the half. a three-point play by Jackson tied the game at 68 with 30 seconds left, but robinson made a jump shot on the ensuing possession and Jackson missed a half-court shot as the buzzer sounded. 
Jackson led the irish with 20 points, junior forward v.J. beachem added 14 as junior guard steve vasturia and se­nior forward Zach auguste each contributed 12. brey said monmouth’s momentum early in the second half carried it to a win. 
“we lost to a good team,” brey said. “i think our second-half start really hurt us. we were up 8; missed a couple of things around the bucket. [i’m] proud of how we battled back and gave ourselves a chance. They’re really hard to deal with because they’ve got so 
see m bball PAGE 11 

HOCKEY | harvard 4, nd 1; nd 3, wesTern michigan 1 
notre dame fails to upset harvard 
Observer Staff Report 
no. 20 notre dame took to the ice twice over Thanksgiving weekend in the shillelagh Tournament against no. 8 harvard and western michigan, finishing the weekend with a 1-1 split. 
The irish (6-4-4, 3-1­2 hockey east) fell to the crimson (6-1-1, 4-1-1 ecac) Friday by a final score of 4-1 in the first meeting between notre dame and harvard since december of 1978. 
senior left wing mario lucia was responsible for the lone irish score on the night, which came halfway through the first period at the 10:30 mark. lucia’s shot came off of a pass from freshman defenseman bobby nardella and slipped past crimson sophomore goaltender merrick madsen. 
Just five minutes later, the crimson answered the irish with a goal from harvard freshman forward lewis Zerter-gossage, the first of his career. notre dame and harvard entered the sec­ond period tied at 1-1, and for much of the second pe­riod the score remained the same as the irish and crimson were going back and forth for much of the time. however, at the 18:44 mark, senior forward Kyle criscuolo netted a power play goal for the crimson, and less than a minute later at 19:27, criscuolo beat irish sophomore goaltender cal peterson to once again score on a power play, giving the crimson a 3-1 lead going into the third period. 
The irish struggled to keep up with the crimson, fall­ing further behind in the third period after harvard senior forward Jimmy vesey notched his sixth goal of the season, extending their lead to three goals, making the score 4-1. 
harvard, who went on to win the shillelagh 
see hocKey PAGE 10  

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 94, denver 52; nd 92, ucla 84 (oT) 
ND beats UCLA to take tourney title in Bahamas 

KATHRYNE ROBINSON | The Observer 
Sophomore forward Kathryn Westbeld looks toward the basket during Notre Dame’s 74-39 win over Toledo on Nov. 18. 

By GREG HADLEY 
editor-in-chief 
in one week, two countries and three games, marina mabrey went from promis­ing freshman to one of no. 3 notre dame’s main offensive weapons. 
last monday, mabrey made history by recording a triple-double on the road at valparaiso during a 110-54 irish win. Then, the irish (6-0) travelled to the bahamas for the Junkanoo Jam over Thanksgiving break, and mabrey posted 37 points over the course of notre dame’s 94­52 win over denver and 92-84 overtime victory against no. 24 ucla en route to earning all-tournament honors. 
mabrey’s outburst garnered her acc rookie of the week rec­ognition, but it only came as the result of injuries and foul trou­ble holding back several of her teammates, according to irish head coach muffet mcgraw. 
against valparaiso (0-4), 
see w bball PAGE 10 




