The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 71 | tuesday, january 20, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
notre dame honors Martin Luther King, jr. 
Prayer service pays tribute to King’s mission and legacy 
By MADISON JAROS 
news writer 
“let peace begin with me.” 
Those were the words that echoed throughout the ro­tunda of the main building on monday as notre dame 
honored the legacy of  dr.  
martin  luther  king,  Jr.  
through prayer.  

students, faculty and mem­bers of the south bend com­munity sat together under the dome as they prayed and sang traditional hymns, in­cluding we shall overcome and let There be peace on earth. 
martin luther king, Jr. 
see prayer PaGe 5 

Panelists share 
experiences as 


black students 
By KAYLA MULLEN 
associate news editor 
in  honor  of  martin  luther  
king,  Jr.  day,  the  office  of  
the  president,  the  president’s  

oversight committee on diversity and inclusion and the division of student affairs co-sponsored a panel discussion and dinner titled “exploring our history and our Future: 70 years of black student and alumni experience at notre dame” at legends on monday night. 
The panel was moderated by 1969 alumnus don wycliff, edi­tor of the book ‘black domers: seventy years at notre dame,’ and panelists included alumni 
see panel PaGe 4 



moreau day events to celebrate holy cross founder 
By OWEN LANE 
news writer 
The notre dame commu­nity will celebrate moreau day today. moreau day marks the Feast day of blessed basil moreau, the founder of the congregation of the holy cross, who died Jan. 20th, 1873. 
campus ministry and le cercle Français, notre dame’s French culture club, have worked in tandem to organize events to celebrate the Feast day. campus ministry has organized a “selfie competi­tion” for students through­out moreau day. students will compete to win $100 in domer dollars by taking as many selfies with holy cross religious as they can and sending them to @ndministry 

Fr. peter mccormick, direc­tor of campus ministry, said he hopes the moreau day ac­tivities will have a noticeable impact to campus. 
“i think it’s an opportunity for us to be reminded of what our heritage is and who we are,” mccormick said. “when i think about any great insti­tution, one wants to know 

on Twitter and instagram. see moreau PaGe 4 




SMC votes on new SGA constitution 
By KIERA JOHNSEN 
news writer 
saint mary’s college student government association (sga) revised its constitution in order to create a clearer, more concise document, which was voted on by the saint mary’s student body at the end of last week. 
results of the vote have not yet been announced. mckenna schuster, senior and sga presi­dent, said the document will pass if 25 percent of the saint mary’s student body votes on it and a two-thirds majority of those voters approve it. 
“as of now, voting is set to end tomorrow evening, but if we don’t have 25 percent participa­tion we may extend the vote,” she said. 
schuster said the revisions condense the original 27-page constitution to three pages and clarifies its purpose. 
“The original document was very long and incohesive,” schuster said.“it was a 27-page document that had extra bylaws for organizations that were all on separate documents. … [The new constitution is] not just one giant 27-page document that tries to include everything. it is a lot less redundant and it is a lot more clear and concise, breaking down all of that extra fluff and just making it a shorter document.” 
kelly gutrich, senior and sga vice president of internal affairs, said sga made the decision to rewrite the constitution after re­vising various portions last year. 
“we wanted the constitu­tion to read fluidly as an overall governing document for sga and all student organizations,” gutrich said. “all organizations will be following the same set of rules and criteria, everyone will abide by the same rules coming, especially in regards to elec­tions and funding.” 
she said the new constitu­tion does not include any ma­jor changes from the previous iteration. 
“The document reiterates a majority of the same core 
see consTiTuTion PaGe 4 


news PaGe 3 viewpoinT PaGe 7 scene PaGe 8 women’s baskeTball PaGe 16 FooTball PaGe 16 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


What is the most obscure suggestion Netflix has given you? 

Maureen Tracey 
sophomore cavanaugh hall 
“a documentary on fish.” 

Celene Olguin 
freshman mcglinn hall 
“Fargo.” 

Umer Khan 
senior off campus 
“adore.” 


Kelsey Weber 
senior 
ryan hall 
“home Fries.” 

Erin Coscia 
sophomore cavanaugh hall 
“black Fish.” 


Jessie Wurzer 
sophomore 
ryan hall 

“a documentary on sushi.” 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
lesley stevenson greg hadley Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
katie galioto Zach klonsinski clare kossler ben padanilam 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
keri o’mara erin mcauliffe 
Photo Viewpoint 

CUSE Undergraduate Social Concerns Fair Majors Night Stress Free Friday: Men’s Tennis 
Jodi lo Tabitha ricketts 
Workshop Geddes Hall SDH/Reckers Yoga Eck Tennis Pavilion 110 Brownson Hall 6 p.m. - 8 p.m. 6 p.m. - 8 p.m. Rockne Memorial 2 p.m. - 4 p.m. 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. Hear about local Discuss majors 3 p.m. - 4 p.m. Notre Dame plays 
Corrections 

Learn how to write a service opportunities with professors and Free admission and no Oklahoma State. 
in the Jan. 19 edition of The observer, grant proposal. available to students. students. experience needed. Free admission. the graphic accompanying the article ‘committee studies worker 
Classic Film: Fiction Reading: Lucy Women’s Basketball Graduate Student Harlem Globetrotters 
participation’ incorrectly stated the 
Stromboli Corin Purcell Pavillion Mass Purcell Pavilion 
date of the higgins labor café. The 
DeBartolo Performing Notre Dame Hammes 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 
event is Friday. The observer regrets 
Arts Center Bookstore Notre Dame plays Heart See the Harlem 
this error. 

8 p.m. - 10 p.m. 7:30 p.m. Georgia Tech. 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Globetrotters play 1950 film. Open to the public. Worship service. exhibition basketball. 


A capella groups to compete at Morris Inn 
By ALYSSA LYON 
news writer 
Four of notre dame’s and saint mary’s a cappella groups will be participating in the a cappella battle, a singing com­petition based entirely on au­dience votes, wednesday night at the morris inn. The event will feature performances by bellacappella, The echoes, halftime and harmonia, and the notre dame humor artists will emcee, according to the event’s Facebook page. 
each of the four groups will perform three songs and then the audience will vote for the overall winning group via text, kelly huffman, senior and co-president of harmonia, notre dame’s all-female a cappella group, said. 
michael nolan, senior and president of halftime, a notre dame co-ed a cappella group, 
“It’s a great opportunity for us to hear other groups perfom.” 
Kelly Huffman 
Harmonia co-president 
said this event is particularly unique because of its potential for audience engagement. 
“[halftime is] hoping to pack the ballroom with all of our friends and supporters, but we are spending most of our ener­gy perfecting our sound — and dance moves — to hopefully win over the whole audience,” nolan said. 
although this is not the first time many of the a cappella groups have sung together, they have never competed against one another in this format, nolan said. halftime hosts an annual acaFest, and this year legends hosted its first a cap­pella showcase, he said. 
“all of notre dame’s a capella groups are incredibly talent­ed,” huffman said. “it’s a great opportunity for us to hear oth­er groups perform. The com­petition aspect makes it even more fun.” 
emily affinito, a sophomore member of harmonia, said she thinks the style of this event will be particularly exciting for the performers and audience. 
“although it’s a friendly com­petition, it’s fun to get together and show off what [your group] can do and how you are differ­ent from the other a cappella groups,” she said. 
This is the first time the morris inn will be hosting a sing-off event for the a cappella groups, huffman said. 
according to megan akatu, director of sales and marketing at the morris inn, the compe­tition is part of a new student-run initiative to make the morris inn more available to students. 
“we really want students to feel comfortable to come to the morris inn,” akatu said. “This is a way for people to come in, sample some food, listen to a really good battle and hopeful­ly feel more comfortable.” 
“The audience should expect an exciting, enjoyable night full of popular music, dancing and delicious refreshments,” nolan said, adding that the other groups should beware halftime’s dance moves. 
affinito said many disney numbers will be featured and summed up the show as “some real life ‘pitch perfect,’” in ref­erence to the sing-off scene in the 2012 movie starring anna kendrick and rebel wilson. 
however, unlike in the mov­ie, huffman said that “no emp­ty pools are available” to host the event. 
Contact Alyssa Lyon at                   alyon@nd.edu 

Professor earns Innovation Award 
students receive research aid 
By ANDREA VALE 
news writer 
notre dame engineering pro­fessor gary bernstein was recent­ly awarded the first-ever master of innovation award from the indiana economic development corporation and Forbes, inc. for his development of quilt packag­ing technology. 
bernstein, who works as the 
Frank Freimenn professor of 
electrical engineering and as­
sociate director of the center for 
nanoscience and Technology at 
notre dame, said he and his col­
leagues began developing quilt 
packaging technology in 2001 by 
working with integrated circuits, small computer chips that facili­tate the function of cell phones, refrigerators and countless other devices that use electronics. 
“it would be as if you wanted one cell phone to talk to another cell phone so you had a link be­tween them, but you knew that link was slow,” bernstein said. “so that information would go between those two things slower than you’d like them to.” 
bernstein said he noticed the paths through which integrated circuits send electrical signals was less than ideal and respond­ed by developing quilt packag­ing, which he said eliminates the space between integrated circuits and thus rapidly hastens the pace at which circuits can communicate with each other. 
“myself, together with my col­leagues, came up with this new idea that i call ‘quilt packaging,’ because it’s like a quilt,” bernstein said. “we want to take the chips in the packages, get rid of the packages, push them next to each other and put little tiny pieces of metal that stitch them together at their edges. Then you can form an array or quilt of multiple chips that communicate with each oth­er much better because they don’t have to go out of the package and into another package. 
“That’s not done. it’s just not done. it’s a new concept. There are elements of it that are done but not in the way that i’ve de­scribed it.” 
according to the notre dame press release, bernstein received the award at the “Forbes reinventing america: 

The innovation summit” in indianapolis on nov. 13. indiana secretary of commerce victor smith presented him with the award before bernstein went on to make his speech. 
Quilt packaging technology is currently in the process of being commercialized by innovation park at notre dame, with the university owning the rights, ac­cording to the press release. Four patents have already been issued, with a fifth in the works, while the technology is being licensed and incorporated. 
“it [was] incorporated in 2009, so it’s actually five years old,” bernstein said. “we’re doing quite well, getting a lot of traction and have working relationships with several major companies. we just sold our first commer­cial license for a product that will come out in the next couple years. 
“it takes a while to develop new integrated circuits, so the fact that a product is licensed and should be coming out in a couple years is really exciting.” 
Contact Andrea Vale at         avale@nd.edu 
By KYLE WITZIGMAN 
news writer 
The nanovic institute for european studies provided undergraduates – seven se­niors and eight sophomores and juniors – with grants for winter break research. 
“over winter break, we funded 15 students through our senior travel and research grant and our break travel and research grant for sophomores and juniors. we gave a total of $30,880,” student coordinator 
Jennifer Fulton said. 
“i am looking at what it means to be christian, and more specifically catholic, in denmark. denmark is the world’s least religious country, but it also has a state church,” she said. “so i am spending my year with csrs looking at how the government views and op­erates regarding religions, es­pecially the state religion and catholicism.” 
Through her nanovic grant, bartels said she interviewed politicians, party leaders, priests, seminarians and nuns about how the government views religion. 
sophomore american and pre-professional studies ma­jor peter Fink spent his winter break researching something he said is personally relevant for him. 
“after finding out last year that i had celiac disease, this year i was determined to learn as much as possible about the disease for myself and for my 
component.” 
“i wanted to investigate the history behind the political process of the creation of its tax relief programs for people with celiac disease, how these programs are funded and this funding’s impact on other gov­ernmental programs,” he said. 
senior africana studies and pre-medicine major emmie mediate said her research helped further her work on her senior thesis on hiv/aids pro­grams and policies in uganda. 
“different sources of in­ternational funding for local organizations and clinics in uganda dictate a lot of how the epidemic is fought in the country,” she said. “i went to the netherlands and sweden to evaluate their foreign aid programs because they have a very unique and effective model for combatting the epi­demic in uganda. i wanted to uncover why and how these programs are so successful.” 
Junior political science ma-career aspirations of being mediate offered advice a 
jor abigail bartels funded her physician,” he said. about grant funding at notre 
project through the center Fink said he traveled to dame. 
for the study of religion ireland since it is where “not just at nanovic, but 
and society (csrs) and the “the disease is most com-there is so much grant money 
nanovic grant. mon because of its genetic available to us as undergrads 
here,” she said. “i would defi­nitely encourage everybody to take advantage of these oppor­tunities. i’ve loved being able to enhance what i’ve studied at notre dame by being able to travel and experience what i study and conduct my own independent research.” 
Contact Kyle Witzigman at kwitzigm@nd.edu 

Senior Emmie Mediate stands on a bridge over the Singel canal, located near the Anne Frank House in Amsterdam. Mediate visited the Netherlands and Sweden during her winter break research trip. 


The observer | tuesday, january 20, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

think about race. it’s a white privi­of mass at 5:15 p.m. in to share our skills as we cel-
Moreau 
Panel 
the basilica of the sacred ebrate moreau day with the lege. For me, it’s harder to get peo­
conTinued From page 1 
conTinued From page 1 

heart to honor moreau and nd community,” luna said. azikiwe chandler (‘94), arienne “people are also generally un­ple to think about it,” boykin said. 
what its origins were and bless members of the notre “campus ministry also very Thompson (‘04) and olevia boykin comfortable,” she said. “… There is 
how it is that we continue to dame community travel-generously offered our club (‘14), as well as current senior not really a good way to talk about 
live its that vision to this day.” ing wednesday to the march new crêpe pans.” demetrius murphy. race, so people feel uncomfortable 
mccormick compared for life in washington, d.c., luna explained the French The panelists began by speak-and they want to be politically cor­
the significance of moreau which begins Thursday. club’s involvement in moreau ing on their individual experiences rect and they don’t know how to do 
day’s at notre dame to le cercle Français coor-day, citing basil moreau’s im­at notre dame as black students. that.” 
independence day’s in the dinated with junior kaitlyn portant role in French history. boykin, now attending yale law martin, a current resident as-
united states. krall, who works with campus “Fr. moreau, alongside the school, said she had a very ful-sistant in keenan hall, said the 
“it’s an opportunity for us ministry, to serve crêpes from other priests, worked hard to filling intellectual experience at university’s status as a catholic 
to shine light on key figures in 8 to 9 p.m. in the coleman-educate many in faith, even notre dame. university adds an interesting dy­
the history of notre dame and morse center according to when the church was un­“as far as being black at notre namic to the conversation. 
also the congregation of the paulina luna, treasurer of the der attack during the French dame, i think my experience was “as a catholic university, we 
holy cross,” mccormick said. French club. luna said the revolution,” luna said. “in very similar to the stories in the have all these missions to … help 
“we remember figures such club will be serving “home-the present day, France is los­book.” boykin said. “i struggled people i...n need,” martin said. 
as Fr. [edward] sorin, blessed made crêpes with very tradi-ing touch with its catholic my first two years, figuring out “you see kids with no problems 
basil moreau, and so many tional fillings.” roots, but i think Fr. moreau’s what it meant to be black at notre going on isslps and going to these 
others who actively worked “we are known for our great work is an inspiration to con-dame.” different countries to do service 
to build up this university to cooking and flipping skills, tinue to grow spiritually.” “i derived a lot of my identity and to help these needy people.” 
what it is today.” displayed when we host from being black, being a black “They have no problem doing 
campus ministry has also ‘study crêpes,’ so we were de-Contact Owen Lane at woman,” she said. “it was different that, but then you want to have 
organized a celebration lighted to have been invited olane@nd.edu here in a way that was also hard to a conversation about things that articulate. affect the kids on campus and 
“i didn’t really feel like i fit in they’re not as willing to do that,” policy changes to how elections gutrich said passing the 
Constitution 

with the black community … at he said. “i think as a catholic in-should be run and how filling document requires 25 percent 
conTinued From page 1 

the same time, i am not … in the stitution, these are the things we 
vacancies in positions should participation from the student 66 percent of students who come should be worried about.” 
principles of the previous be carried out,” she said. body in order to represent the from families with $200,000 or chandler said although he 
constitution,” gutrich said. schuster said the new revi-opinion of the student body. more.” felt the minority students did 
“There really are not any huge sions changed student body “The 25 percent ... is an as-chandler said knowing what not see all their demands met, 
changes from the previous president and vice president pect included in the constitu­he knows now, he probably would the administration did try to 
document, but it just makes elections to only allow rising tion, which ensures the student not have come to notre dame, but support them. 
the overall document flow in seniors to run. body has a voice,” she said. he does not regret his time at the “at the end of the day, i felt like 
a more concise manner that is “it used to be juniors and “sga works hard to be the liai­university. [university president emeritus] 
intended to be more accessible seniors could run for student son between students and ad­“i hated my freshman year Fr. [edward a. “monk”] malloy did 
to the student body.” body resident and vice presi-ministration, and with that in because i had very afro-centric feel that it was a responsibility to 
sam moorhead, senior and dent, and one change we felt mind we want to hear student parents … my parents gave us listen to what it was we had to say 
vice president of sga, said if was important to make was de-opinions and make sure the african-american history lessons and to make sure that the wider 
the new constitution passes, ciding only rising seniors could student body is knowledgeable at home, so i came with a very campus was listening to what it 
they can begin working on run to be student body presi-of the important roles of sga. strong identity here,” chandler was we had to say,” chandler said. 
the bylaws, which will have dent and vice president, she we just really want student in-said. The panelists also discussed 
a greater effect on student said. “There was a lot of discus-put on the document.” “i did not fit in,” he said. how studying abroad changed 
organizations. sion just based on seniority and “sophomore year was very em-their views of both their identities 
“as far as what affects experience and what goes into Contact Kiera Johnsen at powering. a very good friend of as blacks and their perceptions of 
them now, it is basically just the role.” kjohns02@saintmarys.edu mine, Fred Tumbar, was elected how the world viewed their identi­
paid adverTisemenT 

vice president of the student body, ties as blacks. and he said, ‘look, you can do martin said prior to traveling to something. you’ll be a part of my panama and mexico, he felt defi­cabinet, let’s see what we can do.’ nitely african, but after leaving, he 
“with that, and suFr [students was american. united For respect], the student “race is such a social construct, activism, we felt like we could and once you are outside the so-do something to change this ciety that constructed that race, environment.” you really know what a social con-
while editing ‘black domers,’ struct it is,” martin said. wycliff said he noticed students it is important to have blacks in who graduated before 1970 typi-important leadership positions cally seemed happier with their on campus, such as resident as­notre dame experiences. sistants, chandler said. martin 
“i thought a lot about why that said his position as an ra has of-might be and i settled on one ex-fered him a unique way to make planation, which is that those of us an impact. who came up during the era of seg-“it has definitely given me the regation probably expected less,” opportunity to educate kids that wycliff said. “we thought, ‘well, may have never had this oppor­i’m smart as anybody,’ but didn’t tunity or will probably never have necessarily expect that american to be this close to an african­society would recognize and re-american again in their life,” ward that.” martin said. “it’s been a duty that 
The panelists also discussed i cherish and i am really happy it whether there is a single black happened that way. it has made experience at notre dame. me grow as a person as well.” Thompson, a multimedia enter-boykin said she believes an in­tainment journalist, said in her terview process with black stu­freshman year she believed there dents would go a long way toward was just one standard experience. addressing race problems on cam­
“of course, now that i am older pus, both past and present and and hopefully a bit wiser, you suggested the university should realize that there are clearly so actively recruit black faculty mem­many ways to be black, there are bers and students. so many ways to be everything,” “i think we should be think-Thompson said. ing more about that, who we are 
boykin said there is no one white bringing here and what they are experience at notre dame either, thinking when they come here,” but one common trait is typical of she said. white students. 
“i think the typical white stu-Contact Kayla Mullen at          dent at notre dame has not had to kmullen2@nd.edu 




Prayer 
conTinued From page 1 
day serves as an impor­tant reminder of a time not long ago when segre­gation and discrimination divided the united states, university president Fr. John Jenkins said, addressing the assembly. 
“it’s so easy, and so com­mon, for us to forget martin luther king’s struggle … but it is important to remember, and that is why today is for,” Jenkins said. “it’s important to remember the hardships that african americans en­dured in a segregated nation.” 
although more than 50 years have passed since the civil rights movement took shape, violence and racial discrimination are still an unfortunate part of our soci­ety, Jenkins said. 
“i can’t help but think of the tragic events in Ferguson, missouri, after the shoot­ing of michael brown, or in France, the killing of those at the periodical charlie hebdo,” he said. “both are complex situations. … but i can’t help thinking, sad­ly, that in these and other events, a certain cycle [of violence and oppression] is at work.” 
Jenkins said king’s lega­cy – one of nonviolence and peaceful protest – should in­form how we react to these injustices. 
“The language of martin luther king was the language of the gospel, the language of love,” he said.“… his meth­od was that of nonviolent resistance, which seeks to bring change, not with force, but standing nonviolently against injustice in a way that calls attention to it and changes our hearts.” 
sophomore Tegan chesney said she thought it was valu­able to take time to honor king, especially since class was still in session. 
“since we have classes on martin luther king day, i thought it was important to go to a service to commemo­rate him,” she said. 
when thinking about martin luther king, Jr. day 
“So let us not forget, let us continue to remember. Let each of us let his message change our hearts.” 
Fr. John Jenkins 
University president 
and civil rights, it is impor­tant to look first to working to improve our communi­ties, graduate student John diTillo said. 
“The petitions — i really appreciated the one that talked about the notre dame community and st. Joseph county, because i think it’s easy, when you’re talking about social justice, to think on a global scale,” diTillo said. “we’re encouraged to do that a lot at notre dame. we’re not always encour­aged to look at the spaces we inhabit and think critically about how we engage, and what we’re contributing to them.” 
king primarily focused on community and national is­sues like these, but ultimate­ly the civil rights movement became much bigger than the laws it changed, Jenkins said. 
“The greatness of martin luther king exists not only in that he stood unflinch­ingly for justice, which he did,” he said. “not only that he so powerfully denounced oppression, which he did. or that he brought about change, which he did. 
“The special greatness of martin luther king is that while doing all these things, he showed us a way out of the destructive cycle of op­pression and divisions, vio­lence, further oppression and divisions, more violence and deeper divisions … he marched, he sat in, he en­gaged in civil disobedience without violence, without hate. and thereby he changed not only law and customs — he changed hearts. 
“so let us not forget, let us continue to remember. let each of us let his message change our hearts.” 


Contact Madison Jaros at          mjaros@nd.edu 




The observer | tuesday, january 20, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Math at its core 


InsIde CoLuMn 

dads: the new black 
Keri O’Mara 
graphics editor 

Fatherhood is a beautiful thing. it is a time in a man’s life where he is given the opportunity to raise a child and foster a human’s life with his paternal wisdom. however, i’ve recently had the realization that not all fathers can be “dads.” while this may be a confusing claim to make, i’m a believer that to be a dad one must embody a specific lifestyle approach, beyond simply having fathered a child. we know the type: clad in new balance sneakers, spouting embarrassingly ter­rible jokes and an extensive appreciation of steely dan discography. 
dads have always been important members of our society, you know be­ing patriarchal and all. but recently, the dad aesthetic has been one of influence in popular culture in a way that i would argue has elevated them to the status of trendsetters. an instagram account, @fashiondads_, has recently risen to pop­ularity in its parodying of fashion blog ac­counts. despite taking a tongue-in-cheek approach, with 83,000 followers there is clearly a devoted audience who appreci­ates the endearingly shameless apparel of dads, whether ironically or not. ranging from dads clad in new balance sneak­ers, aggressive hawaiian button-ups and plenty of khaki, the account is a goldmine of style inspiration. 
scrolling through the account feed, i can’t help but feel a sense of admiration and respect for these dads. we could learn a thing or two from the relaxed dad at­tire, such as prioritizing comfort when developing our personal wardrobes. since lounging is such a prevalent activity in the dad lifestyle, coziness is clearly a prior­ity in their heavy inclusion of sweats and socks. 
while @fashiondads_ provides us an easy social media lens into the world of dad style, we can learn a lot about dad culture in its entirety by simply looking around us. dads are everywhere, waiting to be observed like the subjects of ethno­graphic field research. we can find them lounging on our living room couches, browsing our local home depots or yelling obscenities at high school sporting events. 
The only way to fully grasp dad culture is by directly immersing ourselves into the lives of the dads we encounter every day, by seeking a deeper more genuine under­standing of their lifestyles. maybe next time you respond to an e-mail from your dad, follow-up with a few questions. how long did it take you to grow your mous­tache? have you always idolized bruce springsteen? when’s the next sale at eddie bauer? These are the questions that we must be brave enough to ask, along with a willingness to delve into the mysterious and magical world of dads. 
Contact Keri O’Mara at komara@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Stephen Raab 
let’s Talk smart 

early in the fall semester, i discovered a passion for the work of american singer-songwriter Tom lehrer. with sharp satire such as “so long mom (a song for world war iii)” and “i wanna go back to dixie,” lehrer’s music never fails to put a smile on my face. 
one in particular recently grabbed my attention. “new math” lampoons the 1960s attempt to change american elementary school mathematics to more greatly emphasize advanced concepts such as modular arithmetic and non-decimal bases. To that end, the song follows lehrer — who taught math at miT before his musical career — as he sub­tracts 173 from 342, first using the traditional approach and then using new math (in both base 10 and base 8!). at one point, using the new methods, lehrer mistakenly subtracts seven from 13 and gets five. he is forced to sheepishly cor­rect his error, saying, “but the idea’s the important thing.” 
i think “new math” is a funny song. but i was very in­terested in what happened when i showed it to a few of my fellow alumni dawgs — one an engineer, the other an accountant. after listening to and laughing along with lehrer’s humor, one turned to me and said something along the lines of “wait. isn’t the second way he did it the way we do it now?” 
i could do little but nod. it seems that what was once the new math has become standard operating procedure in america’s classrooms. The “borrow and regroup” method portrayed as new math is automatic for me; meanwhile, his more orthodox approach appears clunky and unnecessarily complex. (“eight from four is six, carry the one?” bizarre.) 
with that in mind, let’s turn our attention to the latest revolution in math education — the common core. To quote its developers, the common core “is a set of high-quality academic standards in mathematics and english language arts.” Forty-four states have adopted these stan­dards for use in their public schools, but their implementa­tion has been controversial. a cursory search online brings up pages of anti-common core rhetoric, often drawing on plain-folks, down-on-the-farm sensationalism with titles such as “arkansas mother obliterates common core in 4 minutes!” last year, common core opponents found a ral­lying point in comedian louis c.k., who condemned the curriculum on Twitter and then complained on letterman about his daughters’ experience with it. 
i’ll admit that many of the concerns about the design and implementation of the common core standards are worthy of discussion. here, however, i’d like to discuss the standards themselves — particularly, the mathematics standards. many critics charge that common core replaces basic arithmetic skills, such as memorization of times ta­bles, with greater emphasis on concepts and complex prob­lem-solving strategies. in this respect, their grievance is not unlike lehrer’s, who says that “in the new approach, the important thing is to understand what you’re doing, rather than to get the right answer.” critics accuse this mindset of leading to a dumbing-down of american schoolchildren; in reality, however, the result is just the opposite. 
when i left the world of middle-school pre-algebra for the exciting frontier of high school math, i was introduced to the concept of swFc — “show work for credit.” This prin­ciple, or some variant thereof, has appeared in every math, science and engineering course i’ve taken at notre dame. intuitively knowing the answer — even the correct answer 
— earns you no credit, while you’ll still get 80-90 percent of points possible if you work through a detailed solution, then mess up at the end by declaring “two cubed equals six.” can we not then view common core as an attempt to put our youngsters in this advanced, collegiate mindset? 
we must also consider that rote memorization of arith­metic is far less important than it used to be. The silicon revolution has granted us calculators and computers that can perform these operations far faster and more accurately than any human. i’m not saying “two and two make four” belongs in the dustbin of math with the slide rules and trig tables. but if common core cuts the millionth repetition of a number sentence for a little more theory, i would shed few tears. 
Finally, let’s remember that education, when given to a group, must necessarily cater to the least able members of the classroom. while the common core techniques might seem needlessly complex to a student with natural math­ematical talent, their promise of systematic solution algo­rithms may be a lifesaver for those children just scraping by. 
at present, common core is far from perfect, but i wouldn’t be surprised if it’s here to stay. perhaps one day, our children will stare at us in bewilderment as we attempt to explain the old methods — “you can’t take three from two/Two is less than three/so you look at the four in the tens place …” 
Stephen Raab is a junior studying chemical engineering.  He resides in Alumni Hall and welcomes discourse at  sraab@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

edItorIaL Cartoon 


The observer | tuesday, january 20, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
A how not to guide for study abroad 
Kitty Baker 
british invasion 

what comes to mind when thinking of study abroad? best experience of your life? Trying new things and learning about different cultures? unforgettable? 
For my part, i really should have been more prepared to travel to london this semester. my mother warned me several times that leaving packing until the last moment was certainly not the way to start the year, and would result in mislaid items and anxious FaceTime calls while abroad, telling her about all the things that would have been sensible to bring. did i listen to her? of course not. 
wednesday the 17th arrives. i have two bags sort of packed. i’ve double checked my purse, made sure i have my passport, every document that i would need to travel to the united kingdom. i even have a traveler’s document to explain why i am in the united kingdom, although i technically don’t need it as a member of the eu and british citizen. i then decide to check united’s checked baggage charges. 
“one hundred dollars??!?” my mind is com­pletely blown. i had decided to pay the $50 charge i had assumed united charged for a second bag, but $100 was just a little too much to pay for some extra shoes and some toiletries. i raced up the stairs to speak to my mother, who completely agreed, and i had to reshuffle everything i thought i would need into one checked bag. Finished with an hour to go. i was feeling a little flus­tered, but still thought i had proved my mother wrong. we ate toast and marmalade, split a ginger ale, had a last cup of tea before i went to the land of tea drinkers, then got in the taxi. 
we arrived at penn station with 45 minutes to spare (blame my anxiety of travel, and my mother overes­timating the traffic we would encounter in new york around 1:00 on a wednesday). my father arrived at the train station at approximately 1:40 for a 1:55 train. we bought our train tickets (i proudly used my travel credit card for the first time), and then i decided to re-double check my handbag to make sure i had everything. 
my stomach dropped. when i opened my bag to put my ticket in, i noticed that a white envelope that i was pretty sure i had put in earlier that day was no longer there. i frantically pulled everything out and placed it into my mother’s hands. i went through my carry-on, i almost opened my checked luggage, although i had enough common sense to think i hadn’t actually put it in there. everything inside me shut down. The document, that i didn’t actually need, as i was uk citizen, going back to the uk, who didn’t need to explain why she was returning home, became my worst nightmare. The notre dame international office could not have pos­sibly given me a document that i actually didn’t need. i actually started to cry in the middle of penn station, while my unsympathetic british parents stood on either side of me, bemoaning the fact that i was an emotional 20-year-old. They simply repeated over and over again, “no kitty, you cannot be deported from the country that you are a citizen of. where on earth would they send you back to?” 
logic wasn’t getting through to me, and so they just let me try to pull myself back together. i eventually stopped the unfortunate duck face that i form when i cry, and returned to a slightly breathy calmer state, although it certainly could have devolved into ridiculous crying at any moment. i can’t defend it. maybe i was tired, maybe i was frustrated. i think my addled brain thought i was a stateless person who belonged nowhere. whatever it was, i think my parents were regretting their decision to let me study abroad. i got on the train, boarded my flight, arrived in england at an unfortunately early time and then waited an hour for my friends to go through customs. because i of course when straight through, as a uk citizen… 
The lesson from all of this? mother knows best. 
Kitty Baker is a Program of Liberal Studies and film, television and theatre major and eldest of the Fabulous Baker Girls, who hails from New York City.  She can be contacted at cbaker7@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Letter to the edItor 

on hearing you might transfer 
To a student of color, on hearing you might transfer: 
dear student, 

recently we learned you have become so disheartened by racism at notre dame that you are considering trans­ferring to another school. 
we were told you and other students received several racist messages on yik yak, the social media app that al­lows people to post anonymous messages for others to read. we don’t subscribe to yik yak, but one of our stu­dents shared one of the messages you saw. 
we were sickened. The message was racist, and it was infuriating. as awful as it was, we understand this may not be the only instance of racism you have encountered on the notre dame campus. so we can understand why you might want to leave. and we support, categorically, your right to make decisions that will enable you to feel safe, to flourish and to be happy — whatever those decisions might be. 
we write this letter to share our thoughts with you and other students of color as you consider the future. we want you to know: 
your faculty and staff care about you. we want to do everything we can to help you learn, grow and thrive at notre dame. we want to teach you, and we want to learn from you. and we will do all we can to help you feel that notre dame is truly your home. 
you have allies among your fellow students. as tragic as it is that some notre dame students are so lost in personal webs of ignorance and fear, many more students believe in the notre dame mission of promoting learning in the service of justice.  The student who showed us the racist message was distraught at the thought you might leave. That student and others like her are your allies and your friends. 
you make notre dame a better place. diversity in all of its expressions, whether racial, ethnic, economic, linguis­tic, aesthetic or other forms, makes for a stronger, smarter, more wholly human community. while it is not your re­sponsibility to make notre dame a better place, we want you to know that your presence in this university matters. 
you belong here. when you received your letter from the admissions office telling you that you had been accepted to notre dame, this became your university.  The library, the dorms, the classrooms — these are your places. The quads, the lakes, the grotto — they are here for you. no one has the right to take these from you, and no one can. let the haters leave, if that’s what they choose. we will wish them better days and hope they someday learn to love others as god intended. notre dame belongs to you, not them. why should you leave? 
as you well know, a hallmark of the united states’ past is institutionalized racism; and the struggle for justice and equality continues. The racist message you received makes clear that that struggle is taking place, too, at notre dame. 
we write as notre dame faculty members to say your struggle is our struggle. we will stand beside you, and we will denounce all forms of hate speech as intolerable and unacceptable. 
we wish you everything good as you consider your bright future, and we offer you our support. sincerely, 
John Duffy Judy Benchaar 
english romance languages & literatures 

Francisco Aragon 
institute for latino Ann Primus Berends studies education, schooling and society 
Dough Archer hesburgh libraries Mark Berends sociology 
Zygmunt G. Baranski 
romance languages & Anne H. Berry literatures art, art history and design 
Katrina Barron mathematics Patricia Blanchette philosophy 
Ted Barron 

Film, Television and Emily Block Theatre mendoza college of business 
Kevin Barry kaneb center for Susan Blum Teaching and learning anthropology 
Laura Bayard Catherine Bolten 

hesburgh libraries anthropology and peace studies 
Melissa Marley Jussica L. Collett Bonnichsen sociology center for social 
concerns Robert R. Coleman art, art history and John Borkowski design 
psychology 
Brian S. Collier Jay Brandenberger institute for educational center for social initiatives 
concerns 
Philippe Collon Karen Buranskas physics music 
Fr. Joe Corpora, C.S.C. Kevin Burke alliance for catholic Mary R. D’Angelo education Theology 
Joseph A. Buttigieg Jetaun Davis 
english recruitment and communications 
Elizabeth Capdevlelle university writing Antonio Delgado program physics 
Bill Carbonaro Margaret Doody 
sociology english 
Kevin J. Christiano Dennis Doordan 
sociology school of architecture 
Patrick Clauss Julia Douthwaite 
university writing romance languages and program literature 
Aedin Clements Kevin Dreyer 
hesburgh libraries Film, Television and Theatre
 Annie Gilbert Coleman 
american studie Liz Dube hesburgh libraries sept. 4 
To view the complete list of the 157 authors who have signed their names to this letter, visit ndsmcobserver.com 


By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

“panda bear meets the grim reaper” opens in fa­miliar noah lennox — the chief presence behind the panda bear pseudonym — territory. a breezy synth and trickling aqueous effects accompany lennox’s lay­ered, climbing harmonies for a welcoming introduc­tion in “sequential circuits.” never one to rest on his prior conventions, though, lennox quickly subverts his form with an oscillating, guttural vocal outro, re­sembling throat singing or possibly a faint didgeridoo. 
These world music tinges heavily permeate “panda bear meets the grim reaper,” lennox’s fifth album re­leased under the panda bear moniker, which he first established with animal collective’s other co-found­ing member avey Tare. appropriately, a week and a half before releasing the album, the human sample encyclopedia that is panda bear launched a nine-day global radio campaign to debut the remaining nine ra­dio-length tracks that had not been released as singles around the world. 
“lonely wanderer,” a gentle piano-centered track premiered on npr’s “all songs considered” — smartly so given npr’s taste for the intelligent electronic pro­ductions of artists like aphex Twin that the track em­braces. The waltzy ballad “Tropic of cancer” aired in australia, although it could have felt at home in asia or romanticist europe, constructed around a calm scaling harp sample that, tellingly, comes from “The nutcracker” suite. Just as much, “sequential circuits” 
Erin McAuliffe 
scene writer 

with a new semester comes the hope for a more or­ganized life where you actually read assigned chapters and study consistently instead of in 8-hour caffeine and rage fueled intervals. it is also the prefect time to continue your resolution to eat less desserts as you can still digest dining food and have yet to pile all you cal­ories into a froyo cup with “peanut butter for protein.” 
during this revamped period filled with new note­books, used textbooks and hopefully no binder books 
— because ugh, those are the worst — take the time to revamp your wardrobe incorporating some of 2015’s hottest trends. 
This year’s fashion week was like “That ‘70s (Fashion) show.” Fringe and bellbottoms galore made for a groovy vibe. Try the trend yourself with a suede fringe jacket or sleek black fringe wrap skirt. put away your normcore mom jeans for a while to try out a flared paired — go for a darkwash to avoid grade school flashbacks. 
on the topic of grade school flashbacks, polos are making a comeback? i am attributing this to cool dads everywhere, especially you ezra koenig. i can see this KERI O’MARA | The Observer could have come out of the oceania, having more in common with the area’s sound and lennox’s last ven­ture there in animal collective’s “lion in a coma.” 
meanwhile, lead single “mr. noah,” with its vague boom-bap drums and deep, resonating synth, found its place in the united states among similarly well-received hip-hop tracks; the extended intro, with piercing synths and gravelly whiny shrieks, recalls the mass appeal project “old english,” and the later, fully-formed synthline channels vince staples’s “blue suede.” coming on the tails of “mr. noah,” the second single, “boys latin,” features comparable elements, with panda bear’s distinct west coast harmonizing and ethereal, indecipherable vocals. 
yet, with his expanding catalogue, panda bear takes as much influence from his past output as he does from his expansive index of others’. most immediately, the neo-psychedelic elements ever present in his work take on a competitive air considering his animal collective co-conspirator’s own side project, avey Tare’s slasher Flicks’s 2014 “enter the slasher house,” which “panda bear meets the grim reaper” bests in its attempts to create haunted carnival melodies. Then there is panda bear and producer sonic boom’s (spacemen 3) em­ployment of radio transmission samples, previously heard on animal collective’s most recent radio-cen­tric concept album “centipede hz.” 
most notably, though, panda bear takes directly from himself and expounds upon it by melding his brilliant experimental tendencies from his last masterpiece, 2007’s genre-creating “person pitch,” with 2011’s more 
being okay if channeled with a margot Tenenbaum vibe — polo dress, fur coat and bobby pin. however, do not push 2014’s normcore boundaries into includ­ing oversized polos with logos worn with khakis. This is not the irl (in ralph lauren) look to go for. 
on the other side of the spectrum we have the #healthgoth trend. described in The new york Times as “punk rock meets pilates,” this trend plays on the normcore and alexander wang fueled athletic wear frenzy of 2014. Taking the two trends to an extreme, #healthgoth will probably not have a heavy presence on campus — but if you rock a black-netted shirt over your sports bra at rolf’s, more power to you. 
This year’s runways featured structured pieces that can be worn as fashionable everyday pieces or work wear. woolen camel coats, shirtdresses and culottes (long shorts that resemble a hybrid of gauchos and bermuda shorts — but are more fashionable than ei­ther option) are all over the fashion scene. 
This year’s pantone color is marsala, a deep red hue channeling wine, arches national park and pome­granates. The rich color pairs well with earth tones, grayscale and blues. 
if you favor prints over solids, go for gingham or windowpane. windowpane, an oversized check pat­tern, is usually worn by the fashionable crowd in lyrically and vocally minded “Tomboy.” structured as completely singular ideas strung together by seamless mimicked radio transmission effects, “panda bear meets the grim reaper” is a structural departure from the always evolving “person pitch.” by incorporating the upfront vocal production and clearer lyricism of “Tomboy,” the new album is a new type of beast. panda bear experiments on a song-to-song basis, separating his variability into lone-standing chunks. each track takes one sonic premise and stretches it to its limit. as a result, “panda bear meets the grim reaper” tackles more conceptually and does so beautifully across the aggressive and suppressed songs, alike. despite not eclipsing “person pitch,” panda bear comes as close as non-humanly possible to in “panda bear meets the grim reaper,” while undertaking an equally challeng­ing project. 
Contact Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
“Panda Bear Meets The Grim Reaper” 
Panda Bear 
Label: Domino Recording Company Tracks:  “Boys Latin,” “Mr. Noah,” “Lonely Wanderer” If you like: Animal Collective, Jagwar Ma, Washed Out 

contrasting black and white. pair the two prints to­gether, in a similar color scale, for an easy print mix­ing equation that won’t clash. 
if you are looking to mix up your going out-fits, try an off-the-shoulder top or dress. in a world where crop tops rule the scene, mix it up with the captivating brigitte bardot/”grease” vibe of bare shoulders. you could also try out a one-shouldered version for a take on an asymmetrical look. 
To cover up your now cold shoulders throw on a coat and belt it. obi belts — wide sashes that resemble a child’s karate belt — are quite the craze and were seen on the runway over coats, dresses or tunics. Tackle two trends at once in a wool camel-colored coat — the perfect warm neutral — tied with a wide belt in any color. 
men, if any have made it this far into this article, can try out the camel coat trend themselves. worn over a sportcoat, sweater or denim dress shirt, the rich hue adds sophistication to any outfit. Try tucking a pair of leather gloves into the front pocket of a coat instead of a pocket square for a sultry vibe. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

Before he played his show last Saturday night at Legends, Drake Bell talked with Scene’s Jimmy Kemper about his new album, his tour, his future and more. 
jimmy Kemper: so first things first, why notre dame? 
drake bell: cuz they called me. [laughs] it’s really fun to play these schools and stuff, it’s awesome because the de­mographic for my show [drake and Josh] has grown up. everyone’s in college now so it’s really fun to reconnect with them. 
jK: For a guy who’s 28, you’ve had a pretty crazy career. you’ve done movies, tV shows, voice act­ing and records. What do the next few years look like for you? 
db: you know man, i just love to entertain, work and stay busy, so as long as i can stay busy doing what i love to do, that’s my goal. i’d love to get back on Tv pretty soon. i’ve been making records the past few years, doing a lot of tours, a lot of latin american touring, so it’s time to get back into Tv. 
i’ve got some things in development right now, so it’ll be exciting to get back on Tv. i really love this business and this job so much that as long as i can act, direct, work craft services, hold a flag, you know, whatever gets me onto a movie set or into a television or recording studio, that’s what i’m going to do. if huge success comes, that’s awesome. if not, i just want to work and stay busy. 
jK: I’ve noticed you picking at the cast on your wrist. you recently tweeted that the doctors said you were done playing guitar since you broke it, how’s that all going? 
db: you know man, it’s going. The doctors were saying i’d most likely not be able to play guitar like i did before, my wrist is never going to be the same, and this and this and this, but, you know, they’re not guitar players. what do they know? [laughs] i’ve been picking up the guitar and screwing around with it. i’m really limited; i’m not rocking yet. 
They don’t want to give you false hope. i was in a car accident and broke my jaw in three places and knocked out all my bottom teeth — they’re all fake now. i fractured my neck and my back. it was a gnarly accident, but i got up and walked away. i was bedridden for months, and my jaw was wired shut and all that. when i got unwired, i could barely open my mouth without wanting to pass out. 
but now i’m up singing and my jaw’s fine. i’m gonna make the same thing happen with my wrist. i think it’s the mentality really. you’d be surprised how much your mind has control over your healing processes. i love the guitar so much, even if i’m limited i’ll find a way to work it out. 
you know, django [reinhardt] only had two fingers, and he’s one of the greatest guitar players of all time. Tom petty shattered his hand. ryan adam said the best thing to happen to his guitar playing was breaking his hand. Jack white can’t bend his first finger anymore, so he had to completely reteach himself how to play guitar. so if that’s what i have to do, then that’s what i’m gonna do. i’ll play again. all these guitar players, they wouldn’t have had their signature style without their injuries. so we’ll see. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 


By BRIDGET DEDELOW 
scene writer 

when you are a tremendous fan of a band, the wait between new releases — whether in the form of full al­bums or songs — can seem like an eternity. in the case of Fall out boy’s new album, the mere mention of it was news to me. a full week before its release date, Fall out boy released “american beauty/american psycho” on alternative press’s website, which was a major surprise for many fans. This particular album was not as adver­tised as heavily as past ones, despite the band’s ever-growing popularity. however, like i expected, the band definitely did not disappoint with this one. 
“save rock and roll,” Fall out boy’s fifth studio album, was their first album after their hiatus in 2009. it strayed away from the band’s earlier pop-punk style. with collab­orations from elton John, courtney love and big sean, it leaned more toward rock-and-roll/pop than punk. nevertheless, the debut single, “my songs know what you did in The dark (light ‘em up)” achieved triple-platinum certification in the united states and charted 
worldwide. The album itself debuted at the top of the  “centuries” has become a bit of an earsore. i was down- 
billboard charts, with 154,000 first week sales. with this,  right addicted to it the moment i heard it, but as i played  
it was only a matter of time before Fall out boy created  it so many times, it got repetitive. if you are in the same  
something that huge again.  boat as me, this track is one you may want to skip.  
“american beauty/american psycho” explosively  overall, “american beauty/american psycho” is a  
opens with the track “irresistible,” with patrick stump’s  fresh, welcome addition for old and new Fall out boy fans  
powerful vocals propelling it to the end. The repetition  alike. it has the aesthetic of “save rock and roll,” as well  
in this particular song makes it sound more pop than  some nods to their earlier albums.  
the other tracks on the album. lyrics like, “you’re sec­ 
ondhand smoke/i breathe you in, but honey i don’t know  Contact Bridget Dedelow at bdedel01@saintmarys.edu  
what you’re doing to me/mon cheri, but the truth catches  
up with us eventually” are reminiscent of their album  “American Beauty/American  
“infinity on high,” a revival i enjoyed hearing.  Psycho”  
“uma Thurman” is another notable track. at first lis­ 
ten, this song did not grab me like some of the others did.  Fall Out Boy  
after a few more rounds of it, though, this song instantly  Label: Island Records  
became one of my favorites. The line “she wants to dance  
like uma Thurman/and i can’t get you out of my head”  Tracks: “Irresistible,” “Uma Thurman”  
is a nod to the movie pulp Fiction. it’s a catchy, upbeat  If you like: The All-American Rejects, Hoobastank  
track whose chorus is true to the line — definitely stuck  
in my head.  
 
There are not many downfalls to this album, but  

KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


sPorts authorIty 

Enjoy football while it lasts 
Marek Mazurek 
sports writer 

attention, all of you football junkies who binge-watched all of the college bowl games and are currently enthralled by the nFl playoffs. need a reason to justify your football addiction? look no further than this col­umn, for i am here with a very important message: watch football now. 
i say this because we are currently in the golden age of football. The players are big­ger and faster than they ever have been, traditions and ri­valries are alive and well and most importantly, defense still matters. enjoy it while it lasts, ladies and gentlemen, because within five years the football that you know and love may well be gone. 
now you may say, “how can this be? The nFl is making billions of dollars of profits and college football finally added a playoff system. surely things are looking up.” while these things are true, the main rea­son that football will fall from its current height are the new rules that protect the offense. you hear about it every week with players being fined or suspended for late hits or hits to the helmet of a “defense­less” receiver or quarterback. in college, players can even be ejected for “targeting” another player. Furthermore, defensive backs around the country are hardly able to breathe on a re­ceiver past the five-yard mark, allowing offenses to rack up record-breaking statistics on a regular basis. 
now, these new rules might be good if you enjoy fantasy football, but they only hurt real football by creating an imbalance of power between the offense and the defense. with receivers being able to run free in the secondary, foot­ball will continue to become a pass-first, -second and -third contest in which the winner will simply be the team with the ball last. now, this is not the case yet, but it soon will be through a rather simple chain reaction. 
imagine, if you will, that you are a star high school recruit. you are tall, fast and athletic and can play either receiver or cornerback. as you watch the nFl and think about your fu­ture as a professional athlete, you begin to notice how de­fensive players are at a greater and greater disadvantage due to the new rule changes that favor the offense. 
receivers are getting more touchdowns, which leads to more media exposure and ulti­mately bigger contracts. more importantly, you notice that safety has become more of a concern for the nFl, so defen­sive players are fined more of­ten, for $50,000 or sometimes $75,000 per hit. with all of this in mind, what position would you play? i know i would switch to receiver. 
and with the most talented and athletic players on of­fense, defenses will be left with second-rate athletes, thus perpetuating the trend toward offenses. at first, this will occur at the high school and college levels, but slowly and surely, because of the new rules, offenses in the nFl will become more talented than the defenses, leading to shoot­outs as defensive coordinators look helplessly on. 
if you’re a fan of college football in particular, another reason to watch football while you can is realignment. what makes college football so popular is tradition. rivalries like notre dame-michigan, the backyard brawl between west virginia and pittsburgh and Texas-Texas a&m used to be the lifeblood of the ncaa, yet these rivalries are all gone. The cause is realignment. or, to put it another way — money. 
Teams in smaller conferenc­es are leaving for the promise of a bigger revenue pool and a better shot at a good bowl game, and in their wake, they leave behind decades of tradi­tion. with notre dame joining the acc (partially), it has cho­sen to discontinue its series with michigan, as has Texas a&m by joining the sec and west virginia in joining the big 12. as realignment contin­ues, smaller conferences and teams will become irrelevant, making college football more and more like the nFl, which will in turn reduce its popular­ity, because if people want to watch the most talented play­ers in an atmosphere devoid of tradition, they will turn to the nFl. 
all in all, football in the future will look very different than it does now. Five years from now, there may be an nFl franchise in los angeles, there may be an 18 game sea­son and who knows, maybe Jacksonville will win a super bowl. however, despite the changing landscape, both the nFl and the ncaa must be careful not to erode the de­fensive integrity of the game. That’s the nba’s thing. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
nFL 
nFl investigating patriots for deflating footballs 
Associated Press
 The nFl is investigating whether the new england patriots deflated footballs that were used in their aFc cham­pionship game victory over the indianapolis colts. 
“we are looking into it,” league spokesman brian mccarthy wrote in an email to The associated press on monday. “we do not have anything fur­ther to add at this point.” 
The inquiry was first reported by the website for wThr-Tv in indiana, citing an unnamed source. 
“we’ll cooperate fully with whatever the league wants us to, whatever questions they ask,” belichick said monday during his regular conference call with reporters. 
he said he was unaware there was an issue until monday morning. 
The patriots have come un­der scrutiny with regards to nFl rules in the past, most in­famously when they were pun­ished for videotaping sideline signals used by the new york Jets during a 2007 game. belichick was fined $500,000, and the team was docked $250,000 and stripped of its 2008 first-round draft pick. 
according to the nFl rule book, home teams are responsi­ble for furnishing playable balls at all times. each team brings 12 primary balls, while home teams are required to also bring 12 backup balls. 
once the referee makes sure the footballs are properly inflat­ed, they’re delivered to ball at­tendants provided by the home team. 
The league’s game operations manual notes: “if any individual alters the footballs, or if a non-approved ball is used in the game, the person responsible and, if appropriate, the head coach or other club personnel will be subject to discipline, in­cluding but not limited to, a fine of $25,000.” 
deflating a football could change the way it would be gripped by a player or the way it travels through the air. 
The patriots beat the colts 45-7 to reach the super bowl. new england will play the defending champion seattle seahawks for the nFl title at glendale, arizona, on Feb. 1. 
colts coach chuck pagano said he did not notice issues with the football. he did not specify when asked whether the colts had reported the issue to officials. 
“we talk just like they talk to officials (before the game), we have an opportunity to talk to the officials about a lot of things, things that you’ve seen on tape like the formations we talked about last week,” pagano said. “every coach in the league gets an opportunity to visit with the officials about that kind of stuff before the game.” 
in sunday night’s lopsided aFc finale, quarterback Tom brady threw for three touch­downs and running back legarrette blount gained 148 yards while scoring three touch­downs to send new england to its sixth super bowl in the past 14 years. 
colts quarterback andrew luck had his worst game as a pro, completing only 12 of 33 passes for 126 yards, no touch­downs and two interceptions. 
on his regular weekly morn­ing-after-game appearance monday on weei radio, brady said he wasn’t aware of the re­port about the league’s inves­tigation into whether footballs were properly inflated against indianapolis. 
“i think i’ve heard it all at this point,” brady said with a laugh. 
“That’s the last of my worries,” he said. “i don’t even respond to stuff like this.” 
nBa | mavericks 103, griZZlies 95 
nowitzki leads mavericks past grizzlies 
Associated Press 
memphis, Tenn. — dirk nowitzki scored 21 points, in­cluding the last eight for dallas in the final 2 minutes, and the mavericks defeated the memphis grizzlies 103-95 on monday. 
The grizzlies took a two-point lead with about 4 minutes left, but dallas outscored memphis 14-4 the rest of the way. 
monta ellis led the mavericks with 25 points and seven as­sists. chandler parsons added 15 points, but was 5 of 14 from the field. devin harris had 12 points off the dallas bench, and Tyson chandler finished with 10 points and 16 rebounds. 
mike conley, back after miss­ing two games with a right an­kle sprain, led memphis with 22 points. marc gasol scored 20, and Zach randolph had 18 points and 15 rebounds. 
courtney lee had 12 points on 5-for-14 shooting, and Jeff green scored all 11 of his points in the first half. 
The mavericks led by as many as 11, and were still up by seven entering the fourth quarter. memphis opened the period with a 9-2 run and tied it at 84, but dallas pulled away again. 
conley’s 3-pointer with 4 minutes left gave memphis its first lead since the opening quarter at 91-89. 
dallas erased that with its fi­nal push, led by nowitzki. rajon rondo had only three field goals in the game, but two came after memphis took the lead and be­fore nowitzki went on his spurt. 
ellis’ jumper at the end of the first half gave him 12 points and a 53-46 lead for dallas. harris also had 12 points by halftime for the mavericks. 
memphis chipped away at the lead in the third, but could nev­er overtake dallas. nowitzki, limited to two points in the first half, had nine in the quarter. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FOR RENT WANTED 
COMMENCEMENT RENTAL -SALES ASSOCIATE: Snyder’s Prime location on ND Ave and with-Men’s Shop, a men’s clothing store in walking distance of everything. is opening in Granger and looking for Please email nd-house@sbcglobal. sales associates. Flexible hours, part-net for photos and additional info. time. Call 574-533-5630 
I’ve heard there was a secret chord That David played, and it pleased the Lord But you don’t really care for music, do you?  It goes like this The fourth, the fifth The minor fall, the major lift The baffled king compos­ing Hallelujah Hallelujah Hallelujah Hallelujah Hallelujah 



sMC BasKetBaLL | albion 76, smc 73 
belles’ last-ditch effort comes up short at home 
Observer Staff Report 
saint mary’s staged a furi­ous rally against conference opponent albion on saturday at angela athletic Facility. however, it was not enough as the brits (10-6, 4-4 miaa) won a nail-biter by a score of 76-73. 
The belles (3-13, 1-6) took an early lead, scoring the first two baskets of the game. saint mary’s held a 15-11 ad­vantage with 13 minutes left in the first half before the brits went on a 10-6 run to tie the game at 21-21. after trad­ing leads and baskets the rest of the half, the brits went into the locker room with a 37-32 lead at halftime. 
albion scored the first six points of the second half to take a 43-32 lead. Junior for­wards eleni shea and krista knapke and freshman for­ward molly robinson scored the next eight points of the game to pull the belles back within three with 16 minutes left in the game. 
whenever albion went on a run, the belles answered right back. over the next seven minutes, saint mary’s cut the albion lead to three points five different times. after back and forth scoring by both teams, the belles made it a one-point game at 58-57 with 6:46 left in the game. 
The brits then went on a 10-2 run to pull ahead 68-59 with 2:14 left to play, but the belles scored the next four points to pull within five with just over a minute and a half to go. after a defensive stop, junior guard maddie kohler was able to finish on a fast-break and make it a three-point game at 68-65 with 1:11 left in the game. 
albion then made a pair of free throws to extend its lead back to five with under a minute to go. The belles went right down the court to pull back within three with 32 sec­onds left, but albion scored four of the next five points to hold a 74-68 lead with 17 sec­onds left. 
Junior guard sarah macius made two free throws to pull the belles within four. after getting a steal and call­ing timeout, the belles hit a 3-pointer to pull within one with two seconds left. saint mary’s then had to foul on the ensuing inbound play and the brits made both free throws to go ahead 76-73. koehler at­tempted a last-second, half-court shot, but it came up short. 
saint mary’s senior guard ariana paul picked up her sixth double-double of the year, pulling down 14 re­bounds to go with her 16 points and five steals. knapke, kohler, shea and robinson also all reached double fig­ures with 10 points apiece. 
The belles’ next game is wednesday, Jan. 21, when they host conference foe olivet at 7:30 p.m. at angela athletic Facility. 


nCaa Men’s BasKetBaLL | duke 79, piTTsburgh 65; Texas 66, Tcu 48 
Coach K wins no. 999, texas races by tCu 
Associated Press 
no. 5 duke 79, Pittsburgh 65 
durham, n.c. — because all those duke’s guards put up some big numbers, their hall of Fame coach is on the brink of an even bigger one. 
mike krzyzewski moved one victory from 1,000 for his career in the fifth-ranked blue devils’ 79-65 win over pittsburgh on monday night. 
“it means we’re 16-2,” krzyzewski said, referring to his team’s overall record. “That’s exactly what that means. and hopefully we can be 17-2 the next game we play, and that’s the way we approach everything. we’ll continue to approach it that way.” 
coach k improved to 999-308 during his 40-year career. his first chance to become the first men’s coach in division i his­tory to reach four figures comes sunday against st. John’s in madison square garden. That’s also where in 2011 he passed bob knight as the winningest men’s coach in college basketball’s top tier. 
nearly everyone in the back-court played a big role in this one for the blue devils (16-2, 4-2 atlantic coast conference) — who shot 46 percent and made 11 3-pointers while holding pitt to three of them. 
“we saw the ball go in,” krzyzewski said. 
Freshman Tyus Jones matched a season high with 22 points and hit a season-best four 3-pointers. so did rasheed sulaimon, who finished with 13 points. Quinn cook — who was just 3-of-10 from the field — finished with 11 points and 10 rebounds. 
and for the second straight game they mixed in a 2-3 zone defense — an out-of-character move for krzyzewski, a noted man-to-man disciple. 
Jamel artis had a career-high 21 points for pitt (13-6, 3-3), which shot 45 percent and had its two-game winning streak snapped. 
“we had open shots, we had good looks,” coach Jamie dixon said. “we got exactly what we wanted, and at times it seemed like we haven’t handled that well.” 
pitt trailed by 21 in the second half before making things inter­esting down the stretch by twice cutting duke’s lead to 10, the last coming on michael young’s la­yup with just over a minute left making it 75-65. 
pitt missed its next four shots while Justise winslow, amile Jefferson and Jones combined to make 4 of 6 free throws in the fi­nal minute. 
Jahlil okafor finished with 14 points. his three rebounds were a season low, but his five assists led the team. 
That helped krzyzewski inch closer to another milestone: This marked his 420th career acc victory — two shy of the record held by his former chief rival, north carolina’s dean smith. 
Those two most recent wins came against schools that haven’t been in the acc all that long: Two days after beating league newcomer louisville — in a game they debuted that zone d — the blue devils took care of pitt. 
no. 17 texas 66, tCu 48 
ForT worTh, Texas — Javan Felix scored 15 points, isaiah Taylor added 13 and no. 17 Texas rolled to a 66-48 vic­tory against Tcu on monday night. 
The longhorns (13-4, 3-2 big 
12) never trailed in their second straight win since a two-game skid that included a blowout loss at home to oklahoma. earlier in the day, Texas moved up three spots in The associated press poll after a 27-point win at home over no. 18 west virginia. 
Taylor, who has played all five conference games after miss­ing 10 games with a broken left wrist, also had seven rebounds and six assists. 
kenrich williams scored 10 to lead the horned Frogs (14­4, 1-4), who were coming off a win at Texas Tech that snapped a 23-game conference losing streak, including postseason tournaments. 
kyan anderson, who came in sixth in big 12 in scoring at 13.9 points per game, flirted with the first scoreless game since he was a freshman in 2011, getting in early foul trouble and scor­ing his only points on a jumper with 6:02 remaining. 
Texas blocked Tcu’s first two shots, both from the perimeter, and held the horned Frogs to 28 percent shooting in the first half and 33 for the game. Two days earlier, the longhorns led west virginia to 24 percent, a school record for a big 12 regu­lar-season game. 
Tcu couldn’t help itself on free throws either, going 3 of 11 in the first half (27 percent) and 9 of 23 overall (39 percent). 
The longhorns contested Tcu jumpers out of their zone defense, but didn’t give the Frogs much room around the basket either. Jonathan holmes emphatically swatted a shot by karviar shepherd under the basket in the first half, and myles Turner blocked a layup try by Trey Ziegler from behind after halftime. 
Texas finished with nine blocks, led by three from cameron ridley, who also had 10 points. 


The observer | tuesday, january 20, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

nd WoMen’s tennIs | nd 6, wesT. mich. 1, nd 7, deTroiT 0 
irish open spring season with sweep 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
notre dame opened its sea­son saturday with two wins against western michigan and detroit mercy at the eck Tennis pavilion. The no. 20 irish (2-0) dominated both teams, win­ning 6-1 against the broncos (1-1) and 7-0 against the Titans (0-2). 
individually, the team had a strong showing, winning 11 of 12 singles matches on the day. however, western michigan’s top doubles pair of sophomore meika ashby and senior caroline aleck upset the top irish pairing of junior Quinn gleason and sophomore monica robinson, who were ranked 16th nationally, by a score of 6-3. 
in the evening match against detroit mercy, the irish had an even more impressive perfor­mance, sweeping the singles portion of the match and only dropping one of the doubles matches. 
gleason said the early suc­cess should give her team some momentum moving forward. 
“as a team i think we handled our first two matches very well,” gleason said. “double head­ers are tough because it’s such a long day. western michigan and detroit mercy both have very solid players and i was proud of how everyone on the team competed and i think the wins will give us confidence go­ing forward.” 
when asked how her individ­ual goals fit in the team’s over­arching season goals, gleason said she was ready to begin the season at the top of the irish singles line-up. 
“i’m honored to be playing first singles for the team this year,” gleason said. “i’m really excited that i’ll have the chance to play the best players in the nation. right now i’m just try­ing to work on being more ag­gressive and trying to get to the net as much as possible.” 
moreover, gleason praised the performance of her team­mates in the opening weekend of the new season. 
“i specifically thought allison miller, our freshman, had a good first weekend of the spring season,” gleason said. “i re­member my first college match my hands were shaking i was so nervous, but she handled the pressure really well and her re­sults reflected that.” 
playing at fourth-position singles against the broncos and third-position singles against the Titans, miller had little trouble, winning both matches, 6-1, 6-3, and 6-1, 6-1, respective­ly. on the doubles side, miller paired with sophomore Jane Fennelly and then junior Julie vrabel later in the afternoon, winning both in decisive fash­ion, 6-2 and 6-1. 
starting the season at no. 20 in the national rankings should help the team gain confidence before opening acc play next month, gleason said. 
“i think we have a lot of po­tential this year,” gleason said. “personally i believe the team is deeper than it has been my first two years on the team so i’m really excited to see where that can take us this season.” 
The irish will have a weekend off before getting back to work the following one. The next chance notre dame will have to prove its worth on the court will be against no. 16 michigan, which visits the eck Tennis pavilion on Feb. 1. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani@nd.edu 


EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 

Irish sophomore Monica Robinson squares up to return a shot during Notre Dame’s 4-3 loss to Georgia Tech on Feb. 21. 
traCK and FIeLd | simmons-harvey inviTaTional 
Notre Dame disappoints in first meet of new year 

By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
notre dame kicked off the new year at the simmons­harvey invitational in ann arbor, michigan, this past saturday. The irish won five events including the wom­en’s 600-meter, the wom­en’s 4-by-400-meter relay, women’s long jump and the men’s mile. 
despite the wins, first-year head coach alan Turner said that there was room for improvement for the irish. 
“my overall impression of the meet was that we were just ok,” Turner said. “There were some good perfor­mances by a few individu­als, especially our freshman Jessica harris. ... There were some people in some other events who fouled out so that was a disappoint­ment. our men’s [4-by-400] didn’t finish ... and we fin­ished eighth in the coun­try last year so that was a disappointment.” 
despite this, Turner said that he is not worried and fully expects the irish to perform when the champi­onship meet comes around. 
“overall, most of the kids are getting back into it and when i look at the season as a whole, what happened at the simmons-harvey invitational is not going to be indicative of what’s going to happen at the end of the season,” he said. “These performances will continue to improve a lot as the sea­son goes along.” 
The irish did have multi­ple bright spots at the invita­tional, including freshman Jessica harris, who won the women’s 600-meter race with a time of 1:31.98, breaking the school record. Turner said that harris is a stellar athlete and will only continue to get better. 
“[harris] breaking the school record in the 600, she made it look pretty easy,” Turner said. “she won by a large margin, she literally finished and wasn’t even breathing that hard. i’m really excited to see what she’s going to do in her main event, the 800 meters. The next two weeks we’re going to have her run her main event and see what she can do here at the notre dame invitational. i can see her challenging the school re­cord indoors. she’s also a great student, she had a 
4.0 her first semester here. she’s off to an outstanding start here at notre dame.” 
in addition to harris, freshman parker english won the women’s 400-meter with a time of 56.47. 
“[english] didn’t run in the first meet in december,” Turner said. “she had a ham­string problem so we sat her out her first meet. she ran a very good, tactical race. she was under control, there’s a lot there. she trains on a day-to-day basis with other first team all-americans in the 400. Those two (harris and english), once the sea­son gets going and we get to the bigger meets, i expect those two to be in the low 53, high 52 (seconds) range at the acc championships. i think parker, when all is said and done, is going to be one of the best in school history as well.” 
on the men’s side of the meet, the only irish vic­tory was claimed by senior christopher Quinn, who won the mile with a time of 
4:16.54. Turner said Quinn’s win was a bright spot in the men’s competition. 
“on the men’s side, we didn’t have a great showing, but we did have some very positive performances,” he said. “chris Quinn in the mile pulled out a victory for us, which is good to see. Quinn was running cross-country for us as well. he looks like he’s going to have a pretty good season for us.” 
The irish next compete at the notre dame invitational in loftus sports center, starting next saturday at 10 a.m. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 



jackson 
conTinued From page 16 
This season, the mishawaka, indiana, native is averaging 
13.6 points per game to go along with 53 percent shoot­
ing  from  the  floor,  which  
ranks second among  notre  
dame’s starters.  

“he is taking people by storm,” brey said. “he is strong and talks in timeouts and practices hard while setting a great tone for us.” 
Jackson has stepped up this season as a versatile shooter, honing in on his ability to not only make drives to the basket, but also shoot from long range. he has shot 41.7 percent from behind the arc. against michigan state and purdue, Jackson set a new career high in scoring, con­tributing 22 points in each contest, which both resulted in wins for the irish. 
ranked no. 8 in the lat­est ap poll, notre dame has made itself a contender in the acc, and Jackson un­derstands that the team has taken a 180-degree turn from last year’s sub-.500 fin­ish. Jackson has also said that it is not just about him, which causes him to avoid speaking as an individual in relation to the team’s suc­cess this season. 
“we’ve made big steps from last year, but we have a lot more improvements that to make and we can get so much better,” Jackson said. 
brey said Jackson has done everything and more that he expected out of him as a first-year starter thus far into the season. 
“he’s the first one to chal­lenge guys, and that’s an area of growth i have seen that is helping our team, him as a leader,” brey said. “The basketball stuff he’s doing is excellent. he’s come so far with his decision-making with the ball. he really is a guard now. That was my big­gest concern giving him the ball this year, was could he be good enough with the basketball and making deci­sions with it?” 

Jackson’s decision-making hasn’t been a problem for the irish this season. he has ac­cumulated just 25 turnovers through 19 games, 14 fewer than atkins had last sea­son through the same num­

paid adverTisemenT 

ber of games. regardless of Jackson’s ability to protect the ball, he continues to hold himself accountable to lim­iting turnovers on a game-to-game basis, brey said. 
“he gets so mad at turn­overs, because he knows in our program and with our point guards, that’s some­thing that’s a mortal sin,” brey said. “i am so pleased with the basketball decision-making, and playing with Jerian (grant) he’s learned a lot. you learn a lot playing with an all-around guard like Jerian who makes great decisions with the ball.” 
senior guard/forward captain pat connaughton also praised Jackson on his growth as a leader as just a sophomore. 
“i think as soon as he got comfortable and the sec­ond he knew that we had his back, his leadership grew and he became more of a vocal leader on the floor,” connaughton said. 
a half-game out of first place in the acc, notre dame will continue to rely on the hometown hero’s im­provement as a leader as it pursues its first acc title. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 



lead, largely on the strength of 62.5 percent field goal shooting. The volunteers shot 
45.7 percent from the floor. 
loyd racked up 18 points on 8-for-11 shooting by halftime to lead notre dame on her way to topping 30 points. 
notre dame jumped to an early lead by working the perimeter, as junior guard michaela mabrey drained two early 3-pointers to help put the irish up 8-5. 
allen (15) and freshman forward brianna Turner (13) also finished in double-dig­its. sophomore forward Taya reimer scored only one point in the first half but eventu­ally tallied nine total points and led the team in rebounds with 10 by the game’s end. 
“i love this team,” reimer said. “we all get along so well, and i love playing with this team. we all enjoy playing to­gether, and tonight was such a fun game. all of us were re­ally gelling.” 
Junior forward bashaara graves led the volunteers in the first half with 14 points. Tennessee’s leading scor­ers entering the game, se­nior guard ariel massengale and senior center isabelle harrison, got off to slow starts but finished the game with 11 and 12 points, respectively. 
graves finished with a 
paid adverTisemenT 
W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
sec)  could not made a sig­nificant dent in notre dame’s advantage. 
Tennessee outrebounded the irish early, 18-13 in the first half, and scored many of its initial points in the paint. notre dame managed just three offensive rebounds in the half. 
“i thought the difference in the game really was rebound­ing,” mcgraw said. “The sec­ond half we rebounded much better. First half — really dis­appointing, and they still had 18 offensive rebounds [on the game], so we’ve got some work to do there, but i’m hap­py with our post game.” 
The irish also struggled at the line in the first half, shooting 7-for-12 (58.3 percent). 
but notre dame headed to the locker room with a 40-37 team-high 22 points, and se­nior forward cierra burdick scored 15. 



overall though, Tennessee shot just 43.2 percent from the floor. 
“i think we missed ‘em,” volunteers coach holly warlick said of her team’s scoring opportunities, espe­cially near the basket. “and they have a lot to do with their defensive presence as well. i think it’s a combina­tion of both.” 
before the game, both teams united in wearing “we back pat” shirts for warm-ups to show support for for­mer Tennessee hall-of-fame coach pat summitt and her alzheimer’s foundation. summitt was diagnosed with alzheimer’s diesease in 2011. 
next up, the irish take on georgia Tech on Thursday at 7 p.m. at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 




CrossWord | will shorTZ 


hIGhLy PunLIKeLy | chrisTopher brucker 

doMe nuts | alexandria wellman 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
sudoKu | The mepham group 

horosCoPe | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: stick to tried-and-true methods. an impulsive move will set you back. Focus on personal improvements, not on trying to change others. staying on course and showing discipline and determination will help you gain respect as well as meet your own expectations. how you handle others will have an influence in regards to a position you are offered. your numbers are 3, 12, 21, 26, 34, 39, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): search relentlessly until you find what you want. don’t rely on anyone to make you happy or take care of your responsibilities. keep your personal secrets locked up. reconnect with colleagues you have worked with in the past. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): education will be in your best interest if you plan to impress someone who can influence your future. don’t rely on someone who makes unrealistic promises. put your trust and faith in what you know and don’t be afraid to do things differently. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take an original approach to work-related matters. Think outside the box and you will impress someone you want to spend more time with. bring about the changes that you feel will help you improve your life personally. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): you’ve got to look at all sides of a situation you face. compromise will be your best bet and can help you develop a closer bond with someone you need on your team. observe what others do and say instead of taking over. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t think about what should be done, just make it happen. if you don’t take control, you won’t have the right to make demands or criticize what takes place. you can make a difference, so stop waffling. love is highlighted. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take time out to spend with friends, your lover or the youngsters in your life. bonding with the people who are special to you will motivate you to put your life in perspective and pay attention to what’s really important. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22) step up and help out. don’t hesitate to reveal what you know. a chance to develop an idea looks promising. love is on the upswing and will bring you joy if you take time to be with someone special. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Focus on what you can accomplish and spend time with people who are interested in the same pursuits and you will reach your goal. don’t let an emotional situation at home stop you from doing something you really want to do. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Travel and communication can be very entertaining and informative as long as you do whatever is necessary to avoid confusion. Follow rules and regulations and you will be able to make changes that will improve your life. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): organization will be what counts. once you have a handle on what is coming down the pipeline, you will find the path most suitable to accomplishing your quest. be abrupt and ask questions if you need answers. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you can stabilize your position and your future if you are disciplined and implement what you have to offer. your innovative approach will pay off if coupled with determination and a well-thought-out plan. romance will brighten your day. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): offer assistance to others, and favors will be granted when you make a request. steer clear of any situation that might jeopardize your position or infringe on your reputation. a private matter will be unexpectedly revealed. damage control will be necessary. 

Birthday Baby: you are a crusader and a leader. you are diligent and respectful. 
juMBLe | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  



The observer | tuesday, january 20, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
nd WoMen’s BasKetBaLL | nd 88, Tennessee 77 
Vanquishing the Lady Vols 
Loyd puts up 34, Allen with 15 to help Notre Dame defeat Tennessee for the fifth-straight time 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
assistant managing editor 
no. 6 notre dame stepped up in front of a national audi­ence and a raucous full house to defeat no. 5 Tennessee, 88­77, on monday night at purcell pavilion. 
“i think it’s great for this young team to understand what it’s like to play on [espn’s] big monday in front of a national audience with a great crowd in a big game like this,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said. “it’s the kind of atmosphere that the ncaa tournament’s going to look like.” 
Junior guard Jewell loyd powered the irish (17-2, 4-1 acc) with 34 points and four assists. This season, loyd has averaged 27.7 points per game against ranked opponents. 
“it’s really from my team­mates,” loyd said of her per­formance. “They look for me, and they encourage me so much, so i give all the credit to them. … when you have someone encourage you, it makes it a lot easier.” 
“Jewell was Jewell,” mcgraw said. “she was phenomenal today.” 
The irish struck at end the first half and extended that momentum into the second period. 
with three seconds remain­ing in the first period, notre dame called a timeout. The inbounds pass went to soph­omore guard lindsay allen, who bounced a shot off the glass. loyd snagged the re­bound and tipped it in as time expired. The play energized the irish, mcgraw said. 
The irish pushed their lead to 59-49 at the midway point of the second half. in the game’s closing minutes, the lady volunteers (15-3, 5-0 
see w bball PaGe 14 

Men’s BasKetBaLL 

Jackson emerges as a leader 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
it’s not easy following up someone like eric atkins, who finished his career at notre dame 18th on the all-time scoring list and third in assists, but sophomore guard demetrius has tran­sitioned smoothly into his new starring role. 
Jackson came to notre dame as a four-star recruit from local marian high school, where he was named a mcdonald’s all-american. scouted as one of the best players in the 2013 recruit­ing class, Jackson entered the program and sat behind atkins the majority of his freshman year. despite only scoring six points a game, Jackson made solid contri­butions throughout the year, including a 17-point per­formance in a loss against miami. 
now a sophomore, Jackson has stepped into a leader­ship role and now runs the point with ease and matu­rity, which coach mike brey can attest to. 

“demetrius Jackson’s men­tal toughness and leadership is vastly underrated,” brey said. MICHAEL YU | The Observer 
Irish sophomore guard Demetrius Jackson fakes out a defender in see Jackson PaGe 13 Notre Dame’s 75-70 win over Miami on Jan. 17 at Purcell Pavilion. 

FootBaLL 
daniels declares for nFl draft 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
managing editor 
Former notre dame receiver davaris daniels has declared for the nFl draft, per an nFl press release. 
daniels’s name appeared on a list released monday of 74 football players who have been granted special eligibility for this year’s draft, which will be held from april 30-may 2 in chicago. 
daniel’s father, phillip daniels, confirmed his son’s inclusion on the draft-eligible list in a tweet monday afternoon. 
“my son davaris daniels has entered the 2015 nFl draft,” he tweeted. “he has been training hard the past two months to pre­pare himself.” 
davaris daniels tweeted later monday, “There are no wrong turnings. only paths we had not known we were meant to walk.” 
daniels did not play for notre dame this season after he was suspended from practice and competition as part of an investi­gation into “suspected academic dishonesty.” on oct. 14, he tweet­ed, “my time [at notre dame] is done.” 
daniels told The observer on nov. 16 that he was unsure wheth­er he would return to notre dame for his final year of eligibility. 
“i’ve changed my mind at least six times so far, and it’s still going,” he said on that date. 
daniels was also suspended for the spring 2014 semester for aca­demic reasons. 
daniels recorded 80 total recep­tions for a total of 1,235 receiving yards and seven touchdowns in two seasons at notre dame. all seven of daniels’s career college touchdowns came during the 2013 season, in which he recorded 49 receptions and 745 receiving yards. 
Joining daniels on the draft-eligible list were 2013 heisman Trophy winner quarterback Jameis winston of Florida state and this past season’s heisman Trophy winner, quarterback marcus mariota of oregon, who graduated college with one year of eligibility remaining. 
notre dame will return its four leading receivers by recep­tions next season. sophomore will Fuller, who led the team with 76 receptions, 1,094 receiv­ing yards and 15 touchdowns, will be back, as will sophomore corey robinson, junior chris brown and junior c.J. prosise, who ranked second, third and fourth on the team in receptions, respectively. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 




