The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 80 | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Presidential hopefuls square off in debate 
Candidates for Notre Dame student government’s top positions expound on campaign platforms 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
student body presidential can­didates, junior bryan ricketts and sophomore neil Joseph, and their respective running mates, ju­nior nidia ruelas and sophomore noemi ventilla, answered ques­tions from the notre dame Judicial council and student attendees during a debate monday night in the basement of laFortune student center. 
Joseph, the current treasurer of the sophomore class, said his ticket’s biggest priority is increas­ing communication between students and the university ad­ministration. ventilla, the current sophomore class president, said she and Joseph hope these lines of communication last beyond their term in office. 
“students do so much at this university, but unless you have the administration backing you up, things can’t really change,” she said. “i don’t know if you guys are in clubs and know how difficult it is to get funding, but those are sys­tematic changes that you can only achieve by dealing with the ad­ministration and having a positive relationship with them.” 
ricketts, president of prismnd and a gender relations center (grc) peer educator, said his tick­et’s biggest priority is its “identity­based initiatives.” 
“what we can provide is a way to make sure that students feel 
see debaTe PAGE 5 

EMILY McCONVILLE | The Observer 
Sophomores Neil Joseph and Noemi Ventilla, left, listen while juniors Bryan Ricketts and Nidia Ruelas respond to a question during Monday’s presidential debate in the basement of LaFortune Student Center. 


smc diversity board hosts authentic Tunisian dinner 
By KELLY KONYA 
saint mary’s editor 
monday evening, the saint mary’s student diversity board (sdb) hosted the third diversity dinner of this academic year in regina hall’s south lounge for students to come together over a family-style Tunisian meal. 
student government asso­ciation (sga) international co-chairs senior catherine sullivan and sophomore ngoc Truong 
see diversiTy PAGE 5 





Unity Games aim to connect multicultural community 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
This week marks notre dame’s multicultural community week, sponsored by the multicultural student programs and services (msps), and this year’s theme is “The unity games.” 
participants will be split into teams that will compete against each other in chal­lenges throughout the course of this week, ultimately com­peting for the grand prize of 100 domer dollars for each team member, according to the games’ website. 
katherine hernandez, a freshman pre-medical stu­dent who signed up to par­ticipate in the games, said she saw the event as an op­portunity to connect with other students on campus. 
“i joined because it seemed like a good way to 
see uniTy PAGE 4 


SMC lecture series to celebrate St. Teresa of Avila 
By KELLY KONYA 
saint mary’s editor 
The center for spirituality (cFs) at saint mary’s an­nounced its spring 2015 lecture series entitled “saint Teresa of avila: carmelite mystic and doctor of the church.” 
The series will include two talks and one panel discussion, marking the 500th anniver­sary of saint Teresa’s birth. according to a press release, the saint mary’s college annual endowed lecture series Fund will sponsor the lectures, which are free and open to the public and will take place in the vander vennet Theatre. 
see Teresa PAGE 5 



news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 9 women’s baskeTball PAGE 16 men’s Tennis PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

What did you think about the results of the Super Bowl? 

Jacqueline Adams 
freshman 
cavanaugh hall 

“richard sherman’s face was pretty priceless when the second down was intercepted.” 
Nadezhda Braun 
freshman 
howard hall 

“i didn’t care about the game but the puppies in the commercials were cute.” 
Amanda Leung 
senior 
lyons hall 

“i was wondering why there were so many sharks on the internet today.” 

Maggie Blaha 
sophomore 
breen-phillips hall 
“i don’t know why all those football players were at the katy perry concert.” 
Jasmine Salazar 
sophomore 
le mans hall 
“surprised, i thought the seahawks would win.” 
Ryan Brickner 
freshman 
Zahm house 
“go paTrioTs!” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

lesley stevenson greg hadley Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: katie galioto manny deJesus selena ponio brian plamondon 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
keri o’mara erin mcauliffe 
Photo Viewpoint 

“Crafting a Strong Basketball Game Film: “The Missing Graduate Student Annual Bride Expo 
Zach llorens Tabitha ricketts 
Grant Proposal” Purcell Pavilion Picture” Mass Joyce Center Brownson Hall 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. DeBartolo Performing Basilica of the Sacred 10 a.m. - 4 p.m. 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. Men’s basketball takes Arts Center Heart Print ticket online for 
Corrections 

Undergraduate on Boston College. 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. free admission. 
The observer regards itself as workshop. Nominee for Best Occurs every Friday. a professional publication and 
Foreign Language film. 
strives for the highest standards 
“From ‘Awkward Grotto Trip Basketball Game Women’s Tennis National Theatre 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Black Girl’ to Media Bond Hall Purcell Pavilion Eck Tennis Pavilion Live: “Of Mice and 
however, recognize that we will make 
Maven” 10 p.m. - 11 p.m. 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 5 p.m. - 7 p.m. Men” 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Carey Auditorium Organized by the Asian Women’s basketball Women take on DPAC 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
7 p.m. - 8 p.m. American Association. battles Virginia. Stanford. 3 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

Lecture by Issa Rae. Open to the public. 


University remains open after record snowfall 
By RACHEL O’GRADY and LESLEY STEVENSON 
news writer and news editor 
From saturday night into monday morning, the south bend area accumulated record-setting amounts of snow, but the university of notre dame re­mained open. 
“as fun as it would be to have the day off, that’s not why we’re here. as long as it is safe for the teachers and students to go to class that’s what should happen,” senior patrick haggerty said. “it’s when it’s no lon­ger safe that the university needs to seriously consider taking action to keep their students and staff safe.” 
according to the south bend Tribune, the snowfall reached un­precedented levels. 
“south bend broke a record for snow on Feb. 1 with 14.7 inches,” the report by howard dukes stated. 
“That broke the 2011 record of 8.4  
inches. sunday’s record-breaking  
snowfall in south bend is nearly  
equal to the monthly average for  
the entire month of February (15  
inches).”  
although the university did not  
cancel classes, students expressed  
little discontent with the snowy  
situation.  
“i wasn’t too upset school wasn’t  
cancelled today, because i didn’t  
expect it to be at all,” junior eric  
woitchek said. “notre dame has  
set a precedent of staying open  
even in the most extreme condi­ 
tions. last year, it took the entire  
city of south bend to shut down for  
school to eventually be cancelled.”  today,” he said. “i live in dillon hall,  
The snow did not pose a major  so all i had to do was lace up my  
problem for on-campus students,  boots, throw on a coat and hat, and  
as they did not have much dif­ keep my balance walking for five  
ficulty traveling to their classes,  minutes.”  
woitchek said.  students noticed the work of  
“i didn’t struggle to get to class  notre dame landscape services,  

paid adverTisemenT 


better known as the university’s was maybe an inch of snow on the 
grounds crew, as they worked sidewalks. notre dame never gets 
through snow to travel across snow days. i was not expecting one, 
campus. so today was a regular monday.” “if you walk to class, you really For off-campus students, the 
have no reason to complain,” fresh-notre dame security police rec-
man ryan mckeown said. “There ommended making sure their cars were prepared for the conditions and the snow plows had the oppor­tunity to do their work. “i didn’t have any difficulty get­ting to class, but i can’t speak for the kids who live off campus,” woitchek said. “if they were risking their well-being in any way to get to class, the administration made the wrong call.” off-campus senior shannon kirk said her normal route from irish row to the debartolo performing arts center (dpac), which takes 15 minutes by car or 10 to 12 minutes by bus, lasted 45 minutes monday morning. “First, i waited in the cold for 10 minutes for the bus that never came,” she said. “Then i finally de­cided to drive, and when i arrived at school at 9:05, the c1 lot ... was blocked off because they were try­ing to plow it.” “if they are going to have class, they should have campus roads and parking lots plowed by the time people are arriving for their first class,” kirk said. according to kirk, senior nick muench, whose car does not have four-wheel drive, opted for an uber ride to campus. off-campus senior arturo chiquito said he and fellow senior alejandro porras were able to take the Transpo bus from university edge to get to class on time. “it took a bit longer [to arrive at notre dame] because [the bus] went slower, but i felt safe,” chiquito said. “i was fine with it. most of the roads were clear.” according to the faculty and staff newspaper, nd works, it takes more than 500 tons of salt and 25 trucks of several varieties to clear the snow each year. eight bobcat Toolcats are used to clear the side­walks, which is perhaps the most vital task in ensuring students make it to class on time. “we are here to learn and pay a large annual sum for that pur­pose,” sophomore louis bertolotti said. “i’m glad that the university allowed us this great day of knowledge.” 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu and Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Unity 
conTinued From page 1 

lecture examines missionary 
hernandez said. The rank­ings will be updated daily 
and can be found on their 

foundations of democracy 
statistical analysis consid-“They pioneered class-
By JP GSCHWIND 

news writer ered other contextual fac-rooms techniques using 
tors to show the political texts designed for chil­
in a lecture Jan. 27, impact of missionaries. dren,” woodberry said. robert d. woodberry, as-woodberry said the word citing the example of sociate professor of politi-“liberal” is an important the belgian congo, he said cal science at the national qualifier because it means missionaries were respon­university of singapore, governments have en-sible for reporting abuses explained the role of sured rights for opposition and reigning in abuses of christian missionaries groups and minorities. he colonial power. in the growth of liberal 
“missionaries limited co­
mocracy is usually told in a secular way,” woodberry said. “i argue that, build­ing on earlier foundations, protestant missionaries are responsible for a lot of re­forms that lead to liberal democracy.” 
by examining consistent historical patterns and statistical data from the 19th and early 20th cen­turies, the influence of religion on the growth of liberal democracy can be demonstrated and com­pared to the influence of the enlightenment or various economic sys­tems, woodberry said. his also said there are signifi­cant distinctions between different types of mission­ary groups, including their denominations and rela­tionships with states. 

“The four major reforms of the missionaries were mass education, mass printing, nonviolent social movements and colonial reform,” woodberry said. 
in terms of education, woodberry said missionar­ies espoused the growth of literacy as means of read­ing scripture and thus pre­pared students to embrace democracy. 
seemed like a good way to meet some new people and, of course, the possibility of winning 100 domer dollars.” 
events will include Family Feud, social media contests, trivia, games, an open skate and a sports day. all of these events are intended to expose the participants to different cultures and religions. Teams will receive points based on 
“It was a great way 
website. 
The district with the most points at the end of the week will win the grand prize of 100 domer dollars per per­son, which will be awarded sunday during the closing ceremonies. other individual prizes that will be raffled off during the ceremony as well, according to the website. 
There will be a separate prize for the winning team of the Family Feud event: an in­vitation to a free dinner from 

to meet your team 
democracy. 
The kellogg institute 
sponsored the lecture, ti­
tled “The missionary roots 
of liberal democracy,” at 
the hesburgh center for 
international studies. 
“The narrative of de­lonial abuses but were not the ruth chris steakhouse. 
members and start 
necessarily anti-colonial,” The idea for the unity 
working as a team 
he said. games comes from the pop­
woodberry said mission­
ular young adult franchise 
playing the game.” 
aries advocated the idea ‘The hunger games,’ in which 
Katherine Hernandez 
of trusteeship particularly districts send children to 
freshman 
in british colonialism be-fight to the death. The unity 
cause they believed it was 
games is inverting this to en-
their duty to bring salva­tion to the colonized ar­eas. he showed the results of a study he performed comparing female literacy and infant mortality rates across regions in india with the locations of mis­sionary centers to fortify his argument. 
“christianity profound­ly shaped modernity and the religious incentive of missionaries, and their re­forms are crucial to the spread of liberal democra­cy,” woodberry said. 
Contact JP Gschwind at  jgschwin@nd.edu 
both their participation and their performance. 
The unity games kicked off sunday with the opening ceremonies. 
“The opening ceremony, despite the fact that not many people showed up, turned out to be really fun,” hernandez said. “it was a great way to meet your team members and start working as a team playing the games. i’d say about 20 people showed up.” 
The eight teams, or dis­tricts, will be awarded points based on their level of par­ticipation in each event. each team has six or seven people, courage teamwork and unity, not discord, amongst the par­ticipants and the notre dame community as a whole. 
“‘The unity games’ is a week of fun and exciting events to encourage team­work and unity among the multicultural community at notre dame,” according to the unity games’ website. 
students are invited to serve as spectators for the events. a schedule with times and locations can be found on their website, theunityg­ames.squarespace.com 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 

DFA explores strategies to reduce food waste 
By SAMUEL CHAN 
news writer 
monday night marked a ma­jor milestone for the design for america (dFa) candidate chapter at notre dame, as it entered round two of the four-step application process to become an official studio by hosting a creative workshop. The two-hour event at west lake hall focused on ways to reduce food waste in the din­ing halls, which the co-orga­nizers say amounts to about 
1.2 tons per day. 
according to its website, dFa is a “nationwide network of interdisciplinary student teams and community mem­bers using design to create local and social impact.” The 2,000 student-strong orga­nization, which was found­ed in 2009 at northwestern university, focuses on tack­ling “over 100 local and social challenges annually” in the areas of economy, education, environment and health. 
seniors brian donlin and John wetzel and junior william picoli lead notre dame’s dFa candidate chap­ter. dFa fellow and mentor Julian bongiorno led monday’s workshop with the assistance of the three co-organizers. 
wetzel said dFa differs from the seemingly similar student international business council (sibc) in that the “purely business” sibc faced criticism in the past for ac­cepting only business stu­dents, a policy that the sibc leadership has since reversed. 
“if you look at all the dif­ferent organizations on this 
“We’re hoping to be part of something that can bridge the gap and unite studnets from all those groups to work together.” 
John Wetzel 
senior 
campus, there are very few that are truly interdisciplin­ary,” wetzel said. “you bring all that together and use that to your advantage as a strength. That’s something our university as a whole has kind of struggled with in find­ing how that all fits in. 
“we’re hoping to be part of something that can bridge that gap and unite students from all those groups to work together.” 
during the workshop, the co-organizers asked for a show of hands to indicate their areas of study. These varied from industrial design to english. 
initially, each group was as­signed a persona and tasked to argue from that perspective, with stakeholders ranging from a fictional notre dame Food services administrator to a “filler upper” student, to rationalize their behaviors described and how this relates back to serving, preparation, consumption, cleaning and disposal. participants then attempted to brainstorm as many solutions as possible to the problems that arose. 
“maybe if we make grab and go bags that are interesting or funny, they’ll become a com­modity for people to get food with,” freshman kevin ramos said, expanding on the prop­osition to extend the life of the existing disposable paper bags and cut down on waste. 
“it would be cool if we could give students more accessi­bility to feedback, whether giving ratings on food or of­fering recipes,” senior Julia bontempo said. “students could suggest what they want­ed to eat. maybe one day a week.” 
commenting on another suggestion to increase the use of reusables, junior hannah chiarella said, “i always feel stupid taking the same plate going back.” she added she does reuse cups for refilling drinks. 
other students suggested mandating feedback similar to course instructor Feedback, the current system used to rate academic teaching qual­ity, in addition to being able to rate the food itself through the my notre dame application for all students to see. another popular suggestion was to compartmentalize the dishes or trays to reduce the amount of clutter, food taken and need for washing dishes. 
“The whole idea is not so much about what to eat and how much to eat, but the main point is the waste. it’s more about being a responsible consumer,” sophomore daara Jalili said. 
Following this workshop, the local candidate chapter will have one month to work on an idea to compete against eight other schools, includ­ing university of southern california, to be judged by dFa on which “creates the most impact.” about half of these hopefuls will be se­lected to become official dFa studios. 
Contact Samuel Chan at schan3@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




Teresa conTinued From page 1  mary’s, will explore Teresa’s thoughts on prayer and love because for this saint and doc- to theologians.” according to egan, this se­ries furthers the cFs’s pur- Diversity conTinued From page 1  The cuisine included couscous, something slimane said western diners are familiar with but cooks  
according to michelle egan,  tor of the church, she spent her  pose, as the organization was  event to further their initial goal  from eastern countries prepare  
associate director of the cFs,  life searching for god through  established in 1984 as a center  established in the fall semester:  differently. The meal also includ­ 
the center hosts a series each  prayer,” egan said. “For her,  to “build a theologically well- highlighting diversity within the  ed  pureed  carrot,  lamb  sauce,  
fall and spring semester en- prayer is an ‘exercise in love.’”  grounded spirituality  among  saint mary’s community.  Tunisian salad and aja. slimane  
compassing a specific topic or  on march 3 at 7:30 p.m., the  members of the college and  “The diversity dinners aim to  also brewed a sweet green tea with  
theme.  second  lecture,  “Teresa  the  greater  south  bend  commu­ not only feature a variety of cultur­ peppermint leaves for the event.  
This spring series will follow  Theologian  on  the  human  nity,” according to the press  al foods, but they are meant to also  “i  don’t  normally  cook  for  
the 2014 lecture series, “unitas,  person as capax dei” will fea­ release.  help along students’ understand- myself; i eat at the dining hall,”  
veritas,  caritas:  catholicism  ture a visiting scholar from  senior  madison  maidment  ing of who their fellow belles are,”  slimane said. “i actually don’t cook  
and  the  liberal  arts  and  Fairfield university.  said she enjoys having the op­ sullivan said.  much.”  
sciences,” which explored the  “elizabeth dreyer, religious  portunity to hear such scholars  sullivan said this is the third  yet, sullivan said that was not  
relationship of faith and reason  studies professor at Fairfield  discuss aspects of spirituality  diversity dinner she helped to or- the case for the diversity dinner —  
across disciplines.  university,  will  consider  that are not often elaborated  ganize, following two other suc­ slimane not only chose the dishes  
“when deciding on a theme,  Teresa’s work as an incarna­ upon in religion courses as ful­ cessful meals featuring chinese  for the meal, but she also spent  
we consider the current con­ tional theologian and how that  ly as possible.  and italian dishes.  three days talking with her moth- 
temporary religious and theo­ has or hasn’t prospered in the  “i  remember a lot of my  “because of how successful the  er, who lives in Tunisia, on the  
logical issues, or if there are  history of christian theology  friends who are nursing ma- two other dinners have been, we  phone while cooking every part of  
any  significant  milestones  and spirituality,” egan said.  jors were really interested in  have had to put a cap on the din- the dinner.  
within  the  church,”  egan  The third and final lecture of  the fall series because it had  ners of 50 people,” she said. “we’ve  “olfa [slimane]  was  originally  
said. “The 500th anniversary  the series will feature a panel  lectures concerning things like  filled up the dinners every time  an english teacher in Tunisia and  
of Teresa of avila’s birth is one  of  both  undergraduate  and  health care professions and bi- and we are hoping to expand for  came  to  saint  mary’s  to teach  
such milestone.”  post-graduate  students  from  ology,” maidment said. “This  further events.”  arabic,” sullivan said. “we spent  
while other cFs lecture se­ saint mary’s and notre dame,  spring series interests me a  monday’s  dinner  showcased  all of monday morning listening to  
ries have focused on larger  titled  “Teresa  and  us:  The  little more because it gives stu- Tunisian food thanks to one of  French hip-hop music in the kitch­ 
concepts, such as “facets of jus­ significance of Teresa of avila  dents a chance to get to know a  the two Fulbright scholars at saint  en of saint mary’s [while] cooking  
tice” or “leadership of catholic  for  young  catholic  women  saint on a more personal, relat­ mary’s, olfa slimane, who is origi­ lamb.”  
women both past and current,”  Today.” The panel will take  able level, and i think that’s an  nally from Tunisia.  sullivan said the next sched­ 
egan said the spring 2015 se­ place march 19 at 7:30 p.m.  awesome opportunity.  “i wanted to share my culture  uled diversity dinner will feature  
ries will discuss rather particu­ “our final event in the se­ “…  but  both  series  this  because as a Fulbright scholar, i  mexican food, and four students  
lar aspects of Teresa’s life and  ries will be  a panel discus- school-year have brought top- am a cultural messenger,” slimane  from  mexico  are  already  com- 
work.  sion  about  the  significance  ics to the table that aren’t of- said. “This is my status. as a teach­ mitted to taking on the role of  
The  first  lecture,  titled  of Teresa for today’s young  ten  discussed  in  our  daily  ing assistant, i have to share my  chefs. The diversity dinners will  
“Teresa of avila: prayer is an  catholic women,” egan said.  lives, and i think these unique  culture with others, and sharing  end with the fifth dinner, which  
adventure in love,” will take  “Teresa was certainly a leader  themes appeal to a wide vari­ culture means sharing food.”  sullivan said will offer german  
place Feb. 17 at 7:30 p.m.  in the church, she was a reli­ ety of students.”  according to slimane, the meal  cuisine.  
“our  first  lecturer,  keith  gious founder, a reformer, and  consisted of Tunisia’s most famous  
egan, aquinas chair of catholic  her  writings  have  been,  and  Contact Kelly Konya at   dishes, and it reminded her of her  Contact Kelly Konya at   
theology  emeritus  at  saint  continue to be, very influential  kkonya01@saintmarys.edu  home country.  kkonya01@saintmarys.edu  
Debate  “our platform is not meant to be exclusive, and that’s why we have  graduation from the football sta­dium and advocate for free fit- question about how the Joseph/ ventilla platform differed from  ricketts said he and ruelas would also work to develop a medi­ 
conTinued From page 1  our open-door policy. we are seri­ ness classes. ricketts said he and  those of previous student govern- cal amnesty policy.  
ous when we commit to answering  ruelas would also prioritize com­ ments, Joseph said some of his  “we have seen progress from the  
comfortable, feel safe and feel  the questions and concerns of any  munication between students and  ticket’s original initiatives include  university on the stance on medi­ 
welcome as a community at notre  student on campus, regardless of  administratiors.  reforming the dining system by  cal amnesty, and we believe that a  
dame, and that is why we wish to  what those may be.”  “we  believe  the  relationship  allowing students to take hot food  full solution can only be reached  
pursue these policies as our pri­ ruelas said she and ricketts in- with the administration is a two- out of the dining hall and turning  with a codified medical amnesty  
mary goal,” he said.  tend to include all students in dis- way street,” he said. “when you  extra meals into flex points.  policy that protects students who  
ricketts said his administration  cussions about race and ethnicity  come to us, we promise that your  Joseph added that the platform  are helping others in need,” he  
would encourage students to par- on campus.  concerns will be communicated  also included improvements to  said.  
ticipate in student government by  “a very important part of that,  directly to the administration, and  campus safety communications.  Joseph said he and ventilla did  
increasing its social media pres- which  i  think  radiates  in  our  when the administration makes  “we don’t think the current  not include the policy on their plat­ 
ence, creating a reddit-like online  platform and which we stress as  their decisions, we promise that  policy is conducive to students’  form because it was not feasible.  
forum for students to share ideas  people in our daily lives and in  we will push them to make the de­ interests, so we want to increase  “we really are going to work to- 
and having an “open-door policy”  the relationships we have built, is  cisions with your feedback in mind  the ways in which students are  wards it, because we think it’s very  
in the student government office  to realize that this is a structural  and make the announcements  informed about potential threats  important for students, but we  
in order to hear students’ concerns.  problem,” she said. “a lot of the race  recognizing the contributions that  and potential warnings,” he said.  didn’t want to put it in our platform  
ruelas, who has sat on the diversity  relations problems are structural  students have made.”  “we also really want to connect  so that we promised something  
council for two years, said she and  problems and should not be seen  in  response  to  a  student’s  with off-campus students to make  that we couldn’t achieve.”  
ricketts would also implement  as personal attacks. stressing this  question  about  reforming  the  them aware of the different dan­ in response to a question about  
student-generated ideas such  as  point is how we wish to include ev­ darTing process, Joseph said he  gers, connect with the south bend  improving notre dame’s relation- 
host families for international stu­ erybody in this conversation.”  and ventilla would work to make  [police department] to educate  ship with south bend, Joseph said  
dents during breaks.  Joseph said he and  ventilla  course syllabi available in online  students about potential risks.”  he and ventilla would create a da­ 
“These  ideas  that  [students]  would increase student engage- class descriptions.  ventilla said  in response to a question about  tabase of things to do and places to  
bring to the table, we would be  ment by holding office hours in  their administration would also  how they have worked with ad- volunteer in the city. ventilla said  
willing to take into consideration  the  student  government  office  make comments from all students’  ministration on issues that af­ they would also expand quad mar- 
in student government,”  ruelas  and creating policies based on stu­ ciFs available to anyone who fills  fect  the  entire  student  body,  kets and publicize transportation  
said.  dents’ ideas.  the forms out.  Joseph said he had worked with  options.  
ruelas said she and ricketts also  Joseph  said  his  administra­ “we need a better way of keep- program director for new student  “we should push south bend as  
want to  recognize  underrepre­ tion would prioritize voicing stu­ ing teachers accountable for what  engagement paul manrique on  an opportunity for student engage­ 
sented students through the host  dents’ concerns about university  they’re teaching us and making an  a curriculum for new students,  ment beyond just service, because  
family initiative and by creating a  decisions, such as the student  easier way to know what you’re get- and ventilla said the sophomore  there are so many new things pop- 
database for internships and study  printing quota, the physical edu­ ting yourself into in terms of class  class council worked with both  ping up in south bend,” she said.  
abroad opportunities.  cation requirement and campus  registration,” she said.  student senate and vice president  ruelas said she and ricketts  
in response to a student’s ques­ crossroads.  ruelas said she and ricketts  for student affairs erin hoffmann­ would promote aroundcampus, a  
tion about how ricketts and ruelas  “when we meet with adminis­ would also work to publish syllabi  harding on policy initiatives.  nationwide app that helps college  
would address non-minority stu­ trators, we’re going to make sure  on the class search page, encour- To the same question, ricketts  students find nearby businesses.  
dents’ concerns as well as those of  that they’re going to have students  age communication between stu­ said he had worked with the grc  “we also want to stress that  
underrepresented groups, ricketts  involved in these decisions direct- dents and professors and talk to  on developing sexual assault poli­ south bend is a community to be a  
said many of his initiatives apply to  ly,” he said. “not necessarily us,  computer science majors to sim­ cies and sat on an advisory council  part of,” she said. “There are people  
all students.  not necessarily people from stu­ plify the darTing system. ricketts  on lgbT issues, and ruelas said as  to engage with, there are servicers  
“[our platform] contains initia­ dent government, but a variety of  also said his ticket’s new initiatives  a diversity council member she  and businesses that are great to  
tives that affect the entire student  opinions from a variety of people  include the online forum, allow- helped craft the 21 diversity rec- frequent beyond the services on  
body like the online platform,  around campus.”  ing dorms to sell apparel during  ommendations and the socioeco­ campus.”  
like the grab and go in the din­ ruelas said she and ricketts  football weekends and holding a  nomic status board report under  
ing hall, like the comprehensive  would voice students’ concerns to  “dorm week.”  student body president emeritus  Contact Emily McConville at   
social media platform,” he said.  the administration about moving  in  response  to  a  student’s  alex coccia’s administration.  emcconv1@nd.edu  

Bowling for asinine 

INSIDE COLUMN 

conference debate 
Ryan Klaus 
sports writer 
how easy is this year’s “best conference debate”? 

Though this debate has an inherent subjective quality to it, i like to believe that most years in college basketball there is a right answer (or, at the very least, an answer that narrows it down to two or three conferences) when discuss­ing best college conferences. 
so how about 2015? what conference (or conferences) seems to be deserving of the “nation’s best conference” accolade? To most people that affiliate themselves at all with college basketball, all signs seem to indicate that — if there were a debate to be had this year — it would be between the big 12 and acc. 
conference debates can be very com­plicated when it comes to college basket­ball. no one will argue the importance of having really good teams at the top of the conference when it comes to this debate. how much importance do we give to those top teams though? 
when pitting the big 12 against the acc, the value of this question is im­mense. in terms of teams that are serious contenders for the final four at this mo­ment, the acc has at least three (no way that neither notre dame or louisville is) and the big 12 has really only one at best (and that would probably be kansas, who is less talented and experienced than when their team won one tournament game last year). obviously, i’m not ac­commodating for tournament surprises 
— which seem to happen annually these days — but with regard to elite teams, the acc has a very clear advantage over the big 12. 
any big 12 advocates will probably argue in terms of a comprehensive conference approach. coming into the week, the big 12 had six of their ten teams ranked in the ap poll and eight legitimate ncaa tournament contend­ers. while the acc also entered the week with six teams in the ap poll, four of its 15 teams currently boast sub-.500 records. by comparison the big 12 has zero teams with more overall losses than wins. 
one would be foolish, though, to point to the acc’s inferior inferiority as suf­ficient evidence for big 12 supremacy. The acc not only has an incredibly po­tent top of its conference, but also has solid ncaa tournament contenders like syracuse and north carolina state that provide depth in its middle and lower half. yes, the acc has four undeniably bad teams, but no one will argue that Tcu and Texas Tech are feared oppo­nents in the smaller big 12 either. 
This year’s “best conference debate” in college basketball is not very difficult. The acc is a pretty clear number 1. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at       rklaus@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Stephen Raab 
let’s Talk smart 

like the rest of america, i tuned in on sunday to watch the super bowl. i must admit my enthusiasm for the event was somewhat deflated (har har) by the nFl’s sundry controversies. nevertheless, i determined to do my patriotic (i’m sorry, the puns just happen) duty and enjoy the show while inhaling handful upon handful of grab-and-go popcorn. 
during the commercials and quieter moments, i took the opportunity to revisit an old friend — kurt vonnegut’s short story “harrison bergeron.” in this masterpiece of a dystopia, government edict renders all people equal in every way. The strong and fast are weighted down with lead ballast, the beautiful are cov­ered up with ugly masks and the intelligent have noises piped into their heads to break their concentration. when athletic genius harrison bergeron tries to rebel against the society that has scorned him, he is brutally suppressed. 
The story remains to this day my favorite work of vonnegut’s, and it even got a Tv movie in 1995 starring sean “rudy/samwise gamgee” astin. every time i read it, i feel the vague apprehension that comes with read­ing great dystopia. This time through the big game, with its most wonderful celebration of excellence — was a welcome antidote. our beloved country is safe from the tyranny of conformity. 
or is it? we certainly celebrate astounding feats of physical ability — to a fault, at times. yet we fail to show the same reverence for our top-tier intellects. The names of the great athletes persist through history, while the scientists and philosophers fade into obscuri­ty. This is particularly strange, as any impartial observ­er (an alien, say) would view the thinkers’ achievements as more worthy of commendation than those of the ball-players. as much as i love the sport of baseball, how can we esteem babe ruth’s home runs more greatly than norman borlaug’s genetic engineering, the savior of a billion lives? 
To be fair, a lot of the disparity can be explained away by the fact that science, to the uninitiated, can look dull. Try as hard as we might, even something as primal and revolutionary as the splitting of the atom can’t com­pete with the tension of a fourth-and-inches. (perhaps if we got katy perry to perform midway through the nobel announcements, flanked by men in helium atom costumes, we’d make up some of the deficit.) but that still doesn’t account for everything. There remains some undercurrent in our society that’s made us suspicious of the intellectual elite. 
ah, there’s that word “elite.” i’ve always been puzzled as to why it’s such a snarl word these days. if you want to undermine a scientist or economist’s credibility, there’s no need to formulate a counterargument — just accuse them of being an elite, and they’re suddenly reduced to nothing! 
For some reason, this doesn’t work when the target is not part of the intelligentsia. Those who spent the run-up to the super bowl slandering Tom brady and russell wilson never got around to calling them elites, even though such a designation unquestionably fit both of them. whether it’s the ncaa’s elite eight or pokémon’s elite Four, the suggestion of excellence doesn’t seem to be a categorical insult. The only places where excessive competence is considered a liability appear to be sci­ence, the arts and of course, politics. 
i’ve never seen people try to distance themselves more violently from their education than they do in politics. candidates desperately attempt to out-“down-on-the­farm” their opponents, scrabbling for the populist vote. consider the case of Jodi ernst (r-ia), who gave the republican response to the most recent state of the union. did her campaign advertise her as a high school valedictorian with a bachelor’s in psychology? of course not, that would be elitist. instead, ernst told tales of her childhood on her family’s farm, castrating pigs. 
This is particularly baffling given how many of america’s founders would today be ostracized as elites. george washington was a multimillionaire with an 8,000-acre farm. Thomas Jefferson was a polyglot who graduated from william and mary and founded the university of virginia. and don’t even get me started on benjamin Franklin! 
The harrison bergerons of history built this country and this world. These so-called “elites” deserve our praise, not our scorn. hopefully one day we’ll live in a world where the brightest minds of the day are held in the same high regard as their athletic counterparts on the gridiron. and no one will point and sneer, “elitists.” 
Stephen Raab is a junior studying chemical engineering.  He resides in Alumni Hall and welcomes discourse at  sraab@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



Quarter-life crisis 
Erin Thomassen 
The examined life 

new year’s day sales were great. being called “ma’am” was not. 
The beaming employee in macy’s meant no harm. That made it worse. she thought she was being polite, that she might get a gold star from her manager. she didn’t realize that when she was ‘ma’aming’ me, she was maiming me. i’m being a smidge dramatic, but i can’t help it: i’m in the mid­dle of a quarter-life crisis. 
i used to be a miss. i never minded hearing, “miss Thomassen is an exquisite being” or, “why can’t you be more like miss Thomassen?” (The sen­tence choice was arbitrary.) 
i do not like hearing, “can i help you, ma’am?” when i am trying to browse. i want to be left alone in peace to stroke the silky scarves. later, i will need a changing room to try on five dresses and buy none of them. For now, i would like to be left alone to enjoy my thread therapy session. 
one might ask: “why did you, miss erin Thomassen, need therapy?” i will answer nicely because one called me miss. well, it was new years day, and i realized that in 178 days i would turn 
20. i would enter the roaring 20s, the i’m-roaring­because-i’m-not-a-teenager-anymore 20s. i like being a teenager. 
Twenty times four is 80. i can do math, yay. i can also compare this number to 78.7, the average u.s. life expectancy in 2011. oh wait, i already passed the quarter mark. pro: that excuses last year’s moodiness. con: that means i’m closer to death than i thought. 
maybe i will live past 80. maybe i will die tomor­row. maybe i have high cholesterol. must purchase cheerios. cannot pick flavor. darn the more than a dozen delicious varieties. multigrain vs. ancient grain? Frosted vs. fruity? i JusT need normal cheerios now beFore my cholesTerol kills me. 
if i can’t choose and crunch cheerios in my mouth, i might as well crunch them with my feet. i was about to rip the boxes off the aisles and stomp on them when i remembered: general mills made up high cholesterol to sell more cheerios. i swiv­eled away from buzz the honeybee and snagged the box[es] of krave instead. i pat myself on the back for my healthy decision, which is harder than it looks, especially while balancing three cereal boxes between my other arm and knee. stop laugh­ing at my short arms. 
speaking of arms, i should probably take this quarter-life crisis as a reminder to take better care of my body. it may have to last me a long time. it would be nice to have teeth left at 60 and my original hips at 65. as a teenager, i pound on the pavement day after day thinking my knees are in­destructible. what’s a little holy half? my joints are crying and i ignore them, shout at them and tell them to push through. i am a mean coach. 
changing my habits and respecting my body more would be smart. it would turn my fear of old age into a positive opportunity. hmmm, what else could i do? 
i could ponder death deeply and write about it. That’s never been done before. 
i could ask god to increase my faith in his prom­ise of eternal life. i could stop worrying and put my energy toward being a good and faithful servant instead. That would be a good thing to do. 
i could realize that my fear of death implies that i love life. i love sipping mint tea and stretching to classical music. i love the downward dog and my dog at home. i love swinging until my butt hurts, reading until my eyes hurt. 
i love sweet potatoes. 
heaven may not have sweet potatoes. i panic momentarily. Then i remember: heaven will have sweeter things to offer, like pure love in the form of god. That may trump an entire day’s dose of vitamin a. 
The day i die will actually be an amazing day. “miss erin!” one may remind me, “it may not be a day since you may no longer be in the dimension of time.” Thanks, one. i can always count on him to spot holes in my logic and socks. 
anyways, back to before one interrupted me: i am not looking forward to being laid in a coffin, but i suppose i am looking forward to heaven. wait, what am i saying? of course i’m looking forward to heaven. 
i may not have mint tea, or even my oatmeal and shea butter hand lotion, but i will not need or miss it. The god-shaped hole in my heart will be full, and i will scoff at the days when i yearned for youth, to be mistaken for a miss. “aren’t you better off now?” i will ask myself. “yes ma’am,” one will reply. i won’t even smack one, for hitting isn’t al­lowed in heaven. There will be greater joys. 
Erin Thomassen is a sophomore studying mechanical engineering. Send her comments or questions about her sanity at ethomass@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Three minutes to midnight 
“The leaders of nations cannot become complacent, but rather should renew their commitment to disar­mament and to the banishment of all nuclear weap­ons.” — pope John paul ii 
nuclear weapons. 

we read about them in the news, scrawled next to ominous phrases like “mutually-assured destruc­tion” or squeezed into headlines alongside the names of distant countries like iran, russia or north korea. we hear their name spoken by crisp news anchors on television, by psychopathic villains in movies and sometimes by our own notre dame professors during political science lectures. 
we interact with nuclear weapons on this some­what detached level, and for the majority of us, that is where the interactions end. we turn off the television, leave the movie theater and exit the classroom, and we likely don’t think about nuclear weapons for the rest of the day. 
“every man, woman and child lives under a nuclear sword of damocles, hanging by the slenderest of threads, capable of being cut at any moment by ac­cident or miscalculation or by madness.” — president John F. kennedy 
in 1983, soviet colonel stanislav petrov noticed five blips on his radar, which appeared to be american missiles. Fortunately, there was a protocol for such situations: launch a massive retaliatory strike. petrov made the decision to ignore protocol, and quite prob­ably saved hundreds of millions of lives. his heroism is the subject of “The man who saved the world,” a new film which will be shown as part of the kroc institute’s annual screenpeace event this saturday at 
6:30 pm in dpac (free, but ticketed). other films in­clude “return to homs, chronicling the struggles of a soccer player-turned-insurgent during the syrian civil war, and “The missing picture,” following an artist as she recreates history lost during the khmer rouge’s tyranny in cambodia. 
“as a nuclear power — as the only nuclear power to have used a nuclear weapon — the united states has a moral responsibility to act.” — president barack obama 
as a student of physics, i believe science should be used for good, for the betterment of all mankind. nuclear weapons are a perversion of science. even if they deter conflict, they do so by keeping the entire world in a state of perpetual fear — or those who know enough to care. in america, we have the luxury to forget about this threat, but our brothers and sisters in india and pakistan, for example, cannot. This is the difficulty in recognizing the risk posed by these weapons: the harm their existence causes is psycho­logical, not physical. but as i know well, just because a problem is largely psychological, that does not make it any less legitimate. nuclear weapons divert trillions of dollars worldwide from causes which could build up, rather than threaten, our human family. 
“i think the world invented a nuclear weapon. i think the world owes it to itself to see if it can’t invent something to make it irrelevant.” — leo mcgarry (John spencer) 
nuclear weapons are an economics problem. They are a physics problem, a medical problem and a psy­chology problem. They are a political problem and a theological problem, and above all, they are now our problem. but we are moving in the right direc­tion — negotiations over iran’s nuclear program are progressing, and we need to help maintain that mo­mentum. The nuclear question can render us cynical, doubtful of others’ motives. but we as engaged stu­dents have the ability to work towards eliminating the nuclear question altogether, one step at a time. 
“never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, com­mitted citizens can change the world; indeed, it’s the only thing that ever has.” — margaret mead 
Brandon Roach 
campus outreach coordinator 
Tess Rinaldo 
president 
Brenna Gautam 
social media coordinator 
Megan McCormick 
advocacy coordinator 
Ralph Price 
advocacy coordinator global Zero: notre dame Feb. 1 



By KELLY McGARRY 
scene writer 

based on the number of people who watch the super bowl, typically upwards of 100 million, there’s no way that everyone tuning in is a football fan. i’m not ashamed to admit it, we’re here for the commercials. This year, i planned all bathroom breaks and snack runs accord­ingly, to be sure i didn’t miss a second of the real action. which brands were on their commercial game this year? 
Super Stars 

snickers: in my opinion, snickers made the best cast­ing decisions. Their commercial starred danny Trejo (“sons of anarchy”) as marsha brady and steve buscemi (“Fargo”) as Jan in a play on “The brady bunch.” 
bmw: Today show co-hosts katie couric and bryant gumbel were featured in a nostalgic clip from the 90s, asking “what is the internet?” aside from featuring big names, this was a commercial that really made you think. 
other celebrity appearances included kim k for T-mobile, mindy kaling for nationwide, snoop dogg for eat24 and bryan cranston (“breaking bad”) for esurance. esurance also featured lindsay lohan — if you still consider her a celebrity. 
Sexy Sellers 

some of the least-sexy products imaginable really went 
By HANNAH ECKSTEIN 
scene writer 

with sunday’s super bowl excitement, it was easy to forget that groundhog day fell on monday. unfortunately, the shadow of last night’s game wasn’t the only shadow that punxsutawney phil faced this week. 
early monday morning, thousands gathered in punxsutawney, pennsylvania, to get a look at the furry meteorologist and see his predictions for the next six weeks’ forecast. 
around 7:25 a.m., phil awoke to thousands of spectators eagerly waiting his forecast. his reac­tion? avoid the thousands of onlookers and sub-ze­ro temperatures to head back to bed. This decision would seem rational with or without the presence of a shadow. whether influenced by his shadow or not, phil’s decision was clear — six more weeks of KERI O’MARA | The Observer 
all-out in this category. carl’s Jr. advertised “all-natural” with a model that preferred to go naked and kate upton served as poster girl for game of war, a cheesy app store game. here’s to ironic advertising. 
Tearjerkers 

nationwide: is there a penalty for pulling heartstrings? The ref should have thrown a flag at this depressing ad that featured child deaths by poison, a car crash and a falling Tv. The fact that it’s an insurance company isn’t comforting, unless you’re looking to cash out on the death of a child. To say the least, this dark commercial didn’t exactly pump up my super bowl party. 
coca-cola: This was another dark one, a modern twist on the 70s “i’d like to give the world a coke” ads, it ref­erenced cyber-bullying. but alas, a splash of coke on the computer led to a happy ending. cute? 
budweiser: no one could help but fall in love with the adorable pup who finds his way back home to his best bud. 
godaddy: This leads me to the winner for most contro­versial, a parody of the adorable budweiser commercial, the lovable puppy finds his way back home, only to find that his owner has used godaddy to sell him. The pre­release received such an inflammatory response that godaddy ended up pulling the commercial, so it never actually aired during the super bowl. 
always: inspirational advertisements were a theme this year. always aired a cut version of a video that went 
winter. 

if you’re currently in denial at the thought of six more weeks of snow and thinking “where did this crazy tradition come from? who let the groundhog decide?” you’re not alone. however, with an 80 per­cent accuracy rating according to accuweather and a long history of prognosticating, there is evidence that phil might be more than just a bashful, lazy groundhog. 
The groundhog day tradition stems from a germanic tradition called candlemas. in this germanic tradition, a hedgehog would predict the weather for the coming months. however, accord­ing to national geographic, when german immi­grants came to pennsylvania, they were unable to find hedgehogs and opted for the next best thing 
— groundhogs. 

The timing of candlemas also favored using a groundhog to predict the weather. according to nat viral earlier this year about what it means to run like a girl, throw like a girl and fight like a girl. a call to action to increase girls’ self-esteems, the ad was appropriate for the feminine product. 
dove, Toyota, nissan and microsoft all fell into the emotional range, as well. 
Favorites 
mophie: you know a commercial is big-budget when it could pass as a movie trailer. in this clever ad that par­ticularly resonates with notre dame, god’s dead smart­phone battery causes the apocalypse. 
bud light: i may not be up for “anything,” but i’d defi­nitely be up for some real life pac-man. i may have en­joyed this one purely because it realized my wildest fantasy. 
squarespace: i present my personal favorite. don’t know what squarespace is? neither did i. i still really don’t. what i do know is that they advertised Jeff bridge’s “sleeping Tapes” (found at dreamingwithjeff.com). anyone offering me to be lulled to sleep by the soothing voice of “The dude” is a friend of mine. 
i think the public is past our screaming goat phase, and they don’t really pass for a commercial. however, i did enjoy clever, hilarious advertising by avocados from mexico portraying the first draft ever, Terry crews’s old spice and a cute simple ad from doritos. 
Contact Kelly McGarry at kmcgarry@nd.edu 
geo, groundhogs typically emerge from hiberna­tion during February to look for mates in the spring. after the males and females have paired off, they return to hibernation for a few more weeks. 
since this hibernation hiatus occurs at the beginning of February, it is theorized that the pennsylvania dutch saw many groundhogs and chose them as the hedgehog replacement. 
despite the uncertainty behind the history of groundhog day, phil’s decision seems to be indis­putable, at least to those in punxsutawney. whether you believe that phil really saw his shadow, was sim­ply looking for a lady groundhog or was just avoid­ing all those eager onlookers, something made him jump back into his climate-controlled, man-made burrow. and you know what that means, six more weeks of winter. Thanks a lot phil. 
Contact Hannah Eckstein at heckste1@nd.edu 



By KELLY KONYA and REBECCA O’NEIL 
scene writers 

what is it about documentaries that make them so appealing? is it our desire as human beings to want the truth and only the truth? 
when truth is transmogrified by directorial choices, artistic intent and finite filming opportunities, does the “production” of a film blur its accuracy, its “whole story”? 
The 26th annual notre dame student Film Festival, hosted in debartolo performing arts center this past weekend, gave visual evidence of this desire for truth. The festival’s highest quality films came from a genre typically known for being solely informational, perhaps to the point of being dry: documentaries. 
The genre shed its dateline-esque recipe long ago with films like “march of the penguins” and “super size me.” a documentary’s selected scenes, respective transitions (assisted in some cases by morgan Freeman) and the soundtrack take the chaos of the everyday and hone in on a message. documentaries feed into our problematic voyeuristic tendencies while simultaneously informing or entertaining us with issues common to the collective consciousness of a variety of viewers. 
somehow, documentaries seem to come off to viewers as “more important.” it’s as though their instructional value or conjuration of empathy are inherently more se­ductive and persuasive than an imagined fictional film. 
at this year’s festival, for instance, there were three documentaries that outshone the rest. with three very different subjects — a woman with als, a nine-year-old cross-country cyclist and a local after-school program 
— the films managed to incite tears of compassion, grief and laughter. The authenticity portrayed by the direc­tors and experienced by the audience was a far cry from the expected emotions of horror or cursory intrigue. 
as we watched “much ado after school,” a documen­tary by brian lach and nicole sganga on the robinson community learning center’s shakespeare program and the recipient of this year’s audience choice award, a friend leaned over and said, “This is so realistic.” 
we couldn’t help but fall into a quiet cackle-fit, lin­gering in our ill-timed brouhaha to the dismay of those seated around us. 
“That’s the thing, it’s a documentary. it’s real,” i (rebecca) whispered in reply once our giggling subsided. 
The film is non-fiction. it’s description in the festi­val’s pamphlet read: “an ambitious afterschool pro­gram brings out the inner bard in a south bend group of students.” 
say south bend wasn’t where we went to school, say it was as arbitrary as springfield in The simpsons. say the story of south bend native brian lebron-williams, who he is as a person, was entirely made-up. 
yet, brian exists in the same world we do. not only does he exist, but he and his beloved supporters and fans at the robinson center are only two blocks away from the southern tip of notre dame’s campus. 
The directors of the documentary, therefore, manip­ulated the story to achieve an impressive universality where viewers, like our friend, cannot discern the theo­retical hero from the tangible one right down the road. The film could’ve taken place anywhere, but can a pro­gram in south bend faithfully stand-in for everywhere? and should it? 
“eat ride sleep,” directed and produced by mikey nichols and lauren Josephson, was another outstand­ing favorite of the festival. The documentary’s sequence of shots portrayed 9-year old cross-country biker cJ burford on the road. however, instead of only includ­ing the channel 4 news interviews that were broadcast nationwide, the directors chose to also reveal cJ as an everyday hero — hilarious and imperfectly perfect. The film flashes between actual news coverage of cJ, the motivated cyclist inspired by god, and cJ as “a real boy,” who has not reached double digits and must be home-schooled during breaks. 
coverage of his good-natured family, who followed behind cJ in a rented rv, was limited on channel 4’s re­ports, but the documentary’s inclusion of familial inter­actions enriched the experience. 
another hilarious detail left out from local news re­ports was cJ’s journal he kept throughout the duration of his trip, from which his mother read his angst aloud. cJ sat coyly as she read forth a lot of “i hate —”s followed by parental units or anything that required hard work except biking.“i love biking.” it was clear what made him happy. 
he also wrote in the same journal that his mom is awesome, perhaps the coolest ever. “well, which is it?,” mrs. burford asked. “a mix,” cJ answered. dpac’s audi­ence at Friday night’s 6:30 showing erupted. 
it’s this combination of classic journalism and slice­of-life hilarities that make cJ’s story all the more mem­orable. and it’s relatability that make this young boy a hero and make him matter — he’s just a kid, but he’s also larger-than-life. documentaries can make humans into super-humans. but does it matter that the films only fea­ture one aspect of a subject? who will cJ be in 10 years? 
“curry & erin,” moved in a very different direction. The film’s directors, eric o’donnell and maureen gavin, traveled to nashville to tell the story of artist and als patient erin brady worsham. while there, the story tell­ers changed their angle mid-trip. erin’s husband, curry, was a bass singer in the “indian river boys” quartet, even opening for Joan rivers. now, he’s spent the last 20 years taking care of his wife. The two had been married 20 years before erin was diagnosed with the debilitating disease. 
The documentary’s transitions were paired with light music. erin told the story (with subtitles) of how her hus­band had “sacrificed” so much for her. she wondered aloud in a voice much like stephen hawking’s comput­erized utters how she could ever repay him except by loving him. 
as she answers deeper and deeper questions about her relationship with curry, he remains out of the pic­ture. The interviewer poses a question, she answers and then the following scene curry asks erin where he should place the roses in their garden. “next to the peo­nies? no? oh, over there,” when erin, of course, cannot gesticulate in any direction. his love, and ability to un­derstand, is transcending and heroic. 
documentaries like these are the ones that have lasting effects on the human spirit. They are not the story of kate hudson-winslet-upton and ryan gosling­reynolds-pitt, pre-scripted and with a mandated happy-ending. 
in fact, last year’s film festival featured quite the opposite. 
“The suicide disease” produced by now-alums katie mattie, vincent moore and william neal, wrecked our souls. watching the story of former nd chief-of-staff Frances shavers’ struggle with Trigeminal neuralgia was overwhelming. it was one of those stories that stays with you, resting in your back pocket to grab when discussing life-altering films or inspirational medical battles. we bring it up from time to time, and it was no surprise when the film won honors at l.a.’s sunset Film Festival. 
it can’t be forgotten that documentaries can perform under the guise of truth, fitting into a manufactured and thereby fictive category just like any other film. but the stories of erin and curry, of cJ and family, of brian from the robinson center are real. The messages told in these films are not as explicit as “super size me’s” big reveal: “mcdonalds makes you fat,” “americans are obese,” etc. documentaries become art when you are allowed to deduce what you will from the story. The film is not just informational, it’s thought provoking and emo­tion evoking and therefore, far more powerful than the rom-coms and horror flicks that dominate the box office today. 
after all, any story that is retold is altered from its orig­inal form. 
as writers for The observer, we are considered college journalists. but journalism in itself has become a mud­died, carefully constructed form of reportage. as our hero hunter s. Thompson once said, “absolute truth is a very rare and dangerous commodity in the context of professional journalism.” 
Truth does not equal accuracy, and confronting this reality can leave one feeling unfairly manipulated or mousetrapped. 
Just like journalism, documentaries — defined by the oed as “factual” and “realistic” — are wielded by their producers to elicit a specific response from viewers. The achievement of a good documentary is its memorable story, which can only be attributed to its good storyteller. 
Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya01@saintmarys.edu and Rebecca O’Neil at roneil01@nd.edu 
KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Making sense of wide-open NBA 
Marek Mazurek 
sports writer 
don’t look now, but this is the most wide open year the nba has had in a long time. gone are the days when lebron and the heat were all but guaranteed to make the Finals and the only ones to stop them were the Thunder or the spurs. lebron’s cavaliers are not far over .500, Father Time continues to ravage the spurs lineup and oklahoma city is cur­rently out of the playoff picture. 
as i write this column, the atlanta hawks, of all teams, have the nba’s best record and the golden state warriors, with first-year coach steve kerr, lead the western conference by three games. with many preseason favorites struggling, here are my predictions for some of the nba’s more interesting teams. 
Atlanta Hawks 
The hawks are currently first in the eastern conference, but how far will they go in the play­offs? The hawks are lacking in quality playoff experience and have an unproven head coach in mike budenholzer. They have a good one-two punch inside with paul milsap and al horford and the nba’s best 3-point shooter in kyle korver. The hawks’ bench in solid and they play team bas­ketball better than anyone in the league. yet will all that be good enough against the depth and playoff experience of teams like chicago or cleveland? i say no 
— the hawks will only make it to the second round of the playoffs. 
Toronto Raptors 
The raptors are currently sev­en games behind the hawks in the east, and their playoff fate will be closely linked to their seed. if they fall any further, they will have to play either chicago, washington or cleveland in the first round of the playoffs and a victory will be far from a given. Therefore, Toronto’s top pri­ority for the rest of the season needs to be to maintain its sec­ond seed. i like point guard kyle lowry’s toughness and Jonas valanciunas gives them a reliable post threat, but against more complete teams, i think they will struggle. 
Chicago Bulls 
The bulls came into the sea­son as a favorite to make it to the eastern conference finals. halfway through the year, that outcome is still highly probable. yes, the bulls are currently fourth in the conference behind atlanta, Toronto and washington, but they are only three games be­hind Toronto. additionally, the bulls are the only contender in the east with meaningful playoff experience. The core of chicago’s roster has been to the eastern conference finals and pau gasol won championships with the lakers. Finally, the bulls have the best coach in the east in Tom Thibodeau. Thibodeau knows how to get the most from his players and win long playoff series, whereas the rest of the coaches in the east still need to figure that out. 
Cleveland Cavaliers 
ah, lebron. The cavs have been playing well since king James came back from his in­jury, and they will be a force to be reckoned with in the playoffs. simply put, cleveland will be fine 
— it has the best player on the planet and that alone guaran­tees the cavs the second round. once they are in the second round, their fate depends large­ly on who they play. chicago’s tall, deep front court will give them trouble, but they should be able to win a hard-fought series against washington, Toronto or atlanta. This season will make or break lebron’s decision to leave cleveland (again) or not. 
Golden State Warriors 
The warriors are currently leading the western conference, and it seems likely they will rep­resent the west in the nba finals. The warriors have too much talent in stephen curry, klay Thompson and andrew bogut to lose to anyone else. The spurs are too old, the Thunder aren’t healthy and memphis hasn’t im­proved its lineup enough to be a serious contender in my book. The only problem i see with the warriors is that they rely heavily on the fast break. in the playoffs, breakaways are less common and golden state could be beat­en in a seven-game series if it is forced to play half-court offense. 
Memphis Grizzlies 
The only other team in the west to watch is memphis. The grizzlies are currently only three games behind the warriors, and if they grab home-court advan­tage, things could get interesting. memphis has arguably the best front court in the nba with Zach randolph and marc gasol as well as the core of the team that went to the western conference finals two years ago. memphis’ tough­ness could cause golden state problems should the squads face each other in the playoffs, and though steve kerr has done a great job for golden state, it is not certain that he will continue to perform at a high level in the playoffs. watch out for memphis. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu. The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

Boston postpones Super Bowl parade after snow 
Associated Press 

bosTon — The super bowl celebration for new englanders and their beloved patriots will have to wait another day as boston continues to get bat­tered by heavy snow. 
mayor marty walsh said the city will postpone a planned victory parade through down­town until wednesday. 
he said the city and team both agreed to hold off on the parade because of monday’s snowstorm, which dumped more than a foot of fresh snow in the boston area, making commutes treacherous. 
“we thank everyone for their flexibility and patience during the planning of this parade and we look forward to celebrating with patriots fans during better weather on wednesday,” walsh said in a joint statement with the team. 
The city had announced earlier that the parade would take place Tuesday. but with weather continuing to worsen, boston public schools preemp­tively canceled Tuesday class­es, the fifth snow day in the past week. a decision to cancel the parade followed shortly after. 
boston has seen a record 
34.2 inches of snow over seven days, according to the national weather service. The previ­ous seven-day record was 31.2 inches in January 1996. 
Following their 28-24 vic­tory over the defending cham­pion seattle seahawks in arizona, the patriots flew back to massachusetts as scores of flights in and out of boston’s 
logan  international  airport  
were  canceled  or  delayed  
monday.  

The latest snowstorm didn’t stop new englanders from basking in the glow of their team’s fourth super bowl victory. 
Todd penney, of coventry, connecticut, was still recover­ing from a heady night of cele­brating as he prepared for work monday morning as a town engineer. 
“my voice is very hoarse from screaming at the Tv. i was all in last night,” he said. “it will be a lot more fun for me to snow-blow this morning after the patriots’ win than if they would have lost, that’s for sure.” 
other fans recounted tense moments from the rollercoast­er victory. 
“it was an exciting game, a nail-biter to the end. you don’t get to see games like that very often,” said george vemis, as he cleared the sidewalk in front of his variety store in whitman, south of boston. 
cheryl happeny, a business analyst from whitman, said the victory is especially satis­fying because so many people outside of new england have been calling the team cheat­ers since the scandal over un­derinflated footballs in the patriots’ winning game over the indianapolis colts erupted. 
“it was a sweet victory,” she said. “i don’t think it will quiet the critics. i’m waiting for it to heat up again. everyone hates the patriots because we’re breaking so many records. ...we’re like the yankees of the nFl.” 
at the modell’s sporting goods in cambridge, devoted fans trickled in monday morn­ing as thick fluffy clumps of snow fell, grabbing commemo­rative T-shirts and hats by the armful. 
“it’s an early valentine’s gift. i’m treating,” said karen rudgis of cambridge, who was buying shirts for her husband and two grown children. 
mike kelley, who works next door at staples, was buying T-shirts and hats for his daugh­ter, brother-in-law and himself. “it’s an expensive day today,” he said. “i’ve already spent $100, and i’m already planning to spend $100 more.” 
modell’s employees said the biggest sellers so far were the white super bowl champion baseball caps the team wore sunday for the locker room celebration. 
“it’d be a lot different if there wasn’t a blizzard right now. later tonight, i would think, it would get busy,” said Jennifer walcott, who had been among a number of staffers brought in from the store’s hamden, connecticut, location to help open up the cambridge store promptly at 6 a.m. monday. 
From boston to western massachusetts, police reported that patriots fans celebrated raucously but without mayhem late sunday and into monday. 
in boston, where schools were closed but subways were running monday, walsh held court in city hall, reflecting on sunday’s win and sketching out the upcoming celebration. 
The championship parade, now scheduled to start at 11 
a.m. wednesday, will begin at the hynes convention center. a fleet of 25 amphibious “duck boats” resembling those used during world war ii — a staple of championship parades in boston — will carry the team along boylston street, past the common and onto city hall. 
“we’ll make sure the duck boats get through the snow,” walsh said. “we’ll probably have plows in front of them, be­hind them, beside then, next to them, under them.” 
NFL 

Colts sign Duron Carter, son of Hall of Fame WR 
Associated Press 

indianapolis — The colts have made their first big offseason splash, sign­ing former cFl receiver duron carter. 
Terms of the deal were not announced monday, but the 6-foot-5, 205-pound receiv­er was considered one of the top talents coming out of canada this year. he is the son of hall of Fame re­ceiver cris carter. 
with veterans reggie wayne and hakeem nicks both set to become free agents next month, indianapolis needed to re­inforce its receiving corps. 
adding carter could help. 
he started his college ca­reer at ohio state, then went to a junior college before transferring to alabama in 2011 and Florida atlantic in 2012. in two seasons with montreal in the cFl, carter had 124 receptions, 1,939 yards and 12 touchdowns. he was selected a cFl all-star in 2014. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 



NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL | virginia 75, norTh carolina 64 NBA | pelicans 115, hawks 100; cavaliers 97, 76ers 84 
Cavaliers make second-half surge to beat Tar Heels 
Associated Press 
chapel hill, north carolina — malcolm brogdon scored 17 points and no. 3 virginia’s defense locked down in the second half to beat no. 12 north carolina 75-64 on monday night. 
Justin anderson added 16 for the cavaliers (20-1, 8-1 atlantic coast conference), who responded to their first loss of the season by blowing open a tight game at half­time for an impressive road win. 
coming off saturday’s loss to duke in one of the pro­gram’s biggest home games in years, virginia erased a 33-32 halftime deficit by shooting 50 percent while holding the Tar heels (17-6, 7-3) completely in check to build an 18-point lead and improve to 8-0 in true road games this year. 
after shooting 52 percent in the first half, unc went just 11-for-29 (38 percent) after halftime while pre­season acc player of the year marcus paige strug­gled for open looks against brogdon’s constant defen­sive harassment. 
paige finished with 15 on 5-for-10 shooting, though a good chunk of that produc­tion came after virginia had built its big lead and unc was in desperation-comeback 

NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | duke 66, louisville 58 
mode late. 
brice Johnson added 14 points for unc, but fellow starter J.p. Tokoto managed 
just  one  point  on  0-for-3  
shooting.  
worse  for  the  Tar  heels,  

they were unable to speed up the confident cavaliers and turn it into an open-court game. unc managed just two fast-break points, the lone basket not coming until the 1:53 mark of the game. 
if there were any questions about how virginia would respond after the duke loss, this was a convincing an­swer that the cavaliers aren’t easily shaken as they go for a second straight acc title. 
Pelicans end Hawks’ win streak 
Associated Press 
new orleans  — The atlanta hawks’ franchise-record 19-game win­ning streak was snapped monday night in a 115-100 
loss  to the  new  orleans  
pelicans.  
anthony  davis  had  29  

points and 13 rebounds to help new orleans win for the sixth time in seven games, a stint which in­cludes victories over sev­eral contending squads including dallas and the los angeles clippers. 
Jeff Teague scored 21 for atlanta, but the hawks fell behind by double digits in the first quarter and failed to even tie it. 
eric gordon scored 20 stint with the club. The cavs had trouble putting away the young sixers, who did all they could to stay close but don’t have the firepower to keep up with irving, James and one of the nba’s hottest teams. 
atlanta entered the week on a 19-game win streak. 
kevin love added 15 rebounds and matthew dellavedova made three clutch 3-pointers in the fourth quarter to help the cavs hold on. 
Jerami grant and robert covington scored 18 apiece for the sixers, who beat the cavs last month when cleveland was in disarray. 
The cavs’ biggest oppo­nent may have been bore­dom as they played listlessly for long stretches. cleveland built a 20-point lead in the third quarter, but the sixers wouldn’t go away, outscor­ing the cavs 26-10 to close the period and getting a quick bucket in the fourth to pull to 69-67. 
irving briefly restored or­der with a pair of 3-point­ers to put the cavs ahead by 10, but the sixers rallied again and closed to 80-77 on covington’s 3. 
irving, selected the eastern conference play­er of the week earlier in the day, then scored six of cleveland’s next eight points and dellavedova dropped his second 3 of the period, giving the cavs a 91-83 lead with 2:36 left. his final 3 made it 96-83, ending any thoughts of a philadelphia upset. 
Things have changed dra­matically for the cavs since the last time they faced the sixers. 
on Jan. 5, cleveland lost at philadelphia without irving and James, who were both out with injuries. The sixers won 95-92, getting their first home victory, and that night the cavs traded dion waiters to oklahoma city while getting both J.r. smith and iman shumpert from the new york knicks. 
The cavs seemed disinter­ested throughout the first half. They were off target on several lob passes and out of sync following a tough week in which they played four games in five nights. 

Stevens leads Duke in upset over Louisville 
Associated Press 
durham, north carolina — azura stevens scored 17 points and no. 15 duke beat eighth-
ranked  louisville  66-58  on  
monday night.  
elizabeth  williams  had  11  

points and blocked five shots, while oderah chidom added 14 points to help the blue devils (16­6, 7-2 atlantic coast conference) win their third straight. 
rebecca greenwell added 13 points with three 3-pointers in the second half. 
The blue devils overcame 22 turnovers by shooting 47 percent, forcing the cardinals (19-3, 7-2) into two prolonged shooting droughts, and holding a 43-35 re­bounding advantage. 
They earned their second vic­tory over a top-10 opponent after previously beating then-no. 8 kentucky 89-68 on dec. 21. 
sara hammond scored 17 points and mariya moore had 14 for the cardinals, who shot 35 percent. 
duke never trailed and went up by 17 before louisville chipped away at that lead, pulling to 56-49 on bria smith’s layup with about 4 minutes to play. The cardinals didn’t score on any of their next seven possessions before Jude schimmel’s 3 made it 62-52 with 
27.7 seconds remaining. 
schimmel, who added another 3 with 2 seconds left, finished with 11 points. 
ka’lia Johnson scored 11 points for duke, which used a 19-4 run that started in the first half and ended early in the second to push its lead well into double figures. 
stevens started it with consec­utive layups, greenwell hit two 3s early in the second half and williams closed the burst with five straight points, capped by a layup that made it 40-23 with just under 15 minutes left. 


paid adverTisemenT 
points for new orleans, while Tyreke evans scored 15 points and tied a season high with 12 assists for the fourth time in five games. 
paul millsap had 15 points and kyle korver 12 for the hawks, who made only seven of 22 3-point attempts. 
Cavaliers 97, 76ers 84 
cleveland — kyrie irving scored 24 points, lebron James added 18 points and 11 assists, and the cleveland cavaliers staggered to their 11th straight win, 97-84 over the philadelphia 76ers on monday night. 
The winning streak is cleveland’s longest since reeling off 13 in a row — a franchise record — in 2010, the last season of James’ first 



The observer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

WOMEN’S SWIMMING | shamrock inviTaTional 
irish set five pool records on senior day 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
notre dame recorded 17 wins and broke five pool records at rolfs aquatic center Friday and saturday, as the irish conquered both incarnate word and iowa in the shamrock invitational. 
The irish (6-9) defeated the cardinals by a score of 292­62 and the hawkeyes, 282.5­87.5, while the team’s eight seniors were also honored for senior day. 
senior all-american emma reaney lowered her own pool records in the 200-yard individual medley and the 200-yard breaststroke, while junior catherine galletti broke the pool record in the 100-yard butterfly. reaney and galetti also teamed up with sophomore catherine mulquin and senior courtney white to break the pool re­cord in both the 200-yard and 400-yard medley relays. The irish added wins in 12 other events, including two diving victories for senior allison casareto and wins in the 200-yard, 400-yard and 800-yard freestyle relays. 
irish interim coach Tim welsh said the team’s perfor­mance was not at all surpris­ing to him. 
“we had a great meet from start to finish,” welsh said. “The intensity and the focus all came from within, so it was all the team’s prepara­tion, their excitement, their enthusiasm. i think that the credit for how well they swam all goes to them. They did a great job of preparing and a great job of being ready to go. i’m really proud of them this weekend.” 
welsh also said the record-breaking times were a high­light of the event. 
“This pool is thirty years old, so if you set a pool record in this pool, that covers a lot of races,” welsh said. 
The other wins for the irish went to mulquin in the 50-yard and 100-yard free­style, reaney in the 100-yard breaststroke, galletti in the 100-yard backstroke, whyte in the 200-yard butterfly, sophomore elizabeth house in the 200-yard freestyle and sophomore katie miller in the 200-yard backstroke. The irish also claimed 11 ncaa ‘b’ cut times — four from reaney, two from mulquin and galletti and one each from whyte, senior bridget casey and freshman sherri mcintee. 



a ‘b’ cut time does not auto­matically qualify a swimmer for the ncaa championship, but it makes them eligible for invitational. 
welsh said he was especial­ly impressed by the perfor­mances of the senior class, which was honored saturday of the invitational. 
“senior day always adds excitement,” welsh said. “if you look at the seniors in par­ticular, they swam well, and a lot of time as they approach the end of their career, se­niors want to make sure they give it everything they’ve got and i think we saw that this weekend. 
“a lot of parents were here, and we love it when parents come. That always adds more excitement. i think the whole ambience of the meet with all the parents really adds to everyone’s enthusiasm.” 
welsh said that, despite the team’s success, there is still room for improvement in every event before the con­ference championships later this month, where the irish will face four ranked squads, including no. 5 north carolina, no. 9 virginia, no. 12 north carolina state and no. 18 louisville. 
“we want to improve at the acc championship,” welsh said. “This coming weekend is our last chance to prep for the conference meet. i think we want to be faster at ev­ery event than we were this weekend.” 
The irish next take to the pool saturday at noon, when they face cleveland state at rolfs aquatic center. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
W Tennis 
conTinued From page 16 
were close,” gleason said. “i think getting the doubles point was huge for us because michigan has a very strong doubles lineup.” 
Three singles matches went to a third set, and two sets went all the way to a tiebreaker. 
The road ahead does not get any easier for the irish, as they welcome no. 8 stanford on Friday. The cardinal are the second of three top-35 matchups for notre dame in a row. 
“This week, it will be im­portant for us to focus on the positives from the match with michigan,” gleason said. “stanford is an incred­ible team and i think we’re all really excited that we get the opportunity to play them, at home especially. 
“one advantage we have over stanford this weekend is that we’re playing indoors. on Friday it will be important to capitalize on the quickness of our indoor courts at the eck.” 
notre dame will wel­come stanford to eck Tennis pavilion at 5 p.m. Friday, as it looks to rebound in one of its final matches before acc play starts later this month. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 





W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
sent the irish on a 27-10 run. 
mcgraw opened her post-game press conference talk­ing about cable’s game, calling it “phenomenal” and noting in particular her de­fensive play. 
For cable, it was just an­other example of her being ready for anything. 
“it’s the same thing every game, they want me to go in and give some energy and be aggressive and help the team offensively and defensively, whatever i have to do,” cable said sunday. 
cable missed her fresh­man season due to stress fractures in both her feet. she returned her sophomore season to play in 34 games, starting three. as a junior she played in 37 games and posted her best season aver­ages yet, 5.5 points and 3.4 rebounds per game. 
This season, cable has played in every one of notre dame’s 23 games and start­ed five. she is averaging 20 minutes off the bench per game, making her one of the leading irish reserves. she also has totaled a team-best 39 steals and has scored 5.9 


Irish senior guard Madison Cable goes up for a layup during Notre Dame’s 92-63 win over Wake Forest on Sunday at Purcell Pavilion. 
points per game. 
cable has helped spear­head a potent bench that 
outscored  wake  Forest’s  
reserves, 34-7, on  sunday  
and  outmatched  boston  

college’s bench Jan. 11, 45-13. 
along with her goofy de­meanor, cable seriously knows how to lead, loyd said. cable, guard whitney holloway and forward markisha wright are notre dame’s only seniors. They have been around for three Final Four appearances and two shots at the national championship game.“well, we won, so i’m happy,” cable said. 
“being a senior, [cable] understands what it takes to go to a Final Four,” loyd said. “when she has to say stuff, she will, but she’s still goofy. she knows how to say something to everyone in the right way.” 
when asked how she felt about her strong individual performance against wake Forest, cable had just one thing to say. 
“well, we won, so i’m hap­py,” cable said. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at   szuba@nd.edu 

EMILY MCCONVIILLE | The Observer 



The observer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M Tennis 
conTinued From page 16 
win, the irish gained the a one-point lead heading into the no. 1 and no. 2 singles matches. The clinching win came from junior Quentin monaghan in the no. 1 slot, as he bounced back after losing the second set on a tiebreaker to secure the vic­tory for the irish. 
“all of the guys com­peted as well as they pos­sibly could considering the intense environment, and we’re all really proud of the effort,” sachire said. “we’ve done a good job winning the double point. it’s definitely a strength of the team. it’s a big momentum and energy boost not only for the crowd, but also the team, so the val­ue of winning double points extends far beyond the extra point.” 
after the irish had already taken the overall win, no. 82 hagar lost to the wildcats’ no. 108 kircheimer at the no. 2 singles slot. 
many of the recent irish matches have been decided by razor-thin margins, with all three of their wins com­ing by a 4-3 score. That, combined with some of their struggles in the sin­gles round, means the team needs to practice perform­ing under pressure in ex­tremely decisive matches, sachire said. 
“we need to get more con­sistent with [our] level of play in the big moment,” sachire said. “This season we’ve had plenty of chances to step up and assert our­selves and it hasn’t always worked out. we need to have confidence and trust in our ability to dictate and control play in crucial moments of the match. it’s all about be­ing in the right mindset.” 
moving forward, the irish will take on ball state on sunday at 10 a.m. at eck Tennis pavilion. 
Contact Christine Mayuga at  cmayug@nd.edu 
Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ ndsmcobserv­er 



paid adverTisemenT 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 

DOME NUTS | alexandria wellman SUDOKU | The mepham group 



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to: 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: don’t let the little things get to you. consider what you can do to get ahead and put your personal problems in perspective. you can use this year to take advantage of opportunities for yourself, or you can spin your wheels and complain about the prospects you let pass you by. Take control and make each day count. your numbers are 6, 13, 16, 23, 28, 36, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): put more effort into self-improvement. Trying to change what’s going on around you will not satisfy you. personal change is achievable, and can make the difference between finding happiness and feeling dissatisfied. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): your accomplishments will allow you to expand your options with regard to work and partnerships. a joint venture will turn out best if you share responsibilities equally. romance is in the stars and will contribute to making a promise you won’t regret. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): be careful not to offer too much to others. a problem with someone older in your life is likely to lead to added responsibilities. don’t let anyone take advantage of your kindness. greater focus on personal finances and investments will be necessary. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take what you enjoy doing most and turn it into a profitable pastime. a partnership will make it easier for you to achieve your goals. overspending will lead to conflict and stress. don’t let an emotional incident spin out of control. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): step it up a notch and make things happen. you have more control than you realize, and with a little added push, you can make the changes that will bring about greater happiness. keep moving past any relationship problems you face. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take a look at what you’ve accomplished and think about what you have left to do. don’t procrastinate when you should be taking the first step in a direction you know will satisfy you personally and professionally. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): keep close watch over the people who give you cause for concern. you have to monitor situations carefully, but refrain from meddling. your ideas are good, but forcing your will on others will not bring the results you are looking for. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Traveling a long distance will provide you with valuable information as well as supply you with the experience you need to bring about positive change in your personal life. romance will help to improve an important relationship. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): watch out for someone who is trying to derail your plans or hurt your reputation. it will be up to you to pull things together and make everything functional. property or investment will not be as it appears. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you’ll be tempted to overspend, overdo or overanalyze. put more into getting things done and less into pondering over where to begin. an old acquaintance or colleague will have something to offer. do your best to reconnect. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): dealing with a work-related matter is likely to spark a question that can make you look bad. be ready to support your actions with facts. keep a level head and refuse to be tempted to exaggerate in order to prove your point. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): The more dedicated and passionate you are, the better you will do personally and professionally. romance is highlighted and can bring about an interesting change in your personal life. express your true feelings. 

Birthday Baby: you are sensitive, devoted and very admirable. you are intelligent and thoughtful. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 

The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 
address 

city      state Zip 

FOOTBALL 
Hardy to play for Falcons 
Observer Staff Report 
Former irish safety eilar hardy announced monday he will con­tinue his college career at bowling green. 
“i will be headed to bowling green to play,” hardy tweeted mondayevening. 
notre dame granted hardy a release from his scholarship in January. 
The reynoldsburg, ohio, native was withheld from practice and competition during notre dame’s inquiry into “suspected academic dishonesty.” after not appearing in notre dame’s first eight games, hardy played in all five final games. The senior safety totaled nine tackles. 
hardy debuted in 2013, appear­ing in 10 games , with two starts. 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

‘Goofy’ but great 
McGraw praises Cable’s competitive nature coming off the bench 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
assitant managing editor 
when asked to describe senior guard madison cable, junior guard Jewell loyd laughed. 
“maddie is just so goofy,” loyd said after no. 4 notre dame’s 88-77 win over no. 6 Tennessee on Jan. 19. 
“That’s a good word for her,” sophomore forward Taya reimer chimed in. 
“she knows how to make everyone laugh, and she knows what to say at the right times,” loyd contin­ued. “she’s awesome.” 
goofy doesn’t capture it all though. after the win over Tennessee, irish coach muffet mcgraw praised the mt. lebanon, pennsylvania, native’s te­nacity. cable came off the bench in that game to tally six points, five rebounds, three assists and two steals in 22 minutes. 
“maddie is competitive,” mcgraw said. “i think she’s one of the most competitive people on the team. i mean, she is so feisty inside. she’s going to get a rebound, and she’s not going to let it go.” 
not only did cable post solid overall numbers, but she also kept coming up with important plays at the best times, mcgraw said. 
“she came up with a big steal late,” mcgraw said. “she had some big free throws. she was a big factor, i thought, in the win, espe­cially down the stretch.” 
in sunday’s 92-63 win over wake Forest, cable turned in what mcgraw called one of her best per­formances of the season. 
cable totaled 12 points, a game- and career-high six steals and three rebounds. along the way, she com­pleted a four-point play, a momentum-changing score late in the game that 
see w bball PAGE 13 


MEN’S TENNIS | nd 4, norThwesTern 3 
Pecor leads ND to victory with doubles, singles wins 
By CHRISTINE MAYUGA 
sports writer 
in yet another nail-bit­ingly close match, no. 14 notre dame topped no. 30 northwestern, 4-3, on Friday at eck Tennis pavilion. 
The win featured four in­dividual matches that went to third sets in singles, in addition to four sin­gles sets and one doubles match that were decided by tiebreakers. 

“i think it was a great match,” irish coach ryan sachire said. “northwestern is a top-notch team and we knew going in that it was going to be a very competi­tive one. we were fully pre­pared for it to be and it paid respectively. off.” it was the first time this 
The irish’s two top-season the two pairings ranked doubles pairs, no. have both won their dou­8 senior billy pecor and ju-bles matches. nior alex lawson and no. 9 in the no. 4 singles round, sophomores eddy covalschi junior eric schnurrenberger and Josh hagar delivered, dominated junior mihir defeating the duo of junior kumar, 6-4, 6-4, but a series Fedor baev and sopho-of close matches clinched more strong kirchheimer by the wildcats tied the and the pair of senior alex team score at 2. at the no. pasareanu and sopho-3 singles slot, covalschi lost more sam shropshire, to freshman logan staggs, while at the no. 6 singles slot, lawson fell behind after winning the first set on a tiebreaker, eventually losing to sophomore alp horoz. 

in the no. 5 slot, pecor continued his undefeated singles streak this sea­son, managing a 7-6 (8-6), 4-6, 7-5 victory over junior Fedor beav. with pecor’s 
see m Tennis PAGE 14 
WOMEN’S TENNIS | michigan 5, nd 2 
Irish loses first match to Michigan 
By HUNTER MCDANIEL 
sports writer 
sunday afternoon, no. 19 notre dame fell to visiting no. 15 michigan, 5-2, at eck Tennis pavilion, losing its first match of the season. 
Junior Quinn gleason said the irish (2-1) were disap­pointed to fall at home so early in the season, but also kept the loss in perspective. 
“we were definitely dis­appointed that we lost, but i think we’re all optimistic coming out of it, because michigan is a great team and we were right there,” gleason said. 
This clash of top-20 teams was the first of the season for the irish. The squad started strong in doubles, as the no. 16 duo of gleason and soph­omore monica robinson upset no. 10 senior emina bektas and freshman alex najarian, 6-4. 
The pairing of sopho­mores mary closs and Jane Fennelly also came up with a victory, giving notre dame 
the  doubles  point  of  the  
competition.  They  defeat­ 
ed freshman  mira  ruder- 

hook and sophomore annie 
wierda in the no. 3 doubles spot, 6-3. 
michigan (4-0) bounced back strong in the singles competition, however, as the wolverines won five of the six total matches. only Fennelly, competing at the no. 6 spot, came away with the win, defeating senior kristen dodge, 6-3, 6-2. 
“i was really proud of Jane Fennelly this weekend, as she won both her singles and doubles matches,” gleason said. “she has been working really hard, so i’m excited to see that her effort is really paying off. she’s a very solid [no. 6] singles player, and i’m confident she’ll have a great season.” 
other than Fennelly, how­ever, the rest of the irish struggled against a strong michigan squad. gleason fell to bektas, ranked 18th in country, at the no. 1 singles spot, robinson fell to no. 23 junior ronit yurovsky in the second slot and senior Julie vrabel lost to no. 38 sarah lee at no. 3. 
“while the score was 5-2, a lot of the singles matches 
see w Tennis PAGE 12 




