The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 39 | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Professor examines postwar Germany 
Lecturer explores representations of non-Jewish German evacuees during and after World War II 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
associate news editor 
dr. Jeffrey luppes, assis­tant professor of german at indiana university south bend (iusb), delivered a lec­ture wednesday afternoon titled “german wartime suffering and the holocaust in postwar memory.” The lecture was presented as part of the “germany’s confrontation with the holocaust in a global context” exhibition. 
at the end and after the conclusion of world war ii, the victorious allied powers forced approximately 12 mil­lion germans to leave their homelands in central and eastern europe and move to the territory that is now germany, luppes said. 
“in the events that have be­come known as flight and ex­pulsion, millions of germans were evacuated by order of the nazis or fled westward on their own accord before the war’s end and then were not allowed to return home,” he said. “large numbers were driven out by vengeful local partisans during the ‘wild’ expulsions in the late spring and early summer of 1945. innumerable others were forced to relocate as a result of border settlements and the population transfer decreed 
see holocausT PAGE 5 

CHRIS COLLINS | The Observer 
Jeffery Luppes, assistant professor of German at Indiana University South Bend, delivers a lecture in  DeBartolo Hall on German wartime suffering and the experiences of German evacuees after the war. 


campus ministry creates new retreat 
By JENNA WILSON 
news writer 
notre dame campus ministry will hold the first-ever freshman mini-retreat, called the Tender, strong and True retreat, on oct. 30, according to alex white, se­nior campus ministry intern for retreats, pilgrimages and spirituality. 
“This year, we are holding a freshman mini-retreat that will only be seven or eight hours long,” white said. “The hope of that was to have a more intensified retreat experience, giving the partici­pants the ability to feel like they can give time to the experience, while still allowing time for their studies.” 
white said the switch to a 
see reTreaT PAGE 4 



SMC supports LGBTQ youth 
By ALEX WINEGAR 
associate saint mary’s editor 
although saint mary’s colors are blue and white, students will don purple attire today in sup­port of spirit day, which raises awareness about bullied lgbTQ youth. 
senior courtney lamar, presi­dent of the student diversity club, said the saint mary’s com­munity hopes to demonstrate unity by wearing purple. 
“we work to support all identities on campus,” lamar said. “spirit day is particularly important because we want to uplift those who have been bul­lied and put down for being who they are.” 
senior angela bukur, student diversity club vice president, said wearing purple requires little effort but sends a powerful message. 
“This will help to show sup­port and spread awareness on campus,” she said. “since this is­sue isn’t talked about often, this is a start towards taking a stand against lgbTQ youth bullying. i believe that we must start small in order to eventually have it turn into a movement.” 
spirit day is especially impor­tant because lgbTQ youth are bullied at much higher rates than other students, bukur said. 
“74.1 percent of lgbTQ stu­dents are verbally harassed be­cause of their sexual identity, and 
55.2 percent are verbally harassed 
see lgbTQ PAGE 4 


Lawyer considers morality of death penalty 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer 
Two and a half hours after her lecture concluded, one of meg penrose’s clients was executed for killing a police officer. 
“Today is a somber day. it’s a difficult thing to talk about,” she said. “Tonight, as my client is executed, there are many people who will feel vindicated.” 
penrose, a professor of law at Texas a&m university and death penalty expert, spoke wednesday evening at eck hall of law about the moral debate surrounding death row, in a lecture titled “The death penalty, dignity and doing Justice.” 
“he’s been on suicide watch for about a month in his cell, and they keep him on cam­era watch, and they will take him to the place, and i pre­sume he’ll have his last meal and perhaps he’ll have discus­sions with people close to him, perhaps a spiritual advisor,” 
see JusTice PAGE 3 

CHRIS COLLINS | The Observer 
Meg Penrose, a professor at Texas A&M and Notre Dame law graduate, reflects on her experiences as a lawyer for people on death row at a lecture in Eck Hall of Law on Wednesday evening. 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 9 waking The echoes PAGE 16 women’s soccer PAGE 16 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                        Jack rooney                  cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green           Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


What is your favorite way to take a break from studying? 

Hamish Macfarlane 
freshman 
duncan hall 
“go for a run.” 

Kevin Dingens 
freshman 
morrissey hall 
“hang out in the morrissey common rooms.” 

Caroline McKay 
freshman 
ryan hall 
“look at pictures of my dog.” 



Lacey Silvestri 
sophomore 

welsh Family hall 
“watch ‘parks and rec’ on netflix.” 

Laura Eckert 
sophomore 

welsh Family hall 
“watch pentatonix cover-songs.” 

Dominic Rosa 
freshman 
dillon hall 
“go on yik yak.” 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
katie galioto alex carson Email news@ndsmcobserver.com rachel o’grady hunter mcdaniel kathryn marshall molly murphy 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
lucy du miko malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 

Mindful Meditation Football Pep Rally Compassionate Care Volleyball vs. Wake Fall Midterm Break 
Zach llorens scott olehnik 

Coleman-Morse Hesburgh Library in Medicine Forest campus-wide Center 5:45 p.m.-6:30 p.m. Jordan Hall of Science Joyce Center All day 
5:15p.m.-6:15 p.m. A home game weekend 1 p.m.-2 p.m. 1 p.m.-3 p.m. No classes in session. 
Corrections 

Meditate with Campus tradition. Part of the Science The Irish take on the 
The observer regards itself as Ministry. Exploration Series Demon Deacons. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
“Iron Sharpens Iron” ND Women’s Soccer Football vs. USC Evening Vespers Montreal Pilgrimage 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Coleman-Morse vs. Wake Forest Notre Dame Stadium Basilica of the Sacred off-campus 
however, recognize that we will make 
Center Alumni Stadium 7:30 p.m. Heart Campus Ministry 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
10 p.m.-11:30 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Notre Dame takes on 7:15 p.m.-8:15 p.m. pilgrimage to Canada 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Weekly praise and The Irish take on the its longtime rivals, the Evening prayer in the and the Oratory of St. 
we can correct our error. 

worship service. Demon Deacons. Trojans. Lady Chapel. Joseph. 


SENATE 

Group discusses The Shirt, campus safety 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
student senate met wednesday night to approve the president of the shirt project and to discuss the up­coming national collegiate alcohol awareness week. 
student union treasurer Janie goodson nominated senior molly howell as pres­ident of the shirt project 
– howell’s nomination was approved by the student senate. 
in goodson’s letter of nomination, read by judi­cial council president Zach waterson in her absence, goodson said howell had been successful in her past 
three years working on the shirt project. “molly and abbey 
“I think the main thing is to emphasize to be safe. Especially considering the police reports that have come out in the past few weeks.” 
Kevin Coleman 
off-campus senator 
[dankoff, outgoing shirt project president] have been working together for the past two years on The shirt, and this year’s shirt has the high­est profits to date,” waterson read from goodson’s nomi­nation letter. 
student body vice presi­dent nidia ruelas said the 
shirt  project  is  especial­ 
ly  important  to  student  
activities.  

“The shirt project is very important to us, as the stu­dent union,” she said. “it’s a part of where the funds that go into student activities. all the funding for student gov­ernment activities, student senate, sub [student union board], any of the activities. a lot of that money, and the reason the price of student activities you see put on by 


paid adverTisemenT 
Justice 
conTinued From page 1 
penrose said. “members of the victim’s family will be driving down, and they’ll witness what they believe to be justice. but law and justice are not certain­ly the same thing.” 
penrose, a notre dame law school graduate, said her cli­ent’s — 33-year-old licho escamilla — case moved through a number of courts before eventually being tried in the u.s. supreme court. 
“i was literally the last attor­ney this client was permitted to have,” she said. “my boss called me up and said, ‘meg, i need you to take this client. he’s fired everyone else before this.’ i said that’s a pretty bad way to start, but i was his last option. he tried to fire me, but i was all he had.” 
as penrose’s client’s case moved through the various courts, she said the juries scrupulously looked at the evi­dence and the previous jury’s decision. 


“we live in a society defined by laws, and the jury gave a sentence that was looked at several times,” penrose said. “They actually sought the re­cord, they wanted to actually look at the case.” 
penrose said this particular case caused her to continue discussing her ongoing person­al conflict regarding the death clubs. The reason why your student activities fee doesn’t go up every year is because of the funds that come from the shirt.” 
after approving the nomination of howell, the senators discussed national collegiate alcohol awareness week, which is the week after fall break. 
several senators said it would be important to re­mind students to stay safe, especially as the week will conclude with halloween weekend. 
many senators, includ­ing st. edward’s hall sena­tor John kill, suggested different ideas for spreading awareness. 
penalty. 
“i’m at a point in my career where i’m conflicted,” she said. “i don’t understand it from my religious background — i agree with the pope. i don’t under­stand it from my moral per­spective. but we need to find a just penalty that preserves the human dignity of the person.” 
penrose said her mother played a role in her decision to tors involved put together a statement to be sent out by email or even construct a viewpoint for the observer,” he said. 
“we  could  have  the  
department of  health and  
wellness  and  the  sena­ 

off-campus senator kevin coleman said the safety re­minder is especially timely with recent events on and around campus. 
“i think the main thing is to emphasize to be safe,” he said. “especially consider­ing the police reports that have come out in the past few weeks.” 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 

time, my effort, the least de­serving and yet, we help them,” she said. “The work is not pop­ular. i would say it’s thankless. every individual in the united states deserves representation. That’s not necessarily why i took that case. i’m not here to justify the crime, but the crime and the penalty are separate issues.” 
penrose also said there are 
“I’ve learned about service, about serving those who are least deserving of justice, those who are least deserving and yet, we help them. The work is not popular. I would say it’s thankless. Every individual in the United States deserves 
representation.” 
Meg Penrose Notre Dame Law class of 2000 
represent people who had com­mitted heinous enough crimes to warrant the death penalty. 
“i got this from my mother. she didn’t agree with the death penalty,” penrose said. “she got it from matthew, the verse end­ing with ‘for what you do for the least of my brothers, you did for me.’” 
penrose said her notre dame education shaped her to be a better person. 
“i’ve learned about service, about serving those who are least deserving of justice, those who are least deserving of my unique opportunities and re­sponsibilities for lawyers, par­ticularly lawyers graduating from notre dame. 

“you’ll learn about other cul­tures and other people and that will shape who you are, and it will make you a better person,” she said. “you are a part of the notre dame family. you are a different kind of lawyer. you are a notre dame lawyer. do something to help someone. do justice.” 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at  rogrady@nd.edu 




The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Retreat 
conTinued From page 1 
mini-retreat came after the spirituality study conducted by campus ministry last semester revealed that students wanted to attend retreats, but often struggled with lengths of the events. 
“[The spirituality study] found that a lot of students expressed dif­ficulty in personal prayer,” white said. “notre dame prays well as a community, as seen during Father hesburgh’s funeral and whenever students rally around sexual vio­lence on campus. however, many people expressed trouble with personal prayer. This retreat is to help freshman foster a sense of in­dividual prayer and an individual relationship with god.” 
white said there will be a more individualistic feeling to the retreat, which is designed to engage partic­ipants in personal reflections. 
“it is going to be different than other retreats students may have experienced in the past, simply be­cause it is a mini-retreat. There will be a small group, there will be stu­dent witnesses, there will be time specifically set aside for personal prayer,” white said. “however, this whole retreat is geared towards in­corporating god into your life, so freshman can expect to reflect on their life and what is important to them and how they feel they can incorporate god into any part of their life that they feel he belongs in.” 
white said the retreat will focus on three aspects of freshman life: academics, faith and social life. 
“This particular mini-retreat is called the Tender, strong and True retreat. each of those three parts — which are taken from our alma mater — correspond with the three movements of the retreat. Therefore, we want them to at least start to think about how they can incorporate their faith into their social sphere, their academic sphere and the place where god is supposed to take precedence, like in the church or during a retreat. we have the academic part which is tender, the retreat part, which is strong, and the social part, which corresponds to true.” 
white said the retreat will em­phasize the “movement” between the three segments by making the freshman physically move around campus to different areas that cor­respond with the retreat. 
The retreat will be held in debartolo hall, Jordan hall of science and coleman-morse center, with a concluding prayer service in the basilica. There will also be a social afterwards, designed to create community among students after a more in­dividually focused retreat, white said. 
“we wanted to put students in the environment that they are ac­tually going to be in during class­es,” he said. “so for the academic portion of the retreat, we wanted to have the place reiterate what we were hoping the students to reflect upon, which is god incorporated into their studies — how can they be a good christian and a good stu­dent at the same time. 
“it’s a big transitional time in their lives and there is a lot being thrown at them at college. we want to help them incorporate faith into their lives.” 
Contact Jenna Wilson at  jwilso35@nd.edu 
LGBTQ 
conTinued From page 1 
because of their gender identity,” she said. “i want the saint mary’s campus to come together to show them that they’re not alone.” 
lamar said she and bukur col­laborated to ensure that spirit day fosters a comfortable environment on campus, both for students of the college and for others affected by bullying. 
“students can benefit from this cause by creating a safe space for their peers,” lamar said. “supporting spirit day will help lbgTQ youth by showing them that they have a support system here at saint mary’s, and it shows that we care about the problems they face daily.” 
bukur said another goal of spirit day is to heighten students’ aware­ness of the hardships confronting those who identify as lgbTQ. 
“i believe this is an important issue because it’s not talked about often,” bukur said. “although same-sex marriage was legalized this summer, there are still many other issues facing the lgbTQ community.” 
bukur said she and lamar worked alongside president of sociology club, senior cara Firestein, to promote spirit day as a campus-wide event. 
“one of our hopes is that people will be prompted to learn more about the bullying that lgbTQ youth are often subject to, so that they can help to prevent it in the future,” Firestein said. “bullying happens far too often, especially among lgbTQ youth. until peo­ple begin standing up against this mistreatment, progress will not be made.” 
Firestein said she hopes students recognize today’s significance as they strive to end intolerance against the lgbTQ community. 
“it is incredibly dishearten­ing to know that lgbTQ youth are bullied at such high rates for simply being true to themselves,” Firestein said. “i think that having events like spirit day on campus helps to promote further aware­ness, compassion, acceptance and diversity among our student body.” 
bukur said she hopes today reinforces the importance of acceptance. 
“The goal of celebrating spirit day is to educate students on the issues facing the lgbTQ commu­nity,” bukur said. “i would really like for people to begin to take a stand to change the way lgbTQ youth are treated.” 
To pledge to wear purple in sup­port of bullied lgbTQ youth, visit glaad.org/spiritday 
Contact Martha Reilly at mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 





Holocaust 
in light of the holocaust,” do with a lecture series “and by that i mean, for immediately, luppes said, luppes said. called ‘remembrance: The the first 25 years after world and prior to the 1960s dis­
conTinued From page 1 

“a number of documen-holocaust in global context.’ war ii and beyond, german cussions of responsibility 
taries airing in prime time, when it comes to this expan-victimhood occupied the had facilitated a widespread by the allies at potsdam in popular Tv miniseries and sive and contentious topic, largest place in german popularity of the narratives august of that year.” highly visible cover stories it seems that remembrance memory. it was a consensus,” of the past that focused on 
The precise number of 
of german wartime suffer­

german victimhood, includ­deaths resulting from vio­
ing has been inextricably 

ing those put forward by the lent confrontation, diseas­
linked to the holocaust — 
expellees. 
“Postwar memory “ ... Many considered 
even more, one might even 
es, malnourishment and “The nuremberg trials in 
in Germany the integration 
say it has been in direct 
exposure during the expul­the fall of 1945 and the suc­

tends to crowd competition. 
sion has been politicized and of expellees to be cessive trials from 1946 to 

out competing discourses on german vic­controversial for decades, one of the great 1949, as well as the allies’ 
timhood, particularly the 
luppes said. 
broader efforts to de-nazify 
narratives. 
achievements of the 
suffering of the expellees, 
“informed guesses range german society did little 
Indeed, not until German postwar 
have existed and persisted 
from several hundred thou-

to implicate the rest of the sand to two million,” he said. 
the 1970s and throughout the postwar era, 
states. The populace,” he said. “most at-The survivors and their 
efforts are often tribute the beginning of the 
early 1980s was luppes said. 
“indeed, the topic ‘flight 
descendants are referred to more widespread readiness 
the Holocaust able references today 
and expulsion’ has been a 
as “expellees,” luppes said. 
to reassess a remembrance 
to squeeze in. This in the discussions 
constitutive part of national 
of the survivors, around 

of the german past to a se­eight million settled in west 
development was narratives, on the political about handling ries of high-profile crimi­
extraordinary agenda at all levels and pub­germany, making up slightly 
the huge number nal trials, starting with the more than 16 percent of the 
licly commemorated in ev­
einsatzgruppen trial in ulm 
and remains of incoming 
ery decade after the war,” he 
total population. 
in 1958, at which the mass 
a significant refugees ... ” 
said. 
“The roughly four million 

killing of Jews in poland and newly-arrived expellees in 
achievement.” luppes said it can be ar­
the soviet union was com-east germany comprised 
gued in many ways that the 

Jeffery Luppes prehensively presented in 
Jeffery Luppes assistant professor, German public for the first time. 

expellees were “primus inter 
just under a quarter of the 
assistant professor, German Indiana University South Bend in revealing to the world 

pares,” or first among equals, 
population,” he said. 
Indiana University South Bend 
in comparison to the victims 
in the late 1990s and ear-

the totality of the nazi ly part of the 21st century, of world war ii in germany, 
crimes, luppes said, the tri­luppes said, non-Jewish on national magazines reig-especially for the first quar-he said. “postwar memory als played an important di­german experiences of nited … the debate,” he said. ter-century after the war. in germany tends to crowd dactic role in altering the world war ii and its after-much of the discussions on “Therefore, although nar-out competing narratives. opinions on the fundamen­math became a topic of pub-representations of german ratives of german wartime indeed, not until the 1970s tal nature of the Third reich lic discourse in a way that wartime suffering centered suffering have varied in and early 1980s was the and challenged west german was “hitherto unseen in re-on if, and why, the topic of tone and resonance over the holocaust able to squeeze attitudes on culpability. united germany.” germans as victims had course of the postwar era, in. This development was “Though a distinction must 
“unleashing the societal been taboo, luppes said, and the topic has never been ta-extraordinary and remains a be made between the atti­discussions were some lead-how best to commemorate boo, at least in the sense that significant achievement.” tudes of the political class … ing literary and cultural fig-german wartime suffering assertions of german vic-holocaust-centered histor-and the rest of the popula­ures who probed postwar without overshadowing the timhood were nonexistent or ical narratives have not been tion, the trials inevitably led german responses to the war nazi war crimes. disallowed,” he said. uncontested, luppes said. to more confrontation with or who explored subjects and “you might wonder what a subtitle for luppes’ lec-“one could argue that with and contemplation about framed their findings in ways a talk about non-Jewish ture could be “From consen-the explosion of interest in the role played by ordinary long considered improper german victims has to sus to contestation,” he said. german wartime suffering, germans in the annihilation 
the place of the holocaust in of european Jews,” he said. 
paid adverTisemenT 

german memory is as tenu-The long-term logisti­ous as ever,” he said. cal efforts to accommodate 
understanding percep-the influx of ethnic german tions of german wartime refugees and expellees were suffering in the postwar era considered unparalleled is critical, luppes said. in german history, luppes 
“you might ask, ‘what is said. at stake here?’ well, pre-“in fact, many considered cisely the conditions that the integration of expel-allowed for the prominence lees to be one of the great of german victimhood in achievements of the german postwar memory were those postwar states,” he said. that prevented public com-“The efforts are often refer­memoration of the holocaust enced today in the discus-on a large scale. if a similar sions about handling the setup were to occur again, huge numbers of incoming memories of germany’s vic-refugees in germany right tims, instead of german vic-now. There are important tims, could be squeezed out differences, of course.” again,” he said. 
attitudes on german cul-Contact Catherine Owers at  pability did not change cowers@nd.edu 



The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

life without a phone 
Katie Galioto 
news writer 

after a series of unfortunate events, my phone stopped working. 
i know people who could not survive if this happened. really — i know people who could not function without a functioning cell phone. 
i also know people who could last forever without a cell phone. you know, the hipster, non­conformist type. The type that always seems impossible to get in touch with when you really need something. 
i’d put myself somewhere in between these two groups on the phone-dependence spectrum. sometimes i like to think i’m cool by not looking at my phone for long periods of time and making myself hard to reach. but other times, my eyes are glued to the screen as i’m in constant contact with friends and family and other people who are not in the same room as me. 
losing my phone gave me the opportunity (or really forced me) to try my own social experi­ment, and i’d like to share my results. 
every day before lunch, i get the same exact text message. in a group message, someone will type, “lunch?” in response to this thought-provoking question, people will answer that they are, indeed, coming to lunch in an astonishingly large number of different ways. 
without a phone, i dramatically pretended i lived in the days when you just showed up at the dining hall and ate with whomever was there. 
it makes me a little nostalgic. This must have been what my mom’s dining hall experience was like. 
For those three infamous days, i had to go to lunch in the dining hall without any way of con­tacting people beforehand. i guess i could have whipped out my laptop and emailed a friend, but that would have been weird. 
here are my thrilling accounts of what happened. 
day one: This day was kind of a cop-out. i showed up at the same time i always do for lunch. shockingly, i ran into the same people i almost always eat lunch with on this day of the week. we then ate lunch together. it was quite a wild experience. 
day two: my second “off-the-grid” lunch was a little more interesting. having no plans, i went to the dining hall alone. in fact, i ended up dining solo — a daunting experience. without another human being to distract me, i ended up studying for my midterm in the dining hall of all places. if anything, this social experience made me more productive. 
day three: This day was the culmination of all my research. i again showed up to the dining hall with no plans. i saw a friend that i knew. i asked if i could join her and her friends for lunch. and then i ate with them. i met some new people. i heard some new jokes. it was an overall pleasant experience. 
in conclusion, i encourage people to take a break from their phones every once in a while. as my data clearly proves, it can be beneficial to try something new. you could be more productive or meet a new friend — all without the help of your cell phone. 
Contact Katie Galioto at kgalioto@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Surprise, America: The Pope is still Catholic 
Kyle Palmer 
mr. precedent 

i remember receiving a number of news notifica­tions on my phone back in the summer of 2013, and the consensus among media seemed to suggest that pope Francis had uprooted the catholic church altogether. now, in reality, he said in response to a question about homosexuality, “who am i to judge?” contrary to what pundits claimed, the pope had not actually changed any stance of the church. it has been long held in the church that no one on earth can know who is going to hell, and the ultimate judgment remains with god, whose mercy is simply incomprehensible to the earth’s residents. no church doctrine was changed. no revolu­tion was started. no catholic internal war broke out. 
what i dislike most about media as of late, whether it be Fox news, The new york Times, msnbc or buzzfeed, isn’t the inherent political biases they all carry, nor is it a matter of writing or reporting styles. it is how the media has mischaracterized pope Francis since he ascended to the papacy. 
it’s as if the media believes that then-cardinal bergoglio came in as a rogue and fought for the papacy so that he could upend the church entirely. The cardinal electorate would not have elected a leader who was hell-bent on destroying the church they dedi­cated their lives to serve. however, since his election, american media seems to want to incite a catholic civil war. They seem to believe that just because pope Francis said the pursuit of money without civic virtue was a bad thing, he must be a communist. They seem to believe that just because pope Francis is advocating for care of the earth, he must be introducing left-wing ideals into the catholic church. because of this mischaracteriza­tion by the media, liberals praise pope Francis because they seem to think that he’s changing the church’s doc­trine to be more liberal, and conservatives oppose pope Francis for the same reason. in reality, pope Francis has not brought forth a single change in catholic doctrine. 
in fact, these are things the church has always be­lieved — pope Francis is just more charismatic in em­phasizing them. The church has never endorsed any economic theory, but has condemned unfettered greed as an evil among mankind. The church has never said we should destroy the earth’s resources, but that we should use the earth’s resources wisely. conservative friends of mine have frequently said that pope John paul ii was “better than Francis” because he never talked about these things and is often seen as a conservative contemporary of reagan and Thatcher, but this thinking ignores history. pope John paul ii said in 1990 for his world day of peace message regarding the environment, “industrial waste, the burning of fossil fuels, unre­stricted deforestation … all of these are known to harm the atmosphere and environment. The resulting meteo­rological and atmospheric changes range from damage to health to the possible future submersion of low-lying lands. while in some cases the damage already done may well be irreversible, in many other cases it can still be halted. it is necessary, however, that the entire hu­man community — individuals, states and international bodies — take seriously the responsibility that is theirs. … i wish to repeat that the ecological crisis is a moral issue.” 
pope Francis has never fallen out of grace with church teaching. it’s astonishing to me that the media selec­tively covered pope Francis’s comments on economic inequality and climate change, but didn’t cover his com­ments to the united states council of catholic bishops: “i appreciate the unfailing commitment of the church in america to the cause of life and that of the fam­ily, which is the primary reason for my present visit.” surprise, media, the pope is still catholic. 
i’m catholic, and a moderate republican, but i don’t seek to claim pope Francis as my own. i understand the mission of the pope and the church transcends the american political confines of republican vs. democrat. i also understand those with whom i agree and disagree politically aren’t going to have a perfect understanding of the church or the pope; i definitely acknowledge i don’t have a perfect understanding. however, i admon­ish those who wish to bring the leader of the church into a political debate to do their research first, before alleg­ing that he is a lesser pope than prior ones or asserting that he is conservative or liberal. 
recently, republicans and democrats have fought over who gets to “claim” the church and catholic voters as their own. This reflects an extremely undeveloped understanding of the church. The catholic church will never adhere strictly to the ideals of a single party and it will always have points of conflict with every political party, and i wouldn’t have it any other way. what good is the church if it doesn’t challenge everyone to do bet­ter? if no political group is ever quite satisfied with the doctrine of a specific religion, then that religion is doing its job right. 
Kyle Palmer is a senior from Dillon Hall studying accoun­tancy. He welcomes any challenges to his opinions. He can be reached at kpalmer6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the au­thor and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
blessed to be nd 
The university is my second home. i feel so blessed to have the privilege to work here. Fr. ralph haag, rec­tor of st. edward’s hall, has the toughest job: it’s a lot of work to take care of all the st. ed men. i don’t think people realize how much work comes with that kind of responsibility. he is a friend to the people that are suffering and always helps the poor. he treats every­one like how your family members would treat you. Fr. ralph is truly the prime example of how catholic priests and people should act all the time! The st. edward’s men respect and love him like a father — he is a father figure in their life. when freshmen move in, their parents look worried as they say goodbye to the boys. however, i comfort them by saying your son is in good hands with Fr. ralph. st. edward’s men always carry themselves like true gentlemen all the time. i have seen this with my own eyes for the past six and a half years. 
last but not least, i would like to thank my new su­pervisor, michael kasalo. michael is also a nd grad and lived in st. edward’s hall. he has treated me with respect and kindness, is very understanding, always willing to listen and helps his employees out when he can, even with his busy schedule. you don’t see that every day anywhere else. i have waited almost seven years for a supervisor like michael; because of michael, i finally have peace at work. because of his caring and loving attitude he has towards all of his employees, i can easily say he also helps me and gives me peace at home as well. i call that heaven on earth. i would not have that without notre dame. i am the luckiest person on earth to have the best supervisor ever. and not only does the university of notre dame have the best priest and supervisor in the world, it also has the best crew leader as well: her name is emma owen. we love, re­spect and protect each other. we are nd! 
Maem Detaksone 
st. edward’s hall worker sept. 6 


To fight inequality, first fix elections 
Liam Dalton 
bridging the gap 

historically speaking, the united states has always responded more effectively to issues in which a clear enemy was present. during the cold war it was the communists, during world war ii it was the nazis and the Japanese empire and in modern times the great national security threat is jihad and groups that sponsor acts of terror, mainly in the middle east. a clear enemy presents a clear directive — something that can be limited to a platitude and easily consumed by the public. lawmakers and leaders can load, aim, and troubleshoot with relative ease. The american political system is, by design, inef­ficient. checks and balances as well as a bicam­eral legislature assure that majority rules while minority rights are protected, though these safeguards of liberty and democracy often grind the government to a halt on controversial issues. our founders intended to place prudence above expedience, but when expedience is necessary to combat an issue that threatens the vitality and security of the united states, the system has shortcomings. 
That is why we are more effective when we have a clear enemy. however, what happens when this enemy is more insidious — when it eats away at the political and economic strength of the coun­try and replaces it with malaise? not often have we faced this brand of a challenge. we do today. 
president obama has called income inequality and the lack of economic mobility the “defin­ing challenge of our time.” as i illustrated in my last column, lawmakers and candidates alike have commented on the severity of economic inequality. The vast majority of americans are dissatisfied with the way income and wealth are distributed. The causes for rampant inequality are vast, but the most important are globaliza­tion, the decrease in labor union strength and opportunity inequality. 
so how should we address the issue in a respon­sible manner that beckons for a new era of eco­nomic strength and welfare in the united states? The answer includes the usual prescription for a great challenge: good policy, bold leadership and prescient planning. however, in the case of economic inequality, a new ingredient must be added considering the time-sensitive nature of the issue: expedited action. 
at the root of the issue is an oversimplification of the american economic system. both major political parties are guilty of substituting plati­tudes for policy, touting unfettered capitalism as the most desirable economic system while 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“The truly creative mind is no more than this: a human creature born abnormally, inhumanly sensitive.” 
— Pearl S. Buck Writer and novelist 

neglecting the controls that must be placed on capitalism to save it from itself. politicians are not wholly to blame — touting capitalism and american exceptionalism in the same breath was a vital tool in containing communism during the cold war and in spreading free-market ideals that are not only better for a nation’s economy but also for its people. Trade liberalization and free market reforms in developing countries have led to better diplomatic relations and more wealth for hundreds of millions who would not have benefited from central planning. 
To combat the problems that arise from capital­ism, the united states must enact reforms aimed at stemming the tide of rampant inequality. in order to push these policies through congress and state legislatures, the federal legislature must first address a key hurdle to passing these reforms: campaign finance. 
The result of citizens united v. Federal elections commission in 2008 was among the more troubling decisions ever rendered by the supreme court because of its foreseeable con­sequences and undermining of american demo­cratic values. The court decided that wealth could play an unrestricted role in the electoral system, citing the First amendment rights of donors and conflating wealth with speech. in the last presidential election, president obama and gov. romney spent a combined $2 billion on their campaigns. That number stands to in­crease in the 2016 election cycle: bloomberg view predicts that figure could be close to $10 billion when all is said and done. as professor sanford lakoff of the university of california, san diego notes, this tremendous influx of unrestricted campaign donations results “in policies that exacerbate economic inequality.” To an extent, deregulated campaign finance laws allow special interest groups and corporations to hold lawmak­ers and candidates hostage – “yea” votes on poli­cies favorable to these groups may result in vital donations for a lawmaker’s next campaign. 
This would be most troublesome for mem­bers of the house of representatives, who must stand for reelection every two years. Though this constitutional provision allowed for optimal democratic response in the absence of unrestrict­ed campaign finance, the ballgame has changed. in 2013, the boston globe reported that upon ar­rival to washington, freshmen democratic con­gressmen fresh from exciting campaign battles were told by the leadership that to preserve their majority two years later they had to devote “at least four hours each day to the tedious task of raising money.” a report done by the brookings institute showed that in 2012, senate candidates spent on average $10.3 million, a 62 percent increase since 1986. even more profound was the increase in spending on house elections, up 344 percent from 1986 to $1.6 million per election. in an age where big-money donors have the power to make raising money a lot easier, who knows how much has been wasted yearly on pork barrel projects to satisfy these donors? The integrity of the allocation of government contracts, votes on vital policy measures and the day-to-day opera­tions of legislators is corrupted by the massive infusion of money in politics. 

i, for one, would prefer for my representative to be using four hours a day on a vast list of ac­tivities better for the country: perhaps spending more time researching the issues, establishing relationships with the opposition party and seek­ing compromise on controversial issues. 
in the realm of persistent inequality, this is­sue is even more troubling. Those without the ability to donate massive sums of money to poli­cymakers will not likely benefit from the poli­cies they pass. no longer is voting the only voice one can use to influence democracy — donating a large amount of money is even more effec­tive and much louder than one penniless voice. economics does not need to be a zero-sum game 
—
 all can benefit if those implementing regula­tion account for the concerns of all parties in­volved. unrestricted campaign finance presents a clear incentive to focus solely on the concerns of your donors, and that puts our prized democ­racy at risk. 

The breakneck speed of globalization and technological advancement will not wait for the united states — we need to address the underly­ing issues ailing our democratic institutions now. we will never strike the proper balance between pro-corporation policy and consumer-protecting reforms to ensure a large and enduring prosper­ity if we do not balance the playing field by re­moving big money from politics. This initiative is something i suspect both parties would agree on 

—
 liberals tout minority rights and conservatives disparage wasteful spending and government in­efficiency. america will not be able to achieve its economic potential in the modern age if it does not first fix its political system. 


Liam Dalton is a freshman in the College of Arts and Letters and intends on majoring in International Economics and Chinese. BridgeND is a bipartisan student political organization that brings together Democrats, Republicans and all those in between to discuss public policy issues of national importance. They meet Tuesday nights from 8–9 p.m. in the McNeil room of LaFortune Student Center. They can be reached at bridgend@nd.edu or by following them on Twitter @ bridge_ND 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“If you are neutral in situations of injustice, you have chosen the side of the oppressor.” 
— Desmond Tutu Activitst, retired bishop 
The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

LUCY DU | The Observer 

The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MIKO MALABUTE 
scene editor 

Following what i had deemed as the best — if not most bittersweet — epi­sode in the “a season with notre dame Football” series, it was going to be in­teresting to see how the showtime producers would respond. after all, despite the awful taste of defeat in the mouths of irish football, there was no denying that the coverage of the game and subsequent loss brought in great ratings. 
meanwhile, it was equally intrigu­ing to see how the team on the screen would respond to its own issues on the field. The loss to clemson was frus­trating and absolutely heartbreak­ing, and it is easy to imagine how that 
By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

when i read that the fast food res­taurant steak ‘n shake was offering a seasonal speculoos cookie butter milkshake i audibly gasped. Then, i referred to my schedule and found the earliest time i could rush to try one. 
For the unluckily uninitiated, speculoos is a belgian and dutch spiced shortbread biscuit usually baked and eaten around fall and win­ter holidays. in the states it’s famously found in a spreadable cookie butter form at wafels and dinges, a new york city company consisting of food trucks and sit-down locations specializing in belgian waffles. The spread has since been broadened here in the last five years especially by health and spe­cialty food markets, which sell the de­licious spread as a very worthy (read: better) alternative to peanut butter and nutella. 
now, the flavor’s introduction into the nationwide fast food lexicon by steak ‘n shake — it seems to have mi­grated to them from chicago by way of kind of loss could derail any program’s season. 
but that’s not what coach brian kelly had in mind. as much critique as kelly gets when times are hard, there’s no denying that kelly knew exactly how to refocus his players heading into navy week. kelly was adamant that there were no such things as moral victories for this irish football team anymore; when your team is that good, it’s either win or lose — and absolutely nothing else. This attitude translated all the way down to his players, specifically Joe schmidt. 
“when i talked to the media,” schmidt contemplated, “they asked me some question about, you know, how do i feel — something about, you know, taking positives away. 
edzo’s burger shop’s famous off-menu speculoos shake — comes as both a re­lief and a godsend. 
For far too long, the vague, nauseat­ing pumpkin spice flavoring has ruled over the fall season as its go-to flavor. autumn after autumn, the pumpkin flavor has been unjustifiably injected into more and more food, reaching an almost parodic level. The ubiquity of the flavoring has infiltrated everything we love, from beer and coffee to chips and cookies. and with its continually growing popularity, it has infiltrated fast food milkshakes; dairy Queen, arby’s, burger king, culver’s, sonic drive-in, Jack in the box all have added to the sickening list of chains that have experimented with their own version of a pumpkin milkshake. 
meanwhile, the speculoos flavor has just emerged as a slightly gingery respite from the uninspired banality of whatever abstract, artificial flavor “pumpkin spice” claims to be. like the artificial origins of such made up flavors as “blue raspberry” and that fake “grape” that is nothing like real grapes but we nonetheless accept as 
“i don’t see it that way … you need signature victories. That would have been a signature victory.” 
but the team would only live in self-pity for 24 hours, because as soon as monday rolled around they refocused on navy. credit goes to the coaches, who really helped reboot the team and help them understand that now every game is truly do or die. schmidt was especially fired up and vocal in his leadership of the defense; meanwhile, kelly was seen working with various players, helping them develop and get back to the fundamentals. 
The episode also provided viewers the history behind the notre dame-navy relationship, with the mutual respect for both institutions on full-display. but the true superstar behind 
grape flavor, most pumpkin flavored food substitutes what we recognize as nutmeg, clove and the other tastes we associate with pumpkin with synthetic copycats. 
The backlash to pumpkin flavoring is, understandably, a fleshy, festering wound on the un-gutted face of a carved halloween decoration, and i’m itch­ing to pick at it. a year ago, John oliver ranted about the absurdity of the reg­ularly seasonal takeover of pumpkin spice, “nobody wants anything pump-kin-flavored from december through august,” in a web exclusive clip for his hbo show “last week Tonight with John oliver.” last week, comedian and actor ben schwartz visited gQ to taste test wild pumpkin-flavored vari­ants of american snack foods — mini wheats, oreos, whipped peanut butter, peeps, m&ms, marshmallows and gum 
— and disliked them all. even scene’s own erin mcauliffe injected a pump­kin spice flavored putdown in a fall-themed playlist she built last week, her parenthetical “pls no psl” a plea to stay away from the ever-present pumpkin spice latte this fall season. 
this episode was corey robinson. with his family’s background in the navy, it was surreal yet astounding to see how intertwined notre dame and navy are, embodied and epitomized in notre dame’s wide receiver. 
The latest installment was yet an­other solid addition to the series, and gave a bit of insight into the his­tory behind two programs that pride themselves on tradition and history. but at the same time, this episode was not only about living in the past — the irish are also looking ahead to usc, where there is clearly no love lost be­tween the two. it should be quite the interesting episode next week. 
Contact Miko Malabute at                  mmalabut@nd.edu 
steak ‘n shake’s release of a speculoos milkshake not only comes at the per­fect time to suggest usurpation of the pumpkin spice flavor that has reigned as “Flavor of the Fall” for too long, but it also provides an absolutely good taste, as well. The flavoring, which can actually point back to real ingredients and an actual taste as its inspiration, matches the fall season itself: teas­ingly warm and sweet, with touches of brown sugar, butter and sometimes caramel, but at times stinging, when the notes of cinnamon, nutmeg, ginger and cardamom come through. 
in this sense, the flavor is not alto­gether different from the notions in pumpkin spice. however, speculoos is much more natural and far less in­trusive than the flavoring that resem­bles pumpkin only in name. pumpkin spice flavoring is a fad, not a trend; it has reached its breaking point and a seriously strong opponent, now more than ever before, stands to rise in its wake. 
Contact Matt McMahon at                              mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
LUCY DU | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

LSU shows sportsmanship 
Brett O’Connell 
sports writer 
every so often you see an example of sport as a tran­scendent form of culture 
— an instance where the game surpasses its surface meaning as a simple com­petition. This past weekend, the lsu football program produced one such mo­ment via its treatment of the situation surrounding its “away game” against south carolina. 
For those of us who fol­low college football closely, particularly those of us who grew up in sec coun­try, Tiger stadium in baton rouge, louisiana, is syn­onymous with a hostile at­mosphere for any team that dares challenge the Tigers in their own domain. For years, it has been voted by coaches and players alike as one of the most difficult places to win a game on the road. The gamecocks, then, were likely at least a little bit relieved before the season to see their game against lsu was scheduled to take place in their home this year. or at least, that was the plan. 
The massive weather systems that drenched the state of south carolina throughout the weekend of oct. 3 continue to leave their mark even today. as of wednesday, hundreds of people were still living in state-provided shelters while they waited for their neighborhoods to become habitable again. many of those people do not even have a home to return to af­ter the record floods swept the state. nearly 200 roads remain closed, and 29 dam failures have been reported since the storms hit several weekends ago. 
in light of this natu­ral disaster, something as frivolous as a football game might seem trivial. but the game between lsu and south carolina had to be played nevertheless. as such, the ncaa made the decision to relocate the south carolina home game 
— to the heart of the bayou, in death valley. 
i don’t think anyone would have blamed lsu for taking advantage of this unexpected turn of events. after all, the sec is as cutthroat as ever, and the Tigers are looking to ride demigod running back leonard Fournette all the way to the college Football playoff. nobody would have batted an eye if the Tigers had simply accepted their unexpected home game in stride. 
lsu had other plans. The Tiger band learned the south carolina alma mater and played it prior to the game. Traditional public ad­dress announcements and gamecock-flavored songs and chimes were added to the in-game experience. lsu even went as far as to put up billboards around town that read “geaux gamecocks! make yourself at home.” 
what’s more, all proceeds from the day’s festivities were donated back to south carolina — just where they would have gone had the game been hosted in its original location. red cross donation stations were set up at stadium entrances, and fans brought all sorts of relief gear and canned goods in to be sent back east once the day was done. 
it’s not hard to figure out where all of the Tiger sympathy was coming from. baton rouge is only about 82 miles away from new orleans proper — the memories of hurricane katrina were no doubt quick to resurface in light of the tragic flooding that struck their conference foes’ home state. still, this sort of act lends itself to the greatest aspects of the character of sport. Through football, residents of louisiana and south carolina were able to band together during one’s time of need with all of the aid coming from a com­munity that had been there before. as i read daily sports headlines moving forward, i can only hope this is the sort of story that continues to proliferate. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

playoff field becomes clear 
Pasquerilla West 26, Walsh 0 
By DOMINIC IANNELLI 
sports writer 

under the lights at riehle 
Fields  on  Tuesday  night,  
pasquerilla  west  defeated  
walsh, 26-0.  

The purple weasels (4-1) started the game strong, driv­ing down the field and scor­ing on a touchdown pass to junior monica busse. Their defense held walsh (1-4-1) to a three-and-out, and then the pasquerilla west offense struck again, with busse running 20 yards for the touchdown. 
The wild women were then picked off on two straight pos­sessions by pasquerilla west junior amanda geiger and senior maddie bray, but the purple weasels were unable to capitalize. 
in the second half, pasquerilla west had two more interceptions, both returned for touchdowns, by bray and senior bernie Jordan. 
as the game closed, walsh switched quarterbacks several times but still could not score. 
walsh sophomore captain maryanne Fisher said the team mixed things up for the final game of the season. 
“our offense played defense and our defense played offense, and it was really fun,” Fisher said. 
playing their final game of the season, junior walsh co-captain courtney davis said the wild women were just try­ing to have fun. 
“we just wanted to give ev­eryone as many touches as they can. we tried to switch up the offense and freak out the de­fense,” davis said. 
bray said she was proud of how the purple weasels played. after their first loss of the sea­son sunday, they were able to bounce back with a key win be­fore the playoffs. 
“we had our first loss on sunday so it was nice to have this win after to get our mo­mentum back,” bray said. “i have a feeling like our team is really well put together and ready for playoffs now. on both sides of the ball everyone did really well and showed up and we were really accurate with our communication which we’ve been trying to work on.” 
The purple weasels will fin­ish up their regular season with a showdown against first-place ryan on oct. 27 at riehle Fields before starting playoff action. 
Contact Dominic Iannelli at diannelli@nd.edu 

Lewis 19, Pasquerilla East 0 
By TOBIAS HOONHOUT 
sports writer 

it proved to be a one-sided affair monday night, as lewis blanked pasquerilla east, 19-0. 
with the win, the chicks (3­1-1) clinched a spot in the play­offs, while the pyros (2-4) ended their season on a low note. 
pasquerilla east looked to get the run game going early, but the lewis defense shut down the pyros offense setting the tone for the night. 
The pyros also started well defensively, until lewis senior receiver and captain hannah skrbis latched onto a pass from fellow senior captain and quarterback dorothy schlueter and ran 65 yards for the score. pasquerilla east attempted to answer with a drive of its own late in the first half, but with three seconds left, senior quar­terback caroline kernodle’s pass fell incomplete in the end zone to end the half at 7-0. 
in the second half, lewis dominated. led by another touchdown from skrbis, the chicks jumped out to a 13-0 lead. The defense also grabbed two straight interceptions, and on fourth-and-goal, the chicks scored again to stretch their lead to 19-0, ending the game via mercy rule. 
skrbis said she felt her team played well and is looking to make a run in the playoffs. 
“i feel great about our team and depth we have,” skrbis said. “This is the most talent we’ve had on the team in the four years i’ve been playing.” 
on the opposing sideline, the pyros had a disappointing year and missed the playoffs, but ju­nior captain maddie mcgovern said there were still positives to take from the season. 
“i couldn’t be more proud of their fortitude and spirit,” mcgovern said. “we also had the pleasure of a coaching staff with unparalleled experi­ence and football knowledge. Foremost, this season our team and coaches became a family, which i think will make pe the team to beat next year.” 
lewis concludes its regular season oct. 26 against Farley at riehle Fields. 
Contact Tobias Hoonhout at thoonhout@nd.edu 
MLB | royals 7, asTros 2 

Royals power past Astros, advance to ALCS 
Associated Press 

kansas ciTy, mo.  — Johnny cueto delivered a masterpiece on his biggest stage yet, pitch­ing eight dominant innings wednesday night and leading the resilient kansas city royals to a 7-2 victory over the houston astros and back to the american league championship series. 
cueto allowed two hits, a sin­gle by evan gattis followed by luis valbuena’s second-inning homer, before retiring the final 19 batters he faced. he struck out eight without a walk in the kind of clutch performance the royals expected when they traded for him. 
when wade davis breezed through the ninth, the royals poured onto the field to celebrate. 
The defending al champs will host the Toronto blue Jays in game 1 on Friday night. The teams have met once before in the alcs with the royals win­ning in seven games in 1985 — they would go on to beat the st. louis cardinals for their only world series triumph. 
“Johnny cueto was unbeliev­able,” royals manager ned yost said. “he knew the magnitude of this game. i think we all did. and he came out from the first pitch and had everything going.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
enough that all I need in this life is your crazy love. If I never get to see the Northern lights, or if I never get to see the Eiffel Tower at night. Oh if all I got is your hand in my hand. Baby I could die a happy man, yeah. I don’t need no vacation, no fancy destination. Baby you’re my great escape 
FOR SALE 

NICE 3 BEDROOM UPDATED RANCH within 2 miles of ND cam­pus- $110,000! All appliances, fenced yard, 2 car garage. Call Kathy Platt, Cressy &amp; Everett, 574-276-4688 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FOR RENT 

Beautiful home 1 mile from ND. 2 furnish rooms 4 rent $650 each 949­292-1200 must see. 
And I know that I can’t ever tell you 


ND CROSS COUNTRY 

ND to run at loaded Wisconsin Invitational 
By RYAN KLAUS 
sports writer 
after a week off, notre dame will return to action 
Friday  at  the wisconsin  
invitational.  
The  wisconsin  

invitational stands as one of two remaining regular-season races for the irish, who will take the course at the illini open next week before heading to the acc championships at the end of the month. 
For the first time since sept. 4, the irish will be racing away from home, as both of notre dame’s past two events — the national catholic championship and the Joe piane notre dame invitational — were hosted by the irish. 
“There’s good and bad things about being on the road,” notre dame associ­ate head coach matthew sparks said. “it’s nice to get away from home and close your textbooks for a little bit. it’s a little mini-vacation to go on the road, sleep on the bus and be able to catch your breath from all the academic rigors of notre dame. That gives you a little more of a peaceful feeling, but then you’re on enemy territory, so you’re unfamiliar with the course. That’s one of the unique things about cross country. in football, the field is 100 yards wherever you go, but in cross country, the terrain is different everywhere you go. 

“if you’ve never been to the course before, there’s uncertainty, so we’re actu­ally going to be at the course on Thursday to run the course. hopefully that will give us more comfort with the course for the next day.” 
Friday’s meet will feature several of the best teams across the nation. The no. 18 irish women will be run­ning against 19 other top-25 teams at the meet, while 17 of the top 30 men’s teams will be in attendance. 
“other than the ncaa championship meet in late november, this is the most competitive meet in the country,” said sparks. “it’s the best warm-up we can have to prepare for the late season championship races. it will be a new experience for a lot of women who are running in the varsity top seven for us. That’s going to be one of our big challenges. 
paid adverTisemenT 

we have girls that tradition­ally have been top-five for every race in their entire high school career [that] now are trying to be in the top 100 of a race.” 
at their last meet, the notre dame’s men finished 10th at the Joe piane notre dame invitational and the women finished third, led by third place finisher se­nior molly seidel. sparks said he had specific goals for his teams’ performances at wisconsin. 
“From a team perspective, a goal for our women’s team would be to finish in the top 
10. For the men’s team, if they could finish in the top 25, then we could begin to establish ourselves as a na­tionally-competitive team, and that’s the goal for the men’s program: to compete at the national level. we’re just on the outskirts of that now and this is a good chance to reestablish our­selves as a program that can compete nationally.” 
The wisconsin invitational is set to begin at noon Friday in madison, wisconsin. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus@nd.edu 
WOMEN’S SWIMMING 

irish travel to Florida gulf coast 
Observer Staff Report 
after winning 11 of 12 races and bringing home first place at the dennis stark relays, notre dame is heading to Fort meyers, Florida for a week of training leading up to its race at Florida gulf coast on oct. 24. The irish will face the eagles for the first time in this dual meet over fall break. 
at the dennis stark relays, the irish victory was fueled by junior catherine mulquin, as she contributed to first-place finishes in four events: the 200-yard freestyle relay, 200- and 400-yard medley re­lays and the 3x100-yard back­stroke relay. senior catherine galletti also contributed for the irish in the 200-yard free­style relay, 400-yard medley relay, 3x100-yard fly relay and 200-medley relay. 
The irish also had a strong showing from their diving team at the dennis stark relays, with senior emma gaboury, junior christine stitcher, sophomore annie crea and freshman deidre worth leading the irish to first- and second-place fin­ishes in the 1-meter dive and the 3-meter dive, respectively. 
The eagles will be com­ing off of a meet against north Florida on saturday before facing off against the irish head-to-head a week later. The eagles have al­ready swum in two races this year, taking second place out of six teams at the Fgcu classic a couple weeks ago and fourth out of six teams at the all-Florida invite, hosted by Florida in gainesville, Florida, in september. 
The irish will have had a two-week break in between meets during which to prac­tice, which includes the week of training the irish will spend in Fort meyers before the Florida gulf coast meet. The irish take on Florida gulf coast on oct. 24 in Fort meyers before welcoming big Ten rival michigan state to rolfs aquatic center on oct. 30. 


MLB | blue Jays 6, rangers 3 
Jays use wild 7th to beat Rangers 
Associated Press 
ToronTo — Jose bautista wiped out the need for protests or umpire reviews with the Toronto blue Jays’ biggest home run since Joe carter’s historic shot. 
Toronto earned its first trip to the american league championship series since carter’s world series-ending drive in 1993, overcoming one of the craziest plays in playoff his­tory when bautista hit a three-run homer after three Texas rangers errors for a 6-3 vic­tory wednesday in the deciding game 5 of the division series. 
“it’s the most emotionally charged game that i’ve ever played,” bautista said. 
The blue Jays became the third team to win a best-of­five series after losing the first two games at home. The 2001 yankees also did it against oakland, and the 2012 giants did it against cincinnati. both of those teams went on to reach the world series. 
“The odds were against us but i don’t think these guys ever thought we were out of it,” blue Jays manager John gibbons said. 
Toronto, who led the majors in homers this season, will play the royals, who beat houston in game 5 of their series, a re­match of the 1985 alcs. game 1 is Friday night in kansas city. 
“it doesn’t really matter, we’re just happy we’re going to the next round,” blue Jays slugger Josh donaldson said. “whoever we play is a very, very good opponent.” 
bautista’s homer capped an event-filled, 53-minute seventh inning that took a turn when Toronto catcher russell martin’s seemingly routine throw back to the pitcher deflected off bat­ter shin-soo choo and allowed the tiebreaking to score. 
“That was crazy,” blue Jays starter marcus stroman said. “with all that happened, we did a good job of keeping our emo­tions in check.” 
The blue Jays filed a protest after an umpire review ruled rougned odor was allowed to cross home plate. Toronto fans pelted the field with debris dur­ing the 18-minute delay. 
The rangers started the bot­tom half by making errors on three straight groundballs, and Toronto rallied. benches cleared twice in the blue Jays’ half of the inning. 
roberto osuna got the final five outs for his first postseason save. 
osuna turned toward the outfield after striking out wil venable, looked to the sky and was mobbed by his teammates as jubilant fans rocked the rogers centre. 



M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
will be a challenge. a slightly different challenge in each case, but the big thing is tak­ing it one at a time.” 
notre dame will first take on the hokies (5-5-2, acc 0-3-2), who have struggled to play with consistency this season. virginia Tech took out then-no. 10 Xavier in its third game of the season, but went on to lose or tie in six of its next nine games. clark said the record doesn’t really tell the story behind virginia Tech’s team. 
“They’re very athletic,” clark said. “They have a lot of germans, and they’re usual­ly a little bit older. i watched their game against clemson, and they played well against a clemson team who’s hav­ing a terrific season. all the teams in the acc are good, so you never have an easy team.” 
one of those mentioned german-born players is merlin baus, a sophomore midfielder who leads the team in scoring. baus, who came through the youth sys­tem of Fc schalke 04, has netted five goals and given out five assists on the year 
— three of his five goals are from the penalty spot. 
The last time notre dame won a game on the road against an acc opponent was against pittsburgh last season to close out the regu­lar season. clark said regard­less of record, winning on the road in the acc is difficult to accomplish, but it’s some­thing notre dame needs to get done. 
“it’s on the road, which al­ways makes things a little bit more difficult,” clark said. “but i think our guys are good with handling the trip. we need to get a win on the road in the acc. our previous games on the road, you know obviously the loss against unc, which we weren’t happy about. we tied it at nc state, so it’s time we start to win on the road in the acc.” 
in their last matchup against duke, notre dame sat comfortably on a 2-0 lead be­fore the blue devils stormed back and forced the game into overtime, where the irish pulled out the win on a golden goal by sophomore forward Jeffery Farina. on the road, the clark doesn’t want to see the team become complacent with the lead. 

“we take every game this year, and we take pieces of every game to see how we can improve out of it,” clark said. “we look at both of the goals [against duke], and there were a lot of things we did well in that game. we de­fended a little better in that game. we made better deci­sions coming out of the back that we didn’t make against michigan. There are definite­ly improvements, but other things like defending the cross ball maybe we could have done a little bit better on duke’s first goal. we look at a couple of things, and we try to get better every game.” 
in addition to ensuring the defense can prevent the op­position from mounting an unexpected comeback, clark said he would like to see more of his players get involved on offense. sophomore forward Jon gallagher is the acc’s leading scorer with seven goals, and the next closest scorers are freshman for­ward Thomas euland and senior midfielder patrick hodan, who are both tied at three. Two of hodan’s goals came during notre dame’s victory over duke saturday. 
“part of the forward’s job is getting into goal scoring position, so we can look to all four forwards to score, but we can look to a lot of people in our team that can score goals. so i’m hoping a few more guys can put their names on the scoring sheet,” clark said. 
notre dame will start its three-game road trip Friday as it travels to blacksburg, virginia to take on the hokies at 5:30 p.m. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 






Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
junior hockey for three years, so he’s probably a bit more ac­climated to it than a guy like [freshman left wing] dylan malmquist, who’s coming right out of high school hockey.” 
The irish are beginning their regular season during the first weekend of fall break, but se­nior captain and center steven Fogarty did not think the time of year would have an adverse effect on the team’s concentra­tion levels. 
“obviously a lot of guys had tests this week,” Fogarty said. “but come [Thursday] when we get to the rink and pack up the bus and we’re gone, we’ve got to start thinking about penn state.” 
Fogarty said the team has been practicing with raucous crowd noise piped into the ice rink in order to prepare for the hostile environment at penn state. 
“we practiced with the crowd noise and i think that put things into perspective,” Fogarty said. “you’ve got to yell if you really want to get to talking, but you also have to just read plays and see what’s there. That’s when your hockey sense takes over. everyone on this team is capa­ble of making those plays – it’s just a matter of executing under pressure with that noise.” 
Fogarty also said he is partic­ularly satisfied with the way the offense was progressing head­ing into the regular season, preaching the importance of good execution in their defen­sive zone to establish presence around the opponent’s net. 
“The offense is a product of how we come out of our zone,” Fogarty said. “we’re re­ally hammering that home in practice and i think it’s com­ing along. once you get those chances to be creative in the offensive zone, that’s where our skill and talent takes over, and there’s no lack of that on this team.” 
That talent will be put to the test Friday when the irish take on penn state in the first of back-to-back matchups at pegula ice arena at 7 p.m. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 




W Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
to approach the matchup as it 
would  any  other  conference  
game.  
“it’s  like  any  acc  game,”  

romagnolo said. “i think every­body’s competitive, and you got to show up and give your best per­formance [each game]. you have to click offensively, create chanc­es, and put them away. Then, ob­viously, we want to defend well and limit the opportunities that they have.” 
The defense has done just that as of late for the irish, as their efforts have led to consecutive shutouts of syracuse and boston college and a combined six shots against. The offense has also began to turn things around, as they’ve scored three goals in the last two games and totaled 39 shots, which is an improvement over the back-to­back shutouts the team suffered during a two-game skid that pre­ceded their current stretch. 
Following the game at wake Forest, the team will have just three regular season games re­maining. This includes a trip to the state of north carolina, where notre dame will battle no. 7 north carolina on oct. 22 before then taking on duke on oct. 25. The irish will then conclude their regular season oct. 30 when they welcome no. 12 virginia Tech to alumni stadium. 
with a big stretch run needed for the irish to make a push for the conference playoffs, romagnolo said it is important for her team to take each game one at a time and let the big picture take care of itself. 
“For us, every game is impor­tant,” romagnolo said. “we get up for each game as it comes, so right now the focus is on wake Forest. Then, we’re heading into fall break, which is nice because its a time they can relax a bit from the academics. Then we’ll be in [north] carolina together as a team, and at that point we’ll get focused on [north] carolina and duke. 
“but for right now we’ve got four games left in the acc. we want to finish strong and keep really de­veloping who we are as a team.” 
while their current standing in the conference might suggest otherwise, romagnolo said the irish are in a good position and continue to make strides towards their goal of postseason play. 
“i think we’re using every game to prepare us for the postseason, so the mentality is that we try to approach every game and put forth our best effort,” romagnolo said. 
notre dame will next take the pitch when it welcomes wake Forest to alumni stadium on Friday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 


The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Lujack 
conTinued From page 16 
and put mines over these barriers and stuff and blow the place up,” lujack said. “and people would say, ‘wow, that is really something.’ 
“i said, ‘well, don’t get too excited about it, because i never got in the water down there [in Fort pierce]. i was there to play football.” 
lujack said he played on the navy’s football and bas­ketball teams during his time in the service, touring the country and playing in front of crowds of military men. 
lujack, in his time on the gridiron at notre dame, played defensive back, run­ning back, punter, kicker and quarterback. in his first year as a sophomore in 1943 — freshmen couldn’t play varsity back then — he backed up notre dame’s first heisman trophy winner, angelo bertelli, until bertelli was drafted into the marines six games into a 10-game season. 
lujack stepped in for the remaining four games and threw for 525 yards and four touchdowns, also finishing the season with 191 yards on the ground, leading the eventual national champi­ons to victories over no. 3 army, no. 8 northwestern and no. 2 iowa pre-Flight. 
yet lujack also starred in other sporting arenas as well: on the basketball court, the baseball diamond and on the track squad, where he high-jumped and threw javelin. during lujack’s sophomore year in 1943-44, he accom­plished what no notre dame athlete has since: winning monograms in four sports in a single school year. 
“i just did it because i wanted to be in sports,” lujack said of his 1943-1944 academic year. “i don’t think i could have sat out and watched other people do it. i wanted to do it because as a kid i was playing baseball and track and stuff like that. i was a pole-vaulter in high school, let alone high jump and javelin. 
“but pole vaulting i was not very good at: i could clear about 11 [feet] six [inches], but that was about it.” 
lujack said it never oc­curred to him not to play the other sports. 
“i just thought it was the thing to do,” he said. “if i didn’t go out for these oth­er sports, what would i do? probably studying, and that wouldn’t have been so good a deal.” 


upon his return from the navy, lujack accom­plished his most well-known achievement by guiding back-to-back irish teams to undefeated, national cham­pionship seasons, giving him a title in all three years he was eligible to play. 
no other quarterback in college football history has three national champion­ships as a starter, regard­less of whether he had three years of eligibility or four. 
yet for lujack’s offensive prowess, the biggest play he made during the 1946 game against army at yankee stadium to preserve a 0-0 tie was a defensive one. doc blanchard, who had won the 1945 heisman, broke free down the left sidelines. lujack, at defensive back and representing the only man between blanchard and the end zone, snared the big man around the ankles. The de­fense proceeded to hold the army offense and keep the game scoreless. 
“well i’m glad i made that tackle, because i did not think that i’d played a very good game that day,” lujack said. “i got hurt on Thursday in practice, i sprained an ankle. … when we got there and had that Friday practice, 
paid adverTisemenT 

[leahy] had me punting with perspective on his time at my right leg, and that’s the notre dame. one i hurt and it felt alright if “you can like notre dame it was taped up real good. so while you’re here, but when he said, ‘okay, he can play.’ you leave here, you start lov­
“so i played 60 minutes.” ing it.” 
now the oldest living heisman winner at 90, Contact Zach Klonsinski at lujack said he has gained zklonsin@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUSTADDWATER | eric carlson and John roddy 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: don’t dwell on the past. live in the moment and make the most efficient moves to guide you into the future. use your skills, intellect and experience to make the changes that will bring you the greatest happiness. shake things up and don’t fear what others think or say. it’s your life and it’s time you started living it. your numbers are 2, 13, 22, 27, 34, 38, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): listen to someone you respect and you will gain the momentum to do your own thing. learn from past experiences and make the changes that will improve your life. it’s time to shake things up and take on new challenges. embrace the future. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): professional connections will be able to help you advance. romance is in the stars, and socializing will spark interest in a change of location or developing a long-distance relationship. emotions will escalate. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): being too opinionated will lead to an unfortunate misunderstanding. don’t let anger take over when you should be directing physical efforts into improvements. diplomacy will be necessary if you want to convince others to do things your way. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): stop pontificating and start practicing. make personal and professional changes that will fit your current plans. don’t worry about complainers if realistic suggestions aren’t being offered. Follow your intuition and success will be yours. do something special for someone you love. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): your ability to outtalk and outmaneuver others will put you in a key position. Tell it like it is and do what you have to do to reach your goals. Take on a challenge and you’ll impress someone of influence. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): back away politely if someone is demanding. put some pressure on the people who need to do their fair share, and it will happen. an event or activity that interests you deserves your undivided attention. do what’s best for you. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Try something new and you will meet someone you enjoy spending time with. don’t limit the possibilities by sticking around someone who brings you down. venture into new territory and see what transpires. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): beef up your resume or find a new creative outlet that has the potential to bring in a few extra dollars. good fortune can be yours if you allow your imagination to wander and your talents to expand in new directions. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you’ll face opposition if you exaggerate your qualifications. a problem with someone you are close to will set you back if you have promised to get involved in a joint venture. stick close to home and avoid dealing with institutions. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t give in to someone using emotional manipulation. protect your assets and possessions and be prepared to say no if necessary. Trust only in the things that you know to be factual. love is highlighted. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): make your money work for you. you can sign contracts, move money around or invest in something that will help you alter an agreement that no longer fits your current situation. speak up and make things happen. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Find out what’s expected of you before you accept help. someone will try to steal your thunder or take credit for something you did all by yourself. protect your rights and present the facts. don’t commit to anything or anyone. 


Birthday Baby: You are intuitive, intelligent and sensitive. You are unpredictable, engaging and thoughtful. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 





make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
enclosed is $75 for one semester
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city state Zip 

The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
WAKING THE ECHOES | Johnny luJack 
Lujack reflects on collegiate career 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports editor 
notre dame was a much different place in the 1940s. 
women were not admit­ted to the university and wouldn’t be welcomed on campus as students for an­other three decades. 
Theodore hesburgh was ordained as a holy cross priest in 1943, joined the notre dame faculty in 1947 and wouldn’t become presi­dent of the university until 1952. 
and Johnny lujack was leading notre dame to a trio of national champion­ships while collecting the program’s second heisman Trophy. 
born in connellsville, pennsylvania, in the heart of coal country, lujack said he always dreamed of playing at notre dame. 
“i always knew about notre dame. i mean i loved notre dame the first time i ever heard the name,” lujack said. 
lujack described sitting around the family’s philco radio — another example of the changing times — bent over and listening to every notre dame game. he said he would love to go to notre dame, but didn’t think it was even a possibility. 
That was, until a man named henry opperman alerted a notre dame scout in pittsburgh about lujack. lujack said he got a try-out on campus under the watch­ful eye of then-head coach Frank leahy, and the next day he got a scholarship offer. 
“if it hadn’t been for that henry opperman to take an interest in me, i would never have gone to notre dame, because i was not [previ­ously] offered a scholarship,” lujack said. 
lujack said campus when he first got there “looked like holy ground.” 
lujack shone on the grid­iron for the irish in 1943 be­fore joining the navy the next year during the height of world war ii. 
“i told everybody that i was stationed at Fort pierce, Florida, where they taught you to be part of an underwa­ter demolition team that was going to go in at normandy, and you had to go underwater 
see luJack PAGE 14 


MEN’S SOCCER 
nd begins road trip 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
no. 7 notre dame will travel on a crucial road trip in the next week as the sec­ond half of the season gets into full swing. The irish (8-2-3, acc 3-1-1) will travel to virginia Tech on Friday, Toyota park in bridgeview, illinois, on Tuesday to take on northwestern and to winston-salem, north carolina, on oct. 23 to take on no. 5 wake Forest. 
despite getting set to take on the one of the toughest stretches on the schedule, irish head coach bobby clark is confident in the team’s ability to evade the pressure and play their game. 
“you just take them one at a time,” clark said. “i think that’s the most important thing. They’re all very tal­ented teams, so each one 
see m soccer PAGE 12 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

notre dame looks to build on winning streak 
By BEN PADANILAM 
sports writer 
no. 14 notre dame gets set for its last four conference matches of the season this week, as its stretch begins with a home game against wake Forest on Friday. 
The irish (10-3-1, 3-3-0 acc) ride a two-game winning streak heading into the match, but they currently sit in 9th place in the conference. however, the team is also one of six teams in the acc currently ranked in the top 15 nationally. 
That conference depth will once again be on display Friday, when the irish take on the demon deacons (4-9-2, 1-5-0). despite their 12th place standing in the conference, the demon deacons are fresh off of a tight 1-0 loss to no. 2 virginia. additionally, they defeated a miami team 3-0 ear­lier this season that stole a win from the irish just two weeks ago. 
still, irish head coach Theresa romagnolo said her team needs 
see w soccer PAGE 13 


HOCKEY 

Irish to open regular season 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writer 
notre dame opens its regu­lar season away from home for the first time since 2012 this weekend, when it pays a visit to university park, pennsylvania, to face off against penn state in a pair of games at pegula ice arena. 
The irish are coming off a pair of preseason contests against canadian foe guelph, whom they beat 7-5 Friday, and the united states under-18 national Team, whom they tied 2-2. irish head coach Jeff Jackson said he isn’t worried about the prospect of starting the regular season on the road. 
“it’s good for us,” Jackson said. “i don’t have a problem going on the road [to start the season].” 
Jackson described the up­start penn state team, who like the irish are starting the season just on the bubble of the top 25, as a physical, hard-checking program — a type of team he thinks his players have strug­gled against in the past. 
“it’s going to be a real tough environment; it’s not going to be an easy weekend,” Jackson said. “we’re going to have our hands full on both ends of the ice. we’re going to play another gritty team a week later, so we have to learn to win games like this. These are games where we’ve had problems against umass-lowell in the past, or northeastern — these are teams that are a little grittier, a little tougher. … we’ve got to learn to get over that hump. i’m not yet sure how the young guys are going to handle that.” 
when asked about just how he teaches his new players to adapt to the physicality of the collegiate game, Jackson said his methods change depending on the player. 
“it varies from guy to guy,” Jackson said.  “you’ve got a guy like [freshman center] andrew oglevie who has been playing 

see hockey PAGE 13 



