The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 82 | thursday, february 5, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ricketts-ruelas to serve as president, VP 
Large number of abstentions result in winning ticket garnering only 51 percent of the vote 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
associate news editor 
campaign season for stu­dent body president and vice president ended wednesday night as Judicial council an­nounced that juniors bryan ricketts and nidia ruelas had defeated sophomores neil Joseph and noemi ventilla by 351 votes. 
according to Judicial council, ricketts and ruelas garnered 1,908 votes, which came out to approximately 51 percent. Joseph and ventilla received 1,557 votes or 41.62 percent of the vote, while 276 or 7.38 percent of voters ab­stained, up from 5.1 percent who abstained in the 2014 election. 
overall, 3,741 students voted in the election, with a voter participation rate of 45 percent, consistent with the results of last year’s election. 
michael masi, class of 2014, former president of Judicial council, said in an interview last year that a ticket must have a minimum of 50 per­cent of the vote to prevent the election from going to a runoff. 
last year, neither the vidal-devine ticket nor the lamagna-andresen ticket re­ceived a majority, and so an­other election was held five days later. despite earning 
see elecTion PaGe 5 



heritage dinner 


Film festival promotes peace 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news writer 


celebrates smc 
The eighth annual screenpeace Film Festival will show five critical­ly acclaimed films in the browning cinema this weekend from Thursday to saturday. 
The screenings are pre­sented by the kroc institute for international peace studies and the debartolo performing arts center (dpac). Ted barron, senior 



By MATTHEW McKENNA 
news writer 
“This is the most formal event 
Theoretical particle physi-


By KELLY KONYA 
saint mary’s editor of the week, where students have 
cist patrick Fox from Fermilab 

associate director of dpac, said the festival features a broad selection of films that reflect a range of global in­terests. he said this year’s films examine social is­sues and political events in 
cambodia,  syria,  nigeria,  
vietnam  and  the  former  
soviet union.  

“The screenpeace Film Festival is designed to high­light films which draw atten­tion to peace building efforts both in the united states and around the world,” barron said. 
hal culbertson, executive director of the kroc institute, said the festival provides at­tendees a unique opportu­nity to see films otherwise 
unavailable  in  national  
theaters.  
“screenpeace  is  an  at­ 

tempt to bring a number of new documentary films to campus,” he said. “we try to bring films that we think both students and faculty 
see peace PaGe 4 


Expert considers dark matter 
up extensions of the standard model that experiments can look for, or if experimenters have seen things that don’t 
Fox said the standard model remains a powerful tool that explains most natural phe­nomena by defining the el­ementary particles of matter, 
the chance to attend a nicer meal 
served as the keynote speak-

The heritage dinner brought than the average dining hall din­
er for a physics department 

together saint mary’s students, ner and to meet other members of 
colloquium that focused on 

faculty and alumnae to share in the saint mary’s community who 
evidence for dark matter’s 

food and friendship in stapleton share in the college’s sisterhood,” 
existence and the means by 

lounge of le mans hall on prezek said. 
which the scientific commu­

wednesday evening. The dinner featured various 
nity could learn more about its 

but it is far from perfect or 
all-encompassing. although 
this model explains things ob­
served at the sub-nuclear level, 
Fox said these particles should 
all be massless, a very different 
world from the one present. 

sarah prezek, senior and stu-members of the saint mary’s com-
properties in the future. 
“There’s an explanation for 

dent government association munity as “special guests,” among 
“i’m a theorist in particu-that problem,” he said. “There’s 
(sga) mission chair, said the event assistant director of alumnae 
lar,” Fox said. “i am beyond the make sense, i can try to inter-a particle that is 
is one of the best-loved traditions 
standard model theorist, so pret it and build models that 
of heritage week at saint mary’s. see heriTage PaGe 5 
my day-to-day job is to think explain those observations.” see physics PaGe 5 

news PaGe 4 viewpoinT PaGe 7 scene PaGe 9 men’s baskeTball PaGe 16 women’s baskeTball PaGe 16 




ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson                       Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 

possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 

expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


News 
carolyn hutyra kayla mullen Jp gschwind 
Graphics 
mary mcgraw 
Photo 
wei lin 

Sports 
Zach klonsinski christine mayuga 
Scene 
caelin miltko 

Viewpoint 
rex shannon 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Have you ever been skiing or snowboarding, and, if so, which is your favorite? 

Austin Hickman 

Matt Bayer 
junior 
sophomore 
dylan hall 
duncan hall 
“yes, both are my favorite.” 
“i like skiing better.” 


Want your event included here? 
Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 



THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Hana Jenks 
freshman 
pasquerilla east 
“yes both, but i like skiing better.” 



Meg Hunt 
freshman 
pasquerilla east 
“i like snowboarding better.” 

Kristen Lombardo 
sophomore 
lyons hall 

“both, but i like skiing better.” 


Shannon Noonan 
senior 
off-campus 
“i have been skiing and like skiing more.” 
Thursday  Friday  Saturday  Sunday  Monday  
“When Will We Find  Labor Cafe  Men’s and Women’s  Tennis Match  Chilli Cook-Off  
Extraterrestrial  Snite Museum of Art  Swimming and Diving  Eck Tennis Pavillion  Harper Hall  
Life?”  4:30 p.m. - 5:30 p.m.  Rolf’s Aquatic Center  10 a.m. - 12 p.m.  3 p.m. - 5 p.m.  
Jordan Hall of Science  Artistic  12 p.m. - 2 p.m.  Men’s tennis takes on  $10/person. Proceeds  
12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m.  representations of  Both teams compete  Ball State.  to Benefit ND Relay for  
Lecture with Dr. Seth  work and workers.  against Cleveland  Life.  
Shostak.  State.  
Basketball Game  Tennis Match  Saturday Vigil Mass  Mass in Spanish  “The University,  
Purcell Pavilion  Eck Tennis Pavillion  Basilica of the Sacred  Dillon Hall Chapel  Theology, and the  
7 p.m. - 9 p.m.  5 p.m. - 7 p.m.  Heart  1:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m.  Curriculum”  
Women’s team takes  Women’s tennis takes  5 p.m. - 6 p.m.  Worship Service.  Geddes Hall  
on Virginia.  on Stanford.  Worship service.  7 p.m. - 8 p.m.  
Lecture.  


Corrections 

The observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. we do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. if we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


ndsmcobserver.com | thursday, february 5, 2015 | The observer 

Club supports Special Olympic athletes 
By MADISON JAROS 
news writer 
The motto of special olympics notre dame reads, “let me win. but if i cannot win, let me be brave in the attempt,” a phrase club vice president and senior andrew hosbein said describes the club’s mission well. 
“you hear the vince lombardi quote, ‘winning isn’t everything, it’s the only thing,’ and from that you take sports to be ultra-competitive, which they are 
– who doesn’t want to win?” hosbein said. “yet, at the same time, one must be com­fortable that they tried their best, and that’s what we try encourage through the club at notre dame.” 
special olympics notre dame, founded in 2010, con­nects students with members of the south bend community with intellectual disabilities. 
club co-president and se­nior molly reidy said rela­tionships between students and special olympic ath­letes develop through par­ticipation in sports. pick-up basketball, swimming and ice-skating are some of the largest events the club plans throughout the year, she said. 
“one of the biggest things i think is important to know about our club is that we’re not an event on campus, but we’re a club that plans events year around,” reidy said. 
The club also plans a special olympics soccer pro­gram, unified soccer, each spring, reidy said. 
hosbein said unified soccer provides students and athletes with an opportunity to play on a team together. 
“what i think is really unique about unified is the participation on the part of the notre dame and saint mary’s students,” reidy said. “They are able to get involved 


“... We are not only bridging the gap between the Notre Dame community and the South Bend community, but also bridging the gap between those with and without disabilities.” 
Molly Reidy 
co-president 
Special Olympics Notre Dame 
rather than just standing on the sideline and giving point­ers. and i think that’s really valuable not only for the stu­dents, but also the athletes. They feel like they’re a part of an actual team and aren’t 
paid adverTisemenT 
just being instructed on how to get better. while that’s certainly a goal, the cama­raderie that the students and athletes develop is special.” 
unified soccer didn’t have any local teams like it to play against when it began, but club co-president and senior laura gardner said the pop­ularity of the program has since grown to include away games in michigan. The in­volvement between club members and athletes pro­vides students with a sense of pride as they see athletes im­prove and develop, gardner said. 
“volunteers learn to be adaptable to the kids, and in the end, after a whole season of soccer practices, it’s amaz­ing to see children that you work with actually develop day by day in terms of skills and maturity,” gardner said. “we had our first unified soccer practice today, and one of the kids from last year was directing a new kid this year and saying, ‘This is what i learned last year; this is how you should incorpo­rate it.’ … so that was really cool.” 
The connection between the city of south bend and special olympics notre dame benefits those with disabilities and their fami­lies while also popping the “notre dame bubble,” reidy said. 


“i think the fact that we are not only bridging the gap be­tween the notre dame com­munity and the south bend community, but also bridg­ing the gap between those with and without disabili­ties – i think it goes hand-in­hand really well,” reidy said. “we’re not only being ex­posed to these athletes and what they’re capable of, but we’re being exposed to their families and the ways the athletes and their families find joy. and they find op­portunity through our club through the events that we hold, which i think is really rewarding.” 
This spring, special olympics notre dame will also participate in ‘spread the word to end the word,’ a national campaign to end the casual use of the word “retarded,” reidy said. 
“it’s important to take time away from school, which can become all-consuming with work, friends and social life, finding a job – and return the favor,” hosbein said. “it’s grounding and has engen­dered a sense of humility, and to me, there’s nothing better than seeing how excit­ed an athlete gets after hit­ting a three or scoring a goal. 
“at the core, sports are about competition, but special olympics has shown me that making others hap­py by playing and teaching them skills can be just as sat­isfying as winning.” 

Contact Madison Jaros at  mjaros@nd.edu 

student GoVernment weekly uPdate 



The observer | thursday, february 5, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 




Conferences highlight undergraduate research 
By ANNETTE SAYRE 
news writer 
notre dame’s center for undergraduate scholarly engagement (cuse) will ac­cept abstracts until march 20th from students who wish to participate in the annu­al undergraduate scholars conference (usc) and the college of science Joint annual meeting (cos-Jam). 
The conferences, scheduled for may 1 in debartolo hall, are open to students from notre dame, holy cross and saint mary’s. all undergradu­ates are invited to participate in research presentations, critical analyses and creative endeavors on topics ranging from engineering to humani­ties to business. 
senior dan courtney, civil engineering major and two-time conference participant, said the conferences provide opportunities for under­graduate students to expand their experiences outside the classroom. 
“i feel like this event is a real strong point for notre dame as a whole,” courtney said. “it is one of the reasons i decided to come here. notre dame puts substantial resources into its undergraduate education, and a lot of professors take on several undergrads. 
“at a lot of other schools, students are just watching for four years and taking it all in. notre dame offers the unique opportunity of allowing un­dergraduate students to jump in and start their research early.” 
according to the cuse website, the conference is an chance to share research and hear both constructive feed­back and insightful questions. research allows students to use the critical skills they’ve developed in the classroom to ask new questions, make discoveries and contribute to global conversations that can have a real-world impact. 
“That’s what it really is – it’s sharing,” courtney said. “presenting at the confer­ence will make your research stronger because you need to be able to clearly and sim­ply communicate your ideas. it exposes your research to criticism, which will ulti­mately make it stronger. most students who are really good at research aren’t always good at communicating that re­search — marketing it, if you will.” 
Junior lily kang, an information -technolog y management and sociology double-major, said the confer­ences help students take their research to the next level. 
“The conference created an intimate setting in which i felt comfortable holding discussions on my research topic with the audience as well as sharing my person­al thoughts,” kang said. “in addition, the conference was truly interdisciplinary, and it was enlightening for me to learn about my fellow stu­dents’ research projects across all different disciplines.” 
courtney said he would en­courage all students to stop by the conference to learn about students’ various research projects. 
“it’s so cool seeing your friends in that setting,” he said. “you know your friends in one environment, and then to go hear them talk about their research and be amazingly complex is … fascinating.” 
More information about the USC and COS-JAM can be found on the CUSE website at http://undergradresearch. nd.edu/USC/ 


Contact Annette Sayre at  asayre@nd.edu 

smc alumnae give advice at business panel discussion 
By KIERA JOHNSEN 
news writer 
saint mary’s college alum­nae shared their stories of business education and career success during the alumni women in business panel dis­cussion wednesday in spes unica. The panel offered ad­vice to students interested in or majoring in accounting, business or management in­formation systems on potential career paths available to them after graduation. 
director of finance at logan community resources allison James (‘08) said students who are struggling to pick a major should consider participating in a variety of core classes and activities. 
“get involved in absolutely everything you have time to do,” she said. “don’t overload yourself, but you will learn a lot about what you are good at and you will learn different skills in different kinds of activities.” 
operations auditor at 1st source bank, bethany panting (‘12), said first years should should not feel rushed to de­cide their major. 
“Take your time in choosing your major as a first year, you don’t have to come in thinking i’m going to do this,” she said. “Find what you really like be­cause you work for the rest of your life. Find something you really enjoy.” 
breighan boeskool (‘02), in­vestment operations special­ist at the university of notre dame, said networking is es­sential when progressing in any career. 
“saint mary’s has a great net­work,” boeskool said. “if you get to go to the happy hours, any sort of event that has pro­fessionals from the area or any­thing you think you might be interested in, don’t be afraid to just go up, introduce yourself and talk to them and make that connection … that process of networking that’s what helped get my feet on the ground.” 
James said joining clubs and going to activities is a great way to build a network. 
“when i was in school, i had no idea that pretty much every club i was involved in or activ­ity i went to i was networking,” she said. “six years, seven years down the line i am still talking to those people, and all those people are in business too. its amazing the connections you make just talking to people.” 
boeskel said students inter­ested in those business-related fields should consider taking an introduction to databases course. 
“i think in today’s day in age, where business is going, a work­ing knowledge of databases is absolutely essential ... manage­ment, finance and accounting are all about big data, every single firm,” she said. “The way we search the internet, the way we look for numbers, the way we check numbers, the way we are able to make decisions or if we want to make decisions on a moments notice.” 
students should learn good communication and organiza­tion skills, boeskel said. 
“it’s one thing to understand your job; it’s then another thing to be able to communicate the ideas of how you can further your projects and goals by pre­senting in an articulate way to the rest of the team and that is almost as important as know­ing the items themselves,” she said. 
Contact Kiera Johnsen at  kjohns02@saintmarys.edu 

Peace 
conTinued From page 1 
will be interested in that also address peace and con­flict issues from around the world.” 
This year’s screenpeace Festival features five docu­mentaries that utilize a va­riety of filmmaking styles to convey themes of peace and nonviolence. Faculty mem­bers will lead discussions immediately following each film. 
“our opening film, ‘The missing picture,’ mixes to­gether file footage of the cambodian genocide, of which there is very little, with clay figurines to cap­ture the filmmakers’ mem­ories,” culbertson said. “it was up for an academy award last year and provides an interesting look at the khmer rouge in cambodia.” 
both culbertson and barron said they are also ex­cited to show “The man who saved the world,” a hybrid documentary that recounts the story of a soviet official credited with helping avert a third world war. 
“‘The man who saved the world’ is a documentary, but it uses a lot of narrative reenactments of the origi­nal event to create an inter­esting effect,” culbertson said. “we’re very pleased to be hosting the producers of the film, mark romeo and christian bruun, who will introduce their piece.” 
“The missing picture” will be shown Thursday night at 7 p.m. The festival contin­ues Friday at 6:30 p.m. with “return to homs,” the story of a teenager’s fight to protect the captive inhabitants of the besieged city of homs, syria. Then, at 9:30 p.m. on Friday, screenpeace will show “The supreme price,” a political thriller detailing the story of the family of nigeria’s 1993 president, m.k.o. abiola. 
saturday’s screenings be­gin with “The man who saved the world” at 6:30 p.m. followed by “The last day in vietnam,” a film chronicling the final days of u.s. involve­ment in the vietnam war, at 
9:30p.m. 
The film festival augments students’ classroom experi­ences by providing addition­al perspectives on historical and modern events related to peace studies, culbertson said. oftentimes, professors with the kroc institute inte­grate the documentaries into their curriculums. 
“i think the main purpose [of the film festival] is to en­hance classroom learning with films that bring reali­ties from around the world to our students and faculty,” culbertson said. “it’s an en­hancement to learning from books. Films have the ability to transcend the classroom and provide a window to the rest of the world.” 
although  tickets  to  
screenpeace  are  free,  
culbertson  said  students  

should reserve seats ahead of time to ensure admittance. last year, for the first time in the festival’s history, every seat for every film was re­served beforehand. 
“we have received over­whelmingly positive reac­tions to the festival,” barron said. “students are hungry to learn about ways that they can make a difference in the world. The films we present provide an avenue for them to better understand the world at large.” 
Tickets can be reserved over the phone, at the box office or online at performingarts.nd.edu. 
Contact Katie Galioto at  kgalioto@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | thursday, february 5, 2015 | The observer 




election 
conTinued From page 1 
more votes than the Joseph­ventilla ticket, had ricketts and ruelas failed to meet the requirement of a 50 percent majority, this year’s election would have proceeded to a runoff. 
reflecting on the week, ruelas, the vice-president elect, said she had most en­joyed speaking to potential constituents and friends who had helped on the campaign. 
“i’m just incredibly hum­bled by this whole experi­ence,” ruelas said. “i’ve met some of the most incredible people on campus through­out this whole time, and it’s reinforced some of the best friendships i’ve made in my entire life. Thank you to ev­eryone who came out. every single vote counted, and it was — there’s no words.” 
ricketts, who will serve as president, described his and ruelas’s campaign as a group effort. like ruelas, he also described meeting with stu­dents as a high point of the campaign experience. 
“we definitely want to thank our friends and supporters who worked so hard for this, it definitely wouldn’t have happened without them,” ricketts said. “it’s been great, over the past week, meet­ing with so many people on campus and already getting to start sharing their vision. we’ve had so many good con­versations about the items on our platform and about things that aren’t even on there.” 
when asked, Joseph said he and ventilla, sophomore class council treasurer and president, respectively, would not pursue offices in the Junior class council for the upcoming school year, but he said they hope to find ways to implement the ideas from their platform in other ways. 
“we’re still really pas­sionate about our ideas and the things we set out to do, and we think these things will be beneficial for all stu­dents,” Joseph said. “we’re not thinking about next year or anything like that, but we really want to get these things done. we’re going to try — we don’t know how at this point 
— right now we’re just pro­cessing things and looking forward.” 
moving forward, ricketts said in the next few weeks he and ruelas will focus on putting together a staff and cabinet. 
“That is definitely the prior­ity,” he said. “Finding people who are just as passionate as we are will be crucial to mak­ing sure we can be effective next year.” 
ricketts and ruelas offi­cially take office april 1. 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 


plane crashes in Taiwan river 
Associated Press 
Taipei, Taiwan — a pilot of Transasia airways Flight 235 said “mayday, mayday, engine flameout” moments before the propjet banked sharply and crashed into a river, an avia­tion official said Thursday, but declined to comment on a pos­sible cause for the accident. 
engine flameout refers to flames being extinguished in the combustion chamber of the engine, so that it shuts down and no longer drives the propel­ler. causes of a flameout could include a lack of fuel or being struck by volcanic ash, a bird or some other object. “mayday” is an international emergency call. 
video images of the plane’s final moments in the air cap­tured on car dashboard cam­eras appear to show the left engine’s propeller at standstill as the aircraft turned sharply over Taipei, with its wings going vertical and clipping a highway bridge before plunging into the keelung river on wednesday. 
at least 31 people on board were killed, and 15 people were injured, including a toddler and his father. The search contin­ued for 12 people still missing. 
an audio recording of the pilot’s communications with the control tower at takeoff and during the minutes-long flight were widely broadcast. a Taiwan civil aeronautical administration official who de­clined to be named confirmed the distress call and its wording Thursday, but did not say how it might relate to a cause for the crash. 
about 10 Taipei fire agency divers were looking for any more bodies that may be at the cold river bottom. a crane was used to bring the rear section of the plane to the shore wednesday night. The fuselage was largely dismantled by hydraulic rescue tools and now lay alongside re­covered luggage. 
at midday Thursday, about a dozen relatives of Taiwanese victims arrived at the river­bank in the capital to perform traditional mourning ritu­als. accompanied by buddhist monks ringing brass bells, they bowed to the river and held aloft cloth inscriptions tied to pieces of bamboo meant to guide the spirits of the dead to rest. 
[police diver cheng ying­chih] said the front of the plane had broken into numerous piec­es, making the job difficult. 
Physics 
conTinued From page 1 

responsible for giving the other particles their mass, and that is the higgs-boson particle. The higgs boson was the last piece of the standard model to be discovered, and with it’s discovery, all the phe­nomenon in the natural world could seemingly be explained.” 
even after the discovery of the higgs-boson particle, Fox said a lot of exciting physics remains to be done, such as re­search on the mysterious dark sector. 
“we like to think we’re do­ing a good job of explaining the phenomenon that can be ob­served,” he said. “it turns out, once you dig into it, that we can only explain roughly 5 percent of everything. 
“This other 95 percent is broken up into two categories. There’s stuff that behaves with respect to gravity just like the matter that makes up you and me, known as dark matter, and then there’s dark energy, which is very different than matter and dark matter in that it is not affected by gravity. dark energy is what’s responsible for the ex­pansion of the universe speed­ing up.” 
Fox said the explanation for dark matter’s mysterious name is intuitive in comparison to the rest of the dark sector. 
“dark matter gravitates and attracts matter in the same 
heritage 
conTinued From page 1 

relations shay Jolly, director of campus ministry Judy Fean, vice president for enrollment management mona bowe and assistant director of phonathon kelly courington, prezek said. 
also on the guest-list were a number of sisters from the congregation of holy cross, in­cluding professor of english sr. eva hooker and sr. veronique wiedower, current president of the congregation, who delivered the keynote address, prezek said. 
after a three-course meal, sr. wiedower gave a presentation called “belles Then and now” on the history of the college. prezek said the presentation included a slideshow of photos from past stu­dents and places on campus that have changed drastically through the years. 
senior madison maidment said this was her favorite part of the event, as she learned more about the college than she knew before. 
“my favorite picture shown during sister’s presentation was of an equestrian competition in way that you or i do, but more importantly, they don’t feel the affects of photons,” he said. “light does not reflect off them, and dark matter and photons do not interact.” 
although dark matter cer­tainly exists, Fox said modern physicists still have questions to answer. 
“we know that everyone in this room is made out of mat­ter and not antimatter, but the laws that govern the standard model are symmetric,” he said. “if you replaced everything in this room with antimatter, it would behave in exactly the same way. we don’t know why there’s only matter inside us and zero antimatter.” 
The evidence for and against explanations of dark matter can 
front of le mans hall,” maidment said. “sister said the green field in front of the building that we know as ‘alumnae green’ used to be used for horseback-riding by the students back in the day.” 
after the presentation, students mingled with other guests and were encouraged to share in their “saint mary’s heritage” from the “past,presentand intothefuture,” prezek said. 
“i think one of the most suc­cessful parts of the dinner was that students were able to just sit with sisters at their tables and get to know them,” prezek said. “it’s so important for current students to realize how much the sisters do and have done for the college through the years, and having that solidarity with them is one of the best parts of attending saint mary’s.” 
senior nora clougherty said she was also thankful for the op­portunity to socialize with the sisters. 
“i loved getting the chance to talk to some of the sisters because they are such wonderful women,” clougherty said. “sharing stories with them was so great, and the presentation of ‘belles Then and be confusing, and Fox said this means it’s time to start work­ing to make the evidence more consistent. 
“dark matter is one thing we know for sure that is not ex­plained by the standard model, but we know for sure it’s out there,” he said. “we don’t know more than that, but we have some good ideas that we are working on to try and squeeze all the information out of all the avenues of attack that we have. 
“There have been a lot of recent advances both on the theoretical front and the ex­perimental front. The coming decade will be a very exciting time for particle physics.” 
Contact Matthew McKenna at mmcken12@nd.edu 
now’ was awesome to see how much saint mary’s has grown and to see how much it still remains the same.” 
There more events scheduled this week will further showcase saint mary’s heritage and tradi­tions. a poetry reading is sched­uled for Thursday at 6 p.m. in cushwa-leighton library, where prezek said students and profes­sors will read poems that address the theme of saint mary’s. some poems date as far back as 1892 from the college’s earliest publi­cations, she said. 
at 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. Thursday, there will be tours of the heritage room in the convent. 
“The tour is a great way for stu­dents to learn more about the sis­ters – the people who founded the college and made it into the place it is today,” prezek said. 
The week’s events conclude Friday with a trivia game during lunch in noble Family dining hall, where students can win a variety of prizes based on heritage and history questions about saint mary’s. 
Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 




The observer | thursday, february 5, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
InsIde Column 

microsoft’s hololens 
Lucy Du 
news writer 

along with the release of updates to windows 10 os last month, microsoft also announced the release of hololens later this year. For those unaware of this exciting new technology, hololens is es­sentially a step up from google glass. 
it is a pair of glasses that uses the holo­graphic computing platform of windows 10 to integrate reality with digital con­tent. This means that the hololens can translate the 2-d blueprint of a building into a 3-d holographic model, and the user can use hand gestures to interact with the hologram. if this reminds you of Tony stark working on his iron man armor, then you are thinking in the right direction. it is important to note the hololens cannot project holograms into the physical space for displays. 
if you have stayed up to date with the rollout of google glass, you’ll know it was a flop. not only was the technology not ready for the public, the infrastruc­ture required for the glasses to function the way it was meant to also was not there. google glass was so unsuccess­ful, it was recently pulled from produc­tion. now, google is known to engage in unrealistic business models that hold tremendous future value; like when they offered goog – 411 for free while all other 411 services charged a fee. This proved to be a valuable venture when voice recognition technology develop­ment required large datasets of human voices. so it is possible that google glass was just a test during which google col­lected important user data. 
Then how is the microsoft hololens supposed to overcome the difficulties google glass faced? To be frank, i do not know. Those lucky enough to try out the hololens have not commented on the shortcomings of such a device. but it is clear that the hololens has some significant implications for our future, especially in the gaming world. The hololens can scan the physical environ­ment and digitally formulate the game environment according to the surround­ing physical. This will allow the gamer to interact with his or her setting, creating a much more realistic experience. 
The possibilities for the hololens are endless, but one problem it currently does not address is the connectivity be­tween devices. while you can be fully immersed in the augmented reality created by hololens, the user is inca­pable of sharing that world with others. This was also something google glass lacked; there were no social aspects to the device and users could not sync with each other. That being said, it would not be hard for either device to adopt a so­cial network created by the third party developer. 
Contact Lucy Du at ydu5@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Facing the unknown 

Scott Boyle 
The sincere seeker 

i don’t know how many people remember their first crush, but i remember mine like it was yesterday. her name was natalie and i liked her for all of my eighth-grade year. 
maybe i’m just odd, but crushes, for me, have been some of the most confusing and difficult times in my life. let me explain, using natalie as an example. 
i don’t think it would be an exaggeration to say that, on one hand, the “crush” gave me superpowers. i had enor­mous amounts of energy when i woke up in the morning to go to school.  of course, i was pumped not for classes, but for the opportunity to see natalie. This excitement for school, in any sense, was probably no short of a miracle for an eighth-grade boy. 
also, my body developed an amazing sense of radar location and peripheral vision. once natalie had entered a room, there was no losing her. needless to say, i didn’t want to appear creepy, so i spent a lot of time looking out of the corners of my eyes, mostly to see if i would ever have a chance to talk with her. 
Further, i developed a great ability to hold many strands of information in my head, all at the same time. mostly, however, this information took the form of ques­tions. “is now a good time to talk to her? should i say hel­lo? will she think i’m silly? do i look cool enough? should i take off my glasses?” i think it was during this time that i realized the prodigious speeds at which the human mind can move. 
but these questions also give great insight into why that crush was such a struggle for me. when i led with my heart, anything was possible. unfortunately, my head gave me no such reinforcement. 
These questions, unfortunately, tilled the soil for doubt. around natalie, the gift of speech, a usually faith­ful friend, proved to be unreliable. somehow, when i needed coherent sentences most, they always seemed to find better things to do. 
To top it all off, it was hard to concentrate. in natalie’s presence, my heart would be thumping so loudly that there was barely any space to hear myself think, much less string words together. 
my head and heart always seemed to be in a perpetual war. during my “crush,” my head led me away from rela­tionships. i could not bear the thought that natalie might say “no” to me or possibly reject my advances. 
edItorIal Cartoon 

although i didn’t know it then, my crush was giving me my first taste of what it was like to, in a small sense, face the unknown. 
we fear those things we do not know. while i certainly feared rejection, i think it was the possibility of rejection that messed with my head and fueled my angst. we’re told that thinking ahead and preparing will help us to face the future, but sometimes that’s just not quite pos­sible, especially with matters of feeling and emotion. 
Take much more serious cases, and things get espe­cially difficult. Two people i know were recently diag­nosed with cancer. These diagnoses have brought about many emotions: shock, confusion, sadness and anger. it has been tough, especially in light of the treatments and questions that lie ahead. cancer brings with it the uncer­tainty of possibilities that we fear most. 
but, although it may be difficult to see, it is the heart that must remind us of another path: the path shown to us through the promise of faith. 
casey sharp wrote: “[christ] totally and completely reconciles himself to everything he created and allowed, and reconciles himself in the most agonizing way imag­inable because only that would do. …[we] can say we af­firm a god who relates to all unjust suffering in the most intimate way possible.” 
in the faith of christ, we’re given a certainty that can light even the darkest of unknown paths. That is to say, it’s the certainty that god not only knows what we’re go­ing through, but offers us himself, fully and completely, as a stabilizing force. every eucharist is a reminder not only of christ’s sacrifice, but of his real presence with us. it is the best reminder we have that resurrection tri­umphs over death and that life will, in some form or an­other, always win. 
This, of course, cannot completely take away our un­certainty. Faith does not always promise an answer that alleviates all of our ills. 
but our faith is a guarantee of a relationship with a god who promises we will never be rejected or abandoned. no matter our sin, or our illness, no matter what evil may befall us, we never truly walk alone. 
Scott Boyle graduated in May of 2012 with a degree in  theology and a minor in medieval studies.  He currently lives and works as a Campus and Youth Minister in the Archdiocese of Indianapolis as a member of Notre Dame’s Echo Program.  Contact him at sboyle2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Election outbreak 
Kyle Palmer 
reasonably right 

as a politics addict, i was excited going into this week because the president released his budget, and i wanted to see how the republican-controlled house and senate were going to re­spond. i opened up the news apps on my phone, and with the exception of a new infrastructure and tax proposal within it, there were no stories about the budget. what dominated the news cy­cle? not the budget, not the recently released vid­eo by the islamic state showing a Jordanian being burned alive, but measles because apparently measles is a controversial topic. what’s more, the dominating theme wasn’t the measles outbreak it­self, but the opinions of political figures regarding vaccinations. it seems election fever has broken out across the nation. 
Following the measles outbreak that has been determined to have originated at disneyland, new Jersey gov. chris christie was among the first high-profile figures to come out and render a pub­lic opinion, stating he thinks that parents should have a choice in whether or not to vaccinate their children. kentucky senator rand paul quickly weighed in during a fiery interview on cnbc, saying that it shouldn’t be controversial to allow parents a choice in vaccinating their children. To round out the choice-in-vaccination group was carly Fiorina, who said the federal govern­ment shouldn’t mandate immunizations, but that schools should be allowed to keep children out of school for not being vaccinated. 
decidedly taking a middle-of-the-road stance and not wanting to get involved with the issue was Texas sen. Ted cruz, who thinks the federal government should punt the issue to the states to let them decide. i would ask the good senator if he believes that measles somehow affects children from california but not from Texas? cruz said, however, “but on the question of whether kids should be vaccinated, the answer is obvious and there’s widespread agreement – of course they should.” To which i would follow up with asking, incredulously, why he then believes vaccinations shouldn’t be mandated nationally? 
Then there’s the vaccination crowd, which in­cluded dr. ben carson, former Texas gov. rick perry, wisconsin gov. scott walker, louisiana gov. bobby Jindal, former Florida gov. Jeb bush, Florida sen. marco rubio and former secretary of state hillary clinton, whose only comment on the matter was a single, though decisive, tweet: “The science is clear: The earth is round, the sky is blue, and #vaccineswork. let’s protect all our kids. #grandmothersknowbest.” 
There’s extremely broad support for mandating vaccinations, especially because the evidence that purportedly proves major side effects of vaccina­tions is questionable at best, and because diseases don’t just inflict harm to one individual – they can spread and affect potentially hundreds of chil­dren. as sen. mitch mcconnell put it: “as a victim of polio myself, i’m a big fan of vaccinations.” This is a public health issue, so why shouldn’t we leave it at that? 
For me, this just highlights the fact that the 2016 presidential race has entered a new phase; where no one is technically running yet, but seemingly everyone is posturing themselves to enter soon. it’s interesting to me because i have been trying to pin down what would be the deciding issue in 2016 for the past couple months. i never suspected that it would be vaccinations. in reality, i don’t expect this to be the ultimately pivotal issue for the presidential campaign, but it may be the first round of eliminations for candidates. while i be­lieve they will run regardless of this issue, i feel gov. christie and sen. paul’s positions on this issue will hurt them (i am not sure if carly Fiorina will run, but given her stance it certainly won’t help her chances either). sen. cruz will hold on to his loyal base with his passive stance. all who are in favor of vaccination mandates will move on to the next stage. mike huckabee and rick santorum mostly stayed out of this fight. 
clinton is the heir presumptive of the democratic presidential nomination, so it is the republican field that continues to narrow. although the number of republicans “consider­ing” running for the white house still seems to compete with the population of wyoming, differ­ent voting blocs and fundraisers are deciding who to get behind. with the exit of mitt romney, scott walker has placed himself near the top of the republican field, with many believing he would draw a strong contrast to clinton as an effective governor who still connects to normal people as opposed to wall street or washington, d.c. elites. 
The argument over vaccines will likely continue for a week before the media moves on to another topic, but this has certainly forced many candi­dates to unofficially enter into the race. surely, events like this intrigue me and other political junkies and offer insight into the forthcoming election. make no mistake, the outbreak of elec­tion fever is spreading rapidly, and you will have a choice of whether you fall victim to it and partici­pate — or vaccinate with apathy. 
Kyle Palmer is an Alumni Hall junior majoring in accountancy. He welcomes reasonable debate on all his opinions. He can be reached at kpalmer6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
letters to the edItor 

There is too much work to do 
social change is a slow and sometimes gruel­ing process. it is never easy to change long-held attitudes or to create institutional reform. look at past justice movements: the civil rights movement, the women’s movement, the american indian movement and many more. These all took decades to create lasting change. The leaders of these movements fought long and hard uphill battles to make a difference. 
dorothy day led a movement as well — the catholic worker movement. she left us with some important words about slow, incremental change. “people say, what is the sense of our small effort? They cannot see that we must lay one brick at a time, take one step at a time. a pebble cast into a pond causes ripples that spread in all directions. each one of our thoughts, words and deeds is like that. no one has a right to sit down and feel hope­less. There is too much work to do.” 
day was right; there is much work to be done. Today, we see so many things that can be improved and so many places where justice is needed. here at notre dame, we pride ourselves on being a beacon of social justice and good will. That is part of what attracted me to this school. i am surrounded by people setting the world on fire, fighting for life, for rights and for justice in every scope. The university as a whole has an amazing track record of standing for what is right. Just look to figures like Fr. hesburgh or programs like alliance for catholic education. it is clear that this university is more than just a place to learn; this university is an instrument of change. 
dorothy day would agree that all change is slow. but just because it is slow or our efforts seem small, the ripples extending forth from our actions go further than we can ever know. right now, notre dame students are fighting for a greener and brighter tomorrow. more than 1,000 of you backed the fossil fuel divestment move­ment on this campus. some may say that this effort is small. how much change will be caused by notre dame dropping its shares in fossil fuel corporations? no one can say for sure, but this action makes a statement that we care about the wellbeing of our earth. climate change is harm­ing us today, and will continue to affect future generations. how can we stand not to take action? as stewards of the earth and as catholics, we are called to take care of creation. 
we, as a university, cannot sit back and pas­sively condemn climate change. global climate change is a pressing challenge and one that should not be taken lightly. sometimes, this issue can make me feel a little bit hopeless. but i do not have the right to sit down and mope. neither do you, and neither does this university. There is too much work to do. 
Kathleen Rocks
     freshman cavanaugh hall            Feb. 4 


The observer | thursday, february 5, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 

it’s a new year, sort of. The thrill of a new digit at the end of the day’s date has worn off, no one’s talking about how crazy new year’s eve was anymore, the best-of-2014 lists have dropped out of conversation and with little more than a fantastic björk record to talk about, music nerds are finding themselves less sociable every day as they im­patiently await next month’s new releases. 
but this year has already heard some truly killer beats. with the release of an instrumental death grips record, a burial ep, and a rabbit Junk ep, 2015 has already yielded a handful of excellent tracks. 
so if you’re looking for new music to get you going be­fore the year’s anticipated releases drop, look no further. prepare to jam. 
death Grips: “runway h (track 10)” 
we’ve put a ban on writing about death grips at scene, so of course i had to work them in somehow. “Fashion week,” as a collection of instrumentals from the dub­step/electro/rap trio, caused less excitement than usual when it was released suddenly and for free, in classic death grips fashion. 
while the record is indeed a mere collection of beats, “Fashion week” holds its fair share of gems. 
of such gems, the first “runway h” (there are two on the record) is the most fabulous. The track’s bass lurches its way forward like a thousand-ton slug while the acoustic drums stomp around in the background. it’s a recklessly heavy track that lurches from loud to louder, from slow to breakneck and from awesome to even more awesome. perhaps the most in-your-face track death grips has re­leased (and that’s certainly saying something), “runway h” is a must-download for fans of music that sounds loud even at its lowest volume. 
burial: “temple sleeper” 

when will he stop? Future garage wunderkind william bevan, a.k.a. “burial,” has essentially perfected his genre. his works crackle like vinyl records, filled with atmo­spheric synths that range from gritty to beautiful to both. his use of vocal samples manages to wring the purest, most aching emotions from their sources. his last string of ep’s, “kindred,” “Truant” and “rival dealer,” received rave reviews despite never veering away from his past work. 
new single “Temple sleeper,” the latest release from the producer, deserves similar accolades. strikingly close to the arpeggio grooves of “loner” from the ep “kindred,” “Temple sleeper” is one of the most danceable burial tracks in the catalog. The four-on-the-floor beat is accen­tuated with bevan’s classic crackling production and un­expected structural twists. an addictive groove without a dull moment, “Temple sleeper” peaks during its second half. 
a voice that raps “about to go into another dimension” speeds over a ridiculously catchy synth riff, hinting at an acceleration towards even more accessible, danceable music for the producer. hopefully, the track is an indica­tion of even more universal burial music in the years to come. 
rabbit Junk: “radical acceptance”’ 
rabbit Junk may not be huge yet, but their music is un­doubtedly some of the most epic stuff out there. coming off last year’s relentlessly intense and catchy “pop That pretty Thirty” ep, producer Jp anderson dropped the “invasion” ep just days ago. instead of the focused dancefloor-destroying brand of electro-rock that de­fined “pretty Thirty,” the style of “invasion” falls closer to badass-film score, with lyrics. shredding guitar, atmo­spheric backing vocals and cinematic crescendos echo throughout the record. 
“radical acceptance,” however, is the pinnacle of the record because it employs several of the elements that gave “pop That pretty Thirty” so much life. a signature rabbit Junk vocal chant kicks the song off, demanding the listener to sing along. a mere minute into the track, a suspenseful drum beat explodes into a heart-pounding drum & bass throwdown. 
what follows is sure to bring the house down: death-defying lyrics, a guitar solo, a false and real ‘drop’ and a chanting outro. if you’re having trouble getting up in the morning, set “radical acceptance” as your alarm. you will start fist-pumping before you even know you’re awake. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 

MARY McGRAW | The Observer 



The observer | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

COMMENTARY 

nsd about more than football 

Mary Green 
sports editor 
With one signature and one fax, it’s all over. 
months, if not years, of campus visits, both official and unofficial, talks over the phone, thinking about the “next level,” research­ing programs and discernment as a whole are complete. 
It must be a huge relief to the players to finally be able to close one chapter of a book and begin another with so much excitement and promise. 
It’s also a relief to the coaching staff, knowing they have another year of the future covered. 
but that’s the problem with national signing day. We tend to act like all of a team’s problems are solved by signing a single class. 
The truth is, the game is too unpredictable and fickle for that to hold true. 
We’ll start with the rankings of the players themselves. on most sites, five stars means as much of a sure thing as you can be. Work hard and live up to your poten­tial, and a future in the nFL is all but set. 
but how many former five-star recruits started in this year’s super bowl? none. 
eight of the 48 starters were four stars, and the greatest number (21) had three stars. Ultimately, it comes down to improvement and performance, not how highly touted a prospect a player is. 
The unpredictability begins on the college field. 
college coaches target certain positions to fill holes exposed in a previous season and made bigger by graduation. 
coaches tout how a big-name quarterback prospect will jump-start a lackluster offense the next season or how a few defensive linemen will strengthen a shaky run defense. 
They say an incoming receiver will be a surefire heisman candi­date in a season or two and that a speedy cornerback will shut down any deep threat when he is on the field. 
but there is no way one can know this definitely, and there is no way one can predict with cer­tainty the struggles a team will undergo in future seasons. 
Take notre dame’s 2014 season. The defense suffered tremendously at all positions from injuries. by the end of the year, you couldn’t make up the storylines of which players were injured and who had to sub in for them. many jokes were made on the notre dame campus about recruiting from the interhall ranks, and sometimes, I half wondered if the Irish coaching staff had checked out those op­tions out of desperation. 
Then there’s the now-famous absurdity of the ohio state quarterback situation, in which potential heisman contender braxton miller went down in the offseason, then backup J.T. barrett led the buckeyes to a one-loss regular season and finally, third-stringer cardale Jones started the team’s final three games en route to a national championship. 
As evidenced by both notre dame’s defense and ohio state’s quarterbacks, the game of foot­ball is fickle, and no crystal ball can foresee what will happen. 
Yet out of all this instability, no matter who gets hurt, these play­ers will still be students. They will still go to class; they will still have homework to do and exams to take, and ultimately, they will still receive their degrees. That is the one constant that remains and the one thing they will be able to count on. 
national signing day is the day when players officially become part of a football program. but it’s also a day when these students get to celebrate their decision to attend a university and a pretty good one in notre dame. 
In the midst of hovering around fax machines and tweet­ing out the arrivals of national letters of intent, let’s not forget the other side of the situation: All of these young men know where they will live, learn and grow, not just as a football player, but as an entire person for the next four years, and that’s something to celebrate just as much. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


No last-day surprises as Irish ink 24 recruits 
By MIKE MONACO 
senior sports Writer 

often a time of suspense and intrigue, national signing day proved relatively uneventful for notre dame’s recruiting efforts, as the Irish inked all 24 expected signees. 
Irish head coach brian Kelly introduced the 24-member class of 2015, including the four early enrollees already taking classes and working out with the team in south bend, on Wednesday afternoon. 
The Irish had already com­piled 22 public pledges entering Wednesday, and notre dame rounded out the class with the additions of running back dexter Williams and receiver equanimeous st. brown on Wednesday. 
Williams is slotted as the no. 12 running back in the coun­try, according to rivals. The orlando, Florida, native joins fellow signee Josh Adams in the notre dame class of 2015. 
“We were looking to get a sec­ond back in this class, and we felt like dexter gave us that break­away back that we wanted,” Kelly said. “his second-level speed, his quickness into the hole and then his acceleration were the things that separated him from the oth­er backs that we recruited.” 
st. brown, like Williams, is another four-star offensive skill-position prospect. The Anaheim, california, product is the no. 15 receiver in the nation. 
“he’s just a great kid,” Kelly said. “he’s got great range, 6’-5”, another rangy wide receiver who can run. he gets in and out of his breaks. Another matchup guy that I think you’re gonna have problems with now.” 
The Irish are expected to re­turn 19 of 22 starters from the 2014 team, which finished 8-5 following a 31-28 victory over LsU in the music city bowl. 
“These are guys that we be­lieve can help us win a cham­pionship, and that’s how we recruit,” Kelly said. “And they’re guys that fit here at notre dame. so that’s the lens that we recruit through.” 
notre dame’s class ranks around the edges of the top 10 nationally, according to vari­ous recruiting services. In addi­tion to Adams, Williams and st. brown, the Irish hauled in three more receivers — miles boykin, Jalen Guyton and c.J. sanders — tight end Alizé Jones and quar­terback brandon Wimbush. 
Wimbush is pegged as the no. 60 player in the country. The former Penn state commitment flipped to the Irish in october. 
“We were gonna be okay if we didn’t take a quarterback until I saw brandon on film in his first couple games, and that changed my mind,” Kelly said. “he just did so many of the things that I think a complete quarterback needs to do. And as we went to work in the recruiting process, I just thought we had to take a quarterback.” 
on the defensive side of the ball, three four-star linebackers highlight the Irish class. Indiana natives Josh barajas (no. 180) and Asmar bilal (no. 246) and Florida product and early en­rollee Te’von coney (no. 118) all cracked the rivals 250. 
Kelly said cornerbacks shaun crawford, nick coleman and Ashton White offer notre dame “crucial” flexibility in sub-pack­ages. Kicker Justin Yoon filled notre dame’s other “must­need,” per Kelly. The Irish hosted multiple safety prospects on of­ficial visits during the past few weeks, but nathan meadors (UcLA), Arrington Farrar (Wisconsin) and Justin reid (stanford) all chose to sign else­where Wednesday. 
“We think when it all plays out, we’re gonna be all right at safety,” Kelly said. “but we need­ed the three in-and-out corners, and we needed the kicker.” 
notre dame begins spring practice march 2. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 

PAId AdverTIsemenT ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2015 | The observer 



CLASS OF 2015 

Photo courtesy of BlueAndGold.com, Rivals 
JOSH 
BARAJAS 
LINEBACKER 
6’3” • 212 
Andrean High School Valparaiso, Indiana 

ranked as the top player in Indiana and the no. 137 player overall in 247 sports’ compos­ite rankings, Josh barajas chose notre dame over a host of top schools, including national championship game participants oregon and ohio state. originally committed to Penn state, he decommitted from the nittany Lions and committed to notre dame on may 30. 
barajas has been listed as both an inside and outside linebacker, depending on the re­cruiting service. At 6-foot-3, 212 pounds, his frame is a little small for that of a linebacker, but it permits him to use his speed and get out in coverage. 
barajas doesn’t figure to be a great pass rusher, but he pursues and tackles well, which should give him a shot at quick play­ing time in a position where the Irish are still inexperienced. 
EQUANIMEOUS
ST. BROWN 
RECEIVER 
6’5” • 205 
Servite High School Anaheim, California 

From servite high school in Anaheim, california, 6-foot-5 equanimeous st. brown is a four-star wide receiver who adds size to notre dame’s receiving corps, which now has two receivers who stand at least 6-foot-4. 
because servite struggled during st. brown’s senior year, his numbers weren’t as impressive as his junior year statistics. In his final two sea­sons, st. brown compiled 74 receptions along with 1,210 yards and 10 touchdown catches. 
Along with having ideal size, st. brown has great hands and runs crisp routes, which helps him separate from even the biggest defensive backs. With st. brown and 6-foot-4 sophomore corey robinson manning down the wide out positions, sophomore Will Fuller and future Irish receiver cJ sanders could thrive in the slot. 
Photo courtesy of BlueAndGold.com, Rivals 
SHAUN 
CRAWFORD 
CORNERBACK 
5’9” • 170 
St. Edward High School Lakewood, Ohio 
shaun crawford is a four-star recruit from st. edward high school, one of the premier high school football programs in ohio. crawford gave a verbal commit­ment to michigan in August 2013 but later decommitted and verbally committed to notre dame in June 2014. At st. edward’s, crawford lined up at cornerback, receiver and kick/punt returner. during his senior year, crawford registered 91 tackles, seven interceptions and 17 pass breakups on de­fense. he also accumulated 824 receiving yards on 54 receptions, nine of them for touchdowns, on the offensive side of the ball. crawford is a versatile athlete who shows great playmaking ability. he doesn’t have ideal size or measurables, but his knack for the game and athleticism make him an elite recruit in this year’s class. 
JERRY 
TILLERY 
DEFENSIVE LINEMAN 
6’6” • 310 
Evangel Christian Academy Shreveport, Louisiana 
At 6-foot-6 and 310 pounds, early en­rollee Jerry Tillery is a big recruit in more ways than one. An offensive lineman at evangel christian Academy in shreveport, Louisiana, Tillery committed to notre dame on June 22, 2013 as a defensive tack­le. Using his massive frame and strength to his advantage, Tillery displays an ability to drive opposing players with ease, which should translate to him being an effective, disruptive defensive tackle. What truly sets him apart in the minds of recruiters, however, is his athleticism. despite his size, Tillery runs a 5.05 40-yard dash and displays impressive lateral quickness and first-step explosiveness, which should en­able him to make the transition to defen­sive line with relative ease. 

Photo courtesy of BlueAndGold.com, Rivals 
TRISTEN 
HOGE 

OFFENSIVE LINEMAN 
6’4” • 290 

Highland High School Pocatello, Idaho 
one of the biggest areas to stock tal­ent for continued success is the offen­sive line, and the Irish are looking to do that with their signing of early enrollee Tristen hoge. The 6-foot-4, 290-pound Pocatello, Idaho, native will be part of the Irish recruiting class of 2015. hoge, who primarily played center for highland high school, helped lead his team to an undefeated 12-0 record and an Idaho 5A state football champion­ship. For his performance on the line, hoge was named the Gatorade Player of the Year for Idaho and an Army All-American. In addition to these acco­lades, hoge was also one of 25 players from across the country to be named a Parade All-American, earning the na­tional honor from Parade magazine. 
DEXTER 

WILLIAMS 
RUNNING BACK 
6’ • 200 

West Orange High School Winter Garden, Florida 
At 6-foot and 200 pounds, four-star run­ning back dexter Williams is not going to run through many defenses. rather the orlando, Florida, product uses excellent lateral move­ment and acceleration to evade defenders and hit holes with speed. While Williams, who de­committed from miami (Fla.) in early January, does not have elite speed, running a 4.55 40­yard dash, he possesses an elusiveness which helps him slip out of and away from arm tack­les and avoid square hits. In considering the Irish backfield, Williams looks similar to Greg bryant in running style but also shows glimps­es of Tarean Folston, working his way through a mess of players and using his acceleration to pull away for extra yardage. he will fit best as a change of pace back that runs circles around tired, beat-up defenders. 
Photo courtesy of BlueAndGold.com, Rivals 

ALIZ’E 
JONES 
TIGHT END 
6’5” • 220 
Bishop Gorman High School Las Vegas 
one of the top-ranked players in the Irish recruiting class, Jones is the next in line to continue notre dame’s tradition of success­ful tight ends. A four-star recruit from bishop Gorman high school in Las vegas, he is the top-ranked tight end in the nation accord­ing to both esPn and 247sports. With a 40­yard dash time of 4.67 seconds, Jones offers an impressive size and speed combination that should make him a major asset in the passing game. his 13 receiving touchdowns in his senior season also indicate his poten­tial to become a go-to player in the red zone for the Irish. he hauled in 41 passes for 930 yards in 15 games in 2014. he also recorded a 22.7 yards per catch average, including a career-long catch of 80 yards, which suggests that Jones is capable of outrunning coverage downfield despite his size. 
BRANDON 
WIMBUSH 
QUARTERBACK 
6’1” • 212 
St. Peter’s Prep Hackensack, New Jersey 
brandon Wimbush is a 6-foot-1, 212-pound quarterback out of Jersey city, new Jersey, where he played for st. Peter’s Prep.The marauders won a state title last season with Wimbush under center. The four-star recruit is a dual-threat quarterback who threw for 223.1 yards per game in eight games as a senior and racked up 22 touchdowns, while throwing just one interception. 
Wimbush can air it out, as he did last year on a season-long 60-yard pass, and he throws with precision and speed on shorter routes. Wimbus threw just four interceptions and tossed for 2,702 total passing yards in his high school ca­reer.during the 2014 season, Wimbush also rushed for 349 yards on 31 carries, gaining an average of 11.3 yards per rush. Wimbush scored six rushing touchdowns. 


The observer | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Wimbush, Jones highlight Notre Dame flips 
want to get guys from strong school in new orleans have that’s a hard sell to go after programs who are quote, un-the potential to be impact kids in Atlanta, Florida and quote ‘winners’ and know players in a couple years. Arizona.” what it takes because those much of notre dame’s re-In addition, the midwest are the guys that are getting cruiting success has come recruiting scene will only good coaching.” from the type of players and grow more crowded as 
recruiting from a big-name students the Irish target, Jim harbaugh settles in high school can also create Ivins said. at michigan and as Urban important relationships. “They seem to find this meyer continues to work at 
“I’ve had multiple coach-mold of kid who’s, whether ohio state, Ivins said. es tell me that from [bishop it’s faith-based, whether it’s despite these challenges, Gorman], that notre dame’s a champion, whether it’s succeeded in securing top-done a great job recruiting someone who’s just drawn to priority signees. bishop Gorman and that the lure of notre dame and “I think this class clearly bodes well down the line be-the tradition, they do a good is a step in the right direc­cause they have a lot of good job of locking them up early tion,” Ivins said. “Like I said, players that are coming out in the process.” they locked a lot of these of there,” Ivins said. Although notre dame kids up early, got them to 
In terms of the best sign-has done a good job sell-notre dame, which was re­ings in the class, Ivins named ing “the academic side of ally good, and they’ve been defensive back mykelti things,” Ivins said, that able to manage to hold on Williams from Warren same strength can present a to a lot of kids. If you look central in Indianapolis and recruiting challenge. around the country, that’s 
dame on dec. 12, 2014. linebacker Te’von coney “notre dame shops in a not the case. … They did an 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 

Assistant managing editor “notre dame’s just done from Palm beach Gardens different aisle,” Ivins said. extremely good job getting a good job of sticking with high school in Palm beach “It’s clear that they have to their guys and holding on to 
notre dame signed on these kids,” Ivins said. “They Gardens, Florida. find a different breed of kid. them.” Wednesday several players made Alizé feel like a priority “What you like about Test scores are obviously a formerly committed to other despite his commitment.” mykelti is he’s an explosive big [challenge]. … You have For more on Notre schools, including top quar-Flipping commitments player with a really good to identify kids early in the Dame recruiting, check terback prospect brandon has become somewhat of a frame,” Ivins said. “he’s a process that, ‘hey, this kid’s out BlueandGold.com. Wimbush. “trend in the industry,” Ivins guy who could probably step going to make the grades,’ Email Andrew Owens at           
Wimbush committed to the said, as recruits make earlier on the field and play right and you have to identify aowens@blueandgold.com and Irish on oct. 7, 2014 after pre-commitments, but securing now but has just loads of po-kids, ‘hey, this kid’s go-tell him The Observer sent you. viously committing to Penn a player like Wimbush was a tential. he could play strong ing to want to be able to state. It was part of an overall bit different. safety, free safety, corner-move to Indiana.’ In some Contact Samantha Zuba at  successful recruiting process “It’s really impressive when back, nickel, so he can be of those recruiting hot beds, szuba@nd.edu for notre dame, said Andrew you can do it with a guy like really versatile in the sec-Ivins, a recruiting analyst for brandon Wimbush because ondary, and obviously, as blue & Gold Illustrated and once the quarterback domi-most notre dame fans know, rivals.com. The Irish signed noes fall in the summer, no depth is an issue there right 24 players. one really shuffles around, now.” 
“notre dame’s done a but notre dame stuck with Ivins said coney, who is al­strong job addressing some him, they got him on cam-ready enrolled, stood out at needs and concerns in cer-pus, and they flipped him,” the high school All-American tain areas,” Ivins said. Ivins said. “They’re selling a game. “They’ve made some pushes. product that these kids are “he was a late addition They’ve got a lot of guys from buying into.” to the Under Armour All-solid high school programs Wimbush played for st. American Game [but] looked who can win games and Peter’s Prep, a state cham-like in my opinion the best played for some champion-pion in new Jersey last sea-linebacker out there, and I ship programs, so they’ve son. Jones and defensive stood out there and watched gone out, and I think they’ve back nicco Fertitta, played practices for five days,” Ivins done a great job of getting for bishop Gorman, a state said. high-caliber kids.” champion from Las vegas, Ivins said Jones, outside 
Like Wimbush, tight end nevada. linebacker Tristen hoge from Alizé Jones of Las vegas com-“I’m a firm believer in highland high school in mitted earlier to a different that,” Ivins said of recruit-Pocatello, Idaho, and defen­school. Jones committed to ing players from winning sive lineman bo Wallace from UcLA but flipped to notre programs. “I believe that you John curtis christian high 



Mary McGraw | The Observer 


ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2015 | The observer 

Irish secondary recruits look to make quick impact 
Williams. 
With only two of those play­ers — Fertitta and Williams 
— projected to play safety, the Irish didn’t quite end up with the depth they expected at the position, according to Andrew Ivins, a recruiting analyst for blue & Gold Illustrated and rivals.com. 
“Given the depth, it was obviously a huge hole in the class,” Ivins said. “They re­ally needed to address some concerns.” 
despite the limited num­bers, the Irish picked up two players who should be able to contribute within their first two years, Ivins said. 
“Thankfully, I think mykelti Williams can play right away,” he said. “I think nico Fertitta is a guy who’s probably going to need a redshirt year or play some special teams. he’s a bit undersized.” 
In his national signing day press conference, Irish head coach brian Kelly said the team is exploring the possi­bility of having some current players switch into the safety slot, though he declined to mention specific names. 
“I mean, we are going to look at the potential of mov­ing some guys there, yes, 


By BRIAN HARTNETT 
managing editor 
entering the offseason, notre dame’s secondary be­came an area of primary importance. 
There of course were needs to address with a unit that surrendered 233 passing yards per game and 23 total touchdowns through the air last season, six of them com­ing in the team’s final regular-season game. 
but there were also plen­ty of needs to address with the unit’s depth, given the losses of cornerback cody riggs and safety Austin collinsworth to gradua­tion and the recent depar­ture of safety eilar hardy. With these losses, plus in­juries to junior safety nicky baratti and freshman safety drue Tranquill, the Irish are effectively down to two healthy scholarship safeties 
—
 junior elijah shumate and sophomore max redfield. 

notre dame took a stab at filling these needs Wednesday the Irish announced the sign­ing of five defensive backs 

— 
nick coleman, shaun crawford, nicco Fertitta, Ashton White and mykelti 


that’s definitely in the con­versation,” he said. 
There’s a few more contrib­utors returning at the corner­back position, but the Irish will have to replace a starter in riggs. sophomore corner­back cole Luke, who started all 13 games last season, fig­ures to be a fixture at one cornerback slot, while senior matthias Farley, sophomore 
“I think we can be the spark. We’re a group of energetic guys. ... If we’re put in there to make a play, I think we’ll make an impact.” 
Shaun Crawford 
class of 2015 recruit 
devin butler and freshman nick Watkins are all possi­bilities to play opposite him. 
Ivins praised the versatility of notre dame’s new corner-backs, noting their poten­tial to play different roles in defensive coordinator brian vanGorder’s scheme. 
“I think the big word we’re going to hear is ‘cross-train,’” Ivins said. “I think they’re going to cross-train a lot of these guys. 

“Ashton White, he might be a guy who could be in the nickel. … shaun crawford, who’s an exceptional stand­out cover corner, he played some safety in high school. he’s extremely undersized to be a safety at the colle­giate level, but he could be an emergency option. … nick coleman, too, he could po­tentially be cross-trained in there.” 
crawford, an Under Armour All-American selec­tion from Lakewood, ohio, echoed Ivins’s thoughts on cross-training, as he recalled recruiting conversations with vanGorder. 
“coach vanGorder talked to me a lot about the nickel position, that it’s actually wide open, so I’ll definitely come in wanting to take that role over and play a little cor­ner,” crawford said. 
crawford and the other secondary recruits will have the additional challenge of adjusting to a new position coach. According to si.com, defensive backs coach Kerry cooks has accepted the same position at oklahoma. cooks updated his Twitter profile biography Wednesday night to say, “secondary coach at the University of oklahoma.” 
“coach cooks had been hitting the Louisiana, Texas markets hard for the first time in a while for notre dame, so that could be a bit of a regression,” Ivins said. 
still, crawford said last sea­son’s struggles, worries about depth and adjustments to a potential replacement are things that don’t worry him and his fellow incoming de­fensive backs, who he speaks to via group chat “literally ev­ery day, all day sometimes.” 
“I think we can be the spark,” crawford said. “We’re a group of energetic guys. Just watching film, you can see we all play with some emotion, so I just think we’ll wear it. 
“If we’re put in there to play, I think we’ll make an impact.” 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out BlueandGold.com. Email Andrew Owens at           aowens@blueandgold.com and tell him The Observer sent you. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at                       bhartnet@nd.edu 





direction the play is headed. he is running back for the Irish. Look backfield. is a three-star recruit ranked a heavy hitter who doesn’t give up for the Kettering, ohio, native dew-Treadway played both 88th in the nation among receiv­on plays. to possibly be a dark horse in inside and as an edge-rusher for ers and the 92nd overall player in the near-future for the Irish, bolingbrook high school, but he Texas. he received scholarship whether on offense or defense. is likely to continue to add size offers from Arizona state, baylor, to his 6-foot-5, 273-pound frame clemson, ohio state, oklahoma and play defensive tackle for the and mississippi, among oth-Irish. ers, before committing to notre As an early enrollee, he should dame. Guyton had a dominant have an early opportunity to senior season against quality gain more experience in football opposition in Texas. According and at defensive tackle. to maxPreps, Guyton caught 74 passes for 1,605 yards and rushed for 54 more yards. he scored 17 touchdowns in 14 
JOSH 
games to help Allen win the 2014 Texas 6A division I state cham-
ADAMS 
pionship. Guyton is an explosive receiver with great hands who 
MILES 
can catch the ball in double cov-
RUNNING BACK 
erage and turn short catches into 

6’2” • 210 BOYKIN TE’VON 
long touchdown runs by using 
Central Bucks High School South 
his speed and elusiveness. 
Warrington, Pennsylvania 
CONEY 
RECEIVER 

Pennsylvania native Josh 6’3” • 225 Adams eschewed his native Penn Providence Catholic High School LINEBACKER state for the Irish. The 6-foot-2, Tinley Park, Illinois 6’0” • 221 210-pound running back com-Palm Beach Gardens High School 
NICCO 
mitted to notre dame this past Known for his agility and abil-Palm Beach Gardens, Florida June. Adams put together an ity to play out wide, boykin record-
FERTITTA 
impressive senior season, com-ed 1,035 receiving yards and 19 Weighing 221 pounds and piling 1,618 rushing yards and touchdowns in his senior season. measuring in at six feet tall, in­27 rushing touchdowns, as well boykin ranks 36th on esPn’s list side linebacker Tevon coney ver-DEFENSIVE BACK as 267 receiving yards and four of top receivers for 2015, as well as bally committed to notre dame 5’9” • 175 receiving touchdowns. Although 21st on esPn’s list of top midwest in october and enrolled early Bishop Gorman High School classified by many scouts as a recruits. After receiving a slew at the University in January. Las Vegas “power back,” Adams’ running of offers from schools, including coney was an Under Armour All-style is a mixture of not just Florida, mississippi, michigan and American and made the Florida Joining the Irish from bishop strength but quickness, speed ohio state, boykin committed to All-state second team during his Gorman high school, nicco and agility. Adams’s physicality notre dame last July. boykin has high school career, and he to-Fertitta fits the mold of past scrap-
TREVOR 

and size could loom large for the shown his speed in the 40-yard taled 308 tackles and 17 sacks in py players to suit up in the gold and Irish in upcoming seasons, as he dash, clocking in at 4.51 seconds. his junior and senior years com-blue. 
RUHLAND 

will provide a reliable running originally pegged as a tight end, bined. coney’s main attribute somewhat undersized for an threat on crucial goal-line and boykin demonstrates much ver-is his ability to shut down the Fbs recruit at his position, the third-down situations. satility and could start his notre opposing team’s running game 5-foot-9, 175-pound defensive back OFFENSIVE LINEMAN 
dame career as the X-receiver. and his ability to blitz. In that shows strong closing speed and 6’4” • 285 respect, he will be very useful to hitting intensity, despite not look-Cary Grove High School notre dame’s developing line-ing like the prototypical safety. Cary, Illinois backers corps. coney was also Without a big build, Fertitta recruited by Florida, Alabama was left unranked on virtually A consensus three-star pros-and Auburn. every major recruiting list and pect, ruhland has been commit-
was ranked a three-star recruit. ted to notre dame since late April however, it seems that notre dame and offers offensive line depth has found a steal with a recruit who to the Irish recruiting class. went largely unnoticed on the na-ruhland comes into college with tional stage. experience on both the offensive Just before he competed in the line and the defensive line, but he 
U.s. Army All-American bowl last should look to line up on offense month, Fertitta’s high school team for the Irish. he played tackle on was recognized as the best team in both sides of the offensive line in the nation by UsA Today’s super high school, but his size would 
ASMAR 

25 rankings. suggest that he fits more at guard for the Irish. ruhland excels at 
BILAL NICK 
blocking on the edge and uses his feet well to block at the sec-
COLEMAN 
ond level. however, he does en-
LINEBACKER 
ter a position group with already 
6’3” • 210 
MICAH 
strong depth, which could limit 

Ben Davis High School CORNERBACK 
playing time in his first season. 

Indianapolis 6’0” • 180 
DEW-TREADWAY 
Archbishop Alter High School 

bilal, who projects as an inside Dayton, Ohio linebacker at the next level, chose DEFENSIVE LINEMAN the Irish in october over offers The 6-foot, 180-pound 6’5” • 280 from michigan, nebraska, Texas coleman showed some speed at Bolingbrook High School A&m, Tennessee and michigan both running back and corner Bolingbrook, Illinois state, among others. bilal was se-during his high school career. lected as a U.s. Army All-American he has twitchy speed, which is A raw and athletic defensive and is seen by some analysts to be great for reacting as a corner. lineman, micah dew-Treadway an instant impact player for the he shows great closing speed, has all of the physical skills to be 
JALEN 
Irish, especially if he were to move also good for any defender, a key player for the Irish in the outside. he is coming off a strong and he displays some impec-future. 
GUYTON 
senior season in which he racked cable acceleration and sepa-Although dew-Treadway is up a team-leading 155 tackles, ration speed. As a nationally still relatively inexperienced, 104 of them solo. he also helped unranked, three-star recruit, having only recently transi-RECEIVER guide his team to the Indiana coleman may be just the steal tioned to football from bas-6’1” • 185 class 6A state championship. bilal notre dame needs for its sec-ketball, he has already shown Allen High School has a great motor to go along with ondary. coleman committed signs that he can be a disruptive Allen, Texas even better instincts to the ball, as a cornerback to notre dame, player with a habit of shedding seemingly always knowing which but he has potential to be a blockers and getting into the According to 247sports, Guyton 











ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2015 | The observer 


provided he can add a few pounds but what Wallace, a three-star to his big frame. his presence is recruit, lacks in size, he makes very much needed after last sea-up for with blazing speed. he son’s injuries along the defensive runs a 4.68 40-yard dash and line exposed major depth prob-can easily sprint by larger offen­lems at the position. sive linemen. on the high school 
level, opposing quarterbacks had trouble outrunning him. When he is blocked, however, he some­times struggles to fight through the block and make tackles. 
Wallace racked up 52 tack­les and nine sacks and earned Louisiana all-state honors his se­nior season. 

MYKELTI JUSTIN C.J. 
WILLIAMS YOON SANDERS 
SAFETY KICKER RECEIVER 
6’0” • 200 5’11” • 185 5’10” • 185 
Warren Central High School Milton Academy (Mass.) Notre Dame High School 
Indianapolis Nashville, Tennessee Granada Hills, California 
BRANDON 

A six-foot safety who ver-Fresh off kicking a trio of field standing at a deceiving 5-foot-
TIASSUM 

bally committed to the Irish goals at the Under Armour All­10 and 185 pounds, c.J. sanders 
on dec. 19, four-star recruit American Game — including a has proven to be one of the most 
mykelti Williams is another game-record 47-yard kick — Justin electrifying players in the coun-DEFENSIVE LINEMAN 
hoosier who chose to stay in-Yoon signed with notre dame. try. The four-star recruit, ac-6’4” • 296 state for school. The 200-pound Yoon, a native of nashville, cording to rivals, attended The Park Tudor School Indianapolis native flies in Tennessee, will enter notre dame opening, nike’s elite summer Indianapolis from his safety position in with an opportunity to compete football camp, last summer, and run support and often played for the starting job at kicker, punt-
ASHTON 

finished as one of its top athletes. defensive tackle brandon close to the line of scrimmage er and kickoff specialist, with Kyle he ran the 40-yard dash in just Tiassum had a dominant senior in high school. not afraid brindza’s graduation opening all 
WHITE 

4.32 seconds and finished the season for Park Tudor in 2014, to throw his frame around, three spots for competition. The 20-yard shuttle in 3.80 seconds. leading the team’s defense with Williams uses his speed to blow milton Academy product was his ability to switch directions 91 tackles, 18 of them for loss, and CORNERBACK up screens, end-arounds and plagued at times by a back injury quickly and turn down the field five sacks. he also forced four 5’11” • 182 swing routes. The runner up during his senior year of high with blazing straight-line speed fumbles in his senior season. Bishop McNamara High School for the Indianapolis star’s mr. school, but still enters the colle­makes him an immediate threat For his efforts, Tiassum earned Clinton, Maryland Football 2014 also does a solid giate game as a consensus top-two in the slot position. all-county, all-conference and job of open-field tackling at full kicker nationwide. 
sanders finished his senior all-state honors during his time A three-star defensive back speed, demonstrating a knack At the Under Armour All-year at notre dame high school at Park Tudor. Tiassum has been from bishop mcnamara high for being able to take the feet American Game, Yoon was perfect in sherman oaks, california, praised for his size and ability to school in Forestville, maryland, out from under shifty running in the kicking department, adding with 437 rushing yards and nine move toward the ball. he also Ashton White possesses solid backs and receivers. This is not four extra points to his trio of field touchdowns, 562 receiving yards displays a quick first step and ball-tracking skills, especially to say he is a one-dimensional goals, a welcome sign for Irish fans and eight scores and four touch-had a talent for pressuring and given his occasional snaps at player; Williams also recorded after seeing the team’s woes in the downs on punt/kick returns. reaching the quarterback dur-receiver — he recorded 10 re-seven interceptions as a senior. kicking game last season. 
ing his high school career — a ceptions for 112 yards in his se­habit that could be useful on the nior season. White also showed Irish defensive line in upcoming good turnover instincts, creat­seasons. ing two interceptions and two 
forced fumbles in his last 10 games. his listed position in high school was cornerback, but his size and speed gives him some versatility in the de­fensive backfield. White also will not shy away from making tackles in run support or tak­ing down receivers downfield, as he finished his senior sea­son with 58 tackles, 38 of which were solo. 
ELIJAH 

TAYLOR DEFENSIVE LINEMAN BO 
6’3” • 285 
Archbishop Moeller High School 
WALLACE 
Cincinnati 

elijah Taylor is a 6-foot-3, 285 DEFENSIVE LINEMAN pound defensive tackle from 6’4” • 215 Archbishop moeller high school John Curtis Christian High School in cincinnati, ohio. According to New Orleans 247sports, he is the 14th best pros­pect in ohio and 21st best defensive At 6-foot-4, bo Wallace has tackle in the country. he verbally the frame of a defensive end, but committed this past summer and his listed weight of 215 pounds chose notre dame over ohio state, makes him leaner and rangier Florida state and michigan state, than a typical lineman. Wallace among others. during his senior himself has admitted that he season, he recorded 88 tackles, 15 needs to bulk up in order to make of them for loss, and 12 sacks while an impact at the collegiate level, leading the Fighting crusaders and he is considered by many a to the ohio state semifinals. he likely candidate to switch to out-profiles as a one-technique tackle, side linebacker. 












Like us on Facebook. 
facebook.com/ndsmcobserver 


The observer | thursday, february 5, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
scene writer 

over the past two years, the rapper mick Jenkins has moved to the forefront of the chicago rap scene, and on saturday night the mc will bring his idiosyncratic, so­cially-conscious music to legends. 
Jenkins’ second mixtape, “The water[s],” was one of 2014’s most exciting rap releases, and he was voted one of the best new artists on pitchfork’s 2014 readers poll. “The water[s]” established him as one of the best post­kendrick lamar rappers, alongside fellow chicagoans like chance the rapper and vic mensa, with whom Jenkins has collaborated. Jenkins’ conscientious lyrics are paired with brooding, jazz-tinged production, recall­ing lamar’s “section.80.” 
“water is synonymous with the truth; you need it to wake up, progress and get the most out of life and find the true quality of happiness,” Jenkins told billboard last year. “me [and] people in general have false ideas of what makes you happy and what it means to be successful.” 
like chance the rapper, Jenkins embraces an earnest worldview and positive attitude in his music, channeling it through his deep voice and witty wordplay. 
“most rappers these days is actors / and i can’t keep watching the same movie,” Jenkins raps on mixtape highlight “Jazz.” as the production builds to a climatic, distorted guitar line, he name checks jazz legends like coltrane, mingus and sinatra, adding a dimension of history to the track. “Talkin’ all that jazz might get you popped,” he raps on the chorus in his mellow baritone, summing up the song’s bleak meditation on truth. it’s this kind of intelligent, thought-provoking lyricism that makes Jenkins’ music so powerful. 
Jenkins’ social consciousness is best embodied on first single “martyrs,” on which he delivers commentary on the materialism embodied by mainstream rap. “i’ma get all this money / i’ma buy all this s**t,” Jenkins raps on the chorus. like lamar’s “swimming pools (drank),” you can as easily imagine the hook being misinterpreted as a party anthem, rather than an indictment of the thought­less pursuit of money. “i pray it’s never too preachy but i’m preaching,” Jenkins raps on the track, summing up his nuanced approach to activism: thoughtful, but never hitting you over the head with the message. 
opening for Jenkins on saturday night are saba and kirk knight. saba is a fellow chicagoan and the front man of the pivot gang collective, of which Jenkins is a member. 
The 20-year-old rapper’s most high-profile break came with a guest verse on chance the rapper’s “everybody’s something,” and his solo mixtape “comfortZone” fol­lows up on that promise. “comfortZone” is a mellow, moody release about growing up on chicago’s west side. saba professes to being a quiet kid growing up, and while his mixtape shows that introspective streak, it is an as­sured artistic statement from a rapper who will surely break into the mainstream within the next few years. 
knight is a member of the brooklyn-based pro era crew and perhaps best known as a producer. he has produced a number of tracks for pro era co-founder Joey bada$$, including “big dusty” and “hazeus view” off the rapper’s recent debut album, “b4.da.$$.” nonetheless, knight has slowly stepped up to the mic, providing verses for tracks from other pro era members and releasing songs on soundcloud. 
on “drink more” Jenkins raps, “somewhere in the world there’s a riff raff concert that people gon’ swarm for.” no disrespect to the neon icon, but hopefully notre dame students will swarm in equally large numbers to Jenkins’ show at legends on Friday night. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at mmunhall@nd.edu 
WEEKEND AT A GLANCE 
THURSDAY 

what: “the missing Picture” 
when: 7:00 p.m. 
where: dPaC 
how much: free 

part of dpac’s screenpeace Film Festival, “The missing picture” re­creates images lost during the khmer rouge’s cruel reign over cambodia from 1975 to 1979. The film is nomi­nated for the oscar for best Foreign language Film and will only be shown at dpac once. 
FRIDAY 

what: sub movie: “the theory of everything” when: 8:00 p.m., 10:30 p.m. where: debartolo 301 how much: $3 
nominated for five oscars, in­cluding best picture, “The Theory of everything” tells the story of phys­ics  superstar stephen hawking and his wife, Jane. The real stephen hawking reportedly liked it so much that he allowed the filmmakers to retrack it with the same computer-animated voice he uses. 

SATURDAY 

what: mick Jenkins, kirk knight and saba when: 10:00 p.m. where: legends how much:  free 
hip hop artist mick Jenkins is com­ing to legends saturday night. he just finished up on the 2014 smoker’s club world wide roller’s Tour with method man, redman, b-real and berner. opening for him are rapper saba and producer kirk knight. 

Weekly Watch is a series in which a scene writer picks a movie or show available on instant streaming ser­vice, then writes a review. 
“The one i love,” currently stream­ing on netflix, stars mark duplass and elisabeth moss as a couple in a rocky marriage. First time direc­tor charlie mcdowell explores their attempt to salvage their relation­ship through a surreal weekend re­treat. check back monday for matt mcmahon’s review! 
MARY McGRAW | The Observer 


The observer | thursday, february 5, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

sPorts authorIty 

2-0 makes for the perfect score 

Zach Klosinski 
sports writer 
perhaps the most unique high-school basketball game ever took place saturday night in alabama. 
To call the second matchup of the year between the boys’ varsity teams of bibb county and brookwood a low-scoring affair seems inadequate. saturday’s final score: 2-0 bibb county. 
The victors won the open­ing tip and missed a 3-pointer, but sophomore center brandon rutledge grabbed the offensive rebound and laid it off the glass for the game’s only two points. 
Fifteen seconds had elapsed, meaning over the next 31:45 … nothing. 
brookwood inbounded the ball and made its way down the court. uncomfortable with the zone played by the taller bibb county, brookwood simply passed it around the perimeter trying to extend the defense. and kept passing and passing and passing. 
“They came across half court and kept everything really spread out to force us to extend our zone,” bibb county coach russ wallace told the Tuscaloosa news. “The first couple of min­utes, even with us extending it, they were passing it around the perimeter, so i backed the kids up on defense, and they just stood there and held it.” 
as the time ran out on the quarter, brookwood took a shot and missed at the buzzer, but since they lost the tip, they still got the ball to start the second quarter. again brookwood stood just inside half court, missing another shot as the horn sounded for halftime. bibb county got the ball to start the third quarter but decided on a different offensive strategy. 
“To come out the second half, i’m not giving them the last two shots of the game,” wallace said. “i’ll take one shot in the third and be up by four and they have to come play, or if we don’t make it, at least go until the fourth quarter [up by two].” 
bibb county missed its chance at the buzzer to end the third, and then brookwood held for the final shot of the game. or at least what would have been the last shot of the game: with 15 seconds left, bibb county forced a turnover as brookwood began running its final play. That left brookwood to foul over and over again in hopes of extending the game, but time ran out. 
The final tallies: seven shots (three for brookwood, four from bibb county), two points and one turnover. 
under the circumstances, it’s reasonable to question why the coaches allowed the game to play out as it did. 
“‘why should i extend my defense when i’ve got the lead?’ is the question that everyone needs to understand,” wallace said. “i’m sure there is some pointing fin­gers both ways.” 
wrong on both counts, coach: There’s a different question that needs to be asked, with fingers being pointed at a single organi­zation, the alabama high school athletic association (ahsaa). and no, shot-clock proponents, that is not the best remedy for these young athletes. 
“it was not my intention to go into that game and stall,” brookwood coach Thad Fitzpatrick told the Tuscaloosa news. “The intention was to get as much rest as we can offensively and do whatever we needed to do defensively. it was our fourth game of the week, and on Friday night we started cramping a lot, so i made the decision.” 
Four games in a week? it’s ab­surd enough to make one team play that many, including back-to-back Friday and saturday nights. yet, as it turns out, brookwood wasn’t the only team playing its fourth game of the week: so was bibb county. 
sure, these are 14-18 year-old kids on the court. Their bodies are young, fresh and supposedly able to handle rigors of such a schedule. yet, as the large amount of cramping showed Fitzpatrick the night before, this was too much for even youths to handle. after all, play in the class 6a, area 7 tournament begins Thursday, so why should his team play and risk its health against class 4a bibb county? 
answer: They shouldn’t. even if this were a huge rivalry game, there is no reason why kids should ever have to play four games in a week during the regu­lar season, something the ashaa needs to address immediately. 
This scenario is only part of a growing problem in youth sports, lumped in with kids who begin ‘specializing’ and playing a single sport year-round. sure, these kids and their fresh bodies can handle the high levels of wear-and-tear, for a little bit at least. yet it won’t be long before they start falling apart and suffer long-term health complications. 
placing myself in the shoes of a parent, i actually appreciate the way Fitzpatrick and wallace decided to coach this game. For the kids’ sake, i hope state high school athletic associations feel the same way. 
was saturday night’s game fun to watch? of course not. was it better for these kids in the long run? absolutely. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
nfl 

Patriots draw crowds at parade in cold, snow 
Associated Press 

bosTon — giddy fans of the super bowl champion new england patriots chanted “brady! brady!” and clambered atop massive snowbanks for better views as players danced and waved their way through boston in a wednesday parade celebrating their fourth nFl title. 
well-wishers blew kiss­es, pumped their fists and screamed themselves hoarse as the team rolled through down­town aboard the world war ii-style amphibious “duck boat” vehicles that have become a staple of the city’s champion­ship parades. 
some fans defied police warnings and climbed on gi­ant piles of snow left from last week’s blizzard to get a glimpse of quarterback Tom brady, coach bill belichick and other players as trucks blew plumes of confetti into the air. 
The crowd roared as a smil­ing belichick and his players snapped selfies and took turns waving the lombardi trophy earned in a hard fought 28­24 victory over the defending champion seattle seahawks on sunday. 
a beaming brady held his young son, benjamin, who grinned and waved to the crowd. later, brady posted a video to Facebook. 
“Thank you guys. Thanks for all your support. what a year it’s been. look at this!” he said panning the camera over the roaring crowd. “let’s go!” 
The convoy carrying play­ers, their wives and girlfriends, the team mascot, cheerleaders and more rolled down boylston street on route to city hall, crossing the finish line of the boston marathon, where two bombs killed three people and wounded more than 260 others in 2013. 
Fans sported no. 12 brady jerseys, shouted the mvp’s name and held “we are the champions” placards. one had a sign that read: “belichick for president.” 
“i’m freezing, but it’s been great. it’s exciting,” said annie cushing, a Quincy resident who had been standing in front of city hall for hours before the parade started, wearing a no. 87 rob gronkowski jersey and a homemade lombardi trophy hat made of tin foil and tape. 
The real gronk drew laughs with his hip-hop dance moves. at one point, he chugged a can of beer tossed up by a fan while wearing a goofy winter hat of a one-eyed “minion” character. 
not to be outdone, wide re­ceiver Julian edelman stood tall on the roof of a duck boat in sunglasses and a white T-shirt, at times a waving patriots flag and holding up signs from fans, including one taunting the seahawks cornerback richard sherman. 
by the city’s colonial burial ground, where signers of the declaration of independence and other famous bostonians were once laid to rest, a boy held high a sign on a wooden picket saying: “13 years old, nine championships,” a nod to the city’s other successful sports franchises. 
elsewhere, signs proclaimed “They hate us cause they ain’t us,” referencing a James Franco line in the movie “The interview.” 
carl estrella of cambridge wore a T-shirt saying “deflate This,” mocking allegations that the patriots cheated with un­derinflated footballs in their aFc championship win against the indianapolis colts. 
“after all that went on with the deflated balls, we are owed an apology,” said michelle cote moran, a lowell resident watching the parade with her brother. “we’re not going to get it, but it’s all good. we did it again. we won.” 
nCaa football 

Purdue snags big receivers, backs in recruiting class 
Associated Press 

wesT laFayeTTe, indiana 
— purdue coach darrell hazell could be turning the “cradle of Quarterbacks” into power u. 
on wednesday, the boilermakers took a detour from their traditional reputa­tion by getting bigger and stron­ger across the offensive and defensive lines, adding three physical running backs and two 6-foot-3 receivers in their 25-player recruiting class. 
hazell just figured it’s what purdue needs to keep up in one of college football’s most gruel­ing conferences. 
“it’s a very physical confer­ence and you saw the attrition teams had at the end of the year because it is such a physi­cal conference,” hazell said, re­ferring to the plan for his third recruiting class. “so that was something we wanted to do this year.” 

The new guys could have a long-lasting impact on the perception of boilermakers’ football. 
purdue’s coaches believe powerful 5-foot-11, 205-pound running back markell Jones, indiana’s reigning mr. Football from columbus east, could compete for a starting job this year. he will be joined in the backfield by two other strong runners -- Tario Fuller from georgia and richard worship from ohio. 
“when you look at them, they look like big Ten backs,” run­ning backs coach Jafar williams said. “i really think this group is going to change the shape of our running backs for years to come.” 
if all goes well, those three will be running behind four new offensive linemen includ­ing 6-8, 300-pound tackle larry wells. The smallest of those four is michael mendez at 6-4, 286. 
by adding receivers anthony mahoungou and domonique young, hazell is hoping that will open things inside for the boilermakers’ slot receivers. 
The boilermakers also signed four linebackers and three defensive linemen including 270-pound tackle eddie wilson who defensive line coach rubin carter believes will add enough weight to become a 300-pound run-stuffer. 
purdue, of course, did take one quarterback -- kentucky’s record-setting elijah sandler, who is already enrolled in school and just started throw­ing after recovering from a torn acl. 
but for hazell, this recruiting class wall about one thing. 
“what we looked for in this class was to get bigger and stronger,” he said. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

ndsmcobserver.com | thursday, february 5, 2015 | The observer 

men’s swImmInG 

Irish strive to finish season on a high note 
By SEAN KILMER 
sports writer 
notre dame aims to finish off its regular season on a high note saturday when it takes on cleveland state in seniors’ last chance to swim competitively at rolfs aquatic center. 
The irish (5-6) come off two wins and a loss in the shamrock invitational last weekend. notre dame defeated missouri state and incarnate world handily but fell to big Ten foe iowa. 
in the shamrock invitational, the irish set two pool records and said goodbye to 14 seniors on the official senior day. among the record breakers was senior John nappi, who broke the pool record for the 1,650-yard freestyle with a time of 15:21.60. 
The 800-yard freestyle re­lay c-team also eclipsed a re­cord time with a 6:35.03 mark. The team consisted of seniors kevin hughes, broderick kelly and patrick murphy and junior michael hudspith. That group broke a record previously held by a university of michigan relay team. 

saturday’s competition marks notre dame’s final tune-up for the acc championships and will give swimmers a chance to eval­uate themselves, freshman Justin plaschka said. 
“i’m definitely excited for this meet against cleveland state, as it’s the last dual meet of my fresh­man season,” plaschka said. “i’ll just look to do my best that i can because this meet will be a good test to see what position i am in and what i need to do in training the next few weeks.” 
cleveland state (5-6) has en­joyed a strong 2014-15 season. The vikings compete in the horizon league and will seek to test the irish in multiple areas, most notably 3-meter diving and the 100-yard backstroke. 
cleveland state sophomore danny roberts, last week’s horizon league diver of the week, recently scored a 324.53 in the 3-meter event, a number that could push a deep irish div­ing team. last weekend, the irish claimed four out of the top five spots off the 3-meter board. 
philipp sikatzki turned in a performance at his previous meet that would have beat any irish swimmer in both the 100­yard backstroke and 100-yard butterfly last weekend. his 48.74 in the 100-yard backstroke would have beaten irish junior bogac ayhan’s top time of 49.24 from last weekend. in the 100-yard fly, he would have won the race with a time of 47.97. 
The 100-yard butterfly will feature sikatzki and several irish swimmers, including plaschka and ayhan. 
“i’ll approach [this meet] as i do the rest of the dual meets: ready to race,” plaschka said. “i’ll just get up ready to race as fast as i can, like i will when i have to race the top competitors at accs.” 
after this weekend, the irish head to the acc championships, running from Feb. 25 through march 1 in atlanta. The irish fin­ished sixth last year during a sea­son in which they broke 15 school records. 
notre dame and cleveland state dive into the rolfs aquatic center pool saturday at 12 p.m. 
Contact Sean Kilmer at skilmer@nd.edu 



OBSERVER FILE PHOTO 

Irish senior John Nappi races in the 500-yard freestyle event Jan. 31, 2014, during  the 2014 Shamrock Invitational at Rolfs Aquatic Center. Nappi won the 1650-yard swim last weekend in a pool-record time. 
paid adverTisemenT 

nba 
george pushes for an early return 
Associated Press 
indianapolis — larry bird isn’t putting any constraints on paul george’s recovery. 
in fact, the pacers president of basketball operations is hop­ing george will make it onto the court this season. Just six months after the two-time all-star grue­somely broke his right leg in two places, bird told reporters that if doctors clear george to play, he should. 
“i always say if the player is ready to play, he’s got to play,” bird said wednesday. “we’re not going to hold him back if he’s able to go out there and play. i think it’s important be­cause when you’re out like that, you lose something. he’s going to get beat up, he’s going to get knocked around, he’s not going to look good, but i still think it’s important, if he’s able to play, he should be out there.” 
bird said doctors initially told him that it would take seven months for the leg bone to fully heal. if that timeline still holds, george could conceivably be ready for a return from the aug. 1 injury sometime next month. 
being cleared may not be enough. coach Frank vogel ac­knowledged that getting into game shape and getting back in sync with his teammates could add another month or two to the rehab process, possibly delaying george’s return until next season 
— the expectation all along. 
george is expected to talk with reporters on Thursday, his first public comments since late november. after bird spoke, george issued a one-word Tweet: “march?!” 
he has steadily increased his activity during practices, though vogel declined to say what he’s exactly been doing. he also has been traveling with his teammates on some road trips. 
while those are signs of progress, they are not neces­sarily an indication of an im­minent return or whether george is anywhere close to his pre-injury form. 
“i think you’ve just got to be smart with it,” vogel said. “like larry said, if the doctors say ok, then i think he should be ready to go.” 
indiana (17-32) certainly could use george on the court. 
Though the pacers are still ranked in the top third of the league defensively, they have been inconsistent. offensively, the pacers’ struggles have been even worse and additional in­juries have sapped indiana of more scoring punch. bird said he expected this team to come together by now. 
yet they are just 4 1/2 games out of the final playoff spot in the east and still have playoff visions. george’s return could help. 
“i want to win and that’s been my goal, to try to get into the playoffs,” bird said. “hopefully, down the road, we’ll see where paul’s at. we still have no idea whether he’s coming back or not, but it seems like every week he’s getting better and better. if we do have an opportunity to get into the playoffs and he can get some games under his belt and get ready to go next year.” 
george’s absence and the pacers’ continual woes have prompted speculation that bird could break up the core of the two-time eastern conference runner-ups before the Feb. 19 trade deadline. The two biggest trade chips indiana has are veteran power forward david west and two-time all-star center roy hibbert. 
bird acknowledged he will listen to offers and will try to help improve the team upon george’s return, whenever that is, but does not appear to be in a rush to make any moves. 
vogel isn’t pleading for changes, either. 
“i like the group that we have and i would love to come back with west, hibbert, george (hill) at the one, fill in a couple of spots and make another run at it,” vogel said. “obviously, roy and david have player op­tions, but i’m pretty confident they’ll be back.” 
which leaves just one ques­tion: when will george be back? 
“i have no clue whether he’s going to play or not,” bird said. “but if he gets healthy and they say he can play and he wants to play, we’ll put him out there.” 


The observer | thursday, february 5, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

traCk and fIeld 

Irish gear up for home invite and ‘Meyo Mile’ 
By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports writer 
after mixed results at the razorback invitational against the most competitive field they have faced thus far, the irish will be tested once again this weekend when they host over 1,000 athletes for the meyo invitational. 
The irish struggled out of the gates last weekend at the meet hosted by the university of arkansas in Fayetteville, arkansas, which featured a combined 15 top-25 teams on the men’s and women’s sides. The men’s squad finished 11th out of 12 teams, while the women were able to snag sev­enth out of 12. 
irish coach alan Turner said he remains optimistic and thinks the attitude on the team is positive. 
“we were pretty bad that first day, and the second day, we finally woke up and re­sponded, so we ended on a pretty good note,” he said. “The kids left the meet feeling, ‘i can complete with anybody.’ obviously, we still have a road to go … [but] i think what we did saturday is going to proj­ect us to have a pretty good season.” 
The upcoming meet will feature a large field of athletes from dozens of schools across the country, as well as from outside organizations. The invitational is full of top ath­letes in nearly every event, in­cluding the well-known meyo invitational mile race. 
The ‘meyo mile’ is one of the most competitive mile races in the nation for ncaa and professional runners, and this year’s race will feature 75 competitors in the women’s race and 69 in the men’s. 
headlining the field is 2014 notre dame graduate Jeremy rae, representing the speed river Track club. rae won the race all three years in which he competed for notre dame. in 2011, 2012 and 2014 
– in 2013, he was out with a strained achilles tendon – rae ran sub-four-minute miles en route to his three victories, in­cluding a notre dame record 3:57.25 in 2014. 
“[Jeremy] is in shape and ready to run, so we could eas­ily see a sub-four-minute mile from him [again this year],” Turner said. 
The event will also fea­ture 2008 olympian Taylor milne, one of rae’s profes­sional teammates, as well as notre dame junior michael clevenger, who rae has said could break the four-minute barrier. 
in the women’s mile, junior molly seidel will compete after finishing first in the mile at the razorback invitational. 


Top athletes and all­americans will compete in events across the board. 
“The meyo mile gets the at­tention … [but] all the events are deep here at this meet,” Turner said. 
he said that freshman Jessica harris, who has im­pressed early in the sea­son, could challenge her own record of 2:06.91 in the 800 meters. after three col­legiate meets, harris holds three school records in the 1,000-meter, 800-meter and 600-meter runs. 

she has contributed to a streak of irish athletes break­ing school records in each of their first four meets. 
Turner also said that the women’s 4x400 team, one of the top units in the country, could contend for a school record if each runner takes about a second off her usual time. 
“it’s going to be a very packed event and a loud atmo­sphere,” Turner said. “our kids respond to that; they know it’s the biggest meet of the year.” 
The irish host the meyo invitational this weekend at loftus sports center. The events begin Friday at 4 p.m and continue saturday start­ing at 10 a.m. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 
fenCInG 

nd prepares for conference championships 
By CHRISTINE MAYUGA 
sports writer 
Just two weeks shy of the acc championships, notre dame will host all the teams in the acc at the decicco duals on saturday. doing at this point is gearing 
“This weekend will help us up to qualify for the ncaa get ready for the conferenc-championships.” es championship, which is The acc conference cham­what we will be focusing on,” pionships begin Feb. 21 in irish coach gia kvaratskhelia chapel hill, north carolina, said. “everything we are and the ncaa championships start march 19 in columbus, ohio. currently, the irish top the ncaa women’s coaches poll and hold the no. 2 rank­ing on the men’s side, demon­strating the respect the team has garnered throughout the country, kvaratskhelia said. 


notre dame has turned in several strong performanc­es this season. last week­end, the irish squads faced seven ranked teams at the northwestern duals and end­ed with a perfect 13-0 record, the women’s team going 7-0 and the men’s team finishing undefeated as well at 6-0. 
The irish now boast a 20-2 record for the women’s team and 13-6 on the men’s side. with numerous team mem­bers away at international competitions, including sophomore foilist kristjan archer and freshman stand­out sabreist Francesca russo, kvaratskhelia said he still expects his team to perform well. 
“The absent players shouldn’t affect our overall performance,” kvaratskhelia said. “our team is very strong and has lots of depth.” 
The irish are led in the decicco duals by freshman sabreist Jonathan Fitzgerald and junior foilist lee kiefer, who were named the acc male and Female Fencers of the week for last week. it is the third occasion and sec­ond consecutive week on which notre dame has swept the awards. 
previous recipients in­clude senior epeeist ashley severson and freshman sa­breist Jonah shainberg last month and russo and sopho­more foilist hazem khazbak in november. 
despite the abundance of individual accomplish­ments this season, the irish are concentrating on mov­ing forward as a whole, kvaratskhelia said. 
“we are focusing on the broad spectrum of the team, getting ready for the championship season,” kvaratskhelia said. 
The irish aim to come out on top once again at the decicco duals at the castellan Family Fencing center this weekend. 
Contact Christine Mayuga at cmayuga@nd.edu 


Power Play 
conTinued From page 16 
to a suspension. sophomore center vince hinostroza has been a catalyst as well, dish­ing out 21 assists and total­ing 25 points on the year. 
“when russo is on our power play, he likes to be a guy that’s a shooter, and [hinostroza] likes to be the guy who has the puck,” lucia said. “once [coach Jackson] separated those two, i felt like each guy kind of runs his own power play.” 
For most of the season, the irish had used lucia, hinostroza, russo and two defensemen — junior andy ryan and freshman Jordan gross — on their first power play unit. despite their in­dividual production, they didn’t seem to be gelling. 
“you know, early on in the year, there were so many games that if we would have got a few power play goals, we would have won,” junior center and team captain steven Fogarty said. 
before playing western michigan on Jan. 10, notre dame had posted a 5.8 percent success rate on the power play. now, says Fogarty, the team feels like they have one of the best power plays in college hockey. 
but figuring out the power play has not neces­sarily translated to on-ice success for the irish. notre dame is 2-4-1 over their last seven games, now strug­gling to generate offense when it is at even strength. in last Friday’s loss to new hampshire, the irish scored just two goals, both on the power play. 
“[The power play is] maybe the one shining part of our game right now,” Jackson said. 
still, Jackson said he knew all it would take was a tweak or two for his team’s power play to jump from the bot­tom of hockey to one of the best recently. 
“we have too much abil­ity to be where we were,” Jackson said. 
The irish travel to orono, maine, this weekend for a two-game set against maine. The puck drops both nights at 7:05 p.m. at alfond arena. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 

ndsmcobserver.com | thursday, february 5, 2015 | The observer 

w bball 
conTinued From page 16 
junior guard Faith randolph. 

“virginia’s got two really good players,” mcgraw said. “a post player [imovbioh] and Faith randolph on the perimeter, [are] playing great basketball right now. so they have a great inside-outside game.” 
This season imovbioh is av­eraging 13.6 points per game and 10.8 rebounds per contest, which leads the acc. mcgraw said defending imovbioh will be similar to the job the irish had defending wake Forest se­nior forward dearica hamby on sunday. hamby collected 23 points and 10 rebounds, but notre dame defeated the demon deacons, 92-63. 
“we can look at hamby’s shots,” mcgraw said when asked how the irish will con­tain virginia inside. “so we’ll be able to look at some of the things we did [against wake Forest] and talk about how we’re going to defend them.” 
on the outside, the cavaliers are one of the top 3-point shooting teams in the country, hitting 36.4 percent from long range, just off notre dame’s mark (38.1 percent). randolph has led the virginia barrage, attempting 119 from beyond the arc, but has had plenty of help from freshman guard mikayla venson, who has put up 111 attempts of her own. 
venson ranks second on the team in assists and third in scoring and has been the driv­ing force behind virginia’s of­fense in its past two wins. she was named acc freshman of the week monday after av­eraging 17 points per game and shooting 80 percent from 3-point territory over the two contests. 
The acc honor was the first of venson’s career. against notre dame, she will face fresh­man forward brianna Turner, who already has collected five weekly accolades. Turner’s last award came back on Jan. 19, but since then, the forward has racked up valuable minutes that will prove crucial come the postseason, mcgraw said. 

“every experience she gets is going to help us down the road,” mcgraw said after the win over wake Forest, in which Turner played only 22 min­utes. “i thought it was great for [senior forward] markisha [wright] to be able to come in and give us great minutes and take some pressure off [Turner] so she knows that she’s got oth­er people that can help her.” 
mcgraw has said several times this season that she is looking for greater senior lead­ership to guide a rotation that features mostly underclass­men, especially in the midst of a trying acc schedule. 
“The older kids, in practice, try to bring energy and stay focused,” irish senior guard madison cable said. “it starts at practice. we’ve been talking about practice recently … and we really need to come and be ready and have that translate over to the game. i think we’re in a really good spot right now, but there’s always room for improvement.” 
notre dame hosts virginia tonight at purcell pavilion. Tip-off is scheduled for 7 p.m. 
Contact Greg Hadley at     ghadley@nd.edu 


CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 

Irish senior defenseman Robbie Russo circles the net Jan. 16 against UConn at Compton Family Ice Arena. The two teams tied, 3-3. 


The observer | thursday, february 5, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


lineman] Jarron [Jones] gets his to be decided.” 
football 

boot off in the spring. [senior 
conTinued From page 16 

linebacker] Joe schmidt has the “unfrozen five” 
had his boot off now for three kelly said cornerback he will not participate. he is or four weeks, and he’s starting keivarae russell and defensive not going to play football again. to move through his rehab.” lineman ishaq williams are and that is a decision he and both working on their academ­his family made.” Coaching staff ics in order to return to notre 
senior linebacker Jarrett kelly would not speak about dame, and to his knowledge, grace, who broke his leg in his coaching staff, amidst ru-they will be back next fall. october 2013, will be back with mors of some possible changes “keivarae is working on class-the irish soon enough, kelly to the crew. however, kelly as-es right now at the university of said. sured the media he would be washington, and he’s had con­
“Jarett grace vertical jumped coming back. versations with the appropri­
28.5 [inches] yesterday, had a “we’ve got nine coaches to-ate people to get those classes 
4.46 short shuttle, so he’s really day,” kelly said. “we’re going transferred back here and to close to being back to where he to talk recruiting today. any meet the needs he has relative was,” kelly said. changes that we have on the to transfer requirements and 
Junior safety nicky baratti, staff we will definitely get you meeting eligibility,” kelly said. who had a season-ending up to date on it, but i’m not go-“There’s still some work to be shoulder injury last fall, will ing to get into it today talking done there, but i know he’s also return to practicing about coaches, who’s coming, working towards getting that with the irish, but will forego who’s staying. i’m staying. i’ll done, and our expectations are contact. be here.” to have him back. 
“nick baratti is doing well; “ishaq has similar criteria. he’ll be cleared for spring,” blue and Gold Game his bar is a little bit more com­kelly said. “probably no con-with campus crossroads plicated, but he knows what he 
after several low-scoring tact, but he’ll be cleared to construction well under way needs to do as well. so we’re 

m bball 
stretches of the half, boston go through everything in the on notre dame stadium, kelly hoping that both of them can 

conTinued From page 16 
college closed within single-dig­

spring, but we won’t let him do said the annual spring blue get it done.” its on a 3-pointer by junior guard 
contact.” and gold game is still up in senior davaris daniels talked never let up. connaughton pro-olivier hanlan with 2:58 to go. 
Three members of notre the air. about returning to notre dame, vided an early spark for the irish, hanlan hit two more 3-pointers 
dame’s 2014 starting defense “we’ve had some prelimi-kelly said, but due to some of scoring 10 of the team’s first 16 on the next two possessions to 
are currently rehabbing inju-nary discussions about [the the requirements needed to points to put notre dame up 11 close notre dame’s lead to 67-61 
ries suffered late in the season spring training game], but come back elected to enter the with 13:56 remaining in the first with 1:47 left. hanlan finished the 
and seem to be on their way we’re probably not ready to nFl draft. half. game with 28 points, going 6-for-9 
back to the field, kelly said. make a decision on it yet,” kelly “i think there were some com-From there, notre dame’s lead from beyond the arc. 
“[sophomore safety] drew said. “we’re probably gonna plications with eligibility that ballooned to 25 points, as the “offensively, [hanlan] got hot,” 
Tranquill is coming back from have some form of spring we were going to have to work irish held the eagles (9-12, 1-8) grant said. “They made some 
acl, but he’s so far ahead right game. i think the destination through, some high standards without a field goal for over an shots. overall, i think we could 
now,” kelly said. “i think he is going to be somewhere here to be met,” kelly said. “There eight-minute stretch, and the have probably played him a little 
had 315 pounds on his back on campus; we just don’t know were some academic eligibility eagles didn’t reach double-digits better, but he made shots. he’s a 
yesterday full squat at two and where it is going to be right issues that were going to be dif­until boston college graduate great player.” 
a half months. That’s crazy, now. obviously the stadium is ficult for [daniels] to meet.” student guard aaron brown hit but the eagles would get no 
he’s so far ahead of schedule. off line. we want to keep it on a 3-pointer with 4:47 left in the closer, as a fast-break dunk by 
he’ll be doing some drill work campus, but our options are Contact Isaac Lorton at            half. sophomore guard demetrius 
in the spring. [Junior defensive limited, and the format has yet ilorton@nd.edu “we were in a heck of a rhythm, Jackson, his only made field goal 
paid adverTisemenT 
and it was beautiful basketball, of the game, put the irish up eight the way we were moving and with under a minute to go. scoring and different guys do-despite the late surge by boston ing it,” brey said of his team’s college, notre dame was never first-half play. “when you’re in under any sense of panic, sopho­that good a rhythm offensively, it more guard steve vasturia said. does help your defense because “i think we felt under control,” it demoralizes the other team he said. “we’re always confident a little bit. … and i thought our we’ve got the opportunity to win offensive efficiency didn’t have the game.” them in a very good rhythm be-grant and vasturia finished cause they’re thinking, ‘god, as the high scorers for the irish what do we need to do to get a with 17 points apiece. Junior stop.’” forward Zach auguste added 16 
while notre dame’s early suc-points and five rebounds, while cess propelled it to a comfortable connaughton totaled 11 points. lead, it also proved unsustain-The 6-foot-1 Jackson led all play­able, brey said. ers with 10 rebounds. 
“[The lead] got to 25 so fast, you brey said games like worry about concentration and wednesday night’s matchup fit focus a little bit,” brey said. “… i in with his philosophy of steadily never expect a league game to be improving for march. easy.” “on monday, we came in and 
notre dame, which shot 55.2 our whole theme was ‘February percent from the field and went improvement for march success’; 7-for-12 from 3-point range in this is a month we need to get bet-the first 20 minutes, saw its half-ter,” brey said. time lead erode to 16 points after “… certainly [the] no. 1 [prior­boston college graduate student ity] was the defensive end of the guard dimitri batten banked in floor, especially after saturday. i a half-court shot to end the first thought we really digested that frame. and wanted to do that, and so 
That lead continued to shrink that’s going to be our theme: in the second half, as the eagles ‘February improvement.’” upped their offensive efficiency notre dame will look to contin­and slowed down the irish attack. ue its improvement when it heads 
“i think they switched up their to durham, north carolina for defense a little bit more,” irish se-a rematch with no. 4 duke on nior guard Jerian grant said of the saturday. Tip-off is scheduled for eagles’ second-half play. “i feel 1 p.m. like we missed some good looks. we were moving the ball offen-Contact Brian Hartnett at sively well, got some good looks.” bhartnet@nd.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com | thursday, february 5, 2015 | The observer 

Crossword | will shorTZ 

Across 31 Google stat 57 ___ broche (on a 1 “Whenever you’re 32 Pond creatures skewer) ready!” 34 Lotus ___ 58 Driving force 8 Dangerous locale (listless race in 60 Beauty shop 15 Property Greek myth) stock recipient, at law 36 Play that 62 Library receipt 16 “Aha!” introduced the info word “robot” 63 And other 
17 Remote-sensingorbiter 37 What’s that in women: Lat. Italy? 64 Radial choices 
18 Riviera resort 38 Whence the 65 1963 Johnny 
19 “Once in Love phrase “Put not Cash hitWith ___” 

your trust in
20 Adriatic port 

princes” Down22 The “p” in the 
41 Crasher of 1979 1 A prankster may middle of certain 44 “You ___?” pull one
abbreviations 45 Battle of Britain 2 City on San 
23 Smooth over, as fighter Francisco Bay

a drive 47 Jobs creation? 3 Dickens boy 
25 General on a 49 Friendly if a bit 4 Lent’s start, e.g.: 

Chinese menu careless sort, Abbr.
26 Ritzy supposedly 5 Orch. member 28 Year 51 Bonanza find 6 “Laughable

Michelangelo’s“David” was 52 One way to have Lyrics” writer completed ham 7 #1 album, for four 
weeks, before 29 Molotov cocktail, 53 Drivel “Woodstock” 

e.g. 54 Comedians, e.g. 
8 Willowy ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 “The wolf ___ the 
door” 10 Yucatán youth 11 Poetic contraction 12 Not-so-great
poker holding 13 Provokes 14 Spectacular
display 21 “___ Beso” (1962 
hit) 24 Garden-variety 27 Bring by cart, say 29 Second 
Amendment subject 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  14  
15  16  
17  18  
19  20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  27  
28  29  30  31  
32  33  34  35  
36  37  
38  39  40  41  42  43  
44  45  46  47  48  
49  50  51  52  
53  54  55  56  57  
58  59  60  61  
62  63  
64  65  

Puzzle by John R. Conrad 

30 Produce an 41 More dear 52 Ottoman Empire undesired effect 
42 Medium for lots founder 33 Neighbor of Rom. of talk 
55 Quiet
35 Biblical 43 Seasoning from possessive the laurel tree 56 French roast 38 New Jersey 44 Rat-a-tat 
59 Japan’s ___ setting for 46 Apr. addressee 

Period (1603­“Coneheads” 
48 Time-out, of sorts 
1867)
39 Scrap 50 “Paradise Lost” 40 Union members figure 61 N. Afr. land 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
hIGhly PunlIkely | chrisTopher brucker 
sudoku | The mepham group 
Level: 



Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
© 2012 The Mepham Group. Distributed by Tribune Media Services. All rights reserved. 



11/8/12 
dome nuts | aleXandria wellman 

horosCoPe | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: keep emotions under control and do what has to be done if you want to get ahead this year. personal and financial adjustments will bring good results as long as you follow through. making noise without taking action will cost you financially, emotionally or professionally. good fortune can be yours if you take action. your numbers are 4, 9, 14, 22, 27, 31, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): energy is up, and romance is highlighted. do your best to get your responsibilities out of the way so you can enjoy the rest of your day. don’t slow down because someone disagrees with you. be gracious but focus on your success. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): unexpected problems will develop. refuse to give in to someone trying to force you to make a decision. you have to feel confident about your plans before moving forward. if something sounds too good to be true, take a pass. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): your curiosity will result in an extraordinary conversation with someone quite different from you. Find out as much as you can, but don’t believe everything you hear. make changes based on your life, not on what works for someone else. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): give your very best no matter what everyone around you does. someone will recognize your contribution and suggest a partnership. don’t let flattery cost you. negotiate a deal that keeps whatever arrangement you come up with equal. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t waste energy fighting over a trivial matter. consider how you should move forward and whether a difficult relationship is worth the trouble. an honest assessment and serious talk will help you change the dynamics or help you move on.  

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): you’ll be faced with demands if you let someone manipulate you. a relationship with someone you thought you could trust will be costly. a practical approach to the way you move forward will be needed to protect against heartache. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): stop procrastinating and worrying and have a little fun. you can turn an ordinary day into one of love, romance, creativity and getting down to business if you avoid disputes with pushy people. Talks will lead to positive plans. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): don’t pay attention to petty individuals. surround yourself with good friends who will help you reach your goals instead of criticizing everything you do. be brave and follow your intuition and your heart, not someone trying to lead you astray. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you’ll be inclined to brag, and with good reason, but do so knowing that someone will try to make you look bad by twisting your words. if you have a secret, keep it to yourself until sharing personal information is more appropriate.   

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): your timing will be accurate, allowing you to put your plans in motion. a tempting investment will develop, but before you agree, make sure it’s the right fit for you. if it jeopardizes your stability or security, take a pass. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): The more you do to improve an important arrangement, the better. share ideas and make plans to move forward. This is a day for change and positive action. Take the initiative and make things happen.  



PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): get involved in organizational events that allow you to meelearn from those with more experience than you, and you will find a way to get ahead. offering a helping hand will instill the know-how necessary to develop a style that will separate you from the competition. 

Birthday Baby: you are engaging and imaginative. you are a leader and a crusader. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
RUFYR  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
TAMGU  

BOZEIM SNIVHA  
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 


A: 


(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: VIXEN GUILD SWATCH ABLAZEYesterday’s 
Answer: The storm damaged the taxi when it did this — HAILED A CAB 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | thursday, february 5, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
football 

Kelly talks more than just recruits 
By ISAAC LORTON 
assistant managing editor 
irish coach brian kelly spoke a lot about recruits wednesday during national signing day, but he also talked about several other crucial items, including re­turning players, injuries, possible coaching changes and three of the “frozen five” players. 
although the irish have energetically recruited top prospects, kelly said he and athletic director Jack swarbrick were also actively working to ensure a few top talents returned. kelly said it was critical to keep two juniors, defensive lineman sheldon day and left tackle ronnie stanley, from enter­ing the nFl draft. 
“we had great success with keeping a number of our play­ers over the years, going back to michael Floyd, Tyler eifert, manti Te’o and Zack martin,” kelly said. “but i felt this year after a couple players leaving early, i wasn’t going to leave this up to a phone call. so i was going to go and visit both of them. … we really wanted to be aggressive showing them and their families why it was in their best interest to come back to notre dame.” 
“if they weren’t good locker room guys, i wouldn’t have gotten on the plane,” kelly said. “but they are good guys that needed to get their de­gree from notre dame, and that’s why we did it.” 
Injuries 
a number of the irish are recovering from injury-plagued seasons and are pre­paring to return to action. senior offensive lineman conor hanratty, however, will not return to play, kelly said. hanratty decided to end his football career due to the multiple concussions he has received during his foot­ball career. 
“connor hanratty will not participate,” kelly said. “he has made the decision that 
see FooTball PaGe 14 

men’s basketball | nd 71, bosTon college 63 
Irish hold off rival bC 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
managing editor 
For much of the first half wednesday, it seemed that no. 10 notre dame had put its 76­72 upset loss to pittsburgh on saturday far behind it. 
For parts of the second half, however, it seemed that a repeat of last weekend’s loss wasn’t out of the question. 
nonetheless, the irish (21-3, 9-2 acc) held on, riding a hot start and strong first-half de­fensive effort in order to survive a lackluster second stanza and defeat boston college, 71-63, at purcell pavilion. 
“i’m thrilled how we bounced back [from the pittsburgh game],” irish coach mike brey said. “we talked about that for two days, bouncing back. 
“… i thought the first 10 min­utes, what we were doing of­fensively was off the charts, and we combined it with really solid defense to give us kind of a big cushion that we eventually needed.” 
notre dame led the game 
wire-to-wire, as senior guard pat 
connaughton hit a jumper sec-

JODI LO | The Observer onds after the opening tip and 
Irish senior guard Jerian Grant rises over a Duke defender during Notre Dame’s 77-73 win Jan. 28 at Purcell Pavilion. see m bball PaGe 14 

nd women’s basketball 

ND stays wary of Cavaliers 
By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 
irish coach muffet mcgraw hasn’t forgotten the last time no. 4 notre dame played virginia. she knows better than to take tonight’s home matchup against the cavaliers lightly. 
in 2014, the irish traveled to charlottesville, virginia, and barely escaped with their perfect record intact, scraping by with a 79-72 win, their second-narrow­est victory of the year. 
in that game, three of notre dame’s top four scorers were seniors. now, with a remodeled, younger lineup, mcgraw no longer faces the pressure of an undefeated season, but the irish coach still plans on using last season’s game to guide her ap­proach for Thursday. 
“That was our closest game last year,” mcgraw said. “i mean, we won by single digits … so that’s a team that’s really really good.” 
like the irish (21-2, 7-1 acc), the cavaliers (15-7, 5-4) lost three starters to graduation at the end of last year, but they returned two of their top scorers in senior center sarah imovbioh and 
see w bball PaGe 13 


hoCkey 
line changes fuel power play revival 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
The conversion rate of hockey power plays hovers around 17-18 percent, with the top-10 teams in division i all above 22 percent this year. 
after a success rate of 
18.2 percent last year, notre dame’s 12.3 percent (14-of­
114) this season might seem like a reason the irish are having an off year at 11-14-3, 6-5-3 in hockey east. 
That conversion rate, how­ever, is misleading, as the irish are having a renais­sance of sorts on the power play in the second half of the season. notre dame is finally putting the pieces together, posting a 31 percent (9-of­
29) conversion rate over its last seven games, includ­ing a power play goal in ev­ery game since Jan. 10. over the last three games, notre dame has gone 5-for-10 (50 percent). 
“as crazy as that is, it’s just a matter of switching the point guys from what we had — and chemistry,” irish coach Jeff Jackson said. 
one of those moves in­volved shifting leading scor­er and senior defenseman robbie russo to the second unit. 
Junior left winger mario lucia also said the success of the power play has every­thing to do with personnel. 
“i think we just got the right pieces together,” lucia said. “The power play is all about fitting the puzzle together with the right players and finding the right chemistry and finding the right setup that works. [it] took us a little while to finally find that, but once we did, now it’s starting to click.” 
For notre dame, getting the units right meant sepa­rating arguably its two best players. russo has tallied 11 goals and 25 points this sea­son, despite missing this past weekend’s series against new hampshire due 
see power play PaGe 13 





