The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 28 | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
University reveals commencement speaker 
Former Chairman of Joint Chiefs of Staff General Martin Dempsey will deliver speech at graduation 
Observer Staff Report 
general martin dempsey will speak at the university’s 171st commencement ceremony this may, the university announced wednesday morning. 
as chairman of the Joint chiefs of staff, dempsey served as the nation’s highest-ranking military officer. 
dempsey, who retired wednesday after four years at the position, spoke on campus last september on the threats facing the u.s. for the annual Jack Kelly and gail weiss lecture on national security. during that same visit, he presented the american flag during the ceremonies before the football game against michigan, according to the press release. 
according to the press release, he graduated in 1974 from the u.s. military academy and later earned a master’s degree in english from duke university before serving as an assistant professor of english at west point for three years. he also holds master’s degrees in military art and national security sciences. 
Throughout his career, dempsey has served all over the world, and received awards including the defense distinguished service medal with oak leaf cluster, the distinguished service medal with three oak leaf clusters, the defense superior service medal, the legion of merit with two oak 
see speaKer PAGE 3 

NOTRE DAME FORUM 



archbishop calls for religious reform in middle east 

KAT ROBINSON | The Observer 

Latin Patriach of Jerusalem Fouad Twal speaks in McKenna Hall on the plight of Christians in the Middle East and the need for peace. 
By DEVON CHENELLE 
news writer 
despite the desire for peace in palestine, neither peace nor security has been won by the myriad of negotiations and wars of the past 70 years, Fouad Twal, latin patriarch of Jerusalem, said. 
Twal delivered a lecture titled “middle east christians’ Future: in whose hands” on Tuesday at hesburgh center auditorium as part of the 2015-2016 notre dame Forum “Faith, Freedom and the modern world: 50 years after vatican ii.” The talk was hosted by the center For civil and human rights, and Twal was introduced by university president Fr. John Jenkins. 
Twal ministers in a part of the world where christians feel oppressed and was trained as a christian diplomat, Jenkins said.  Twal brings a message of peace, reconciliation and 
see Forum PAGE 3 

LUCY DU | The Observer 
In September 2014 , then Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Martin Dempsey addresses        members of Notre Dame’s ROTC program and the general public at Carey Auditorium in Hesburgh Library. 



Students intern in China, explore business and culture 
By WEI LIN 
assistant managing editor 

For those who are inter­ested in working abroad, specifically in asia, look no further than notre dame international (ndi). 
miranda ma, the asia ad­visor of ndi, said this past summer, ndi introduced an extension to the summer china business and culture program. The program traditionally offered notre dame students the oppor­tunity to study the business environment in china and chinese culture, all while exploring the major cities of china, including beijing, shanghai, hong Kong and Taipei. The two courses are led by notre dame faculty and grant the participants six academic credits. 
unlike past summers, ndi offered a new component to this experience. Five students were able to extend their stay and supplement their experience by participat­ing in a five-week internship program with caixin media and aegon-industrial Fund management company locat­ed in beijing and shanghai, respectively. 
ma said the experience was positive for both the students 
see asia PAGE 4 


notre dames condemn catcalling, harassment 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 
Two members of notre dames, a female empow­erment club, senior alison leddy and senior bri prusakowski, led a discus­sion about street harassment as part of saint mary’s safety 
CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 
week on Tuesday. 

Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame students discuss problems associated see dames PAGE 3 with public verbal harassment and possible solutions. 



scene PAGE 5 viewpoinT PAGE 6 viewpoinT PAGE 7 FooTball PAGE 12 men’s soccer PAGE 12 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

If your life were a movie, what genre would it be? 

Pete Gonzales 

Brock Gallagher 
senior 
freshman 
off campus 
dillon hall 
“Fairy tale.” 
“action.” 
Erin Lyden 

Andrew Tucker 
freshman 
freshman 
pangborn hall 
Keough hall 
“comedy.” 
“anime.” 
Julia Perry 

Luke Shea 
freshman 
freshman 
walsh hall 
duncan hall 
“comedy.” 
“chick flick.” 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

haleigh ehmsen Kit loughran Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Jp gschwind ben padanilam megan valley victoria llorens 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
erin rice adam ramos 
Photo Viewpoint 

Dirty Book Sale Team Time for the ND Volleyball vs. East-West ND Volleyball vs. 
rosie biehl bianca almada 

Stepan Center Arts Boston College Transnationalism Syracuse 
9:30a.m.-4 p.m. Morris Inn Purcell Pavilion McKenna Hall                 Purcell Pavilion                  Annual sale of dusty 2:30 p.m.-4:30 p.m. 7 p.m. 9 a.m. 12 p.m. 
Corrections 

or slightly damaged First fundraiser for ND The Irish take on the Symposium on literary The Irish take on the 
The observer regards itself as books. Cultural Arts Council. Golden Eagles. intersectionality. Orange. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Bookstore Reading Artful Yoga Movie Night Domer Run Wildflower 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

Hammes Bookstore Snite Museum of Art Coleman-Morse Legends of DeBartolo Performing 
however, recognize that we will make 

7:30p.m.-8:30 p.m. 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Center Notre Dame                                                Arts Center 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 

Authors Valerie Sayers Relax with yoga in the 9:30 p.m.-11:30 p.m. 9 a.m.-12 p.m. 2:30 p.m.-4:30 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 

and Liam Callanan will O’Shaughnessy West Free screening of the Run to benefit local ND Theatre NOW 
we can correct our error. 

be in attendance. Gallery. movie “Rudy.” cancer education. performance. 

ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2015 | The observer 

badge, according to the press 
Speaker 
release. 
conTinued From page 1 
according to the same 
press release, notre dame’s leaf clusters, the bronze star commencement ceremony with “v” device and oak leaf will be held in notre dame cluster, the combat action stadium on may 15, 2016 at 9 badge and the parachutist a.m. 


Forum 
conTinued From page 1 
charity. 
Twal first addressed the par­lous state of the christian mi­nority in the middle-east, with special attention to the situation in palestine. 
The christian population of palestine is a small minor­ity, Twal said, and thus it cannot function effectively in isolation. The catholics in palestine alone operate over 115 schools, some of which have a majority muslim student body. 
“we cannot have a ghetto just for us chrwstians. ... our mis­sion cannot know borders,” Twal said. 
he said there are many perils for the christian community of the levant, such as the israeli bureaucracy’s mistreatment of christian and many muslims’ apathy towards the welfare of the christian community, call­ing the church of Jerusalem a church of calvary. 
in spite of all the suffering of the christian community, it is impossible to live, love and work in Jerusalem without Jesus and the vision of the cross, Twal said. 
“in Jerusalem, he prayed, he worked and he wept,” Twal said. 
Twal said although the christian community of Jerusalem is often subject to persecution, it is also unmistak­ably a church of resurrection, empowered by its proximity to where he rose. 
“i too am anxious for the fu­ture but [also] hope for a bright future,” Twal said, referring to the future prospects of the christians of palestine. 
Twal’s lecture also spent time on the consequences of the israeli-palestinian conflict, a conflict that fatally undermines israel’s claims of democracy so long as the occupation contin­ues, Twal said. 
“The vast majority of palestinians are fighting for the same things Jews did,” Twal said. 
The rights palestinians seek are the rights of democracies, such as dignity, respect and justice, he said. These were the same values his patriarchate has upheld and promoted for years. while he expressed pessimism about the viability of a two-state solution, the fundamental problem is still occupation, par­ticularly while Jerusalem is still occupied territory, Twal said. 
“much is spoken [of peace], yet we have none,” Twal said. “ ... in palestine, there is no more credi­bility in the speech of politicians, and thus, changes requiring great sacrifice must come.” 
“in palestine, one thing is clear: the cycle of degradation and violence must be broken,” he said. 
Twal said, the middle-east is beset by politic without ethic and the dangerous rhetoric of extremists, lack of education, and the reckless profiteering of arms dealers are all contribut­ing to the current disorder in the middle-east 
“in Jerusalem we are closely watching the events in the arab world...our hearts are filled with sorrow with our brothers and sisters who are victims of vio­lence,” Twal said, “in Jordan we have 1,400,000 syrians...last year we received 8,000 iraqi christian people...for sure syria needs re­form, but 200,000 [were] killed because they want to change this regime, and the regime is still in good health.” 
Twail said the middle east is beset by a dark past and dark present, and he prays for the emergence of a genuine leader. although he believes an edu­cated population is one key step towards justice and peace, it’s clear the road to peace in the holy land is a long and difficult one. 
“[being] fair and balanced ... i’m not sure that’s possible when we speak about the holy land,” Twal said. 
Contact Devon Chenelle at dchenell@nd.edu 
Dames 
conTinued From page 1 
leddy posed the question of why 

men think they are invited to call out to women on the streets and why they are quick to defend them­selves when they are called out on it. 
“i think a lot of the issue is it’s not welcomed,” junior michelle casado said. “you’re a stranger usually. i feel like that’s a big part of it. 
“ … if the woman isn’t welcom­ing it, you shouldn’t go for it. it’s regardless of the comment you’re making. if it’s not welcomed, there’s no consent.” 
Junior emily beaudoin said she does not understand what men get out of catcalling women. she said that women are not going to respond to a catcall by dating the man, so she does not know why they do it in the first place. 
prusakowski responded by  y she thinks there isn’t an objective in street harassment, but rather a sense of entitlement. 
“it’s ‘you’re there, and i can say something, so i’m going to.’ i feel it’s almost automatic. This idea of entitlement or this need to com­ment on someone else. They don’t really have a plan beyond what they’re saying,” prusakowski said. 
leddy said she believes the goal of catcalling and street harassment is to start a conversation. 
“i feel like it’s framed in a way that there is a goal,” leddy said. “That’s why i think people get away with it in a sense because they [think they’re] starting conversation. but conversations never start that way.” 
casado said it’s a problem that in many cases, men do not realize that there is anything wrong with catcalling. 
“The idea that it’s normal to be able to objectify a woman like that is so bizarre,” she said. “even if they personally don’t mean it, there’s still a huge issue in that they think it’s just normal and ac­ceptable. where is that coming from?” 
prusakowski said a lot of the perpetrators are younger men and teenagers. 
“it’s so normalized and it’s so removed from analysis, that they don’t think about it,” she said. “They don’t see anything wrong with it because it’s just what every­one else does.” 
leddy posed the question of how catcalling became normalized. 
Junior lizzy reid said she be­lieves there is a group mentality behind catcalling. 
“a lot of times it’s a group of teen­age. one of them will say some­thing, and then all of a sudden, they’ll all start,” reid said. “They feed off each other’s energy, and it becomes worse and worse. They think it’s all right so they all con­tribute to it.” 
prusakowski said men see the women they harass as objects. she also noted that this is not a new phenomenon because older men do it, too, and other boys are go­ing to grow up thinking this is the norm and will continue to perpet­uate street harassment. 
leddy said catcalling is about power dynamics. she said there is a power dynamic between the groups of boys and the individ­ual girls they are catcalling, and there is also a dynamic between women. 
“we’re not only teaching guys to do that from a young age,” leddy said. “ ... we’re also teaching girls to accept it and live with it.” 
Contact Nicole Caratas at ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Asia 
conTinued From page 1 
and the companies they worked for. she said these experiences were only made possible due to the collaboration between ndi’s beijing global gateway and the presidents of notre dame clubs in beijing and shanghai. 
according to ndi’s website, the global gateways “provide academic and intellectual hubs where scholars, students and leaders from universities, govern­ment, business and community gather to discuss, discover and debate issues of topical and en­during relevance.” 
according to ma, the number of students who have had the oppor­tunity to work abroad has been historically low due to the chal­lenges and complications of ap­plying for work visas. ndi and the firms were able to overcome this obstacle by offering unpaid in­ternships, while ndi provided the students with funds for housing, meals and other expenses. ma said this system of support also proved beneficial for the compa­nies since they did not need to deal with the complexity of visas and housing accommodation for their interns, and instead, were able to fully focus on the develop­ment of business and technical skills. 
ndi is currently working to ex­pand the scope of the program by offering internships located in hong Kong and Taipei to the next class of summer china business and culture students, ma said. 
Junior Justin gallagher along with two other notre dame students, interned at aegon­industrial Fund management company — a mutual fund lo­cated in the pudong district in shanghai. he said he had no prior experience with the chinese lan­guage, which proved difficult in getting around the city with his peers. 
“The two other students and i always stuck together while traveling,” gallagher said. “sometimes, it was difficult to get a taxi to stop for us, and if they had a question about the ad­dress, we could not answer it. we got around by taking a picture of the address and showing it to the driver on our phone. This strategy usually got us where we needed to go.” 
despite the difficulties pro­vided by the language barrier, gallagher said he would definite­ly recommend this experience to other students. 
“i learned a ton about both chinese culture and business, which i think will help me in my own career by giving me a dif­ferent perspective on business in an increasingly global world,” he said. 
during the internship, gallagher used the weekends to take advantage of the opportu­nity to travel and explore china. 
“one weekend, the two other interns and i flew to Xi’an in central china where we saw the Terracotta warriors, rode a tan­dem bike on the Xi’an city wall and visited the small wild goose pagoda,” he said. “… the most valuable part of this experience was being able to experience a to­tally different culture. previously, i had never been outside of north america before, and china was a bit of a culture shock. i found all of the chinese customs and cultural practices very interesting, and i also really enjoyed traveling to see some of china’s vast history.” 
ma said ndi helped provide student with internship oppor­tunities outside of china as well. beijing global gateway, with the support of don mccauley, coo of oracle Japan and a notre dame alumnus, were able to provide three students with internship experiences at oracle in Tokyo fa­cilitated by Keio university. 
The extent of ndi’s globaliza­tion efforts is not limited to new internship opportunities. This past summer, notre dame’s of­fered its inaugural chinese sum­mer study abroad program, the china summer language program. students completed an eight-week program to improve their language skills at the pres­tigious peking university cam­pus. according to the program 
paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
brochure, to fully immerse stu­ visit  international.nd.edu  to  
dents in the language, students  learn more about the numerous  
are required to take a language  study abroad programs, research  
pledge, a pledge to speak only  programs and internship oppor­ 
chinese during the duration of  tunities that are available to cur- 
the program. The program also  rent students.  
scheduled excursions and cul­ 
tural events over the course of the  Contact Wei Lin at  
summer.  wlin4@nd.edu  





By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene writer 
my first attempt to join in the #lFw activities whilst studying abroad in The Fashion capital began with booking some tickets. i am sort of the ticket book­ing queen, so when my fingers realized their work could translate into real paper london Fashion week tickets (or at least mobile tickets that magically end up in the passbook app that i can never find because i put it in some folder like i’m organized and do things like that), they went crazy. 
The first place they landed me was on Twitter at 6 a.m. because things like that happen when you share a flat with nine roommates and have a lofted bed. you don’t want to be the inconsider­ate one who leaves her alarm on her desk *shade thrown* forcing everyone to freak out that their own iphone alarm is sounding until you climb down, so you sleep with your phone under your pillow like any good millennial. 
and like the good millennial that i am, the “while you were away” tweets that appeared on my timeline were cryptic lists of cities from none other than Kanye west. deciphering from the 7-second sewing machine video that there would be a live stream of his new fashion line and seeing on that list of cities that yeezy season was approachin’ londontown, i started scheming ways to experi­ence london Fashion week. 
Things I learned as a connectionless, Midwestern fan girl attempting to expe­rience London Fashion Week: 
1. it’s okay to go down “The college dropout” path if skipping class gets you a ticket with the name “yeezy” on it and the closest experience you have to your first runway show. here’s what i learned: 
•	 
people attend runway shows late, even though you just left class early and ran through the rain to get to a screening. 

•	 
people bring in coffee and food de­spite being around nice clothes, which could easily result in a very expensive disaster. 

•	 
you will feel like you just passed some buzzFeed quiz on pop culture relevancy when you can name-drop the entire front row in conversation. 

•	 
The best audience fashion was the guy who sat in front of me at the screening in glow-in-the-dark print­ed pants 


2. 
 if you have an opportunity to eat pulled pork while making a pom-pom, do it. even if your friends stand you up, you’ll make new friends and new pom-poms! 

3. 
 dress up for you. you might waltz around london in what you con­sider “bomb, street style bait” to no 



result besides a “four-eyes” catcall on the street. Take that flashback to third grade bullies and fuel your day’s aesthet­
ic: rompers and Four-eyes: a Tribute To grade school Fashion. 
4. 
 if you get up, scroll instagram and see that your inspiration/idol is at dinearama (approx. 30 minutes away) you geT on a bus. you get off the bus. you walk in and scour every table. you come to terms with the sad rom-com ending of a missed connection and con­tinue to explore london. 

5. 
 while exploring london, buy se­quins with no regrets. but when you in­evitably also buy stall food, save half of it for tomorrow’s lunch since you just spent your sandwich money on sequins. 

6. 
Take it all in. go stand outside ven­ues. meet other bloggers, journalists and fashion enthusiasts to better your net-work/friends/instagram feed. dream about being photographed for street style (even though you’re carrying your leftover food in a plastic bag and can’t af­ford to set that down). vow to come back minus the statement bag. 

7. 
Follow through on your vows. bring some sequins in your backpack to class. go to the basement bathroom of school, change into a bedazzled bustier and drape a sequin jacket over your shoul­ders. wait for your friend in the lobby while trying to avoid eye contact with your Theology professor. realize your 


friend is standing you up because it’s raining — this is london — and sassily throw up your umbrella and strut out. 
8. 
 let yourself think you’re the sh*t ev­ery time someone asks for your picture. appreciate fashion folk and people who compliment your outfit instead of yelling “four-eyes” at you. realize you are where you want to be. get tempted to call your mom at this realization, but remember that you are incapable because drake didn’t give you the code to the wi-Fi. 

9. 
 back up when security tells you to back up — but if you see the writer that you incessantly stalked just yester­day, go geT her. you are that hot guy in a John hughes classic, she is molly ringwald. walk up to her. strike up a largely incoherent, adrenaline-fueled conversation. mention Kanye and the midwest a lot. wish you could have taken #lFw to have meant #lostForwords in­stead of going on about whatever you just did. Try to call your parents, but again, you can’t call anyone, and your phone is dead anyway. at least you got the selfie! 

10. 
Take the tickets you’re handed. Find the venues. ask people who they are. Take photographs. stunt. wear sun­glasses at night like a boss because their mirrored lenses complete your outfit/ new found identity. 


Contact Erin McAuliffe at                                      emcaulif@nd.edu 


By ADRIAN SANCHEZ 
scene writer 
a marching theme for window shop­pers. That’s the first image that comes to mind when listening to the plas­tic drumming that drives forth “soko kara… ,” the first track off mariah’s scene-defining “utakata no hibi” (1983; reissued this past september), an album born somewhere at the in­tersection of utopian ecstasy and glo­balization anxiety. as the dissonant no-wave guitars and blocky arpeggios stomp onto the polished aisle floors of this sonic post-global shopping mall, it’s hard to discern whether the track’s backing vocals are cries of despair or of joy. but the monolithic leads, syn­thetically rearranging a traditional Japanese tune, make their assertion rather clear: the urban consumer expe­rience is just as mystical a ritual as any age-old tradition. 
at the time of its production, this positive mood was somewhat rare. The latter half of the 20th century was, whether or not its inhabitants were consciously aware of it at the time, defined by the different, diverging at­titudes that gestated on the eve of the new millennium, quickly approaching as a unavoidable reality. This is obvious simply in noting the flourishing of the futuristic in contemporary arts, from fine to fiction, which thematically ex­pressed, generally speaking, one of two moods: either a hopeful expectation of a world marked by increasing scien­tific discovery and social progress, or an anxious fear of one where science and nuclear power become the tools of oppression. as the cold war trod dangerously on and social structures collapsed and rearranged themselves chaotically around the world, it seemed that people increasingly fell on the lat­ter side of this spectrum. 
but if there’s anything i feel i under­stand after listening to “utakata no hibi,” it’s that yasuaki shimizu, band members and arguably mariah’s lead­ing creative force, must be a consum­mate member of the optimist side. 
my first experience listening to the saxophonist was on an all but for­gotten album-of-sorts, “music for commercials” (1987): a collection of 24 jingles, ranging around a minute each, designed to be used in the adverts of companies like seiko, honda and suntory. but these tunes aren’t quite like ordinary jingles: they are plas­tic yet organic, synthetic yet human. above all, not only do they subtly assert that these opposing natures can and do exist symbiotically, but they express a mood of optimism towards the con­sumeristic culture for which they were meant to be ambassadors. 

i write about that album because much of the same can be said about “utakata no hibi.” not only do they share a plethora of similarities, but their goals and moods are closely linked. however, where “commercials” is a collection of love haikus, “utakata” is a romantic epic. as the album march­es through its seven movements, a sense of journeying is plainly discern­ible: a journey through a Japanese so­ciety that at the time was experiencing major changes, transitioning from its role as isolated nation with rich cultur­al traditions to being thrust forth into a globalizing world as one of the major economic powers. This entrapment be­tween the tight, seemingly conflicting grips of past and present feels mirrored on the album’s second track, “shisen.” 
The song ends somewhat abruptly as the album shoots forward into the ca­thartic “hana ga saitara,” the album’s strongest and most climactic track. an array of elements collide here. in a single track, a playful automated bass interacts with a radio voice, frenzied saxophones attacks the listener on the side, and more traditional Japanese melodies squeezes through a collection of synths, before the entire arrange­ment collapses into itself in an exhila­rating explosion of dissonance. 
when the track ends, the band feels reincarnated, reassured that their un­certain future is not a fearful one, but one that hold certain promise. 
if “utakata no hibi” indeed begins gripped by hands pulling in opposite directions — one looking forward, one looking back — it ends with an epiph­any that concludes the album on a hopeful note: an announcement to the world that those seemingly opposing dimensions are not moving apart, but are coming together. 
Contact Adrian Sanchez at       asanch11@nd.edu 
“Utakata no Hibi” 
Mariah 
Label: Palto Flats Tracks: “Hana ga Saitara” If you like: Brian Eno, David 
Byrne, Moondog 

ERIN RICE | The Observer 


The observer |  WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 
changing majors 
Kathy Minko 
scene writer 
personally, college has consisted of my struggle to find a strong yet logical passion. how am i supposed to discover my interests when the world is so com­petitive? why do people shake their heads when i tell them i switched from pre-med to english? while i have yet to determine the perfect career, i will offer a piece of advice: find the thing that fires you up and run with it. 
i remember first moving into pasquerilla east in august 2014. i experienced an overwhelming sense of anxiety. i had never stepped out of my comfort zone: softball practice with my sister, studying a strict schedule of classes, my mom waking me up for school each morning. i sat in silence for the car ride, dwelling on each moment as a significant chapter in my life ended. 
once my parents pulled into the p.e. circle, i was greeted by girls giggling, hugging and welcoming. i looked at the window: “welcome home pyros.” 
as i began to spend time with my section mates, i experienced a bit of skepticism. would my fresh­man roommate be my bridesmaid? will college be one big party? do c’s really get degrees? i wasn’t sure of anything past my first week as a collegiate fresh­man. and the worst part? i felt i was in the minority. 
i began to doubt my place at notre dame. my peers were engaging in research, taking unique classes and finding amazing jobs. why did i feel so isolated? i had this voice in my head screaming for me to step out of my comfort zone. 
i remembered the rigorous high school schedule required to attend notre dame. how could a school that demanded such strict obligations possibly call for students to “create their own path”? i considered pre­med a “safe” choice. The classes challenged me more than ever, but i tried to survive. stumbling upon this thought, the hopeless word stuck with me: “survive.” 
i remember sobbing alone in my room. i hated gen. chem., and the thought of sitting in a doctor’s office all day began to repulse me. i needed change. with no idea where to turn, i visited my literature seminar professor. he praised my work ethics and writing skills and assured me that the world needs good writ­ers. he asked, “when you sit down to study at night, what is the first thing you pull out of your backpack?” i subconsciously answered, “literature.” 
he encouraged me to take any opportunity to im­prove my writing. i asked him if i could financially support myself with a career in writing. he listed a variety of jobs involving writers. at the end of our meeting, he described college as a place of self-dis­covery where people revere potential and passion. i took his advice with gusto. 
a year later, i reflect on that conversation. without him, i would not have had the courage to drop pre­med. i would probably be sobbing over mechanism no. 70 and hating myself. 
whenever i encounter someone struggling to engage with their classes, i ask them the same thing my professor asked me. i urge people to immerse themselves in their subconscious passions. some may discourage a person’s decision to change majors, but take it from me: Judgments hurt, and self-doubt may occur, but you should never let that impede your college experience. college encompasses a greater purpose of self-discovery. so though the haters may hate, hate, hate, we should just shake it off. 
Contact Kathy Minko at kminko@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

My students, our future 
Diana Gutierrez 
guest columnist 
illegals. rapists. drug traffickers. 

These are just a few of the terms that have been used in recent months to describe people who look like me, who share my heritage, language, name and customs. They’ve been heard in the blogosphere, on talk radio shows and even from presidential hopefuls on the national stage. They have fueled a sometimes nasty, often inaccurate debate about immigration in the united states, which has furthered misconceptions and done little to educate the american public. yet along the way, amidst all the pain and vitriol, a huge opportunity has arisen, one on which our generation must take the lead. 
The current dialogue about immigration has put latinos in the u.s. at the forefront of national discussion. now, we must use it as a chance to foster productive dialogue, edu­cate the public and empower latino communities. 
as a teacher, i get to do this from a unique vantage point. any given day, i see both what students are capable of when they get the support they need, as well as the battles their families have to wage in order to access them. The good news? as a latina myself, i have the privilege of proving to my students that someone who looks like them, speaks their languages and shares their culture can succeed. This informs my work in the classroom as well as the role i play as advocate, meeting regularly with parents and school officials to figure out how to better accommodate each student’s needs. 
don’t get me wrong — the daily work is hard, but the rewards are well worth it. each time my students light up after solving a tough math problem or comprehending a complicated sentence, i am reminded that we are tak­ing concrete action to change something so much bigger than us. our country’s demographic is moving towards a minority majority, so unless we address these gaps we will soon be living in a world where the majority of students are behind. 
Today, latinos lag behind their white counterparts in academic achievement — graduating high school, reading, writing and performing in math at lower rates. This has nothing to do with ability or will and everything to do with systemic gaps in educational opportunity according to race, class and zip code. 
when i first came to notre dame, i didn’t think i’d be­come a teacher. This all changed one afternoon sitting in front of the subway in laFun chatting with fellow notre dame alum and Teach For america corps member, diego lopez. as diego shared stories from his classroom, i started to imagine leading my own — a place where kids like me would acquire agency and power and hear a different nar­rative about what was possible. 
every day, i am incensed by the national conversation and then inspired to be part of a different one. The vitriol today reflects misperceptions and stereotypes i’ve heard my whole life about my community and high school in east chicago. it doesn’t reflect reality. in my own life, people made the difference — people like my mom, a founding member of hope (hispanic organization of parents of exceptional children), my dance instructor who pushed and encouraged me, a friend who went on be the first per­son from our high school to graduate from harvard. 
now, i want to do for others what they did for me. as a teacher, every child that i have the opportunity to teach within and outside of the classroom will be encouraged to choose their own future and to help our country chart a much better one. 
when stereotypes and insults fly, it’s easy to get angry. it’s easy to fall victim to doubts that anything will ever change. but it’s imperative that we act — to use our education and our experiences to become leaders and shape the stories ourselves. we can help the kids that will come of age in the next decades to fulfill their potential and lead the way to a world in which the majority of our kids are thriving. 
resilient. strong. smart. Those are the words that de­scribe my kids, my family and my community. it’s time for our country to know it. 
Diana Gutierrez is a 2015 alumna of Notre Dame and a Teach For America corps member in Indianapolis. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

The battle of Knott Knoll 
last Friday, on sept. 25, the men of Knott hall made earth-shattering moves that sent waves through notre dame. 
in light of the recent construction encroaching on our territory, we decided to reclaim what land we had left in a ceremony that now claims both sides of what used to be Knott Knoll. The middle was dug out to accommodate a so-called “social betterment project” — a sidewalk. obviously feeling threatened and cornered politically, we had to act and act fast. we gathered on our side of the hill where one of our hall presidents delivered the following speech, pro­claiming again the glory and pride of Knott hall: 
“gentlemen, for what and for whom are we gathered here today on this precious land? we are here in marion Knott’s name for our Knott forefathers, for us who carry the torch of the Juggerknott ways and for generations of Juggs to come. 
Knott hall has had a long history of oppression and conflict. our people have been stripped of our land time and time again ever since the great exodus of 1996 from Flanner, when br. Jerome, “broJo,” split the mod Quad in two and led his people to safety as they fled from the office of community standards. They found refuge in the land we now know as Knott hall, where milk and honey flowed freely, thanks in part to our matriarch, marion burk Knott. The men of Knott lived in peace and prosperity for 18 long years in what we now know today as the era of Knotty Feelings. The single-most important event in this period occurred when the former presidents of Knott — ryan scheffler, danny lempres and andrew weiler — declared, dedicated and sanctioned our very own Knott Quad on april 24, 2013. it was our land. we tilled it, nurtured it and sustained it. but most of all, we loved it. 
almost two years later on the date, the imperialistic na­ture of the administration would have no more of it. after planting colonies on the southern entrance, and in the east with the faculty wellness center, they felt it necessary to make their move. gentlemen, those two new dorms that we see today are firmly nestled on what was formerly Knott Quad. we protested valiantly and in good humor, but the university turned a blind eye towards our dorm. 
as if that was not enough, to the surprise of us all as we retuned to campus, we found that our own Knott Knoll, what we are standing on as we speak, was flattened and divided, virtually decimating what land we had left. in a blatant attempt to give to siegfried what’s “theirs” and what they claim to be the “siegfried slope,” they put this sidewalk to divide and appease. but we know that ap­peasement doesn’t work, don’t we? gentlemen, i beseech you, march with me. we shall stake claim to what is ours. To the administration, you can build a sidewalk, but it will not keep us out. let’s make Knott hall great again! For i know three things: there is a god, i’m not him and that he gave this land to the best dorm on campus — Knott hall.” 
The men of Knott then marched onto the other side, conquering yet another vital piece of land for our beloved dorm. however, we know this is an eternal struggle. The university and siegfried are obviously conspiring, and the ball is now in their court. we might have won the battle, but the war is coming. 
drew martin robert billups patrick sheehan co-presidents Knott hall 


live out Fr. Ted’s legacy 
gaining a more complete understanding of Fr. Ted’s seriously consider and debate issues that likely make 
Elizabeth Hascher 
dignified response 
walking around notre dame, it is not hard to notice physical reminders of Fr. hesburgh’s pres­ence. campus is covered with buildings named after him and constructed during his 35-year tenure as university president. athletes continue to wear the black “Fr. Ted” patches on their jerseys while they play for our lady’s university. There is a mark of Fr. hesburgh’s touch everywhere. 
These tangible things signify Fr. hesburgh’s in­fluence on the notre dame community and serve as reminder of all he accomplished during his life­time. without his leadership, it is certain that this university would not be what it is today, and both our country and our world are most definitely a better because of him. 
all it takes is a quick google search to see Fr. hesburgh’s seemingly infinite accomplishments. he served as chairman of the u.s. civil rights commission, holds over 150 honorary degrees and was awarded the presidential medal of Freedom in 1964, to name a few. when Fr. hesburgh passed away this past march, countless articles recognized him for such achievements. when reading and hearing people tell stories about him, one gets the sense that there’s not a whole lot he didn’t do. 
while there is something to be said for the many physical things Fr. Ted left behind and the count­less titles and awards bestowed upon him, we must also recognize his immaterial legacy — a legacy of kindness and inclusivity, and also one of spirit and fearlessness. 
Erin Thomassen 
The examined life 
my dance partners treated me terribly. They lured me in with wit and complex steps. They abandoned me when my mind, tongue and feet couldn’t keep up. 
i was exhausted, but rest was for the weak, the un­talented, the lazy, the unsuccessful. if i could not im­press, i would be left to sit along the wall with the other unremarkable young ladies who would soon pass into spinsterhood, unnoticed by the world. 
Then along came a young man who did not view me as an object, but a person. he reached out for my hand rather than my bottom. 
he did not force himself on me or make me jealous by dancing with other ladies in front of me. he did not need me to dance with him to boost his self-esteem. he was already the most perfect creature in the room, yet few others seemed to notice him or even acknowledge his existence. 
i almost didn’t notice him myself. my eyes and atten­tion were fixed on a scandalous two-step taking place in front of the pianoforte. The dance seemed to go on for ages, transitioning without pause, silence or reflec­tion between a two-step and a tango, a tango and a disco, a disco and a twerk. 
all decency had disappeared, but instead of mourn­ing moral, technical and romantic degradation, the dancers celebrated their newfound liberty. They could dance however they wanted. 
strange, they all seemed to want to dance in the same, self-disrespecting way. it was not a way i wanted to dance. was something wrong with me? There must be. i sat, sentencing myself to celibacy. 
when i had seen enough of this dancing that was not dancing, this living that was not living, i let my eyes rest for a moment. so this is how rest felt. i fasted from sight and sound and feasted on darkness and silence. 
Funny, it was when my eyes and ears were closed to legacy requires that we look beyond his accomplish­ments to the stories behind them. with every award and title, there is a story of great courage. he was not a leader because he stuck with the status quo, or kept his head low and avoided conflict. Father Ted willing­ly and directly confronted some of the largest issues of his time. it is this leadership that helped to create his enduring legacy. 

Take, for example, his work on the civil rights commission. he was appointed to be the politically independent member of the commission, part of a group that seemed guaranteed to result in a stale­mate. however, he refused to let people’s assump­tions about the commission’s purpose stop him from doing great work to advance civil rights. Fr. Ted used his platform as a member of the commission to spark debate and encourage discussion of the issues. he challenged everyone — catholics and non-religious, northerners and southerners and all americans — to recognize the injustices african americans around the country faced. 
certainly, we cannot all be Fr. Ted. i do not mean to suggest that we are all called to follow exactly in his footsteps. however, we can all help to carry on the legacy he left us by embodying his kind, inclusive, and bold spirit in our everyday lives. 
we can start by embracing the various conflicts we encounter on a daily basis. This is not to say that we should begin harassing anyone we encounter who may hold differing political or religious views from us. instead, we should stop trying to skirt around top­ics that give rise to tension. we must push ourselves to listen to the things we don’t want to hear. change will not happen and leaders will not emerge until we 
The dance of life 
the spectacle playing before my eyes that i was finally 
able to see and hear. “may i have this dance?” did i just hear that? my eyes fluttered open. no one 
asked people to dance anymore; they came up behind you and grabbed you. inquiries are for the weak, de­mands for the strong. 
but this voice did not sound weak. it was strong with­
out being domineering, stemming not from squashing 
others, but from raising them up. 

i raised my eyelids to meet his. wait, what? he wasn’t 
there. i swiveled my head to no avail. “i am with you,” the voice said. i shut my eyes, telling myself i was hallucinating. i 
must be dehydrated — that’s it. i knew there must have 
been a physical explanation. “may i have this dance?” the voice inquired again. i must be hungry. i hadn’t eaten dinner so i could 
squeeze into this corset. 

i made my way through the sweaty humans to the 
refreshment table and started chomping on carrots. 
Ten calories apiece — if i eat seven carrots in the next 
hour and burn 60 calories an hour then ... 

“i am the bread of life. he who eats of me shall not hunger.” 
my ears perked up for two reasons: 1) i was a she, not 
a he, so whoever is speaking is obviously not clued in 
to gender-inclusive language, and 2) atkins and Jenny 
craig promised me the same thing, but that didn’t stop 
my tummy from a’rumbling. 
“may i have this dance?” 

ah, here we go again. well … dancing would distract 
me from my hunger, and movement would stimulate 
my metabolism. and burn calories. i made my way to 
the dance floor. i danced. 
“may i have this dance?” 

The dance begun. i was so used to being taken ad­
vantage of that i found it hard to let my guard down 
and let him lead me. 

it was marvelous. it was enthralling. it was too much. 
us uncomfortable. 
we don’t have to look far to find topics that are awkward to talk about. abortion, sexual assault and the upcoming presidential election are a few preva­lent examples that most people choose not to discuss if they can avoid it. we can almost all acknowledge that there are great injustices in this world such as poverty and oppression, but we’d rather not mention those either. 
if we are to carry on Fr. Ted’s legacy, we need to start acknowledging such issues more frequently in our everyday discourse. This means discussing them when appropriate and engaging in dignified discus­sion, and it also means not shying away from sensi­tive subjects when they arise in conversation. 
any good leader lives at least somewhere close to the edge of their comfort zone, but truly great lead­ers like Fr. Ted are always willing to wholeheartedly embrace life’s difficult questions. we will never make any progress if we limit ourselves to discussing topics like the weather, football and how busy we are. if we are to make our mark on this world, we must start by challenging one another to engage in discussions of the problems that our world faces today. 
let us strive to remember Fr. Ted by embodying his spirit of inclusivity and courageousness. let us seek out the true value that lies in conflict. 
Elizabeth Hascher is a sophomore in Lewis Hall. She hails from Grand Rapids, Michigan, and is               studying political science with a minor in international                   development studies. Contact her at ehascher@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
“sTop!” i ripped my hand away. i was not ready for this. my heart would explode with this much happiness. 
but now i felt profound emptiness. acute loneliness. i would never have happiness without him. regret. 
“may i have this dance?” 
he came back, after rejection? where was his pride? 
he had humbled himself. 
why was he coming back to me when i didn’t deserve it? i was not witty or pretty. Then i realized: he did not love me because of who i was, but because of who he was. 
i wanted someone who loved me because i was light on my feet and light in my heart. i wanted to be the light of their life, but he was the light of mine. my world would remain dark without him. if i wanted to ever experience love, i had to acknowledge i would never be worthy and accept it anyways. 
i accepted his hands and was shocked to find wounds scarring his perfect flesh. he wasn’t perfect in spite of these wounds. These wounds had brought him to perfection. 
“you will suffer wounds too, but i will be with you always, with them and through them and in them always.” 
Then we danced. it culminated in the most beauti­ful dance in the world: the dance of stillness. he held me, and we gazed into each other’s eyes unashamedly for eternity, as i grew from a teenager to a mother to a grandmother into something completely different, choosing freely to become each day a little more of who i would remain for eternity. 
Erin Thomassen likes listening to string instruments tuning. Please come tune violins and cellos near her window in Pasquerilla East Hall, preferably in the next two years, as she is a junior. Contact her at  ethomass@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 
give Jackson, Knicks a chance 
Marek Mazurek 
sports writer 
it did not take a public feud, a racist comment or a cosby-esque scandal to di­minish phil Jackson. instead, all it took were the words, “with the fourth pick in the 2015 nba draft, the new york Knicks select Kristaps porzingis.” 
since nba commissioner adam silver’s announcement on draft day, Jackson has been under intense fire from the new york media decry­ing the selection of porzingis and Jackson’s inability to attract free agents to new york. 
Jackson became the presi­dent of the Knicks organiza­tion in march 2014 and was understandably hailed as a savior. This is the guy who coached michael Jordan and Kobe bryant to champion­ships. Just let him be, and it will all work out. 
except it hasn’t. 
as it stands, the Knicks are no closer to their first nba championship in 42 years than they were when Jackson took over as presi­dent. Jackson has failed to win over carmelo anthony and has not come close to attracting any notable free agents (sorry robin lopez). sought after forward, greg monroe, even choose to sign with the milwaukee bucks over the Knicks. i repeat, phil Jackson and the Knicks are less attractive to free agents than milwaukee. 
Jackson can’t even lose games correctly. if the Knicks had lost one more game during the 2014-2015 season, they would have ended up with the worst re­cord — and the best chance of getting the first overall pick. instead they ended up with the fourth pick and Kristaps porzingis. 
The whole Jackson drama is truly incredible. how often do you hear a home crowd booing a 13-time nba champion? it just doesn’t happen. except in new york. 
is Jackson really that far over the hill? probably not. he has only been in new york for one season, and he wasn’t given much to work with. and yet, the new york media is eating him alive. 
This frenzy is particularly puzzling if one drives down interstate 95 and looks at the philadelphia 76ers. 
The 76ers have been just as awful as the Knicks in the last few years. From 2013 to 2015, they had a lottery pick in the draft, yet, none of those picks will be play­ing for them this year. That certainly seems like cause for a good tar and feather­ing of general manager sam hinkie, but philadelphia fans have remained relative­ly calm. 
The reason? hinkie has a plan. or at least he says he does. if you consider inten­tionally being bad for mul­tiple years in a row a plan. however, even this sem­blance of control is some­thing Jackson lacks in new york. 
but Jackson’s aura keeps him standing on thin ice in the big apple. Jackson is a proven winner and as such, expectations were immedi­ately through the roof. never mind that his best player was a gimpy carmelo anthony, and his head coach, derek Fisher, was in his first year. 
while the media should not have written Jackson off, it is professional sports — and new york — so Jackson should have known what he was getting into. i’m not say­ing he’s definitely going to bring a title to new york but at least give him one more year. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of  The Observer. 


WNBA | Fever 66, liberTy 51 
Catchings leads Indiana back to WNBA finals 
Associated Press 

new yorK — Tamika catchings has made a habit of playing her best with the most at stake in her final postseason run. 
she scored 14 points and made key defensive plays to help indiana beat the new york liberty 66-51 on Tuesday night in the deci­sive game 3 of the eastern conference finals, advanc­ing the Fever to the wnba championship. 
They will face the lynx in the finals that begin sunday in minnesota. 
“This is awesome,” catchings said. “if you had asked me before the season if i’d be sitting right here, we’re going to try, i don’t know. To be sitting here means a lot for the organization, for my team.” 
catchings, who an­nounced she’s retiring at the end of next season, has willed her team to victo­ries. The Fever won the final two games in the opening round against chicago, then, against new york, the Fever swept the final two contests, rallying from an 18-point deficit in the second quarter in game 2 to force Tuesday’s game. 
“nobody thought we’d win the first series,” catchings said. “no one thought we’d win this round. no one thinks we’ll win the finals. we’re not done yet.” 
indiana is back in the finals for the first time since 2012 
— the only season the Fever won the championship. 
“it’s special to be back there,” said Fever coach stephanie white, who is the first rookie wnba coach to lead a team to the finals. 
The Fever improved to 8-2 in elimination games in the past four seasons and catchings is a huge rea­son why. she averaged 21.2 points and 8.8 rebounds in the first nine of those games. 
“Just watching her play, you know you want to do what you can to help her win,” said marissa coleman, who scored 15 points — hit­ting five 3-pointers. “she al­ways makes the play when we need it most.” 
catchings and indiana looked ready to cruise to the finals, building an 18-point lead in the third quarter. coleman hit three 3-point­ers in the third quarter to help the Fever build their huge lead after indiana held a 33-22 halftime advantage. 
new york wasn’t done. epiphanny prince, who was scoreless in the first half, hit a 3-pointer to start a 12-3 run to close the period and bring new york within nine head­ing to the fourth. The liberty hit three 3s during that spurt, capped by candice wiggins’ shot that made it 49-40 with 28 seconds left in the quarter and brought the loud crowd to its feet. 
as he’s done at so many Knicks games, spike lee was leading the charge from the sideline, trying to spur the liberty to a monumen­tal rally. The liberty kept it going to start the fourth as wiggins scored the first five points of the period to get new york within 49-45. 
but catchings made two free throws that started a 10-0 run and restored the double-digit lead, essential­ly sealing the victory for the Fever. 
“we came close, just couldn’t make the plays when we needed to,” said Tina charles, who finished with 13 points and 10 re­bounds to lead new york. 
new york was trying to make its first appearance in the wnba Finals since 2002. The liberty have been to the championship four times and lost each one. 
Tina charles finished with 13 points and 10 rebounds to lead new york, which had the best record in franchise history and was the top seed in the eastern conference before falling short in the playoffs. wiggins led new york with 15 points. 

MLB | red soX 10, yanKees 4 
pineda hit hard early, yankees lose to red sox 
Associated Press 

new yorK — michael pineda was hit hard at the start, and the new york yankees’ playoff push was delayed once again by their longtime rivals when the boston red sox got two hom­ers and five rbis from rookie catcher blake swihart in a 10-4 victory Tuesday night. 
rick porcello (9-14) re­covered neatly from a rocky first inning, and the red sox won their season-best fifth straight game to pass the orioles for third place in the al east. 
new york is running sec­ond in the division and was spared the possibility of the blue Jays clinching the crown when they were rained out in baltimore. Toronto will play a doubleheader wednesday against the orioles and needs only one win — or another yankees loss — to wrap up its first al east title in 22 years. 

pineda (12-9) and the yankees began the day looking to lock up at least a wild card, but that chance was washed away when minnesota was rained out in cleveland. new york needs two wins in its final five games — or some help — to reach the postseason for the first time since 2012. 
pineda was 3-0 with a 3.14 era in his previous five out­ings and had pitched very well against boston since joining the yankees. but he gave up hits to three of his first four batters as the red sox scored six runs in the first inning for the first time at yankee stadium. 
brock holt hustled for an rbi double and swihart capped the outburst with a three-run homer to the short porch in right field. pineda bent over at the waist and shook his head, just moments before chris martin started to get loose in the bullpen. 
new york responded with four runs off porcello in the bottom half, including an rbi double by carlos beltran and a two-run homer by dustin ackley. but the right-hander settled in from there and did not allow any more damage, throwing 118 pitches in eight innings. 
Jacoby ellsbury made a bid for a go-ahead, three-run homer in the fourth but the ball was caught at the right-field fence. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2015 | The observer 

M Soccer 
conTinued From page 12 
know what? it’s so open,’ so i start­ed heading that way,” lachowecki said. “nobody’s really around me, so i’m screaming at [gallagher] to cross it, and he plays me a great ball. somehow i took a touch on my right foot, didn’t mess it up, put it on my favorite left foot and shot it.” 
lachowecki said the team maintained its composure despite the two deficits. 
“we’re confident in any game we go into that if we go down a goal, we have to have that mindset that we can come back like we did tonight,” lachowecki said. 
“we showed a lot of resilience tonight,” senior midfielder patrick hodan said. “To be honest, the first 15, 20 minutes of the game were pretty poor on our part … but at the end of the day it’s a win. To come back, it’s not ideal, but we got the job done.” 
“There was no panic,” irish head coach bobby clark said. “i felt that was quite clear when we went 
paid adverTisemenT 
behind both times. There was no panic, and they stayed together.” 
The golden eagles got off to the blazing start in the seventh min­ute, as redshirt senior forward c. nortey made a run down the left flank and sent a shot towards irish junior goalkeeper chris hubbard. hubbard got his fingertips on the ball at a full extension, but the re­bound ricocheted right to redshirt senior forward david selvaggi standing on the doorstep to put the irish down early. 
hodan and senior midfield­er evan panken got the irish going in the 19th minute. panken forced a turnover at the top of the marquette box and fed a pass through to hodan, who was slid­ing in from the right flank. hodan collected the ball and slipped it through a crowd to tie the game at one. 
it was hodan’s first goal of the season after he led the irish with nine goals last year. 
“it’s definitely nice to finally get one,” hodan said. “but at the end of the day, the most important thing is we won.” 
“if we can win games, and he’s not scoring, then i’m fine with it, but if he’s scoring, i think we’re a pretty dangerous team,” lachowecki said of hodan. “once he catches higher, he’s pretty hard to stop, so hopefully that will continue. 
“anytime he gets around the box, he can do things that other people can’t, so we just let him do his thing, and eventually it all works out.” 
hodan looked to bury his sec­ond of the night in the 39th min­ute, but his free-kick blast from 25 yards was knocked aside by barraza to keep the game score­less at the half. 
marquette broke the tie in the 67th minute, when nortey received a through ball from freshman forward Toby howell. nortey calmly collected the pass and stepped around an irish de­fender before burying a left-footed shot into the bottom-left corner of the net from six yards out. 

shipp played the first hero in the 74th minute for notre dame, floating a cross from the right flank over everyone that found the far post and bounced across the line to tie the game once again. it was shipp’s second goal of the year, with an assist from hodan for his third point of the night. 
“i’m sure he’ll say it was in­tentional, but it was a good teas­ing ball to the back post, and it somehow snuck in,” hodan said of shipp’s goal. “sometimes you need a little luck every once and a while.” 
The captain lachowecki bur­ied the winner just six minutes later off the feed from gallagher to put the irish in front for the first and only time all game. gallagher buried his sixth of the season with 82 seconds remaining to seal the match for the irish. 
notre dame is next in action at 1 
p.m. sunday on the road at north carolina state in raleigh, north carolina. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 

Irish senior midfielder Evan Panken dribbles up the field during Notre Dame’s 3-1 win over Virginia on Friday at Alumni Stadium. 
paid adverTisemenT 


Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ ndsmc­observer 




The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Football 
conTinued From page 12 
team, Kelly said. 
“The bottom line was that they were going to come back the next day, and they were going to wel­come that next person in to the role that they needed to excel in it,” Kelly said. “ … That has been the focus of [their teammates] that they really want this mission to be accomplished. so they’re moving on quickly but never forgetting.” 
Wimbush to see more than mop-up duty 
Freshman quarterback brandon wimbush burned his redshirt this past weekend when he entered in the third quarter against massachusetts. 
wimbush was only 3-for-5 pass­ing for 17 yards but made his mark on the ground, carrying the ball four times for 92 yards and a touch­down. Kelly said wimbush could see action in selected packages moving forward, giving the dual threat signal-caller his first mean­ingful snaps. 
“i think there’s more conversa­tions with possibly utilizing him in a smaller role in certain situa­tions that we can utilize his skill set because he certainly is — well, we know he’s got arm talent,” Kelly said. “he certainly has the physical ability.” 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 

Padanilam 
conTinued From page 12 
scored both goals for the irish in their lone conference win over virginia, has accounted for all of the offensive production for the team during this stretch, creating concerns about the balance of the notre dame at­tack. Furthermore, irish head coach Theresa romagnolo has expressed concerns with the team’s mindset, composure, and most recently, effort on the offensive end during this stretch. 
despite these struggles, how­ever, the outlook for the irish is far from bleak.  The defensive unit has been strong, as the irish have only conceded six goals this season and just three in conference play against some of the acc’s best offenses. This unit is led by talent as well as experience, as senior captains cari roccaro and Katie naughton were all-acc first and second team last sea­son while senior brittany von rueden has also been a major contributor. 
There is still hope for the irish to rediscover their early-season effectiveness as well. behind gilbertson, many of the other offensive weapons are inexpe­rienced and still adjusting to the rigor of the game-by-game challenge that life on an acc team provides. Freshman for­ward natalie Jacobs, junior forward Kaleigh olmsted and junior midfielder sandra yu — the next three leaders in shots and goals following gilbertson 
— have combined for just three shots over the last two games, but their struggles should slow­ly fade, especially as Jacobs and yu gain experience and provide greater balance for the offense. 
The good news for the irish is that the upcoming stretch of acc play features the lower half of the conference, as syracuse, miami, and wake Forest are a combined 1-8 against confer­ence opponents.  These games provide both an opportunity for the irish offense to break out of its slump as well as the challenge to work out the kinks before they finish their season with another stretch against ranked acc opponents. 
one thing is for sure: if notre dame is to elevate itself into the acc and national elite by the end of this season, it’s now or never for the irish attack. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 




ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2015 | The observer 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: it’s time to tie up loose ends. making a difference in your community or to the people you love will bring you satisfaction and help provide you with the experience to make positive changes to the world around you. expect emotional matters to surface, forcing you to confront the personal issues you’ve thought about for so long. it’s onward and upward. your numbers are 8, 12, 21, 25, 33, 39, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): emotional decisions will be clouded by false information. make sure your motives and plans are realistic. Question what someone tells you. make personal changes that will separate you from the competition. someone special will make a positive move on your behalf. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): expand your interests and get involved in events or activities that are geared toward learning and trying new things. a personal problem with a lover, child or friend will leave you emotionally uncertain regarding your future. don’t make physical alterations without proper research. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): get out and engage in activities that will put you in contact with new and exciting people, but don’t overspend. a personal improvement will bring you closer to someone you love. don’t let the changes others make influence you. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Focus on making personal improvements, not trying to change others. opposition will mount if you criticize others or try to control someone you live with. spend more time with the people you love most. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you will discover information that will change your course of action and the way you feel about others and your future prospects. indulge in something that will update your look or improve your state of mind. Travel plans can be made. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): make time for some lively entertainment, or get involved in a physical activity that will motivate you to stay in shape. as long as you don’t overdo it, you will maintain a healthy and happy mental, emotional and physical outlook. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): you will be prone to changing your mind and dealing with people who don’t agree with the way you would like to do things. consider the ways you can compromise and still get what you want or need to get ahead. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): broaden your outlook and consider how you can alter the way you live in order to make personal or professional gains. choose to do things differently, and you will stand out in competitive situations and be more satisfied. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you can talk your way into a deal, a new position or someone’s heart. your outgoing, spontaneous nature will bring plenty of action your way. a chance to make a positive change to your appearance will boost your ego. love is in the stars. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): stick to what you know and do best. if you are too engaged in doing all the talking and don’t listen to others, you will end up in an emotional situation that will try your patience. make an unusual investment and it will pay off. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Talk about change and then put your plans into motion. a chance to try out something that has been hyped up to sound amazing will end up disappointing you. look for alternatives and you will come up with something better. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): don’t let your personal matters disrupt your productivity or professional dealings. Focus on equality and keeping everything you get involved in fair and just. it’s always better to give and take if you want to keep the peace and be successful. 

Birthday Baby: you are unique, proactive and engaging. you are curious and adaptable. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 






make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 
form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

city      state Zip 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Kelly addresses trip to Clemson, Luatua injury 

By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
Though irish head coach brian Kelly has never coached at clemson’s memorial stadium, he and his staff are preparing their team for what should be a raucous environment, Kelly said during his Tuesday press conference. 
Kelly harkened back to notre dame’s experience playing Florida state on the road last year, citing his team’s strong communication on the field and hoping they can draw on that game. 
“most of these kids played in that game,” Kelly said. “so i think we’ll have a lot of carry-over, and we’ll talk in terms of the same kind of environment, very similar, i believe, that we’ll talk about this week in terms of how we’ll need to prepare.” 
notre dame practiced on grass for part of their preparation Tuesday, while loud noise will be pumped into the practice complex to simulate the atmosphere, Kelly said. 
“it will be a loud environment on the practice field, and we’ll be working nonverbal cadence as if it were the loudest environment that we’ve every played in,” Kelly said. 
Kelly added that he thought his team was more excited than nor­mal, recognizing the added impor­tance of the game. 
“you know when your team is detailed on the very first meeting,” Kelly said. “They know who they’re playing, and they know what they need to do and how they need to play if they want to win.” 
Kelly talks injuries 
sophomore tight end Tyler luatua’s status is up in the air for the clemson game, as it depends on whether or not he completes concussion protocol, Kelly said. 
luatua was set to be on the field in a non-contact manner Tuesday, with hopes that he would be fully cleared for wednesday. 
“i would say if he’s not cleared tomorrow, it’s unrealistic that he would have a role on saturday,” Kelly said. 
as far as players already lost for the season, junior quarterback malik Zaire will travel to clemson, but junior running back Tarean Folston will stay behind, just ten days after his surgery to repair a torn acl. 
“probably another week away before we can get him traveling with us, but he’s fully engaged, and he’ll be very helpful with our young backs,” Kelly said. 
six notre dame players have been lost for the season to date. all of those players have continued to play an active role around the 
see FooTball PAGE 10 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
Irish attack needs to return to form 
Ben Padanilam 
sports writer 
despite what its 8-2-1 record may suggest, there exists a level of concern for no. 14 notre dame as it slides into the thick of its conference schedule. in conference play and against stronger competition, the irish have struggled to maintain the offensive effectiveness that they displayed during their noncon­ference slate, and it is some­thing the team must rediscover if it hopes to reach its champi­onship aspirations. 
Following their first three acc games, the irish hold a rather pedestrian 1-2 record in the conference. granted, they have battled the likes of no. 2 Florida state, no. 3 virginia, and no. 7 clemson, but the fact of the matter is that the acc is arguably the strongest con­ference in all of women’s col­lege soccer, and the irish have struggled to make their mark against the types of teams that stand between them and a na­tional championship. 
much of notre dame’s strug­gles are related to a decline in the team’s offensive output in these games. prior to confer­ence play, the irish had aver­aged 2.63 goals on 21.38 shots per game. however, in these three acc games, they have been held to a mere two goals on an average of 11 shots per game; it is reminiscent of the 
1.64 goal-per-game effort put forward by last year’s squad, which fell short of its champi­onship aspirations. 
while it is easy to point to the increased strength of their competition as the cause of this decline, there are issues that go beyond that. in two games, the irish were blanked by the op­posing defenses. senior forward anna maria gilbertson, who 
see padanilam PAGE 10 

MEN’S SOCCER | nd 4, marQueTTe 2 
prolific scoring fires nd to win over marquette 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports editor 

Finding itself behind on two separate occasions, no. 7 notre dame fought back and survived a challenge from marquette, 4-2, Tuesday night at alumni stadium. 
graduate student defender and captain max lachowecki buried the game winner in the 80th minute to give the irish (7-2-1, 2-1-0 acc) a hard-fought victory over the golden eagles (3-3-2, 0-0-1 big east). 
lachowecki pounded a feed from sophomore forward Jon gallagher past marquette freshman goalkeeper luis barraza from eight yards out for his second goal of the sea­son just six minutes after se­nior defender michael shipp tied the contest at 2-2. 
“usually i don’t veer too far forward … but i was like, ‘you 
see m soccer PAGE 9 

EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 
Irish senior midfielder Patrick Hodan crosses the ball into the box during Notre Dame’s 3-1 win over Virginia on Friday. 




