The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 21 | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Professors research spiritual experiences 
The Experience Project focuses on the personal impact of religious and transformative occurrences 
long-held questions of these what it’s like to have the ex-what it’s like to have a kid … kind of make rational deci-
By JOHN LOMBARDO 

news writer experiences. perience or really what its no amount of research of the sions whether to undertake “The psychology and so-value or disvalue might be topic is really going to tell this.” The experience project ciology that we’re fund-to you until you have the you what the value or dis-according to a university intends to shed light on re-ing is all focusing on the experience. value of that experience will press release, the experience 
ligious and transformative 

“ … so what the psycholo-



project is funding a non­
residential project called 
“receptivity of god through 
ritual,” by Terence cuneo, 
a professor of philosophy at 
the university of vermont. 
“he’s exploring religious 
experience in liturgy,” rea 
said. “ … sort of talking experiences and their re­
spective effects on people’s 
lives. The project is sup­
ported by a $5.1 million 
grant, co-directed by 
notre 
dame professors of philoso­
phy michael rea and samuel gists and sociologists are 

exploring is, ‘what are some 
experiences that are trans-
formative in this way? how 
do people make decisions 
about them? what kind of 
transformations are brought 
newlands, as well as pro-
on by them?’” 
fessor of philosophy laurie ann paul of university of north carolina at chapel hill and awarded $1.7 mil­lion to 22 research proj­ects in order to explore the concept of transforma­tive experiences,” rea said. “Transformative experienc­es, in the sense that we’re interested in, are ones where you have no real access to 

rea referred to an argu­ment of his colleague, paul, to illustrate one type of this experience. 
“she’s argued that no amount of just being told be for you, or really what it would be like for you in par­ticular to have a child, be­cause it’s such an impactful event in your life. she thinks that there’s no way, really, to about the way in which the liturgies of the church help to kind of cultivate a sort of sense of the presence of god, 
see proJecT PAGE 4 


smc celebrates school spirit with week of events 
By SYDNEY DOYLE 
news writer 
saint mary’s spirit week kicks off monday to determine which hall will be named “hall of the year.” The saint mary’s residence hall association (rha) will be hosting events throughout next week that will give opportunities for all smc students to earn points for their dorm. 
rha president mcKenzie Johnson said spirit week is important to have every year because it brings the belles together. 
“it brings everyone together 

see spiriT PAGE 4 LUCY DU | The Observer 




Lecture explores malaria prevention 
By EMMA BORNE 
news writer 
last friday, the george b. craig memorial lecture series welcomed Tom burkot of the australian institute of Tropical health & medicine at James cook university to speak about malaria and malaria prevention. 
george b. craig established a world-renowned research pro­gram in mosquito biology and genetics at the notre dame be­fore he died in 1995, according the college of science webpage. The lecture series dedicated to craig annually hosts a speaker to discuss research related to craig’s studies. 
burkot, who researched with craig from 1974 to 1976, said craig was an important sci­entist and likened him to sir ronald ross, the man who dis­covered that mosquitos trans­mitted malaria. 

after moving backward through time, burkot said he wanted to move forward for the rest of the lecture, by discussing the history of malaria preven­tion. after ross’ discovery in the early 1900s, burkot said the first major step toward malaria pre­vention was the discovery of the insecticide ddT in 1939. 
by 1955, the world health assembly passed a resolution that directed the world health 
see malaria PAGE 3 


Student addresses myths of Islamophobia 
By ALLISON SANCHEZ 
news writer 
The past week’s installment of Justice friday at saint mary’s focused on disproving myths about islam and highlighted ways to combat islamophobia in the saint mary’s community. 
The lecture was led by junior caylin mccallick, who spent the summer at saint mary’s learn­ing from international students through a program, study of the united states and islam for women’s leadership (susi). she said she hoped to shine some light on the similarities between islam and christianity and dispel some of the stereotypes about islam. 

“islamophobia is the dislike or prejudice against islam or muslims, especially as a political force,” mccallick said.  “This ig­norance of islam is ritualized in our society today. for example, a child was arrested just this week for building a supposed bomb that was a clock he brought into class to show his teachers.” 
mccallick said this hatred is both baseless and sense­less, especially because of the similarities between islam and christianity. 
“muslims are monotheistic and worship the same god as christians,” she said. “They be­lieve in the teachings of a single prophet and preach peace and love in their holy book, the Qur’an.” 

she argued that the acts of a few radicals do not align with what the religion teaches or believes. 
“islam comes from an arabic 
see JusTice PAGE 4 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 5 fooTball INSIDE 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                 Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green 
Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 

Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 

Would you choose Einstein Bros, Subway or ABP, and why? 

Maggie Holohan 
sophomore 
welsh family hall 

“einsteins because it’s closest to welsh fam.” 
Kimberly Faust 
freshman 
farley hall 

“abp because the food is better, and it’s centrally located.” 
Ryan Gerstemeier 
freshman 
stanford hall 

“subway because it’s all i’ve known.” 


Sam Kuster 
freshman 
Keough hall 
“einsteins because they have good sandwiches.” 
Maddisen Brennecke 
junior 
lyons hall 
“abp, peach sweet tea is the best thing ever.” 
Sabrina Muckle 
freshman 
badin hall 
“abp. i haven’t been to any of the three on campus,  but abp has the coolest name.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

haleigh ehmsen alex carson Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

selena ponio mark mazurek alex winegar emma-Kate conlin 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
lucy du matthew munhall 
Photo Viewpoint 

Getting Started in Blood Drive Mapping the Relief Papal Pancakes Football Pep Rally 
amy ackermann Tabitha ricketts 
Research Rolfs Sports Effort in Nepal Coleman-Morse Compton Family Ice Brownson Hall Recreation Center Hesburgh Library Center Arena 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 11 a.m.-5:30 p.m. 11 a.m.-12 p.m. 8:45 a.m.-10 a.m. 5:45 p.m.-6:30 p.m. 
Corrections 

Workshop on research Sign up on www. Panel discussion is Join Campus Ministry A home game weekend 
The observer regards itself as project process. givebloodnow.com. part of digital week. for breakfast. tradition. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Discussion with Tai Chi in the GIS Day Keynote Lecture and Book Men’s Soccer 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Chilean Ambassador Galleries Hesburgh Library Signing Alumni Stadium 
however, recognize that we will make 
Visitation Hall Snite Museum of Art 2:15 p.m.-3:30 p.m. McKenna Hall 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
5 p.m.-6:30 p.m. 4 p.m.-5 p.m. News room geography 5 p.m.-6:30 p.m. Cheer on the Irish 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Discussion on Latin Calm down with with Tim Wallace of The An evening with author as they take on the 
we can correct our error. 

American affairs. rhythmic movements. New York Times. Sam Quinones. Virginia Cavaliers. 

ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2015 | The observer 

professor lectures on sparkle and femininity 
also because of their affec-white girls between the ages primarily found in films such pleasure. 
By GABRIELA MALESPIN 

news writer tive dimension and how they of eight and 12, sparkle and as “cinderella” and “frozen,” “The ideal post-feminist make us feel. i’m curious glitter have an almost univer-as well as television shows woman, therefore, is one mary Kearney, associate about how these meanings sal appeal among girls of dif-such as “hannah montana” whose femininity and agency 
professor of film, television might inspire our further en-ferent ages and backgrounds, 
are communicated primar­and theatre and director of gagement in media culture, and this trend encourages 
ily through a visibly self­
“Those displays 

the gender studies program, especially producing our girls to  “sparkle up to affirm disciplined and glamorously 
have more than 

explored the prevalence and own media.” their youthful femininity.” 
adorned body.” impact of sparkle in pop Kearney said while sparkle Kearney said, “Those dis-
just suggestive while the association of culture saturday, during has been present in pop cul-plays have more than just 
beauty. They have sparkle with a post-feminist her lecture titled, “sparkle: ture for years in animated suggestive beauty. They have 
ideal at times overemphasiz­
also signified 

contemporary girls media films and toys, sparkle has also signified a particular es the importance of beauty 
a particular 

culture.” become far more prevalent form of youthful feminin­
and presentation for young Kearney’s lecture, part in television, film and toys ity associated with visibility, 
form of youthful girls, she recognized how of the snite musuem of art marketed towards young publicness, wealth and sexu­
femininity sparkle can also be an inspi­“saturday scholars series,” al maturity.” 
ration and encouragement 
associated 

“The fashion and beauty 
examined how elements such for young girls to create their 

“The ideal post-with visibility, 

industries have long encour­
as glitter, sparkle and lumi­

own media while remain­nescence have become ubiq­
feminist woman, aged girls to understand fe­
publicness, ing fascinated by the beauty uitous in girls’ media and 
therefore, is one male attractiveness as best 
wealth and sexual of sparkle. she said while how this trend subsequently 
whose femininity communicated via sparkly theorists are often critical of 
maturity.” 

bodily displays, modelled by 
shapes girls’ production and sparkle culture, it is neces­

and agency are 

film stars and other celebri­
consumption of media. her Mary Kearney sary to understand the way 

communicated 
ties,” she said. 
book, “girls make media” 

associate professor young women emotionally highlights the way more 
film, television and theatre engage with sparkle in con-
primarily through according to Kearney, 
a visibly self-sparkle has become synony-temporary media. duce various forms of media. 
girls than ever before, pro­mous with female youth and and “sabrina the Teenage “with those perspectives 

disciplined and 

beauty, due in large part to witch.” These kinds of mov-in mind, i want to reclaim lyzes the presence of spar-additionally, the book ana­
glamorously the prevalence of glitter and ies and Tv shows exemplify femininity, and thus spar­kle and glitter in media and 
adorned body.” glamour in celebrity culture. in different ways the push for kle, as a potentially resistant the connection to a histori-
Kearney said there are a vibrant, fame-centric ideal force for girls,” Kearney said. 
Mary Kearney 

three forms of “sparkle” in of femininity, she said “in arguing for the potential-cal fascination with lumi­
associate professor 

girls media culture: magi-Kearney said the promi-ly positive contributions of nescence and sparkle to the 
film, television and theatre 

cal — media involving trans-nence of sparkle in pop sparkle in girls’ media, i also 
“Today, in comparison formative beings such as culture contributes to a post-want to encourage attention with other historical periods, girls during the past 15 years, witches — environmental feminist ideal, where female to its affect or the emotions girls’ media texts are truly with notable examples in-— primarily concerned with empowerment resides is the such luminous beauty elicits. luminous and spectacular,” cluding disney films such bioluminescence and bright responsibility of the individ-“ ... i am all for sparkle Kearney said. “i’m interest-as “frozen” and “brave,” environments — and bodily ual woman. operating under if that’s what gets girls in-ed in the visual style of said and television shows such as — associated with how wom-this notion, the ideal woman volved in creating media.” media, not only because they “hannah montana.” Kearney en use sparkle and glitter to is one who embraces glittery, contribute so strongly to the said while the trend is pri-adorn their bodies. she said hyper-feminine products and Contact Gabriela Malespin at overall meaning of text, but marily geared toward young, the three forms of sparkle are adornments for her personal gmalespi@nd.edu 
ethereal and the heavenly. 
paid adverTisemenT 

“in fact, it was also shown ... that 
Malaria 

there was a mass killing affect. 
conTinued from page 1 
“if you had high usage of these 

nets in the village you could ac-organization (who) to launch tually decrease the mosquito a program to eliminate malaria population to the extent that worldwide, burkot said. The there would be a lowering of the method for eradication, he said, transmission of malaria in an was spraying ddT on the inside adjacent village that didn’t have of the walls of houses. the nets. if you had full net cov­
“This was a huge military-erage you could prevent about like operation. in india alone, 370,000 child deaths per year they had 390 national malaria from malaria.” eradication units … [and] burkot said iTns and indoor 96,000 people in india working residual spraying — spraying to eradicate malaria,” burkot the inside the walls of homes — said. “To give you an idea of are methods of malaria control how much ddT was being used, that work and thus are still cur­usaid (united stats agency for rently being used. international development) was looking into the future, purchasing 60 million pounds burkot said the goal is a 90 per-of ddT for malaria control at the cent reduction of malaria in-height of the program.” cidence and mortality rates by 
Though the program failed 2030 through universal access to completely eradicate ma-to long lasting nets and indoor laria worldwide, burkot said it residual spraying. Though there achieved elimination in 11 out of are many challenges to these 52 countries and partial elimina-two methods, burkot said there tion in another 11 countries. are new tools being developed 
burkot said the next preventa-to help reach this goal. tive measure came in the 1980s “i’m an optimist,” burkot said. when insecticide treated nets “i think that malaria eradica­(iTns) were created. These nets, tion is achievable. i think there which were treated with insecti-are significant challenges to be cides and placed around the beds faced in the coming years, but i in the home, were an important think they are not insurmount­creation for the prevention of ma-able, and with the resources we laria, burkot said. have available, i think we can 
“[an iTn] had the ability of pro-eliminate malaria.” tecting people, even if they were just in the house and not sleeping Contact Emma Borne at  underneath the net,” burkot said. eborne@nd.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

residence halls. The race will tough competition when it unless you’re the somebody 
Project Spirit 

start at 5 p.m. Johnson said this comes to attendance of the i sinned against. so why can 
conTinued from page 1 

conTinued from page 1 race has been a saint mary’s events. holy cross hall and for that? so [cueno] is ex-god walk in and forgive us 
tradition for many years. le mans hall may have a a capacity for experiencing ploring those issues and also 
for some friendly competi-on Thursday, students can run for their money going up god, experiencing the pres-questions about just how it 
tion,” Johnson said. “[The gets crafty by decorating mugs against two completely [first­ence of god, and so on.” is that we experience god’s 
week] determines who will and mason jars in each of the year residence halls].” rea hinted at the rarity of forgiveness.” 
win hall of the year. which residence halls from 3-5 p.m. The points towards the rea said the project is still 
can be a huge deal, especially spirit week concludes with halls are through participa­“We have a whole in its beginning stages and for hall directors.” “spirit day” and “penny tion in the events. additional 
liturgical studies a lot of research is still in its 
Johnson said the competi-wars” on friday. all students points are given to the win-infancy. 
tion between residence halls are asked to share their spirit ners of specific events, such 
program here, 
“we just had a big collabor­makes the week unique to oth-by sporting their residence as the sand volleyball tour-

but there aren’t 
ative workshop with our sci-

er themed weeks on campus. 
nament, canoe races and many people entists last weekend, where 
“every year you see a little 
“Every year penny wars. 
that are doing we ... got summaries of all 
competitive edge between the 
This year’s free tank tops 
you see a little 
the psychology and sociol­

belles during spirit week,” she 
will be given out at each 
the philosophy competitive edge 
ogy projects that are being 

said. “everyone really gets into 
event, Johnson said. 
of liturgy. So 
done,” rea said. “some of the 

it. everyone wants to see that 
between the Belles sophomore Taylor burger that’s one kind of psychologists have actually 
pretty ‘hall of the year’ banner 
during Spirit said the free apparel is an ex-exciting project.” started taking data already. i 
hung outside their dorm, so it 
citing part of the week. 
Week. Everyone 
mean it’s all the very begin-
gets pretty crazy.” 
“i’m excited to support my 
Michael Rea 
really gets into it. 
ning stages, but they’ve got 

starting monday, spirit 
hall and support saint mary’s 
professor 
at least a month’s worth of 

week will be kicked off with 
Everyone wants as a whole this week,” burger 
philosophy 
data now.” 

a sand volleyball tournament 
to see that pretty said “i’m totally looking for­
rea said the project will 

running from 3-5 p.m. on the 
ward to the canoe races.” 
‘Hall of the Year’ 

this type of research. develop in many forms in-
the angela sand volleyball 
burger, who lives in 
banner hung 

“we have a whole liturgi-cluding a book and a lecture 
courts. first, holy cross hall 
lemans hall this year, said cal studies program here, series. 
will face le mans hall at 3 
outside their she lived in mccandless hall but there aren’t many people “my research project, 
p.m., then mccandless hall 
dorm, so it gets last year which earned the 
that are doing the philoso-under the auspices of this 
will challenge regina and 
title of “hall of the year” last 
pretty crazy.” 

phy of liturgy,” rea said. “so grant, is a book on divine 
opus halls at 3:30 p.m., and 
year. 
McKenzie Johnson 

that’s one kind of exciting hiddenness,” rea said. “i’ve 
the winners of each match will 
“i was in mccandless last 
president 

project.” got a third to half of that 
face off at 4 p.m. 
year so hopefully i’ll be in 
Saint Mary’s RHA 

rea described a funded book drafted. and that’s go­
Tuesday’s event, “Tea with 
the winning dorm again this residential project by a col-ing to become [the] gifford 
hall directors,” will begin at year,” she said. league that is exploring the lectures in 2017. 
1-2:30 p.m. and offer the op-hall apparel and colors and first-year student isabel nature and experience of di-“ … laurie and i are sup­
portunity for residents to stop contributing change to their Tetzloff said she’s excited to vine forgiveness. posed to write an article 
by the office of their hall di-designated residence hall jar participate in spirit week as “one question he’s asking is together on religious expe­
rector, have a treat and get in the student center. The jars a new student. what it is to be forgiven, what rience and transformative 
acquainted, while earning will be in the student center “The events seem so fun, forgiveness consists in, what experience that ... draws on 
points for their halls. atrium from 11 a.m.-2 p.m. and i can’t wait to represent kind of standing god has to some of those connections.” 
students can sign up with Johnson said she expects and earn points for my new forgive our sins,” he said. 
teams of two or three women a different competition now home, all week,” Tetzloff said. “if i commit a sin against Contact John Lombardo at  
and race canoes around lake that regina hall is also all somebody, you couldn’t walk jlombar2@nd.edu 
marian this wednesday to first-years this year. Contact Sydney Doyle at in and forgive me for that 
gain points for their respective “[first-years] are usually sdoyle01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT said being muslim and american 
Justice 
are not mutually exclusive. 
conTinued from page 1 
“someone could be muslim but 

it doesn’t contradict with them word that means peace,” being american,” pennington mccallick said. “it is a peaceful said. religion and most jihads are wars sophomore vanessa odom said that you fight within yourself ... the fear is baseless and muslims islamic extremists are not act-are misunderstood. ing within the faith.” “i don’t think that it is a fear 
mccallick said the definition of muslims or islam, it is a of jihad is deeper than common misguided fear of extremism,” belief. odom said. “it is an extremism 
“a jihad is the battle over your phobia above anything else.” soul; it is the fight within one-mccallick provided spe­self against sin. it is often trans-cific tips on how to combat lated as holy war in america, islamophobia. which is a strong misconcep-“we need to watch the lan­tion,” mccallick said. “while guage we use when talking there is such a thing as military about extremism,” mccallick jihad, one has to remember that said. “These acts are in­catholics and christians have spired not by truth but by a just war theory as well, and just small group of people. … we like christians, there has to be by shouldn’t throw around terms a certain authority that approves like islamic or muslim.” the war for specific reasons and “its better to ask questions there are certain rules as to how in a respectful way than to as-that war can take place.” sume things are the way they 
The lecturer said she feels of-are,” she said. fended by the misconceptions mccallick said we need to see about islam and muslims post people as related by the human 9/11. race and as fellow humans first 
“it hurts me that these ideas before seeing them as a reli­are still present in our culture gious group. today,” mccallick said. “This is The Justice friday lecture se­such a misunderstanding and ries takes place every friday misrepresentation of a faith that from 12 p.m. to 12:50 p.m. in is beautiful.” conference room a and b of 
after explaining islamophobia the student center. in america, mccallick opened the room up for discussion. Contact Allison Sanchez at 
Junior miranda pennington asanch01@saintmarys.edu 

The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By DAKOTA CONNELL-LEDWON 
scene writer 

visiting artist ramahan faulk im­pressed and enlightened an audience during a talk facilitated by the depart­ment of film, television and theatre Thursday evening. faulk is a character modeling supervisor at the animation studio blur. in the past, he’s done char­acter modeling and rigging for video games and high-profile movies like “avatar,” “maleficent,” “The adventures of Tintin,” “fantastic four: rise of the silver surfer” and “eragon.” 
The audience in the browning cinema consisted mostly of students but also included some members of the south bend community. The talk became a question and answer session almost im­mediately, as members of the audience 
By KELLY McGARRY 
scene wirter 

The pride and joy of ‘90s kids every­where is about to be recognized in a big way. nickelodeon has just announced The splat, a programming block that will strictly feature the nicktoons that defined the ‘90s. every decade has its glory, and the glory of the ‘90s is be­coming ever more clear. childhood favorites like “doug,” “rugrats,” “hey arnold!” and “catdog” have managed to stay relevant in the conversations of ‘90s kids well into their twenties, espe­cially on social media. it’s a no-brainer for nickelodeon producers to capital­ize on the interest. They’re even diving into social media with frequent tweets and numerous hashtags, most impor­tantly #Thesplatiscoming. 
a common concern of current col­lege students is the strict cut-off for ‘90s kids. we’ve been told frequently, “if you were born in 1999, you’re not a ‘90s kid.” for those of us born in the had specific questions about how faulk broke into the industry, how he man­aged to balance his personal life with work and whether it was even remotely possible to stay healthy while sitting in front of a computer for up to 80 hours a week. 
in answer to these questions, faulk described his background — his path to excellence in character modeling was anything but typical. faulk was on ac­tive duty with the u.s. navy when his interest in technical drawings led to a growing passion for character modeling. over the course of six months, he taught himself the craft using tutorials for ani­mation programs like maya. from there, he sent his work out to various studios and was eventually hired by electronic arts (ea) in orlando. 
faulk has done full-time and freelance 
rest of the ‘90s who want to take own­ership over this golden era of cartoon excellence, The splat provides a simple test for identifying yourself as a ‘90s kid with #imoldenoughToKnow. a few of the stipulations: i’m old enough to know the heartbreak of tangled film in an orange nickelodeon videotape and how jealous we all were of the “legends of the hidden Temple” con­testants. many of the most significant shows aired well into the 2000s, so don’t fret if you were born in 1997: if you identify with these problems, the revival belongs to you. 
back in 2011, nickelodeon heard our generation’s cry of “amanda, please!” and responded with the programming block The ‘90s are all That on Teennick. The title suggests that this block would focus on sketch comedy shows like “all That” and “Kenan & Kel.” That block actually ended up taking a toonier di­rection: “rugrats” and “hey arnold!” are the reruns played most frequently, while “The amanda show” has left the work for various clients and worked on games such as “crysis 2,” “nfl street” and “g.i. Joe: valor vs. venom.” faulk described working on video games as much more relaxed than working on movies. film can be very ego-driven, with a lot of politics involved, he said. 

during his talk, faulk’s passion for his work shone through his actions, from his detailed explanations of facial rig­ging using mudbox, a digital sculpting tool, to his frequent exclamations of “i love this stuff!” it was easy to see how his energy pushed him to the top of his field. 
when asked how he managed to be competitive in such a specialized in­dustry, faulk answered, “you have to be relentless. it’s not easy, but it’s not im­possible. … if you’re going to do some­thing, do what you love and try to be the 
block entirely, running on its own dur­ing regular Teennick hours. “rocket power,” which originally aired from 1999 to 2004, was even added to the block in a rocket power hour, prov­ing that the nickelodeon era called the ‘90s actually lasted well into the 2000s. 
with all these cartoons already air­ing on The ‘90s are all That, it’s hard to tell where nick will draw the line for The splat. maybe pushing the cartoons into a different programming block will make way for series like “clarissa explains it all” and game shows like “legends of the hidden Temple.” The problem of a programming shortage has come up and has caused nick to deviate from set schedules when they run out of episodes. it doesn’t seem likely that nick would produce new episodes of the classic cartoons, but lack of material shouldn’t be a huge issue considering the whole basis of the throwback programming: we like watching re-runs. 
with these recent moves to appeal best at it.” 
passion won’t take you far without the skills to back it up, however. according to faulk, you have to be able to obsess over tiny details for a significant amount of time. you have to learn the various muscles and understand what happens when one tugs on another. 
being a character artist also takes “tons of studying the human face and expressions … you get a knack for it,” faulk said. “classical formats like paint­ing and sculpture give you a base and help you learn to recognize basic forms.” 
in response to the artist’s eternal question of mouse versus stylus, faulk replied, “The mouse … i don’t recom­mend it at all.” 
Contact Dakota Connell-Ledwon at dconnel5@nd.edu 
to millennials, nickelodeon is mov­ing ever closer toward ubiquity. from nick Jr. to nick mom and now filling in every age group in between, nick is the network that shaped us and seem­ingly will stay with us our whole lives. its success feeds almost entirely on nostalgia, which makes me wonder whether they have enough material for such a wide scope. separating into different networks for each audience, nick’s overall airtime approaches in­finity. The long-term strategy might be to introduce viewers to new shows as children and keep them hooked for life. 
The splat is set to premiere in october, and with a huge social media presence, it shouldn’t be hard to keep up on the details. in the true spirit of stick stickly’s original u-picks, we can expect The splat to provide the ‘toons we’ve been craving. 
Contact Kelly McGarry at kmcgarry@nd.edu 

LUCY DU | The Observer 


The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Question the canon 
Matthew Munhall 
scene writer 

during the last week of august, pitchfork, the tastemaking online music publication, published its list of the 200 best songs of the 1980s. The introduction argued that from these lists “we learn something about how perceptions of decades change over time, and how the musical ideas from a given era filter through to later generations.” 
part of the motivation behind these kind of lists is to start a conversa­tion that, in turn, drives page views. Twitter fingers quickly protested prince’s “purple rain” position at number one. other publications cre­ated playlists of the best ‘80s songs left off pitchfork’s list. salon, predict­ably, published a piece that asked, “are these really the best songs of the ‘80s?” 
what i appreciate about the pitchfork list and the resulting con­versation are the questions it raises about canon-making. many of the huge hits typically included on ‘80s lists — like a-ha’s “Take on me” or bon Jovi’s “livin’ on a prayer” — are not present. it makes the case for “wanna be startin’ somethin’” as the quintes­sential michael Jackson song instead of “billie Jean,” which was the bigger hit at the time. it argues that the music of rap groups like n.w.a. and public enemy is just as influential as that of indie mainstays like sonic youth and the smiths, who have dominated past pitchfork lists. These choices, whether you agree with them or not, probe ex­pectations about what music from the ‘80s should be regarded as culturally important. 
The list also raises questions of representation and which artists are included in the canon of popular music. most notably, there are only three women in the list’s top 20: Kate bush, madonna and whitney houston (six if you include new order’s gillian gilbert, Talking heads’ Tina weymouth and sonic youth’s Kim gordon). in a decade in which so many women were creating interesting mu­sic, why do men still dominate lists of the best music? 
pitchfork’s list points to the neces­sity of continually questioning what is part of the canon and what drives these choices. whether it’s ‘80s pop music or western literature, critics should be skeptical about which artists and works are considered important to the culture at large. as pitchfork itself noted, perceptions of decades change over time and so should our under­standing of what art is lasting and important. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at       mmunhall@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
A moviegoer sat on a bench and reflected on Swedish cinema 
Charlie Ducey 
english, channeled 

let’s face it: swedish art films are weird. much of what comes out of sweden is weird — swedish meat­balls, swedish fish (why are they so red?), those self assembly ikea chairs, Zlatan ibrahimovic. but as far as weirdness goes, swedish cinema takes the cake. 
i had the disconcerting pleasure of watching a swedish art film this past weekend at dpac. it was the third installment of director roy andersson’s film trilogy that explores the human condition. film number three did have the decency of broad­casting its oddity upfront with its sentence-long title: “a pigeon sat on a branch and reflected on existence.” 
it’s probably one of the best films i’ve seen in the last few months. 
granted, the last few months have been some­thing of moviegoing dry-spell for me. i watched the 1999 comedy “office space” in low resolution with distorted sound quality in a dorm room and caught part of that showtime series on notre dame foot­ball, which isn’t really feature-length cinema any­ways. but none of that should detract from the fact that, while sitting in browning cinema watching andersson’s bizarre film, i felt deeply moved. 
The film is, well, oddly good in a totally non-conventional way. There is no easily traced plot, no a-list lead, no camera movement to speak of. it’s just 30 or so vignettes in sterile swedish urban set­tings, each shot from a fixed camera angle. rarely does one scene connect smoothly to another; here a man lies dead after a heart attack on a ferry; there a corpulent dance instructor repeatedly gropes her silent student. 
what can we make of these fragments? where’s the method in this madness? i thought movies were supposed to tell stories, not confuse their audiences with a chain of coincidences, signifying nothing. but this un-arranged form, this series of banal in­teractions is precisely what makes this film great. 
i contend that this film’s fractured style captures a crucial feature of modern life, namely, its lack of an apparent end goal. where is the climax towards which the individual or collective life is moving? if we look to generic cultural narratives in the modern west, it seems that we’re just supposed to pursue some amorphous source of success or self-achievement. put more crudely, we’re supposed to get a good job, buy a nice house and maybe raise a family. but there’s no overarching narrative, no lin­ear plot pushing toward some higher aim. like the characters in andersson’s film, “modern” men are plodding through the unchained events of life, rid­dling away what it all might mean. 
That’s most of what happens in andersson’s film, except the riddling is rarely externalized. The film’s characters consistently fail to communicate, miss­ing the links between things. Two salesmen, who are among the few recurrent characters from scene to scene, keep thinking they’ll be able to sell their strange novelty items — extra-long vampire fangs, laughing boxes and a plastic mask — if they just give their rehearsed spiel again and again. 
but all of a sudden, surreal and strange things in­trude on the everyday weirdness of swedish streets. an eighteenth-century royal army invades a bar on horseback where the salesmen have come seeking direction (figuratively as well as literally). another scene simply shows a monkey undergoing electric shocks while a nurse talks on the phone and a man sweeps the hall on the other side of a glass door. a chattel of african slaves are marched at whip-point into an enormous galvanized barrel studded with what look like sousaphone horns. for once, the camera shifts, and the reflection of the barrel is seen rotating over a fire. 
in the next scene, the more sympathetic of the two salesmen shouts down his apartment’s hall to the night clerk: “is it right using people only for your own pleasure?” he repeats the question several times. The night clerk fails to understand. 
if the film has a prevailing message, it is this: we frequently fail to take notice of the needs of other people. we are too much trapped in ourselves. in one of the few openly reflective scenes in the film, an old swede shouts across to the barmaid that in his whole life, he’s never cared about other people, and only now does he realize that his unhappiness stems from that. 
attending a film like this forces you to work, to really pay attention to characters rather than hav­ing all the relevant information pieced together for you. it all makes me think that these odd swedish art films are on to something. maybe moviegoing — and art in general — should not passively entertain or content us, as the next hollywood rom-com or action flick aims to do. art should challenge us and force us to consider how and where we stand in rela­tion to other people. 
Charlie Ducey is a senior studying the languages of G. 
K. Chesterton (English) and Edith Stein (German). Please contact him with questions, comments, complaints, appraisals, invitations, prognostications and prestidigitations at cducey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

injuries vs shoes 
each week, i find myself watching our football players feet. i strongly believe there is a correlation between the number of injuries and the lack of support in the shoe wear. There must be one or more science geeks on campus willing to either prove me right or wrong. it kills me watching the demise of so many talented players. Too many not to be suspicious. 
respectfully, 
Pattie Ward 
class of 1975 sept. 19 



 NOTRE DAME 30, gEORgiA TEch 22 | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2015 | NDsMcObsERvER.cOM 
Storming passed the swarm 
Prosise runs for three scores as Irish defense dominates Georgia Tech’s option attack 

EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 

Irish senior running back C.J. Prosise leaves the Georgia Tech defense in his wake during his 91-yard, fourth-quarter touchdown run in Notre Dame’s 30-22 win Saturday. The touchdown run, Prosise’s third of the game, was the longest in Notre Dame Stadium history, and pushed him over 200 multipurpose yards for the contest. 
Team win proves Irish are for real this season 

Brian Plamondon 
sports Writer 
Not often does the No. 8 team in the country play as underdogs in their own stadi­um. it was no matter for Notre Dame, who quieted georgia Tech on saturday night in a win that was nothing short of impressive. 
Two-and-a-half-point un­derdogs, Notre Dame handled georgia Tech in what head coach brian Kelly called a “program win.” Perhaps just as impressive as getting the win was the way in which the irish did it, stopping a Yellow Jacket option offense that had been averaging 457.5 rushing yards over its first two contests. 
Pegged by many as the make-or-break game of the young irish season, Notre Dame looked confident in all facets of the game. Unlike last week, there wasn’t one posi­tion group that was a weak link. Although much credit 
see PLAMONDON PAGE 3 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports Writer 
Though Notre Dame saw a new starting quarterback and its first ranked opponent of the season, saturday’s 30-22 victory over georgia Tech was marked by what has been fa­miliar: solid defense, the run­ning game and Will Fuller. 
The biggest question mark leading up to the game for the irish (3-0) was sophomore quarterback Deshone Kizer, and in what could prove to be the defining game in the season, Kizer silenced the skeptics, going 21 for 30 for 242 passing yards and one touchdown. 

Kizer picked up where he left off against virginia by opening the scoring with a 46-yard bomb down the right sideline to junior receiver Fuller with 8:20 to go in the first quarter. Kizer credited Fuller for the touchdown, saying he knew his receiver would win the jump ball. 
“Will Fuller is one of the best go-route runners in the country,” Kizer said. “Threw it up for him, make it happen. There’s nothing i can say i did amazing about it. i tried to execute and put the ball out there for him, and he came up with it.” 
Fuller’s fifth touchdown of the year put Notre Dame up, 7-0, and the irish were roll­ing early, holding the georgia Tech offense to only 35 yards in the first quarter. 
irish head coach brian Kelly said the defensive game plan worked well against georgia Tech in the first half. 
“[special assistant bob] Elliott did a great job of researching,” Kelly said. “[Defensive coordinator brian] vangorder did a great job of coaching, coaching the coaches, then our players did a great job of executing.” 
The momentum shifted, however in the second quar­ter, when Kizer threw an 
see MOMENTUM PAGE 2 

PLAYER OF THE GAME QUOTE OF THE GAME 
Defense steps up, corrals Tech’s explosive offense 

By MARY GREEN 
Assistant Managing Editor 
They came into saturday’s game with a hunger and a feel­ing that no one believed in them but themselves. 
Despite almost letting virginia pull off an upset the week before, Notre Dame’s de­fense was still confident in it­self, even if nobody else was, as it held back georgia Tech for a 30-22 victory. 
“We gain [our confidence] from each other,” junior defen­sive lineman isaac Rochell said. “We kind of looked at each other and said, ‘We’re gonna play for you, we’re gonna play for you.’ 
“And then obviously, they kind of tried us when they said we’re the underdogs. i think that’s really disrespectful. … The culmination of all that kind of gave us that attitude and that locked-in-ness that we needed.” 
The irish defense was locked in from kickoff, forcing georgia Tech (2-1) into a three-and-out on its first drive, the first time 
see DEFENsE PAGE 3 
C.J. PROSISE 
IRISH SENIOR RUNNING BACK 
Prosise did everything the irish asked of him and more, totalling 203 yards and scor­ing on runs of 17-, 1- and 91-yards, the last being the nail in the coffin for georgia Tech. 

“It was a program win today.” 
irish head coach brian Kelly discussed how his team executed in all areas, particularly against the option where Notre Dame held georgia Tech to 3-for-15 on third downs. 


REPORT CARD 







QUARTERBACKS 

Deshone Kizer did everything he was asked to do in his first collegiate start. having said that, there was a lot of room for improvement in his play. Kizer struggled hitting his receivers in stride and failed to make a read adjustment on his lone in­terception. Kizer needs to be more protective of the football; still, his 21-for-30 performance was more than respectable. 
RUNNING BACKS 

c.J. Prosise was at it again for Notre Dame, punishing the georgia Tech defensive front for 198 yards on 22 carries. Prosise is quieting doubters who say he can’t be a feature back, especially with runs like his 91-yard touchdown in the fourth quarter. 
RECEIVERS 

Will Fuller worked his magic again, hauling in six receptions for 131 yards. At just 6’0, Fuller adjusted to a handful of balls midroute and went up against Tech cornerbacks, winning every time. chris brown was a reliable target, too, with a ca­reer high 65 yards. This number would be higher if it weren’t for a blatant Fuller drop and an Alizé Jones fumble. 
OFFENSIVE LINE 

The offensive line had its ups and downs on saturday. For one, they pummeled the georgia Tech front in propelling the irish to 215 rush yards. On the other hand, the irish line had four false start penalites – three on tackle Ronnie stanley – as well as a holding call that went against them. All in all a solid effort, but the unit must give first-year signal caller Kizer a little more time in the pocket. 
DEFENSIVE LINE 

Notre Dame’s defensive line was dominant against the Yellow Jacket option. b-back Patrick skov and quarterback Justin Thomas were stuffed running up the middle, while each member of the line looked solid in their own right. 
LINEBACKERS 

The linebackers flocked all over the field, making plays wher­ever they were asked. Joe schmidt led the way with 10 tackles and a sack, while greer Martini added eight while showing off his smarts covering the option. 
DEFENSIVE BACKS 

The irish defensive backs did everything they were asked to do against a georgia Tech team that simply doesn’t throw often. They weren’t burned on any play-action throwns, while Drue Tranquill was impressive before his injury. Matthias Farley filled in admirably, forcing a fumble on his second play after the injury. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

Kicker Justin Yoon opened by barely making his first extra point, then failed on his second attempt. Also shaky was punter Tyler Newsome, who averaged 39.6 yards on five punts a week after averaging 61 yards a boot. c.J. sanders and Amir carlisle were uninspiring in the return game. 
COACHING 

For the second straight week, Kelly and co. tailored their offensive game plan to Kizer’s strengths. On defense, credit coordinator brian vangorder and special asisstant bob Elliott – tasked this offseason with scouting the option and preparing for it – for their masterful handling of the option offense. 
OVERALL GPA: 3.60 (A-/B+) 
The irish looked like a top-10 football team in their handling of georgia Tech. The biggest takeaway from this game is that Deshone Kizer can win football games for Notre Dame, especially with weapons like c.J. Prosise and Will Fuller. The defense also rebounded from a tough per­formance to bottle a potent Tech offense, although it lost Drue Tranquill. 
PLAY OF THE GAME 
C.J. PROSISE’S 91-YARD TOUCHDOWN RUN IN THE FOURTH QUARTER 
Prosise had been wearing down the georgia Tech defensive front all game and was rewarded for his efforts when he shot up the middle and opened up a 30-7 lead for the irish on the longest running play in the his­tory of Notre Dame stadium. 
Momentum 
cONTiNUED FROM PAgE 1 

interception in the back of the end zone to nullify a 43­yard drive. Kizer said he mis­read the coverage on the play. 
“[The interception was] obviously a miscommunica­tion between [junior receiv­er] corey [Robinson] and i,” Kizer said. “he was expecting a different look, and he was right. completely my fault. A freshman mistake out there. We talked about it on the sideline and moved forward.” 
Kizer’s mistake could have proved costly for the irish as georgia Tech scored a touchdown on the ensuing possession. 
but with five minutes to go in the half, Kizer found se­nior receiver chris brown on third-and-10 and then con­nected again with Fuller for a 37-yard pass on a third-and-7. senior running back c.J. Prosise capped off the drive with a 19-yard touchdown run to put the irish up 13-7 at halftime. 
Kelly said he was impressed with the poise Kizer showed in coming back from the interception. 
“What i liked about [Kizer] is he immediately takes own­ership,” Kelly said. “he im­mediately said, ‘i got it,’ and moved on to the next thing. … i love the way he is able to move on and process it and get back to playing the game.” 
Entering the third quar­ter, Notre Dame looked to seize the momentum and did so when graduate student cornerback and captain Matthias Farley, on just his second snap after entering for injured sophomore safety Drue Tranquill, forced a fum­ble which was recovered by a fellow captain, junior line­backer Jaylon smith. 

The fumble led to a 29-yard field goal by freshman kicker Justin Yoon and from there, the game turned into the c.J. Prosise show. 
Prosise put Notre Dame up 23-7 on a one-yard touch­down run at the beginning of the fourth quarter and added to the lead with 6:58 left in the game by breaking away for a 91-yard touchdown run, the longest in Notre Dame stadium history. 
Prosise finished with 198 yards rushing, 131 in the sec­ond half, and three touch­downs and credited the team’s success running the ball to his offensive line. 
“i felt like i played a pretty good game,” Prosise said. “My O-line was playing great for me, my receivers were blocking well on the perime­ter. … i knew when i was get­ting the runs called for me, i knew i was going to have to make plays. … i knew as an offense, we were going to get the job done.” 
Kizer said he was impressed with Prosise’s performance as well and praised his natu­ral running ability. 
“i mean, when it comes to 
c.J. [Prosise] almost by him­self the amount of yards that georgia Tech, triple-option team, has all together, it’s unreal,” Kizer said. “he’s a baller. he’s fast. he’s strong. 
he does everything that we needed.” 
Though there were big stat lines for the irish, it was far from a perfect game. in addi­tion to Kizer’s first-half inter­ception, a missed extra-point and six offensive penalties, the Yellow Jackets scored two touchdowns in the span of 26 seconds at the end of the game to make the final score 30-22. 
Farley said the team needs to maintain its defensive focus for the whole game in order to prevent future breakdowns. 
“We’re not going to be satisfied until it’s a full 60 [minutes],” Farley said. “Especially the defense, we gotta finish games stronger.” 
Despite georgia Tech’s late-game antics, the irish emerged victorious against a top-15 opponent in a game few said they could win. Kelly said he was proud of the way his team played in the midst of adversity. 
“it was a program win to­day,” Kelly said. “having to overcome injuries, playing a very good football team in georgia Tech this early after two very difficult teams. [i was] really pleased with the way our kids executed in all areas today.” 
For the irish, now 3-0, the win keeps their playoff hopes alive as they head into a home game against Massachusetts on sept. 26, before travel­ing to Death valley to face clemson on Oct. 3. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 


NDsMcObsERvER.cOM | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2015 | ThE ObsERvER 

Defense 
cONTiNUED FROM PAgE 1 
the Yellow Jackets had done so all season, and then again on georgia Tech’s next drive. Notre Dame (3-0) also held the Yellow Jackets to just seven points until the final minute of the game, a small number for a team that had put up 69 and 65 points in its first two victories. 
sophomore safety Drue Tranquill helped set the focus on the first drive, knocking back redshirt freshman A-back Qua searcy four yards with a hard hit on third down to force the first of seven Yellow Jackets punts throughout the day. georgia Tech was able to con­vert on just three of its 15 third downs saturday. 
Tranquill earned his first start of the season, as did freshman Jerry Tillery on the defensive line and sophomore greer Martini at strongside linebacker, as the irish re­tooled their schemes to protect against Yellow Jackets head coach Paul Johnson’s triple-option offense. 
“We watched a lot of differ­ent stuff, and i think seeing those different teams play dif­ferent ways, i think that gave us a good look at how other people played them and had success quickly in some cases and in other cases, kind of learning what works and what didn’t,” graduate student cor­nerback Matthias Farley said. 
Tranquill recorded four 
Plamondon 
cONTiNUED FROM PAgE 1 
should go to the coaching staff for their game planning for the Yellow Jackets, the majority should go to “Team 127” for executing that game plan to a tee. 
credit Will Fuller for haul­ing in big catch after big catch — many of which he had to adjust to mid-route — and finishing the day with 131 yards and a touchdown. credit c.J. Prosise, consis­tently pounding the ball up the middle en route to a ca­reer day with 198 yards and three touchdowns. 
but this was a team win in every sense of the word. 
Notre Dame’s offensive line dominated its georgia Tech counterparts, hand­ily winning the battle in the trenches. With a quarterback making his first career start, the line paved the way for Prosise to find open holes and take some of the pres­sure off Deshone Kizer. 
For his part, Kizer stuck to Kelly’s blueprint and didn’t try to do too much, relying on the weapons around him. instead he played within his means and, as a result, lim­ited his mistakes. 
On defense, the irish never deviated from their plan to contain georgia Tech’s sup­posedly dynamic offense. 
tackles and an end-zone pass breakup at the end of the sec­ond quarter, when he jumped up while celebrating the breakup and came down grab­bing his right knee in pain. The sophomore headed to the lock­er room right after and came back with his knee wrapped and on crutches — an injury which head coach brian Kelly confirmed sunday was an AcL tear. 
With Tranquill sidelined, Farley moved into his former role at safety and two plays into the third quarter, forced a fumble by redshirt junior quarterback Justin Thomas that was recovered by junior linebacker Jaylon smith to help set up an irish field goal. 
The irish held Thomas to 27 rushing yards and 121 passing yards on eight completions of 24 attempts. Farley said de­fending the versatile quarter­back, the key cog in georgia Tech’s triple option, was a focal point of their preparation. 
“You have to keep the ball out of his hands,” Farley said. “he’s a valuable, dynamic football player, and it all comes back to guys just doing their jobs.” 
As a whole, the defense held the nation’s best rushing of­fense to 216 yards on 47 car­ries, an average of 4.6 yards per rush. in their previous two games, the Yellow Jackets averaged 457.5 yards on the ground. 
The defensive line in par­ticular played strong against georgia Tech’s sizable 
The defensive front, led by strong play from isaac Rochell and Jerry Tillery, clogged the middle nicely against georgia Tech quar­terback Justin Thomas and b-back Patrick skov, forcing the Yellow Jackets outside. The irish defense was also confident in all the different looks it could throw at the Yellow Jackets as well, play­ing aggressive and constantly shifting from a 3-5 to a 4-4 to a 4-3 package. 
What might be most im­pressive about this Notre Dame squad so far is that it doesn’t seem to have one star that shines brighter than the rest. both sides of the ball are balanced, relying on a num­ber of different contributors to make plays. 
Although the irish might not be the best team in the country, few can argue that they aren’t the most resilient. Already down five starters through the first two weeks, Notre Dame has adopted the plug-and-play mentality, confident that any of its play­ers can step up and fit into the system. 
Adversity can break a foot­ball team when it strikes this early in the season, but so far it seems like it Notre Dame is using it to fuel the fire. Last season, the irish faced it in a heartbreaking loss to Florida state as well as losing on-field leader Joe schmidt for the offensive line to help stop the run, a point Kelly was quick to emphasis. 
“We won that. We won that,” he said of the battle between the two lines. “so we were able to get our backers over the top. We were able to do some things to string it out a little bit and buy some time to get through those A-back blocks which are so crucial. Jerry and isaac, in particular, played very well inside.” 
Rochell accounted for one of Notre Dame’s seven quarter­back hurries on the day, while his linemate, senior sheldon Day, added two more and one of six irish tackles for loss, to­taling 26 yards in the red for georgia Tech. 
Though preventing the tri­ple-option offense from mov­ing down the field presented an extra challenge for Notre Dame, Kelly said he and de­fensive coordinator brian vangorder welcomed it. 
“For us, the plan and devel­oping the plan and then the execution of the plan is re­ally the fun part of it for us,” he said. “i don’t think it’s fun when you don’t see the execu­tion part work as well. but see­ing it come to fruition, seeing it come together, seeing your kids really play with confi­dence — that’s what we asked them to do, to play with some confidence today. i think that was the fun part today.” 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
season, subsequently limp­ing home after a No. 5 mid­year ranking. The makeup of this team seems different. 
After a textbook win against a strong georgia Tech team, one thing is abundant­ly clear — Notre Dame is a player on the national stage. The irish certainly have enough talent to compete with the best college foot­ball has to offer right now. but just a quarter of the way through the season, Notre Dame must continue to prove that games like georgia Tech and Texas are not flukes. 
still, if the irish coaches can concoct a plan for the top ranked rushing offense in the NcAA, and have their players execute on that plan, it shows this Notre Dame team can be special. it won’t get any eas­ier, planning for the likes of clemson’s Deshaun Watson and Usc’s cody Kessler, but the irish can certainly use georgia Tech as a blueprint. 
When they do, they won’t have to rely on one or two players to save the day — they can put their trust in Team 127, knowing this irish squad is greater than just the sum of its parts. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

SCORING SUMMARY 






1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  TOTAL  
7  6  3  14  30  
0  7  0  15  22  

NOTRE DAME 7, GEORGIA TECH 0 
Will Fuller 46-yard pass from Deshone Kizer (Justin Yoon kick) 
8:20 remaining 

Drive: Six plays, 65 yards 1:38 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 7, GEORGIA TECH 7 
Patrick skov 5-yard run (harrison butker kick) 
5:26 remaining 

Drive: Four plays, 80 yards, 1:30 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 13, GEORGIA TECH 7 
c.J. Prosise 17-yard run (Yoon kick failed) 
1:40remaining 

Drive: 10 plays, 82 yards, 3:46 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 16, VIRGINIA 7 
Yoon 29-yard field goal 
12:10remaining 

Drive: Four plays, 23 yards, 1:43 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 23, GEORGIA TECH 7 
Prosise 1-yard run (Yoon kick) 
13:54remaining 

Drive: Nine plays, 59 yards, 3:24 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 30, GEORGIA TECH 7 
Prosise 91-yard run (Yoon kick) 
6:58remaining 

Drive: Two plays, 86 yards, 1:05 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 30, GEORGIA TECH 15 
skov 24-yard pass from Justin Thomas (clifton Lynch rush) 
0:48remaining 

Drive: 13 plays, 79 yards, 6:10 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 30, GEORGIA TECH 22 
skov 15-yard pass from Thomas (butker kick) 
0:22 remaining 

Drive: Three plays, 43 yards, 0:26 elapsed 
STATISTICS 

RUSHING YARDS 
PASSING YARDS 

PASSING 
Kizer 21-30-242 
RUSHING 
Prosise 22-198 Hunter Jr. 1-8 Adams 2-7 Kizer 5-6 
RECEIVING 
Brown 8-65 Fuller 6-131 Jones 3-19 Hunter Jr. 1-17 Weishar 1-6 Prosise 1-5 Robinson 1-(1) Thomas 

Snoddy Skov Thomas Lynch Marshall, T. Searcy Marshall, M. 
Skov Willis Lynch Searcy Jeune Summers 
215 216 
242 
121 
8-24-121 
7-77 18-66 11-27 2-25 2-11 6-10 1-0 
2-39 2-16 1-28 1-17 1-11 1-10 


ThE ObsERvER | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2015 | NDsMcObsERvER.cOM 


EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 

Irish junior receiver Will Fuller hauls in a 46-yard touchdown pass from sophomore quarterback DeShone Kizer in the first quarter of Notre Dame’s 30-22 win over Georgia Tech. With his performance Saturday, Fuller topped the 100-yard mark for the third time in as many games this year, and sits fifth nationally with 397 receiving yards on the season. 
Notre Dame had an answer for Georgia Tech’s spread option offense 
from the start. Forty-six of the Yellow Jackets’ 47 rushes accounted for just 168 yards and a 3.6-yard average. C.J. Prosise carried the load on 
IRISH PUT TECH 
offense with three touchdowns and 198 rushing yards, taking a lot of the pressure off DeShone Kizer in his first career start. Georgia Tech ral-
OUT OF OPTIONS 
lied late but never truly put the Irish in danger of dropping the game. 





The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
a forgotten distinction 
Jordan Ryan 
words of wisdome 

by now, we’ve all heard of Kim davis, the Kentucky clerk who was jailed for denying marriage licenses to gay couples. as a devout christian, davis’ conscience could not permit her to personally follow the supreme court’s rul­ing in obergefell v. hodges, which legalized gay marriage. feeling a moral obligation to uphold what she believes to be god’s will, davis refused to issue marriage licenses to gay couples. her po­sition resulted in a five-day jail sentence. Those reacting to her expression of personal faith have threatened to take her life. unfortunately, davis’ experience is but a chapter in a larger story. 
similarly, in 2013, an oregon-based, christian, family-owned bakery, sweet cakes by melissa, was fined $135,000 for refusing on religious grounds to bake a wedding cake for a lesbian couple. The response by secularists was nothing short of outrageous with picketing and boycotts necessitating the closure of the bakery. 
The millennium has ushered in what presi­dential candidate mike huckabee has titled the “criminalization of christianity.” a number of organizations, including the freedom from religion foundation, have launched organized attacks on christians and their beliefs. These or­ganizations challenge laws designed to protect religious liberties and destroy private businesses which would dare express and adhere to christian beliefs. Those opposed to the christian faith have unfortunately used the notion of separation of church and state to persecute organized religions, or at least religions with which they do not agree. 
Those against organized faiths have long aired their complaints before american courts. as a consequence, the supreme court has developed 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“A positive attitude may not solve all your problems, but it will annoy enough people to make it worth the effort.” 
— Herm Albright      Painter and lithographer 

an extensive jurisprudence relating to the prac­tice of religion in public spaces. for example, in santa fe independent school district v. doe, the court held that prayer in a public school is uncon­stitutional on the grounds that it constituted gov­ernment-sponsored promotion of a specific faith. similarly, in allegheny county, pennsylvania v. aclu, the court ruled that a nativity scene could not be displayed in a pittsburgh courthouse. 
The battleground has now moved to christian-oriented companies. attacks on companies such as chick-fil-a are nothing short of outrageous. equally offensive is the fact that politicians have shamelessly sought political gain from this conduct. for example, chicago mayor rahm emanuel’s efforts to block the opening of chick-fil-a restaurants based upon his pontification that “chick-fil-a values are not chicago values” are wholly inconsistent with basic notions of an individual or organization’s right to follow reli­gious beliefs. 
The noise created by those opposed to expres­sions of christian faith has led many to forget that, as a matter of federal law, businesses gener­ally have the right to deny service if providing that service would violate one’s religious beliefs. The religious freedom restoration act of 1993 is a federal law passed with broad bi-partisan sup­port (unanimous in the house and 97 to 3 in the senate), which “ensures that interests in religious freedom are protected.” The act was relied upon by the supreme court in the 2013 hobby lobby decision. in hobby lobby, the court held that christian-owned hobby lobby was not required to offer contraception to its employees on account of the owner’s religious beliefs. 
Twenty-one states have passed their own forms of religious freedom legislation; 16 states intro­duced such legislation in 2015 alone. indiana enacted its own religious freedom law in april 2015. The intent of such legislation is to protect the rights of individuals and businesses to pursue religious freedom without being unfairly accused of discriminatory conduct. 

it’s time for the majority to stop being silent. if you find the beliefs of the owners of companies such as chick-fil-a to be inconsistent with yours, don’t visit the restaurant. chick-fil-a and other organizations, which have chosen to stand by their christian values, are not engaging in dis­criminatory conduct. no one is being barred from these places of business. The demands of a very small segment of our communities who insist that we adhere to their beliefs must come to an end. 
davis of rowan county has the right to ex­press her religious beliefs. while she doesn’t have the right to obstruct the implementation of the supreme court’s decision, her employer does have an obligation to accommodate her reli­gious views. The equal employment opportunity commission has long taken the position that unless it is unreasonable to do so, an employer needs to provide religious accommodations to its employees. ms. davis made clear in her public statement that “i want to continue to perform my duties, but i also am requesting what our found­ers envisioned — that conscience and religious freedom would be protected.” many have forgot­ten the distinction between freedom of religion and freedom from religion. Those who wish to do so must be given the freedom to practice what­ever religion and belief system they choose to follow. 
Jordan Ryan, sophomore resident of Lyons Hall, studies political science and peace studies along with minors in Constitutional studies and business economics. She can be reached at jryan15@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“If your success is not on your own terms, if it looks good to the world but does not feel good in your heart, it is not success at all.” 
— Anna Quindlen      Author, journalist and columnist 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Only at Notre Dame 
Today i write to share a simple story of how strong the notre dame family is. 
There is something very special about notre dame.  everyone reading this letter already knows what that is — it is the “family” aspect of our community. being a part of the notre dame family is something that helps all of us to be at ease and to thrive. it also gives us the knowl­edge that wherever we go, one of our notre dame brothers and sisters will be with us to have our backs and to help us with any need. 
my son, a senior at our lady’s university, lost his wallet about a week ago. i note he lost the wallet, because the thought that his wallet was stolen on campus never crossed his, or my, mind. 
nevertheless, we needed to cancel his credit cards and make arrangements for a new student id and license. and of course he was disap­pointed that the cash and gift cards in his wallet were gone. 
fast forward six days and Josh, my son, sent me a text of a photo of his wallet with the cap­tion “found.” Turns out, someone on campus found Josh’s wallet and returned it to the folks at the notre dame stadium, who then contacted Josh to pick up his wallet. 
of course, since this is notre dame, and we are all family members, all of the contents (in­cluding a not insignificant amount of cash) was still in the wallet. 
perhaps this level of cooperation and hon­esty exists elsewhere, but without a doubt it is expected here at notre dame. and my and my son’s notre dame brothers and sisters have not let him down. 
Thanks to every member of my “family.” 
peace, 
Jamie O’Brien 
class of 1988 and 1993 sept. 19 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

sec always entertains 
Alex Carson 
associate sports editor 
oh, auburn. 
so many people thought you’d be good. it was an offseason full of praise and playoff predic­tions, that led to you to starting the year ranked sixth in the preseason ap Top 25 poll. 
how terribly, terribly wrong those people were. 
it must be easy being an sec team. no, seriously. The Tigers, a team that lost five games last season, started the year with edge of being a top-10 team. or take arkansas, who’s 2-18 in its last 20 conference games — why’d people think they were good enough to open the year in the top 20, let alone anywhere near it? 
and just three weeks into the season, we’ve already seen ev­eryone’s mistakes. 
after limping to the finish line against still-winless louisville in its opener, and sneaking past fcs Jacksonville state, auburn got clattered saturday by lsu. 
well, really just leonard fournette. but still. 
if only auburn’s struggles weren’t the best story from the vaunted sec west, though — in the two weeks since arkansas head coach bret bielema ran his mouth about ohio state’s sched­ule, his razorbacks have lost at home to Toledo and Texas Tech. 
it’s beautiful. 
but it should also serve as a strong reminder of how gener­ally terrible preseason polls are, and how they have the ability to shape narratives for the whole year. 
another thing that’s beautiful? 
crowd shots at alabama games. while you can find some pretty solid crowd shots any­where — Kentucky basketball fans this past april or the sad virginia fan from last week­end are two of the better looks 
— there’s nothing quite like crimson Tide fans. 
it’s the perfect concoction for it all. you’ve got a fan base that treats their team’s success like it’s life or death to get you off on the right foot and a team that typically has a lot of success to follow it up; when something bad happens to ‘bama, it seems like quite the anomaly. 
Then you’ve just got the in­sanely great mix of people at alabama games, from the types who call into finebaum each week straight through the fra­ternity boys and sorority girls, dressed in their “saturday’s finest” for the event of the week­end. add in the media lens that’s always on the crimson Tide program, and most weeks, it’s a must-watch occasion. 
when it’s a crazy stupid game like saturday night’s 43-37 mississippi win, it’s even better. 
a little story: i used to hate the sec. 
everything about it was the worst — from the constant success of alabama, lsu and florida while i grew up to the aura of superiority, my most intense bit of hatred came from that collection of schools in the deep south. 
but now? i’ve seen how in­credibly amazing everything i once hated is. 
sports exist mainly for our entertainment, and everything about that conference fits the bill perfectly — from the rabid fan bases like those in Tuscaloosa, alabama, or athens, georgia, to the electrifying players that always call the sec home and the traditions of those blue-blood programs, there’s never a dull weekend in college football thanks to the sec. 
and, of course, there’s al­ways someone to root against. This week, that was then-no. 2 alabama. The week before, it was auburn as they held off Jacksonville state — and this week, just seven days after being our darling, now-no. 3 mississippi becomes that squad when they host vanderbilt. 
sure, there’s the constant an­noyance of hearing “sec speed” or watching alabama win when they actually do well, but i’ve come to learn the beauty of the conference far outweighs its downsides. 
so whether it’s perenni­ally overrating a third of the conference before the season starts, providing us with the most amazing fan reactions in the business or just letting incredibly-talented athletes like leonard fournette do their thing, stay awesome, sec. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


INTERHALL 

Week One of interhall flag football continues 
Lewis vs. Pangborn 
By TOBIAS HOONHOUT 
sports writer 

as the first round of interhall football continues, lewis and pangborn square off monday night. 
entering the contest, expecta­tions are high for both teams, but both lewis and pangborn are entering their first game with a lot of questions. pangborn senior captain mary gallagher said they are looking for younger players to step up. 
“we lost a lot of playmakers when the class of 2015 gradu­ated, including our quarterback,” gallagher said. “we have a lot of places to fill with younger players on both sides of the ball, but we are really excited to see what this season holds.” 
pangborn is coming off an ap­pearance in the championship last year, and gallagher said they are looking to get back to the promised land of notre dame stadium. 
“i think we know what it takes to get back there,” gallagher said. “[it] is something that we really want to do.” 
lewis is entering the season with a lot of energy, but also a serious dedication to having a successful season, lewis senior captain penny vorissis said. 
“lewis plays for fun, but lewis plays to win,” said vorissis. “we put a lot of heart into our games, and we really lay it all out on the field.” 
vorissis said the defense looks solid, with fellow co-captain se­nior dorothy schlueter helping her anchor an experienced unit that will try to carry the team. The coaching staff is also looking to play a key part this year and will try to catch opponents off-guard with plays on both sides of the ball. 
The matchup monday looks to be an intriguing one, with both teams entering the season with high expectations but also with key questions about their squads. only time will tell if those ques­tions are answered as lewis and pangborn square off tonight at 10 
p.m. at riehle fields. 

Contact Tobias Hoonhout at thoonhou@nd.edu 
Farley vs. Howard 
By RICHARD IANNELLI 
sports writer 

under the lights at riehle fields on monday night, farley will take on howard in an opening-week matchup. 
having only lost four start­ers from last year’s squad, farley (1-0) will come into the game with plenty of experience. howard will also return many veterans to the field from last year’s team, but se­nior captain stephanie peterson also said she is looking for her younger players to shine. 

“[we have] some good, new freshmen talent,” peterson said. 
not having played one another last season, there is not much farley and howard can prepare for. farley senior co-captain ali buersmeyer said her team is not sure what to expect. 
“with lots of coach and play­er turnover year-to-year it’s hard to know what to expect,” buersmeyer said. “[our defense will] definitely be flexible going into the game versus howard.” 
both teams will enter the game with big goals for the season. farley co-captain senior michelle summers said the team wants to get to the championship. 
“[we are] looking to return to the stadium in the championship game,” summers said. “many of our current players have been to the stadium with farley’s ‘b’ team, and it’s definitely an ex­perience we hope to repeat as upperclassmen.” 
peterson said the ducks want to start the season off right. 
“it’s a chance to show what we’re capable of and will set for our team an expectation of win­ning,” peterson said. “no need to sugarcoat it — our goal is to win and winning a night game under the lights is even better.” 
The finest and the ducks will get underway at riehle fields to­night at 10 p.m. 
Contact Richard Iannelli at riannell@nd.edu 

Pasquerilla West vs. Cavanaugh 
By ALEX BENDER 
sports writer 

cavanaugh takes on pasquerilla west on Tuesday at riehle fields in a game between two teams with high expecta­tions for their seasons. 
despite only being a week into the season and having not played a game yet, pasquerilla west se­nior captain maddie bray said she has little doubt in her team’s abil­ity to perform in this game. 
“i feel really confident,” bray said. “we have a good mix of new and returning players and we have a lot of depth so we feel good about our chances in this game.” 
cavanaugh senior captain Katie Kaes echoed a similar mes­sage as her team prepares for this showdown. 
“i’m definitely very excited,” Kaes said. “it will be our second game so between those two it will be a good way to start off the sea­son, and obviously, i believe that we will win.” 
when asked what might be the keys to success in this game, both captains emphasized the need to stay calm, cool and collected. 
The two teams will kick off Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the sea­son opener for pasquerilla west and the second contest for cavanaugh. 
Contact Alex Bender at abender@nd.edu 
Welsh Family vs. Walsh 
By ELIZABETH GREASON 
sports writer 
on Tuesday evening, walsh will take on welsh family to wrap up the first week of play this season. 
welsh family captain, junior sharon chiang, has high hopes for the upcoming season, es­pecially as last year’s loss in the championship is still fresh in re­turning members’ minds. 
“we have an amazing group of women this year,” chiang said. “last year, we made it to the championships and unfortunate­ly, we fell short. so this year we’re looking to redeem ourselves.” 
in its pursuit of a successful season, walsh will rely heavily on a young team, but wild women sophomore captain maryanne fisher has high hopes. 
“a lot of our seniors graduated last year so we needed people to step into their roles which were pretty big shoes to fill,” fisher said. “we’re really proud of the freshman and new players who have learned the game in a short amount of time and also for re­turning players who have built on their skills and helping new players.” 
both captains are excited to show off what their teams have been working on so far this preseason. 
“both the offense and defense are looking really strong,” chiang said. “we’re looking pretty sharp.” 
while walsh and welsh family are looking to win the game, both teams have another common goal: having fun. 
“we’re going to go for the win and have fun along the way,” fisher said. 
chiang said, “we’re going to play our absolute best every time, and of course, have a ton of fun doing it.” 
walsh and welsh family will play Tuesday at riehle fields at 7 p.m. 
Contact Elizabeht Greason at egreason@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


M Soccer 
conTinued from page 12 
minute though, as an at­tempted clearance from irish sophomore defender patrick berneski fell to north carolina junior midfielder/ defender colton storm, who put the ball beyond the reach of junior goalkeeper chris hubbard to level the match. 
The irish and Tar heels looked set to take the game to halftime at 1-1, but a north carolina throw-in in the dy­ing seconds in the half found its way to redshirt junior forward Tucker hume at the edge of the box, who turned and shot past hubbard to give the Tar heels the lead at the break. 
irish head coach bobby clark said his team’s lack of concentration was to blame for the second Tar heels goal. 
“That second goal was defi­nitely a lapse in concentra­tion,” clark said. “it came from a throw-in with six sec­onds before half time and we tuned out and thought the half was over; i think that most people did. 
“i spoke to a few people in the stands and they said that they missed it because they thought the half was over, but [north carolina] did very well and got that goal at an impor­tant time. he turned and he hit his shot with maybe less than a second left on the clock and that put us 2-1 down.” 
The irish started the second half firing, with senior mid­fielder patrick hodan having a shot saved and panken see­ing a shot cleared off the line, all in the first five minutes of the half. however, it was the Tar heels who scored the first goal of the half, as another failed irish clearance found a north carolina player, this time sophomore forward alan winn, who put the ball past hubbard. 
The Tar heels then made the game 4-1 as a quickly-taken free kick from senior midfielder raby george found sophomore forward Zach wright, who gave the ball to winn for his second of the game. clark said that his team’s failure to deal with the free kick was another failure in concentration. 
“i thought the game was gettable at 3-1 but there was another lapse of concen­tration for the fourth,” said clark. “The linesman gave a free kick against us maybe 30 yards out and we were looking to the linesman, dis­cussing the merits of his call, some of us didn’t agree with it. but north carolina just put the ball down, played it quickly and they scored the fourth goal off of that. 
“There were two lapses in concentration, the second and the fourth goal, and that really helped them.” 
The irish scored in the 69th minute to close the gap, as junior midfielder mark gormley earned his first goal for the irish, and from there notre dame looked to get a third with chances from gallagher and junior defend­er brandon aubrey. however, the Tar heels held on to their lead and served the irish their second consecutive loss. 
clark said that he still be­lieved his team could have taken something from north carolina until the end of the game. 
“i thought there was al­ways a chance right up un­til the very end,” said clark. “i thought we had the bet­ter chances throughout the game, i thought we had bet­ter scoring opportunities, but we gave up two bad goals, from concentration errors, it wasn’t anything technical or tactical. it was just not con­centrating, and it’s a harsh way to learn a lesson, but it’s an important lesson to learn early in the season.” 
clark also said the game was particularly entertain­ing for the neutral and rep­resented the quality of the conference. 
“i thought the game was a tremendous advert for acc soccer,” said clark. “There were two great teams and it was a very entertaining game; it was a great game to be on Tv.” 
notre dame will next be in action at michigan state on Tuesday at 4 p.m. at demartin soccer complex in east lansing, michigan. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyl1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 
MEN’S GOLF 

ND hosts Gridiron Golf Classic 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
The irish host the 10th-an­nual gridiron golf classic on monday and Tuesday at warren golf course. 
The first round of the two-day event tees off today at 9:30 a.m. with a shotgun start, which will be immediately followed by the second round at the par-71 warren golf course. Tuesday’s round begins at 8:30 a.m. The competition field includes ball state, dartmouth, depaul, eastern michigan, loyola (md.), notre dame, st. mary’s (calif.), utah state, william & mary, wisconsin, wofford and Xavier. 
irish head coach James Kubinski created the gridiron golf classic in 2006 as a way to give notre dame’s competi­tors more than just a taste of its home course, Kubinski said. 
“mike isban and i came up with the idea of hosting a tour­nament here at our warren [golf course] that we hoped would offer a picture of what a fall weekend at [notre dame] was all about,” Kubinski said. “we wanted the visiting teams to en­joy a football game and see our campus over the weekend, be­fore competing on what we feel is the best college course in the country. 
“from the feedback, i believe we’ve provided a memorable weekend for all over the years.” 
and while notre dame pro­vides a memorable weekend for the its competitors, the irish get to enjoy playing to their home course advantage after hav­ing just competed in the rod myers invitational. The irish placed 12th at the rod myers invitational tournament at duke golf club in durham, north carolina. 
“when we have a tourna­ment at home it gives us a sense of comfort because we really know the course that we’re play­ing on,” senior Zach Toste said. “being at home just adds to our confidence because we all know we can and will do well here. and having our friends and family come out to support us is always great too.” 
The irish won the gridiron golf classic in 2009 when they were led by then-senior Josh sandman, who also earned the medalist honors with a two-over par 212 (70-68-74) for his first ca­reer title. 

Kubinski said the irish are looking to add to his program’s 2009 gridiron win and several runner-up finishes. 
“i want to see us execute the way we do in practice, begin­ning to thrive on the competitive environment that each tourna­ment offers,” Kubinski said. “we have some players who can re­ally play. it’s time for us to show that off a bit, to be comfortable posting the scores we see so of­ten in our qualifying. 
“it’s just a function of trusting our routines and staying patient and positive.” 
notre dame will play its entire 10-man roster, led by a probable starting five of junior matthew rushton, freshmen ben albin and miguel delgado, senior cory sciupider and junior blake barens. 
albin finished top for the irish notre dame at the rod myers invitational on sept. 12, post­ing three birdies and an eagle during the third round. five bo­gies and a double bogey added seven strokes to his score, which changed his tally to two-over­par 74. he finished 41st at 11 over par (78-75-74). 
rushton came in second for the irish, with a seven-over 79 on the second day for an overall score of 228. one place behind albin, rushton claimed a share of 42nd place at 12 over par for 54 holes (73-76-79). 
by gaining tournament ex­perience and earning individ­ual successes this season, Toste said he’s seen his teammates help grow the team in a positive direction. 
“This season our team vibe is much different than before,” Toste said. “we all are really fo­cused on getting better and en­joying ourselves. 
“our team dynamic is really going to take us far. between our talented underclassmen and upperclassman leadership, the team flows really nicely.” 
The irish is hosting the 10th­annual gridiron golf classic on monday and Tuesday at warren golf course. Today’s first round is scheduled to go out at 9:30 a.m. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 



conTinued from page 12 
perform well in her first collegiate event. 
“we knew [rohrer] was strong and was going to put on a good show today,” sparks said. “she ran with a group for a good two and a half miles and then put on a great surge the last half-mile. i know she was chomping at the bit to let loose a little bit.” 
Though rohrer impressed in her debut, sparks said he was looking for more from his other runners. 
“we would like to have seen a lit­tle stronger group together honest­ly,” sparks said. “from a point total, i know we won pretty convincing­ly, and it was a lot of freshman so i know i can’t be disappointed. i’d like to see some of those girls run with more confidence. ... we need to get some of those girls closer to where [rohrer] was.” 
following rohrer in the 5K for the irish were freshmen annie heffernan (17:33.9) and rachel dadamio (17:43.4), who finished third and fifth respectively, as well as graduate student Karen lesiewicz (17:46.0) and sopho­more sydney foreman (17:50.2), who finished seventh and eighth, respectively. 
in the men’s eight-kilometer race, seniors Timothy ball and michael clevenger led the way for the irish, finishing third and fifth respectively in 25:09.2 and 25:10.9. 
however, sparks said he was most impressed by the emergence of sophomores calvin Kraft and Kevin pulliam, who both finished in the top ten. 
“it was a good step for some of the younger guys,” sparks said. “ … we knew going into today that we were going to have to count on some younger guys to make some big contributions. we knew Tim ball and mike clevenger were go­ing to be good leaders for us up front. Kevin and calvin put in a good summer of mileage and are coming off a strong track season.” 
like the women, however, sparks said he felt the men could have done better. 
“one thing i would have liked to see [the men] do is finish a little bit better the last mile,” sparks said. “we had five [runners] in the top ten early in the race. That’s what we wanted to do, we just wanted to hold on to five in the top ten the entire race. four of those guys held on, we just need to get that fifth guy back where he should [be]. we’ve got the roster pieces there, we just need to put the piec­es back in place.” 
sparks said the national catholic championship was a good opportunity to build confidence for the squad’s underclassmen. 
“i think it’ll just give them a peace of mind that they’ve got that first college race out of the way,” sparks said. “and that’s re­ally what that was for all of them. with that comes confidence.” 
The irish have this weekend off before hosting the Joe piane notre dame invitational on oct. 2. 
Contact  Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 

regular season, and we’re continually trying to improve ourselves. [maintaining our composure] is something that we need to really focus on and make a big effort to be better at. we need to work at hav­ing the class to play out of the initial pressure and have good decision-making on the ball. 
“and having an aggressive mindset is something that’s 

paid adverTisemenT important. everyone in the acc is a good team so you have to show up against everyone, and you got to be your best. you can’t get by at just being good. my emphasis is on attacking every opportunity because we only have one shot at this season, and we want to be our best at every opportunity that we have. we can play with ev­erybody if we play our best, but we lose some control over the game if we aren’t aggressive.” 
notre dame will next take the pitch when they travel to charlottesville, virginia, to take on top-ranked virginia at Klockner stadium on Thursday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Ben Padailam at bpadanil@nd.edu 



W Soccer 
conTinued from page 12 
“for the most part, we de­fended well,” romagnolo said. “clemson plays a pretty direct style of soccer, and i think we did a good job of getting in front of the ball and clearing it. 
“on the goal, there was just a breakdown in communica­tion. The girl was crossing it, and we didn’t clear it or save it, and it just kind of bent into the back post. it was just an unlucky, weird cross-shot that we weren’t prepared for. other than that, we defended well.” 
after falling to a strong clemson team to open con­ference play, notre dame is now set to take on the top two teams in the nation, no. 1 virginia and no. 2 florida state, in its next two games. playing in arguably the stron­gest conference in the ncaa, the irish have a good enough team to beat anyone, but there is still much improvement to be had, romagnolo said. 
“every game is a learning experience,” she said. “we’re about midway through the 


paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2015 | The observer 


CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

ACROSS 31 “___ first you 61 Uneasy feeling don’t succeed 
1 Uneasy feeling 62 Hurricane’s 
…” 

6 Timekeeper center 
33 Seaboard 

11 Madrid Mrs. 63 Swarms (with)
34 Drummer for 

14 “Understood,” 64 “Long time 
the Who 

to a radioer ___!” 
37 Mexican 15 Drug company housesthat makes 
DOWN 

40 Slangy assents
Valium 41 Free TV spot, 1 Pinball parlors 

16 Rooster’s mate for short 2 Humongous
17 Randy Travis or 44 Attribute (to) numbers

Travis Tritt 47 Overall profit 3 Lizards
19 Chicken ___ sometimes kept king 49 Arizona as petsN.B.A.’er 
20 Tennis great 4 Past, present Andre 51 Tehran’s land and future 21 “Wing” for 52 Amaze 

Dumbo 5 Crafts’ partner 
53 College 22 Airline that transcript no. 6 Weep doesn’t fly on 54 Period when 7 One who can’t 
the Sabbath 

a computer is catch a break 23 Finished functioning 
8 Groups of eight 24 Minivan since 56 Abbr. on a sale 
9 Alternative to
the mid-’90s item’s tag 

cash or check 27 Material in 57 Clark Kent and 
10 Lead-in to plopan underwear Lois Lane’s or plunk

waistband paper 11 Song syllables 
29 Sinks to the 59 Make a sharp in the title of abottom, as silt turn back 1964 hit 
30 ’60s draft org. 60 Binge 
12 Takes a breather 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
13 Brokerage worker 
18 Classic 1955 Jules Dassin heist film 
22 John who sang “Rocket Man” 
25 One-___ (old ball game) 
26 Without any profit 
28 Connects 
32 “___ will be done” (Lord’s Prayer phrase) 
34 Singer Carpenter 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: Think before you react. don’t jump to conclusions or make assumptions. focus on yourself and how you can make improvements that will ensure your happiness and well-being. strive for perfection as well as living within your means. don’t allow emotions to take over or hinder your ability to get things done. your numbers are 5, 13, 23, 26, 32, 38, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): stay grounded, even if someone tries to upset you emotionally. focus on your personal needs and doing things that you find exciting. love is on the rise, and avoiding feelings of jealousy will keep an important relationship running smoothly. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): get things out in the open if you are having a problem with someone. Knowing where you stand and what you can expect will help you make better choices. a day trip will bring you clarity and open up your options. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t follow someone without questioning what’s in it for you. make positive changes to the way you live and who you hang with and it will be easier to break the habits and routines that cost you financially and emotionally. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): move things around to suit your needs. get out in your community and see if there is something you can do to bring about positive changes. don’t let someone’s negativity get you down. remember, actions speak louder than words. make a difference. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you’ll inspire the people you talk to today. your expressive and engaging way of presenting your ideas and plans will draw someone special to your side. an opportunity must not be overlooked. romance is highlighted.  

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): you’ll be able to see the big picture, but that doesn’t mean you should neglect the fine details that require a little more attention. ask questions and challenge anyone who you feel may be offering false information. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): your involvement in matters that concern you will give you a platform to use your skills in order to make a difference. romance is encouraged and will help improve your personal life. a change of scenery will make your life better. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): don’t trust anyone with your money, your possessions or your ideas. Try to develop a project by yourself or with someone you know you can trust. a change to your routine will make your life better. 



SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): put your time and effort into self-improvements, not into trying to change others. not everyone will be overjoyed with the changes you make, but that will make it easier for you to weed out who you want in your circle and who you don’t. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): focus on the people in your life who mean the most to you. make a difference to someone who has something to offer in return. sharing will bring you satisfaction and open up options that you never considered in the past. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Tell the people you love exactly how you feel, and you will get an interesting response that will warm your heart. love is on the rise, and children and family affairs will lead to greater unity and prosperity. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): look out for your own interests or someone will take advantage of you. make changes to your home that will give you greater freedom to follow creative pursuits. an opportunity to make money from home looks promising. 


Birthday Baby: you are outgoing, entertaining and farsighted. you are unique and compassionate. 

JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff KnureK SUDOKU | The mepham group 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  
27  28  29  
30  31  32  33  
34  35  36  
37  38  39  40  41  42  43  
44  45  46  47  48  
49  50  51  
52  53  54  55  
56  57  58  
59  60  61  
62  63  64  

PUZZLE BY ALAN ARBESFELD 
35 Restaurant 41 Leftovers after posting peeling 

36 Words after a 42 Shorthaired cat 55 Scheme yell of “Police!” 
43 Actress Bening 37 Flip over, as a of “American 57 Summer hours: 

boat Beauty” 
Abbr. 38 Apt pig Latin for 
45 Galoot “trash” 46 Run out, as a 

58 Band with the 
subscription

39 ___ of God 1983 hit (epithet for 48 Jordache jeans “Owner of a Attila the Hun) competitor Lonely Heart” 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
50 Oregon’s capital 

make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

city      state Zip address 

The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Tranquill tears ACL, out for season 
By ALEX CARSON 
associate sports editor 
irish sophomore safety drue Tranquill will miss the remain­der of the 2015 season with a torn right acl suffered in saturday’s 30-22 win over no. 20 georgia Tech, notre dame head coach brian Kelly an­nounced sunday. 
Tranquill, who suffered a torn acl and underwent surgery on his left knee in november 2014, came down awkwardly from a celebration following a third-down stop late in the second quarter of saturday’s win at notre dame stadium, where Tranquill had successfully bro­ken up a yellow Jackets pass at­tempt to the end zone. 
after playing a backup role in notre dame’s first two games of the season, Tranquill was handed his fourth career start saturday, recording four solo tackles, two for loss, during the first half against georgia Tech’s triple option attack. 
moving forward, Kelly said he has not yet spoken with defensive coordinator brian vangorder about how the irish would replace Tranquill. 
“brian and i have not had that personnel conversation yet relative to what will be the nex move that we make there,” Kelly said. “whether we bring somebody up into that role, or wheter it’s [freshman defen­sive back] nicco fertitta, or do we have [senior safety nicky] baratti move? … i’m not really sure yet.” 
Kelly said Tranquill’s surgery will likely happen in about two weeks, due to the irish medical staff wanting to work prior to the procedure. 
“i think rob hunt, our train­er, would like to rehab him a little bit first before we have surgery,” Kelly said. 
The fort wayne, indiana, na­tive becomes the sixth player lost to a season-ending injury this year for notre dame; fresh­man defensive back shaun crawford and senior defensive tackle Jarron Jones were lost during fall practice, while ju­nior quarterback malik Zaire, junior running back Tarean folston and junior tight end durham smythe all went down during the first two games of the season. 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu 


MEN’S SOCCER | unc 4, nd 2 
irish fall at no. 3 unc 

By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
notre dame and north carolina took to the field for their top-5 matchup on friday night having con­ceded only three goals be­tween them all season, but the teams combined for six as the no. 3 Tar heels beat the no. 2 irish 4-2 at fetzer field in chapel hill, north carolina on friday afternoon. 
The game started strong for the irish (4-2-1, 1-1-0 acc), who scored in the 13th minute, as senior midfielder evan panken found sopho­more forward Jon gallagher, who beat two Tar heels de­fenders and slotted a left-footed shot from 18 yards out into the bottom corner of the goal. 
The Tar heels (5-0-1, 2-0­

0) responded in the 21st 
see m soccer PAGE 9 

ND CROSS COUNTRY | naTional caTholic championships ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | clemson 1, nd 0 (2 oT) 
rohrer outpaces pack as notre dame wins at home 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
young blood was the theme for notre dame this week­end, as both the irish men and women cruised to first-place finishes at the 36th national catholic championships be­hind strong performances from underclassmen. 
highly-touted freshman anna rohrer led the irish wom­en’s team and  won the women’s five-kilometer race in 17:20.7. despite racing out to the indi­vidual win, rohrer said she was happier for her team’s win than her own. 
“it was exciting,” rohrer said. “i would say it wasn’t as excit­ing winning as it was to have my team do well. i’ve never been on a team that has people running so close to each other. it was just a lot of fun to able to race cross country again.” 
irish associate head coach matt sparks also praised rohrer, saying he knew the mishawaka native would 
see Xc PAGE 10 


Clemson hands ND first loss 
By BEN PADANILAM 
sports writer 
no. 10 notre dame fell for the first time this season saturday, as it dropped a tight conference opener against no. 11 clemson in double overtime, 1-0, at riggs field in clemson, south carolina. 
Tigers junior defender claire wagner scored the winning goal in the 102nd minute to knock off the irish (7-1-1, 0-1-0 acc) in a match that was too tight for regulation to decide. 
notre dame came out of the gate strong, firing the game’s first four shots, including a set piece that re­sulted in three successive shots in the ninth minute, which the irish could not capitalize on. however, the Tigers (7-0-1, 1-0-0) controlled the attack the rest of the half as they had the last seven shots of the first half. 
in the second half, the irish once again started strongly, as they outshot the Tigers 6-0 in the first 25 minutes of the second half, including two shots on target from senior forward anna maria gilbertson. however, these oppor­tunities continued to translate into little success as Tigers junior goalie Kailen sheridan made several key saves to keep the game scoreless and force overtime. irish head coach Theresa romagnolo said she did not think her team was aggres­sive enough on offense during the regulation period. 

“i don’t think we played par­ticularly well,” romagnolo said. “offensively, we were a little bit off of our game. we weren’t very ag­gressive-minded. i think we need­ed to compete more and battle. we needed more composure in our attack.” 
The first overtime period was once again controlled by notre dame, as it outshot clemson 5-0 in the period. however, only one of these shots was put on target, and the Tigers were able to force the second overtime period. Then, just two minutes into the period, wagner scored from 20 yards out to win the game for host clemson. 
although romagnolo was not satisfied with her team’s offensive performance in the loss, she said she was happy with its play on de­fense during the game. 
see w soccer PAGE 10 




