The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 51 | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Former NFL player delivers keynote address 
Hall of Famer Tim Brown reflects on life and relationship with God as part of ‘StaND Against Hate Week’ 
By MATTHEW McKENNA 
news writer 
To Tim brown, the heisman Trophy and the hall of fame induction are just means to the end of speaking to men and women about what it means to be an authentic person whose life is in line with god’s plan for them. 
brown, a former notre dame football player and nfl receiv­er, gave the keynote lecture of “stand against hate week” ti­tled “The making of a man” on Tuesday evening in debartolo hall. he spoke about his own life and the lessons it taught him about manhood, faith and parenting. 
“i want nothing more than for men to understand what god wants for them,” he said. “That’s why i wrote my book, and that’s why we talk about the things we talk about.” 
brown said he used to un­dertake his morning routine without turning the lights on because he could not face him­self in the mirror. now, because of a series of epiphanies that occurred over the events of his life, he can hold his head high. 
“There is no way that you can be your authentic self, in my opinion, without god being 
see KeynoTe PAGE 3 


KATHRYNE ROBINSON | The Observer 

Legendary Notre Dame wide receiver and NFL star Tim Brown delivers the keynote speech as part of StaND Against Hate Week, a campaign to spread awareness about discrimination. 


Baraka Bouts holds final fight 

By Rachel O’Grady 
news writer 
To add some variety to a usual workout or just for a rare adrena­line rush, the women’s boxing club of notre dame recommends getting punched in the face. 
each fall, the women’s boxing club hosts baraka bouts, a box­ing tournament open to all wom­en on campus. The tournament’s final round takes place tonight. 
Junior maeve donovan, one of the club’s seven captains, said the club serves a dual purpose 
— teaching the sport of boxing and also serving a philanthropic purpose. 
“we’re a club sport which al­lows women from notre dame to be able to learn the sport of boxing while raising money for lakeview secondary school in Jinja, uganda,” donovan said. “This involves coming to practice 
see boXing PAGE 5 


roTc conducts vigil for vets 
Observe Staff Report 

beginning 5 p.m. Tuesday and lasting until the same time on wednesday, units from the notre dame airforce, navy and army roTc will commemorate veterans day by standing vigil at the clarke memorial fountain, known collo­quially as “stonehenge,” according to a university press release. 
“cadets and midshipmen from the three roTc units will stand guard at each of the fountain’s four corners from 5 p.m. Tuesday (nov. 10) until the veterans day ceremony at 5 p.m. wednesday (nov. 11),” the release stated. 
The release stated the 24-hour vigil is a traditional event, held by notre dame roTc units each year on veterans day — the anni­versary of the signing of the armi­stice that ended world war i. 
“veterans day is celebrated every year on nov. 11 to com­memorate the armistice signed at compiègne, france, that ended world war i on that day in 1918,” the release stated. “The guns fell silent at 11 that morning, ‘elev­enth hour of the eleventh day of the eleventh month’ of the year. 
“Traditionally, two consecutive minutes of silence were observed at 11 a.m. local time in memory of some 20 million people who died in the war, and of those who sur­vived them.” 
according to the press release, the ceremony following the vigil will last 30 minutes and will in­clude an address to the entire corps by notre dame class of 1966 alumnus and veteran James w. wagenbach. 
“The public is invited to pay their respects during the vigil and to attend the ceremony, which will be standing room only,” the release stated. 


sub works with animal shelter, appeals to students 
By MADDY DEL MEDICO 
news writer 
The university’s student union board (sub) held its annual “dogs and donuts” event on north Quad yes­terday. The event, which lasted from 12 p.m.-2 p.m., provided students with two of the things that col­lege students love most: animals and free food. 
see shelTer PAGE 4 


ROSIE LoVOI | The Observer 

Students pet a dog from Heartland Small Animal Rescue, an  organization devoted to finding homes for at-risk animals. 

news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 men’s soccer PAGE 16 fooTball PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                 Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 

News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

What are you most excited about for this winter? 

Abe Jenson 


Kelly Kaes 
sophomore 

junior 
fisher hall 

cavanaugh hall 
“hot apple cider.” 

“hot chocolate.” 
Jeff Nosek 


Natalie Hernandez 
sophomore 

sophomore 
duncan hall 

walsh hall 
“i do like the snow.” 

“skipping class.” 
Joey Curci 


Shuyi Feng 
sophomore 

sophomore 
Zahm house 

cavanaugh hall 
“The permacloud.” 

“The first snowfall.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

margaret hynds Kit loughran Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: Jp gschwind ben padanilam megan valley 
Scene Graphics adam ramos 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
lauren weldon 

Viewpoint Photo bianca almada 
Fall Reading Series Staff and Faculty Hot Apple Cider and Football vs. Wake Women’s Basketball 
rosie biehl 

Hammes Bookstore Mass Donuts Forest vs. Bucknell 
7:30 p.m.  Log Chapel Fieldhouse Mall Notre Dame Stadium Purcell Pavilion Professor John Yau 10 a.m. 1 p.m.-3 p.m. 3:30 pm 1 p.m. 
Corrections 

reads as part of Creative Staff chaplain Fr. Jim Part of StaND Against Notre Dame takes on The Irish take on the 
The observer regards itself as Writing Program. Bracke will preside. Hate Week. the Demon Deacons. Bison. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Baraka Bouts Finals Iron Sharpens Iron Trumpets under the “Disabusing Diwali Celebration 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
JACC Fieldhouse Coleman-Morse Dome Disability” LaFortune Student 
however, recognize that we will make 
6 p.m. Center Main Building Jordan Hall of Science Center 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Women’s boxing 10 p.m.-11:30 p.m. 4:10 p.m. 11 a.m. 7 p.m.-10 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
tournament benefitting Weekly praise and A home game weekend Part of the Dooley Celebrate the Hindu 
we can correct our error. 

Holy Cross missions. worship service. tradition. Society Lecture Series. New Year.  


buzzfeed features smc halloween costumes 
By MEGAN UEKERT 
news writer 
five saint mary’s stu­dents decided to dress up for halloween as a ’90s themed bridal party, and in a span of two days, pictures of the students and their costumes were featured by buzzfeed, cosmopolitan, elite daily and hellogiggles. 
The original buzzfeed ar­ticle, published nov. 1, “a group of college friends dressed up as 90s bridal party for halloween and had a fake wedding,” features the students posing for wedding pictures in their costumes and describing what they did to mimic a wedding. 
one of the “bridesmaids,” junior claire condon said junior bridget hogan, the “bride,” originally thought of the idea two weeks before halloween, and the group of friends unanimously agreed to it. 
“They all went to the salvation army and st. vincent’s, and they bought the most ridiculous dresses,” condon said. “i said to pick me something ugly. it was like a real wedding day. we were counting down the days like it was real.” 
condon explained that when the girls were getting ready for the “wedding,” she decided to start document­ing the experience. she took more than 150 pictures that resembled typical wedding day events and posted them on social media sites. 
“we all have the same monogram glasses, and we all have the same matching robes with the monograms on them,” she said. “Then we went down to the chapel, and we all went down the aisle, took pictures and came back. everyone at the party thought our costumes were hilarious. we were like celebrities.” 

“i put it up as if it were a real album,” condon said. “i made the album public, only friends of friends could see it, but that’s how all those sites got ahold of all the pictures, too. i went out on a whim, went on buzzfeed, clicked on the viral page and just clicked the writer’s name [stephanie mcneal]. i had no idea who she was or anything about her, but i just sent her an email.” 
condon explained that after pitching the idea to buzzfeed, she heard back a day later, and then she and the lead writer exchanged emails. 
“next thing i know, i got an email back from her say­ing thanks, with a link to buzzfeed attached. we were all cracking up, and we shared it. we were saying, ‘we peaked, look at us,’” condon said. 
condon said people on the internet were not all support­ive of the costume. 
“some people were very mean on the comments — they said things like, ‘These girls know nothing about the ’90s,’ ‘They desecrat­ed a church,’ and that our cats must have been busy,” condon said. 
condon said the story, which reached the no. 9 trending story on buzzfeed and had gotten 100,000 views in one day, was a fun albeit strange experience. 
“The whole thing was very unreal; it snowballed. it’s bi­zarre. i keep laughing about it,” she said. 
Contact Megan Uekert at muekert01@saintmarys.edu 

have to have people on this earth that you can lock into. you have to surround your­self with good people who will hold you accountable.” 
brown said he would not have achieved all he has if it were not for former notre dame football head coach lou holtz and his belief in brown both as an athlete and as a man. 
“it wasn’t like he was pat­ting me on the back the whole time and telling me i was okay,” brown said. “There was a lot of criticism, but with criticism comes correction.” 
brown said parents should stand up for their kids when being attacked or scrutinized unfairly, but they should also be willing to let them take re­sponsibility when they make mistakes. 
“when i see these fathers take up for their kids when their kids are obviously wrong, i can tell that’s go­ing to be a problem,” he said. “we’ve seen it in college sports, and we’ve seen it in professional sports.” 
brown said young people have the world at their fin­gertips, but the current state of the world makes it diffi­cult to avoid temptation and make the correct decision. 
“if you don’t go to church, go to church. mom and dad can’t come to college with you or go to the nfl with you,” he said. “at some point, you’re going to need a con­science in your head telling you what you should and shouldn’t be doing. 
“The only type of con­science that can provide that is a godly conscience, but if you’ve never heard it, and you don’t know anything about it, then it won’t be there for you when you need it.” 
Contact Matthew McKenna at mmcken12@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 
Keynote 
conTinued from page 1 
involved in your life,” brown said. “we may be educated, but i know a lot of educated people without god in their lives who are out there mak­ing some stupid decisions.” 
brown said role models play an integral role in the formation of young people 
“There is no way that you can be your authentic self, in my opinion, without God being involved in your life.” 
Tim Brown 
former NFL receiver 
and can influence how they interact with other people for the rest of their lives. 
“i can tell just as clear as day after speaking with young men for two or three minutes who has good role models in their lives,” brown said. 
“as men, we have to un­derstand that our kids are watching,” he said. “my son will tell you now that he was watching me when he was eight years old. he was wait­ing for me to say something i wasn’t supposed to say or do, something that would set a bad example, and i never did.” 
brown said part of the rea­son he takes speaking op­portunities is he wants as many people as possible to hold him accountable for his actions. 
“sometimes we don’t want people in our lives telling us what to do because we think we have it all, and we think we know it all,” he said. “but you 



sullivan and others handed out business cards and shared information about volunteer­ing while the students and pups interacted. she said the event went better than she could have hoped. 
“we were only expecting about four dogs to come,” sullivan said. “we were really worried, actually, that no dogs would be able to come. but there actually ended up being more than 10, which is pretty amazing.” 
with their booth constantly restocking doughnuts for the notre dame students, the sub event was the perfect way to, as moore put it, “keep the stu­dents invested and happy.” 
as caudell said, the event was an easy sell to students. 
“who doesn’t love dogs and doughnuts?” she said. 
Contact Maddy Del Medico at mdelmedi@nd.edu 



Shelter 
conTinued from page 1 
according to Kaya moore, sb’s director of programming, the event has gone through changes this year. 
“sub normally does ‘puppies and pumpkins,’ which is basi­cally the same thing except that we have it in october instead of november,” moore said. “but we realized that there were just too many halloween events go­ing on this year, and we wanted to do something different.” 
moore said sub had already planned to move the event to sometime in november, but when they saw that national doughnut day was nov. 5, they wanted to take advantage of the opportunity. 
“we were a little late,” she said. “but it worked out.” 
heartland small animal rescue fundraising chair Jan caudell said volunteers from the organization were work­ing alongside notre dame sub members, holding and showing off the dogs as the students in­teracted with them. 
“i believe that being around the animals generally improves the welfare of the students,” caudell said. 
she said the shelter hoped to do more than just provide the students animals to interact with. according to volunteer barbara sullivan, the shelter also hoped to raise awareness and recruit other volunteers. 
“we wanted to show off the dogs but also attract some volunteers for foster homes or walking the dogs,” sullivan said. “most of our volunteers are much older, and they don’t like to walk in the winter be­cause they’re afraid they’ll slip, which is why we definitely need younger volunteers to help out.” 


paid adverTisemenT 


Boxing 
conTinued from page 1 
at least four times a week for two hours each. … after over a month of practice, we begin our spars dur­ing practice, which are essentially coach-regulated practice fights. Then the season culminates in the tournament, two nights of bouts in which each girl fighting must fun­draise at least $350 before being eligible.” 
Junior captain casey gelchion said boxers join for a variety of reasons and with varying levels of experience, but many stay with it through the course of their time at notre dame. 
“i joined because i was looking for something that would chal­lenge me and help me grow. it’s an extremely demanding and mental­ly exhausting sport, and it’s taught me a lot about my own physical and mental strength,” gelchion said. 
gelchion said her family’s ties to the program factored into her deci­sion to stick with the sport. 
“my older brother matt is one of our coaches for baraka bouts. before one of my bouts, he told me that i would not be alone in the ring. he said i couldn’t be alone, because he would be with me through it all. being able to have my older brother in my corner both lit­erally and figuratively is a blessing i really can’t quite put into words,” gelchion said. 
beyond her brother, gelchion re­lies on the rest of her family as part of her pre-fight traditions. 
“my pre-bout traditions are largely impacted by my family. i read a list of quotes that my mom compiled for me before my first ever fight: They motivate me to step into the ring and give each round all that i have. right before the bout begins, my brother matt and i do our ‘secret handshake,’ and from there, i know i am ready to go,” gelchion said. 

paid adverTisemenT 

Junior maddie mcgovern was a two-sport varsity athlete in high school and said was looking for something to keep challenging her in the same capacity that orga­nized sports did before coming to college. 
“i went to watch my ‘big sister’ in [pasquerilla east], liz Zolper, fight, and i thought it was the coolest thing ever,” mcgovern said. “now boxing season is my favorite part of the year. i love being able to train with a purpose — one that’s even higher than winning on fight night, supporting lakeview secondary school.” 
mcgovern suffered a concus­sion in an interhall flag football game earlier this fall and is unable to compete in the bouts this year. still, she found a way to participate in the tournament. 
“my favorite memory actually was from the semifinals on sunday. one of my best friends, emmy popovich, asked me to corner her for her fights. it meant so much to me that i got to have some part in the competition. she won on sunday, so it’ll be fun to work with her on [to­day],” mcgovern said. 
senior captain Kiley cox said she joined entirely on a whim when she transferred to notre dame but ended up falling in love with the program. 
“i figured baraka bouts was an incredibly unique experience that i didn’t want to pass up, and then i stayed because i loved the people and the community that baraka bouts has created,” cox said. 
Though she is a captain of the boxing club now, she said she still remembers her first ever spar. 
“every time i got hit, i would laugh because i couldn’t believe what happening. one of our coaches, nate walker, had to stop the spar on several occasions to try to get me to stop laughing. boxing for the first time just such a surreal experience,” cox said. 
mcgovern said there a number of exciting fights slated for tonight’s final bouts. 
“maeve donovan versus Joy choe will hopefully be even more beautiful of a fight than when they sparred each other a few weeks ago. The two are such crisp and calcu­lated fighters. emmy popovich ver­sus ali gibson will also be another can’t-miss fight,” she said. 
cox also recommended tuning in for the donovan-choe bout. 
“maeve and Joy are two of the 



paid adverTisemenT 

myanmar holds elections 
parliamentary seat, official re-
Associated Press 

sults showed wednesday, lead­myanmar’s opposition leader ing a near total sweep by her aung san suu Kyi has won her party that will give the country 
most skilled boxers to ever partici­pate in baraka bouts. definitely the fight to see this wednesday,” cox said. 
regardless of the outcome, gelchion said she is excited with all the boxers accomplished this year, in addition to the funds raised. 
“These boxers have worked tirelessly for months to get to this point, and win or lose, they have accomplished great things. i feel honored to be able to serve them in their corner and help them to give the bout everything they have until the bell rings,” she said. 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 
its first government in decades that isn’t under the military’s sway. 
suu Kyi, however, will not become the president, at least not for now, because of a con­stitutional hurdle inserted by the junta when it transferred power in 2011 to a quasi-ci­vilian government. and while myanmar’s people voted over­whelmingly to remove the mil­itary-backed party from power, it’s also clear that the military’s involvement in this southeast asian nation’s politics would not end. 
“sunday’s poll does not mark democracy’s triumph in burma,” said ellen bork of foreign policy initiative, a washington-based think-tank. “over the past few years, it has become obvious that the mili­tary and its political proxy (the ruling party) were not actu­ally interested in a democratic transition that required them to relinquish their power.” 
The military, which took power in a 1962 coup and bru­tally suppressed several pro-democracy uprisings during its rule, gave way to a nominally civilian elected government in 2011 — with strings attached. 


The observer |  WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

On student activism 
Manny De Jesus 
sports writer 

student activism has been an integral part of university life for a long time, and it has pushed for important growth. recently, stu­dent s have made their voices heard at the university of missouri and yale university. 
african-american students at missouri pro­tested the lack of action from president Tim wolfe against campus racism. yale students protested an e-mail sent by erika christakas, wife of professor nicholas christakas, regard­ing potentially offensive halloween costumes. 
in both cases, students demanded that uni­versity leaders resign. wolfe, and university of missouri chancellor r. bowen loftin, have resigned, and yale students want the christakases to step down. 
as concerned as i am regarding these groups’ issues, is forcing leaders to step down the answer? what happened to two parties sit­ting down, respectively conversing and find­ing solutions? is that not a viable option? 
missouri students are upset by leaders’ lack of action against a swastika drawn in a dorm and constant racial slurs. many news sources say students immediately resorted to demanding resignations. racism should be an issue these leaders tend to, but why are they being ousted without a calm conversation about improving campus for those who feel offended  or unsafe? i don’t know all the facts, but i’m sure wolfe and loftin weren’t encour­aging racism or blatantly ignoring concerns. once the football team made threats and re­fused to play, they had no choice but to resign without a conversation ever taking place. 
i agree with yale students in that there should be conversation about christakas’ e-mail. while she gave her opinion regarding the freedom students should have when se­lecting costumes, there needs to be a line as to what shouldn’t be tolerated, especially if stu­dents are intending to offend an entire group by wearing certain costumes. 
why do we have to attack those who have differing views? we should respectively listen to others, give our side and come to an agree­ment for what actions need to be taken. 
if you watch the yale protests in a youTube video posted by fire, an organization meant to defend the rights of individuals at college campuses, one student tells christakas that if he doesn’t want to protect the safety of the campus, he should leave and take another position, cussing and yelling while students rallying around her applaud her with snaps. 
really? 

i’m not a yale student so i don’t know the whole story, but that video makes clear there’s a huge issue with how students are acting. 
students should take action against nega­tive policies at universities, but leaders are humans too. communicate, listen, find reso­lutions. Trying to instantly remove everyone with opposing views, whether presidents or students, from institutions shouldn’t be con­sidered a victory or the answer to problems. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at  mdejesus@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Work and dreams 

Ray Ramirez 
The crooked path 

“This is the easiest part of your job,” the editor as­sured me, setting a huge stack of books on my desk. “you need to give us three or four book reviews that we can use in the front section of the magazine.” 
part of my job as assistant editor at a petroleum in­dustry trade magazine was to generate copy to help fill the non-technical portion of the journal. in addition to feature pieces and stories about recent and upcom­ing trade shows, book reviews would provide flexible column inches that could wax and wane depending on the sales department’s ability to peddle advertising. 
i mentioned that it would take a while to read all those books, but the editor smiled and said i did not actually have to read them. his advice: “Just take the synopsis off the dust jacket, slice and dice it, and you’ve got the review. most of these are dry technical works, so don’t spend any more time than you need to.” 
looking over the books that got dropped off at my desk, i could see his point: 600- to 800-page tomes such as “natural gas production engineering,” “chemistry of asphaltenes” and “dynamics of fluids in heirarchical porous media” were not likely to be optioned into feature films. i dutifully did as suggest­ed and each month delivered a mound of serviceable reviews. 
one day, a small book entered the stack, though its title was similar to many of the technical volumes: “basin and range” by John mcphee. at slightly more than 200 pages, it was a veritable pamphlet in this crowd. 
The dust jacket provided enough information to write a decent review, but this time, i dropped the book into my briefcase and took it home for a quick perusal. my boss had advised me to take the short path to get the job done, but i tend to follow mark Twain’s maxim: “work consists of whatever a body is obliged to do. play consists of whatever a body is not obliged to do.” 
i think we might just be obliged to do whatever it takes to make work more like play. 
many of the books i had reviewed in the past were dense with charts and information about geology and fossils, but this particular book was different. mcphee surveyed the american continent, interview­ing and working alongside scientists who studied the rocky bones and hide of this country from new york to california. 
mcphee unearthed the poetry in the rocks, as read by professionals conversant with the slow and relent­less forces that shape the planet: the stretching, fold­ing, weathering, layering and tectonic powers molding the rocks of the earth. 
mcphee worked up an appreciation of “deep time,” especially evident where a road-cut slices and ex­poses a hillside, exposing millions of years of moun­tain building, erosion, colliding crusts and volcanic events. early on in the book, mcphee summed up the wonder of this long journey into deep time with this fact: “The summit of mt. everest is marine limestone.” 
mind blown, i finished the book in one sitting and wrote my review the next day. The editor was not thrilled. he told me, “it’s sort of long; cut it in half, and we’ll use it.” 
but i had an appreciation for a gifted writer’s ability to help us see the wonder in aspects of the world we otherwise might take for granted. The experience also made me hungry for more exhilarating non-fiction. 
a few years later, i found the same sense of discov­ery and admiration for the skills of a great writer and guide to the natural world, in “arctic dreams” by barry lopez. 
lopez’s work explores and explains the natural world in much the same way as mcphee, embedding the reader in inuit hunting parties and scientific ex­peditions, but his approach is more spiritual and per­sonal. This difference is more than a stylistic choice; it likely reflects his education in a Jesuit high school and at notre dame. 
lopez once described himself as “a writer who travels,” but he is adept at bringing the reader along through meticulous attention to detail and an obvious curiosity. To be significant, writers need to be honest and fearless, and lopez provides an authentic narra­tive of nature as awe-inspiring yet desolate, uplifting and cruel, and shares his emotional responses to it all. 
in an interview after the release of “arctic dreams,” he said, “what i am doing … is trying to bring lan­guage and landscape together in such a way that land­scape can come to the fore as a metaphor as well as a reality.” 
as to how this impacts his work, lopez explained that his life “is defined largely around issues of lan­guage and story and landscape … the way in which landscape is imperiled — by manipulation and atten­uation to serve various political and economic policies 
— is almost indistinguishable from the way in which language and story are imperiled.” 
his direct and scrupulous writing is essential for an honest witness and messenger of nature’s moral and spiritual lessons. 
clearly lopez is obliged to do this work, but it serves a greater purpose than securing a paycheck. as he explains, “your work is your prayer.” 
amen to that. 

Ray Ramirez is an attorney practicing, yet never perfect­ing, law in Texas while waiting patiently for a MacArthur Genius Grant. You may contact him at patrayram@sbc­global.net 
The views expressed in this column are those of the  author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

A note to ND student conformists 
as i sat in the auditorium, i double checked the address that i had programmed into my waZe app just to make sure that i hadn’t errone­ously entered the alliance for liberal learning organizations. no, i had the location right — Kroc institute for international peace studies, at which the public was invited to attend a panel discussion about the controversial iran nuclear agreement. 
i sure was looking forward to hearing unfil­tered, intelligent commentary from both sides of the debate. where other than notre dame could i learn from knowledgeable experts, filling in the gaps left open by narrow, shallow media reporting? 
i wanted to soak into my open mind the deep intellectual analysis of the pros and cons with­out the emotional, partisan demagoguery. 
my wife and i settled into our primo seats, and, for light entertainment, began to speculate on which speakers were going to be for or against the agreement, based upon their body language 
— casual, innocent stereotyping for amusement purposes only. 
much to our surprise, when the discussion was concluded, we discovered that all three speakers opined that the iran nuclear agreemen is a won­derful deal. John Kerry could not have picked a better panel to praise his negotiating prowess — groupies, you might say. 
not only did we not hear a single opposing point of view, but america, as a country, was soundly criticized during the panel because of its role in agreements throughout history. and we gave up a pleasant evening of bike rid­ing around our small american town to come to notre dame for this? 
after the discussion, i asked the moderator if he was unable to find a single professor at this entire world-class university who held a differ­ent opinion and could speak intelligently on the topic. he told me that he could not. 
nevertheless, more disturbing was the fail­ure of the student body to raise a single voice in opposition. what? no dissent from about 140 students? 
in the 1960s, college students were unabashed critics of the status quo and verbally challenged university professors for pure sport. in 2015, do the students happily march in lock step with the propaganda at this prestigious university? have you no desire, or courage, to dissent? whom do you fear? 
my wife and i left notre dame that night pet­rified — not of an iranian nuclear bomb, but of the lack of balance, open-mindedness and inde­pendence of the next generation of leaders of our great country. student indoctrination with one political philosophy, regardless of the bent, di­minishes free speech and critical thought. 
let us all learn from bill maher of politically incorrect, “This country is not overrun with rebels and free thinkers. it’s overrun with sheep and conformists. we need more people speaking out.” 
c’mon irish, wake up the echos! 
Kim Hall 
nov. 3 

Improve campus police presence 
my name is paul go, and i graduated from notre dame with an m.s. in physics in 1973. i retired more than three years ago after working at the university for 37 years. 
The other day, a friend of mine was mugged while walking in broad daylight on campus near the cedar grove cemetery. This was posted on an e-mail sent out to all the students, staff and faculty. 
The e-mail concluded with a paragraph sug­gesting that people should walk in groups, which is very impractical as well as extremely patronizing. i expect much more from our police department. 
my recommendations to the notre dame po­lice are as follows: 
first, stop giving tickets to people driving on angela, in933/us31, douglas and Twyckenham. 
leave that job totally to the south bend police, county police or state police. 
secondly, stop using uniform policemen with guns to give parking tickets. i just witnessed this the other night while walking out of the library. can you imagine the outrage of the citizens of south bend or chicago if that was part of the job description of their police officers? hire civil­ians or even part-time students, as part of their work study, for that job. 
Then increase, by much more, the police pres­ence on campus. most criminals can be dis­couraged if police are present everywhere at all times. i think the official term for this is com­munity policing. 
in regard to the police absence on campus, i can personally testify to this. i go to notre dame almost daily, on a different parts of the campus at different times of the day or night, either go­ing to daily mass, going to class in debartolo hall, going to the library or visiting friends at oiT. 
i have purposely waited to write this letter until now because i wanted to at least person­ally see that my allegation is true, and unfor­tunately, i have to say at least from my point of view the police presence at notre dame is almost non-existent. 
i agree that to expect to stop all criminal activ­ities is an impossible task, but much more must be done if we want to keep our students, faculty, staff and visitors safe. 
Paul Go 
class of 1973 nov. 2 

Small victory for Notre Dame Right to Life 
The notre dame right to life club was thrilled to hear the recent news about the suspension of dr. Klopfer’s abortion license by the indiana state department of health. 
This news means more women in the south bend area will now be choosing life for their children! 
our club has been very active with the pro-life community of south bend and will continue to be since the issuing of this ruling. we have worked closely with st. Joseph county’s right to life of­fice in training notre dame students to be in­formed sidewalk counselors. nd rTl frequently sends students to the women’s care center to volunteer. 
additionally, we throw baby showers for the mothers at the women’s care center with our commission called project mom. on top of that, our club helps with  the activities of both the life center and the holy family adoption agency, two other pro-life advocates in the south bend community that provide resources and options for women in the midst of dealing with crisis pregnancies. 
although the ruling about dr. Klopfer is great news, and means that no more abortions will be occuring in south bend, nd rTl will not cease to keep up our active involvement of spreading the pro-life movement in the community during this time. 
The women’s pavilion cannot apply for an­other abortion clinic license for 90 days. during this time, they will be open to provide informa­tion for women seeking abortion. Therefore, our club will continue to have a presence outside the clinic during that time, sidewalk counseling and praying. 
we will pray for the children lost in the clinic in the past, for mothers in crisis currently look­ing for referrals and for the clinic to remain inoperable. 
overall, the pro-life movement is very con­cerned about bettering women’s health and pro­tecting both mother and child. with Klopfer’s medical license in question and multiple com­plaints of malpractice filled against him, it was clear that women were not in good hands medi­cally at the clinic. 
The facility was charged with violating indiana code 16-21 and breaking multiple health and safety rules. 
an investigation revealed multiple violations, including Klopfer’s failure to comply by indiana’s 18-hour notification law, which requires a woman to give her voluntary and informed consent to an abortion, view the fetal ultrasound and hear the fetal heartbeat at least 18 hours before an abor­tion procedure. 
There have also been accusations of improperly administered anesthesia, expired medicine and poorly trained staff. 
anyone can clearly see that this was not a safe place for women to be going during their times of need. They were not being properly educated about their health and options. They were not even allowed to receive an ultrasound, which they can easily get for free at the women’s care center. 
The pro-life movement, our club and i all dream about the day that all women can finally be given the resources and help to be properly educated about their fertility, reproduction cycle, pregnancy and their options when facing a crisis pregnancy. 
we will keep fighting for this and fighting for life. 
Janelle Wanzek 
president notre dame right to life nov.  8 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

“and after That, we didn’t Talk” picks up immediately where d.c. hip-hop artist goldlink left off on his introduc­tory mixtape, “The god complex,” from last year. The sounds of a car crash that capped off his stellar premiere have been repurposed to begin his studio al­bum debut, instantly marking his dis­ruptive presence on the scene. 
equally, “and after That … ” picks up on tuning the genre that goldlink has been crafting since “The god complex.” The sound goldlink refers to as “future bounce” mixes rap, r&b and dance, and even incorporates uK club and post-dubstep components. on the new album, he and main producer louie lastic give a crash-course in the genre’s sounds: rich, woozy synth chords (“late night”), synthetic horns (“dark skin women”), heavy vocal sampling and house basslines (“spectrum”), and goldlink’s signature sing-rapping make up the grabbing elements. 
goldlink’s signature flow, a sort of melodic talking that stresses every syl­lable but blurs lines into single words, exists on a finely tweaked dial. with a light twist of his finger, he can turn it faster or slower without ever compro­mising his vocal melodies. These aural 

Greg Hadley 
editor-in-cheif 

at the moment, Taylor swift is the big­gest living music superstar on the planet. 
There. i said it. it sounds weird to say it aloud, but it’s true. and it’s true because of her insanely large, insanely passionate fan base. 
“swifties,” as Taylor’s fans are known, were once limited to a very strict demographic of younger girls who re­lated to the emotional vulnerability of her songwriting, the catchiness of her country-pop melodies and her relatable persona. anyone outside of that group who liked swift was regarded as a loser with poor taste. 
i was once a loser with poor taste. but no more. 
That’s not because i no longer like swift. it’s because beginning last year, it became cool to like Taylor swift. her gymnastics can be dizzying and unre­lenting, but over “future bounce” beats, they fit naturally. 
meanwhile, on the verbal side, goldlink mixes suave, sexy come-ons with social observations, a decision that proves to be as important to his “future bounce” genre as its sound. sometimes confessional (“i learned a lot in such a short amount of time / everything that’s f-----’ fine and gold, it ain’t mine”), sometimes accusatory (“hip-hop will die, i promise that / if we keep the lies in our raps”), he runs the gamut of his many diverse influences. 
for the album, goldlink hooked up with acclaimed producer rick rubin, and the mentor-mentee relationship makes a lot of sense. rubin has been a conduit for mainstream and fringe artists alike in their aspirations to in­troduce burgeoning sub-genres and artistic transitions to a wider audience. still, goldlink’s victories and stumbles across “and after That … ” feel and sound all his own, which is reassuring for his vision, especially when a person­ality as big as rubin gets involved. 
in trying to create this “future bounce” sound — which he admits is still rather undefined — goldlink and his produc­ers navigate in relatively uncharted ter­ritory. as a result, not everything in his experiments works. The odd, ’90s r&b 
latest album, “1989” completed her tran­sition to pop music, received critical acclaim and has sold 5.4 million units to date. it’s spawned three no. 1 billboard singles, and a world tour that has grossed nearly $210 million in less than a year. swift has more than 50 million follow­ers on Twitter, instagram and facebook, each. her Tumblr notes regularly garner tens of thousands of notes. 
but what really makes swift the pop queen of the moment is the depth of the passion her fans have, a passion rooted in swift’s easily relatable persona. 
whether it’s taking selfies with concert goers, inviting fans to appear in her mu­sic video for “shake it off” or giving them money to pay off their student loans, swift is, or at least appears to be, the most accessible celebrity around. 
in a way, swift is the perfect star for millennials. she’s active on social media, relatively open about her personal life, completely untouched by any scandal, guitar line that comes into “Zipporah” at the halfway point of the song distracts rather than adding to the sound. and, most clearly exhibited on the otherwise grooving “unique,” when he sings out­right, his nasally tone can get trying. still, similar experiments bear fruit elsewhere on the album. The bright follow-up to “unique,” “palm Trees” fea­tures a plucky harp lead, a violin coda and goldlink’s confident singing. as he bounces along the track’s slowly pulsing percussion, his poised relaxation con­tradicts the issues heard in the previous song. his interpolation of the beautiful chorus to alina baraz’s “fantasy” ex­udes a playful desire, as well as a smart nod to another pioneer in the genre, galimatias, the track’s producer. 

other times, though, the album doesn’t experiment enough with its in­strumentation. The ballad-like closing trio “polarize,” “new black” and “see i miss” begin to lose the momentum generated by the album’s strong, single-filled first half. Their problem isn’t so much their content but their placement and inclusion in an album trying to make a real first impression. goldlink adequately shows the many dimensions to “future bounce” on much more re­warding songs but takes a step back in his conclusion. 
but when the genre is still in its 
seemingly awkward and down to earth. despite intense media coverage — cnn once ran a “breaking news” alert when she got a haircut — swift has flourished in the spotlight, retaining her charm while also inspiring awe and envy. 
musically speaking, swift’s recent shift away from country to solely pop put her squarely in competition with other pop­ular female artists such as Katy perry, rihanna, beyoncé, lady gaga, lana del rey and adele. yet the change hardly felt ill-advised or poorly-timed. rather, it was a natural evolution, one that her longtime fans were ready for. 
as “swifties” aged and matured, her stories of heartbreak and young love would have become stale and repeti­tive. swift was never fully country in the first place, and her fans did not listen to her for her genre. and to be taken seri­ously as an artist, swift could not remain static. 
hence, the overwhelming success of infancy, who’s to say what it should or shouldn’t sound like? perhaps com­pletely slowed down jams are integral to goldlink’s image of his genre. however, what can be said is how well certain ele­ments fair compared to others. 
“and after That … ” proves to be a suc­cessful, if tame, introduction of future bounce into the mainstream lexicon of pop music. yet, for the best taste of what the genre can truly offer, the album sug­gests — by imposing a drop of a sample saying, “repeat,” copied directly from the excellent “god complex” closer “when idie” — that “The god complex” should be heard for a real introduction. 
Contact Matt McMahon at                  mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
“And After That, We Didn’t Talk” 
GoldLink 
Label: Squaaash Club 
Tracks: “Spectrum,” “Dance On Me,” “Palm Trees” 
If you like: Kaytranada, Chance the Rapper, Vic Mensa 

“1989.” swift adapted alongside her fans, which humanized her even more. 
The greatest testament to both the depth and breadth of swift’s popularity came when she single-handedly con­vinced apple, inc., the world’s most prof­itable company, to pay artists during its three-month free trial period for apple music by threatening to pull her discog­raphy from the service. 
Just the possibility of losing swift’s mu­sic and the millions of listeners that come along with it, forced apple to back down. but Tim cook is merely the latest in a long line of celebs who have come out on the wrong end of a feud with swift. Just like her, swift’s fans have long memories, and “bad blood” tends to linger. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LAUREN WELDON | THE OBSERVER 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By NICK LAUREANO 
scene writer 

“spectre,” the 24th canonical James bond movie, kicks off with a four-and­a-half minute single-take tracking shot. in the wake of “birdman” and “True detective,” it seems “spectre” director sam mendes may be a little late to the long-take party. but what mendes lacks in originality he makes up for with bra­vura. in traversing city blocks worth of streets and rooftops, mendes’ shot en­capsulates a larger, more topographi­cally sprawling chunk of space than “birdman’s” claustrophobia-inducing backstage shots. Thousands of extras crowd the streets, so mendes’ shot feels more alive than the cary fukunaga’s shot from “True detective,” with its tight­ly choreographed, point-to-point con­frontations. and thanks to those diegetic drums, mendes’ shot even has a heart­beat. “spectre” doesn’t merely begin — it arrives. 
and yet, despite the cutting edge camerawork (courtesy of hoyte van hoytema), “spectre” quickly establishes itself as the most traditional of the daniel craig-era bond movies. it’s the first of craig’s movies to feature the entire mot­ley crew in their familiar positions: Q 
over the weekend, your very own scene editor took a little road trip. as with all good road trips, the selection of fast food and restaurants along the way was delightful and pleasing to the soul, leaving customers begging for more. Thus sparks the question: if you could change the selections available, which restaurants and eateries would you like to see at eddy street? 
By KELLY McGARRY 
scene writer 

what eddy street needs is an authen­tic mexican restaurant. i hold out on Taco bell Quesaritos as the closest thing i can get on campus. once a week, i get the treat of north dining hall burrito friday, which is fabulous but doesn’t quite quench my craving for authen­tic taqueria-style mexican food. when the time comes for a burrito or tacos, chipotle doesn’t even come close. There is no combination of the bland meats and (ben whishaw) provides bond with actu­al gadgets; m (ralph fiennes) clips 007’s wings after the reckless mexico city stunt (but ultimately aids in the rogue agent’s fight against the true baddies); and miss moneypenny (naomie harris) fulfills her familiar role as m’s secretary (it’s not the most dynamic role, but the franchise has roots in the 1960s, after all. like i said, it’s traditionalist, not feminist). and unlike last time around, we get a proper bond girl in madeleine swann (léa seydoux). “spectre” also features the snappy hu­mor that pervaded the connery era but was mostly lacking from craig’s previous films. credit ben whishaw, whose come­dic timing plays more prominently than it did in “skyfall.” The humor, the action, the “mission impossible-esque” team dynamic, and the passable, if somewhat effete villain all add up to a picture that is loads of fun (particularly for the die-hard bond fan). but “spectre” isn’t without its fair share of problems. 
at the time of its release, “skyfall” felt like a transitional bond movie. it con­cluded an unofficial trilogy about a man who, having lost everything — his par­ents, his lover, his quasi-mother — as­sumed the life of a cold, distant assassin. “skyfall’s” ending in particular, which saw bond, m and miss moneypenny 
toppings at the overrated “mexican” stop that compares to real mexican flavor. as a mexican food enthusiast/connoisseur, i’d love to see chipotle replaced by an au­thentic locally-owned taqueria, ideally open late with a full range of tacos, bur­ritos, enchiladas, tortas and tostadas. 
By DAKOTA CONNELL-LEDWON 
scene writer 
for me, eddy street is a place to go when i want a quick meal but i’m tired of the dining hall. barbici is by far my least favorite restaurant on eddy street. The food is fine, but why would you pay for pasta when it’s available in the dining halls every day? i want something on par with the deliciousness that is chipotle, blaze and five guys. something like chick-fil-a, to satisfy my need for grease, chicken, pickles and fantastic peach milkshakes. The nearest location is 15 minutes away, and i’m just not going to be able to make it that far in the winter, return to the familiar wood-paneled of­fices of mi6, ready to save the world once again, functioned as a bridge between re­visionist bond flicks like “casino royale” and the franchise’s presumably tradi­tional trajectory. “spectre,” by embrac­ing the strange status quo of bond films of yore, seems to fulfill “skyfall’s” prom­ise. bond as we knew him throughout the latter half of the 20th century has arrived. 

“spectre,” however, goes beyond mere­ly assuming a familiar form. like any film featuring a character named madeleine swann, “spectre” is about memory: characters are haunted by memories of the past, and our experience of the film is shaped by our memories of the franchise. christoph waltz’s franz oberhauser tor­ments bond with the memory of vesper lynd. (rip to the best bond girl.) The (not­so) surprising revelation of oberhauser’s true identity — which uses the audience’s familiarity with bond movies to generate gravity — was lost on my bond-illiterate friend. so, too, were stunning visual call­backs to “from russia with love” and “on her majesty’s secret service,” two of my favorite bond films. 
unfortunately, the use of memo­ry is the fundamental problem with “spectre.” while there are visual ref­erences to previous films, most of the 
with or without a car. i need the chicken close to home (dome). 
By NICK LAUREANO 
scene writer 

best way to get funny looks from your classmates in the dining hall? fill a bowl with just spaghetti — no gravy, no meatballs — then walk away from the pasta line. no, i don’t eat plain spa­ghetti. if onlookers weren’t so quick to judge, they would see my futile at­tempt to create a four-way: spaghetti, chili, onions and cheese. The four-way is my go-to meal when the lines for more traditional entrées are unbear­ably long. unfortunately, the din­ing hall’s Texas chili is no substitute for real cincinnati-style chili. (get at me, Texans.) it’s for that reason that i dream of a skyline opening on eddy street. and since we’re dreaming, wouldn’t it be nice if that grease-shack five guys closed? 
callbacks revolve around each charac­ter’s emotional arcs. in fact, oberhauser’s raison d’être is to play with bond’s emo­tions. as a result, “spectre’s” central con­flict is at odds with the fully developed bond promised by “skyfall.” The writers (John logan, neal purvis, robert wade and Jez butterworth) mine old conflicts 
—
 the death of vesper, the death of m 

—
 to propel 007’s arc in “spectre.” but craig’s bond has nothing more to learn from these events; his metamorphosis is already complete. even “spectre’s” end­ing, which may seem surprising narra­tively and in its overtly political stance, is actually just a retread of themes from “Quantum of solace.” 


The origin story cannot continue ad infinitum. at some point, the franchise must wholeheartedly return to chroni­cling the (mostly) standalone adventures of everyone’s favorite hit man. writing for The new york Times, manohla dargis ar­gues it has always been bond’s inhuman­ity that is so fascinating. i disagree. but one does wonder if craig’s portrayal of bond’s startling humanity is incompat­ible with a franchise in which bond no longer has room to grow. 
Contact Nick Laureano at                    nlaurean@nd.edu 
By ADAM RAMOS 
scene writer 
not too many people know the joys that come with being a cuban american. unfortunately, when most people think of my family’s home country, it’s politics and history that overshadows every­thing else — the cuisine, often over­looked.  yet this wonderful culinary amalgam of spanish, caribbean and african influences is exactly what eddy street needs. many people assume cuban food is similar in taste to mexican food, but this is a common misconcep­tion. believe me, chipotle and this hy­pothetical cuban-food-wonderland could coexist, in a beautiful hispanic relationship. from sweet plantains to breaded steak, to rice accompanied by a fried egg, notre dame students should no longer be depraved of cuban cuisine. now if we must remove a restaurant, my pick is five guys, but only because of my nut allergy — and selfishness. 
LAUREN WELDON | The Observer 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: Take care of personal business and any health issues that prevail. be the master of your domain and don’t back down if there is something you want. it’s your relentless courage and willpower that will help you build a strong and stable future. live life in your own unique way. it’s oK to be different. your numbers are 1, 12, 23, 27, 30, 36, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t spend the money you have been saving for something special. being overly generous with others will leave you stressed. Kindness and consideration is all that’s required to make a good impression. romance will bring you closer to someone special. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): open up about how you feel and what you are trying to accomplish. once you have clear passage to continue, you will find it easy to reach your goals. an unusual partnership will broaden your awareness and help you progress. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): stop, think and re-evaluate matters before you take another step forward. a situation you face at work or with one of your peers must be dealt with diplomatically. look inward and concentrate on being the best you can be. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): you are in an opportune position. don’t take someone for granted who has been there for you. do something that will contribute to your knowledge, philosophy or creative desire to do your own thing. a day trip will inspire you. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you’ll be emotionally in need of change. don’t be too quick to dive into something that may not sit well with the people who love you. The disappointment of family members will be difficult to reverse. doing some soul-searching will serve you well. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): you have plenty of potential, so don’t sit back when you should be stepping up. discuss your plans with friends, relatives or anyone who is involved with your plans. Think big, but be willing to start small. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t go over budget if you decide to make some home improvements. you’ll be offered secret information. be careful how you handle what you’ve been told. your reputation may be in jeopardy. discipline will be required. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): go back and revisit some of the projects you have worked on in the past, and reconnect with the people you enjoyed working with. Take some time to plan out future projects so you have something interesting to look forward to. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): information will be withheld. don’t take action until you feel you have a clear picture of the situation. bide your time and focus on the positive changes you can make at home or within a personal relationship. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): say what you think and get on with what you need to do. you’ll be able to persuade others to see things your way and will have the insight to turn something small into something huge. Take care of your health by making wise choices. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t let someone’s derogatory comments stop you or slow you down. follow your heart and make the changes that suit you best and that look the most promising regarding your future professional prospects. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): explore your options and you will find an unusual source of income or discover something that you never considered in the past. don’t be afraid of change. Take aggressive steps in a direction that excites you. negotiations and contracts look promising. 


Birthday Baby: you are compassionate, loyal and determined. you are worldly and adventurous. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff KnureK 






The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

To
 receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable to and mail to: The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 
address 
city     state Zip 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

last chance for qualifying offers 

Ryan Klaus 
sports writer 
with the world series now finished, the baseball world has collectively turned itself to its winter-long offseason. 
of course, easily the most notable facet of the offsea­son in any sport is free agen­cy. like it has the last three years, baseball’s offseason began last week with teams presenting their top free agents with qualifying of­fers. a supposed preemptive measure in losing prized players, the qualifying offer so far has proven nothing in its three-plus years to suggest it deserves to be a continued practice in major league baseball. 
even to fans of the sport, the qualifying offer can be a little confounding. The qualifying offer itself is a one-year contract that teams can offer their impend­ing free agents that makes the team eligible for draft pick compensation should the player choose to sign elsewhere. The contract’s amount is fixed based on an average of the league’s top 125 salaries. This year’s amount has been set at $15.8 million. should the player decide to reject the quali­fying offer, the team that eventually signs him must forfeit its top draft pick for the next season (if it is out­side the top 10). 
The success of the qualify­ing offer has been dubious in its practice. since being introduced to the league, a total of zero players have actually accepted the offer, all of whom chose to instead test the waters of free agen­cy. sure, the sample size has been small — 30 players in the last three seasons were offered — but it’s clear most players are indifferent to the idea of taking a one-year contract in comparison to longer deals in free agency. some around baseball have even started to believe there’s a stigma associated with actually accepting the contract since everyone with the chance has refused. 
This offseason poses inter­esting circumstances for the qualifying offer as a record 20 such offers were handed out last week. with the number of offers increased, it does seem that some me­diocre players (pitchers ian Kennedy and brett anderson come to mind) were given qualifying offers. because it seems the talent level deemed worthy of the quali­fying offer has decreased, this offseason should give indication as to whether any player will ever actually ac­cept the deal. if no player chooses to accept the offer this year, then it should be a clear sign to the mlb that the qualifying offer should be removed — or, at the very least, reformed. 
The only comparable prac­tice in sports is the nhl of­fer sheets, which are utilized when a team attempts to sign restricted free agents of other teams. Teams are then given the opportunity to match the offer that another team has presented their free agent. in the salary cap era, only one player has ac­tually changed teams due to an offer sheet. 
but while there are clear reasons why the nhl’s of­fer sheet exists — they al­low nhl teams the right to resign their restricted free agents and have induced several trades — the pur­pose of the mlb’s qualifying offers is less transparent. it seems many teams are now willing to arbitrarily hand out offers for draft pick compensation. with baseball’s current collective bargaining agreement set to expire around this time next year, another shutout of accepted qualifying offers this year should lead to 2016 adjustment. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Belles brace for upcoming NCAA regionals 
Observer Staff Report 

following a bye week, saint mary’s returns to ac­tion this weekend for the ncaa regionals in Terre haute, indiana. 
The belles head into saturday’s meet after plac­ing fourth at the miaa championships on oct. 31, which were hosted by olivet at the broadway acres golf course in charlotte, michigan. Junior brittany beeler led the belles with a sixth-place finish overall at 22:40.5. beeler earned all-miaa first Team hon­ors and became the second runner in program history to earn that feat. The belles’ fourth place finish was be­hind only hope, calvin and alma. 
The ncaa regionals marks the second-to-last competition for the belles before the ncaa nationals meet, which will be held nov. 21 in winnecone, wisconsin. 
The ncaa regional race is scheduled to start at 11 a.m. saturday in Terre haute, indiana. 

NBA | cavaliers 118, JaZZ 114 
Cavaliers comeback to win seventh straight 
Associated Press 

cleveland — lebron James tied a season high with 31 points, includ­ing 17 to spark a fourth-quarter comeback, and the cleveland cavaliers won their seventh straight, 118­114 over the utah Jazz on Tuesday night. 
cleveland trailed 95-86 deficit midway through the fourth, but James took over and brought the Quicken loans arena crowd to its feet with one of his trade­mark plays. 
with the cavaliers trail­ing 95-91, James stole the ball near midcourt and headed to the basket. rodney hood wrapped his arms around James, but the four-time mvp made a la­yup anyway and flexed his bicep as hood was called for the foul. 
James made the foul shot and cleveland followed with a 10-0 run to go ahead 104-98. 
utah cut the lead to 107­105, but James hit a hook shot in the lane and split four free throws. 
Tristan Thompson’s three-point play off James’ assist and four free throws by mo williams, who scored 29 points, sealed the win. 
alec burks led utah with 24 points while gordon hayward and derrick favors each added 17. 
Kevin love scored 22 points for cleveland, which hasn’t lost since the season opener in chicago. 
love remained in the game after coming down awkwardly on his left leg while missing a breakaway dunk attempt in the third quarter. he was down be­hind the baseline for a few moments but stayed in after cleveland called timeout. 
James bruised his left quad friday against philadelphia when he scored 31 points and had 13 assists, both season highs. he scored 29 points sunday against indiana. 
cavaliers guard J.r. smith (knee, quad injuries) started after missing three games. he scored seven points in 22 minutes. 
Trey burke and rodney hood scored 16 apiece for utah. 
cleveland committed 17 
turnovers, resulting in  29  
points.  
Tip-ins  
Jazz:  utah  began  a  

four-game trip, which in­cludes atlanta, miami and orlando. The teams were a combined 20-11 going into Tuesday. ... The Jazz haven’t beaten a team with a win­ning record. 
cavaliers: smith didn’t have any soreness after a full practice. “The biggest thing is wind, trying to get your wind back,” he said. “There’s no shape like game shape. i think that’s the big­gest thing. other than that, everything should be like riding a bike.” 
Up Next 
Jazz: visit miami on Thursday. 
cavaliers: visit new york on friday. 
NBA | heaT 101, laKers 88 

Bosh scores season-high in win over Lakers 

Associated Press 

miami — if basketball fans in miami came to see Kobe bryant one last time, they were undoubtedly disappointed considering he spent the night on the bench in a sharp three-piece suit. 
if they came to see chris bosh have the best game of his comeback season, they left happy. 
bosh scored a season-high 30 points and grabbed 11 re­bounds, hassan whiteside had 19 points and 15 re­bounds in only 27 minutes of work, and the heat pulled away in the second half to beat the los angeles lakers 101-88 on Tuesday. 
luol deng scored 14 and dwyane wade added 12 for miami, which is 5-3 — with all five of those wins by double digits. The heat led 50-49 after a back-and­forth first half, and then led by as many as 18 after halftime. 
nick young made his first five shots, four of them from 3-point range, and finished with 17 for los angeles. lou williams and metta world peace each scored 14 for the lakers, who played with bryant sitting out some­what unexpectedly to rest. 
it was unclear how the in­jury flared up; bryant said monday he was anticipating playing against the heat. 


Freshmen 
conTinued from page 16 
especially arike — she’s not afraid to mix it up, and that’s really important,” mcgraw said. “That’s the difference in our great guards, when you look at Kayla mcbride, and Jewell, it was the strength they had. They were able to go inside and pay in the high post a little bit. doing things in­side really helped them, and i think that’s the biggest dif­ference in the guards that we’ve had lately.” 
ogunbowale agreed with mcgraw’s assessment of her strengths and said she expects to be a force to be reckoned with when driving to the rim. 
“like coach mentioned, my strength is getting to the basket,” ogunbowale said. “i know in the future, i need to keep driving to the bas­ket. it’ll be harder for them to stop me, especially if they have smaller guards. i can take advantage of that.” 
patberg’s injury, how­ever, looks to force both ogunbowale and mabrey to contribute even more for the irish. mcgraw said before then she hoped to see the offense run through patberg 

NBA | Thunder 125, wiZards 101 
at times. in her absence, mcgraw said the other irish freshmen would likely see a greater ball-handling role as well. 
“with ali out, we’re look­ing at both of them to han­dle the ball more,” mcgraw said. “maybe marina mo­reso. That’s something that we hadn’t planned on that now is going to be really im­portant. They have to get comfortable with the of­fense quickly. not only do they have to get comfort­able with what they’re do­ing, they have to know what everybody else is doing, and that’s a really tough job for a f reshman.” 
mabrey said this unex­pected role could be a new challenge for her but be­lieves that it is one she’s up to if she keeps working. 
“i think i need to work on being the point and know­ing where everyone else needs to be,” mabrey said. “i know where i am supposed to be, but i need to work on knowing where everyone else needs to be.” 
if there is one person who knows what it takes to contribute in a ma­jor role as a freshman for the irish though, it’s 2015 acc freshman of the year brianna Turner. The sophomore forward said she is excited about the both rookies’ futures. 
“They both impressed me with their personalities and the way they played on the court,” Turner said. “They both impressed me with their personalities and the way they played on the court. They look great. i’m excited to play with them for the next three years and watch them grow.” 
mabrey and ogunbowale will take to the court for their first regular-season game for the irish on sunday at purcell pavilion, where they will meet bucknell. ogunbowale said she is aware of the pressure of the occasion but isn’t fazed. 
“There is confidence,” ogunbowale said. “marina and i both have confidence. everyone gets nervous. but we know coach recruited us for a reason, and we can’t really show that we are ner­vous or show that we are scared. we just have to go out there as though we’ve been on the team for years.” 
ogunbowale, mabrey and the irish host bucknell on sunday at 1 p.m. at purcell pav ilion. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 


Westbrook leads OKC to win despite Durant injury 
donovan said, “i thought our consecutive possessions in that 
Associated Press 
guys came out with great focus.” period, westbrook threw down a 

washingTon — Kevin durant, second in the nba in soaring, one-handed dunk, then durant drove toward the bas-scoring entering the night, had moments later hit a 3-pointer ket late in the first half Tuesday 14 points and 10 rebounds in the and wagged three fingers before night, elevated and got fouled. first half. dion waiters scored 25 pounding his chest. when the play was over, the 2013-points for the Thunder, who had “we know what we’re supposed 14 nba mvp limped a bit around lost three of their past four games to do as a team,” westbrook said. the court and clutched at his and now are 5-3. “we’re trying to play a level that’s strained left hamstring. They have a couple of days off championship-basketball level, 
“i came down a little awk-now, and durant didn’t sound and we took care of business ward,” durant said, speaking like someone too worried about tonight.” softly in a hallway outside the missing a lot of time with what locker room, “and landed on it a he said was his first hamstring Lineup Confusion little harder than i wanted to and problem. at halftime, with durant done, i pulled it.” he called it a “small injury” donovan had to replace the six-
after durant left at halftime and said he’ll have an mri exam time all-star. The coach was Tuesday night because of his in-wednesday. thinking of using waiters, but jury, Thunder teammate russell “i mean, i can walk,” he said. he’s been dealing with an up­westbrook took over, compiling “i’m a little sore.” set stomach. “so i said, ‘where’s a triple-double with 22 points, donovan said: “i don’t think dion?’ and he didn’t come out 11 assists and 11 rebounds to it’s anything too, too serious.” there,” donovan said, explaining lead oklahoma city to a 125-John wall had only nine points that’s why Kyle singler was on the 101 victory over the struggling and five assists as washington’s court to begin the second half. washington wizards. losing streak reached three 
durant missed most of last games. Turnovers season with a broken right foot coach randy wittman lit into The wizards averaged 25 turn-that needed three operations, his players at his postgame news overs in their previous two losses, and westbrook emerged as the conference. but didn’t have one Tuesday until league’s scoring champion. “we’re just too soft of a team there were 5 1/2 minutes left in a similar scenario played out right now,” he said. the second quarter. Tuesday, as westbrook had 10 “we don’t defend,” wittman points, five assists and three re-added. “guys drive by us at will. Injuries bounds in the third quarter to we don’t have any toughness.” The wizards were without build a comfortable lead, then westbrook dominated for their leading scorer, shooting rested in the fourth. stretches of the third quarter, guard bradley beal, because of 
“with Kevin not coming out when oklahoma city used an a sore left shoulder, and reserve of the locker room in the sec-early 16-8 run to go ahead 84-58, forward nene sat out with back ond half,” Thunder coach billy its biggest margin until then. on spasms. 





paid adverTisemenT 
Gilbertson 
conTinued from page 16 
force for the no. 10 irish (13­4-1, 6-4-0 acc) this season, leading the team with 11 goals scored and 94 shots. romagnolo said she’s the special type of player who can do it all on the offensive end. 
“she has great speed and great skill,” romagnolo said. “she’s a goal scorer. she’s had great passes to contrib­ute to our offense as well.” 
wreaking havoc on oppos­ing defenses has always been well within gilbertson’s abilities. however, the dif­ference this year for her and her production has simply been convincing herself to believe it, gilbertson said. 
“i would say it’s mostly been stepping up with my confidence, and, as a senior, feeling more leadership and carrying the team on my back a little bit,” gilbertson said. “having that confi­dence and knowing that i am good enough to be out there, that just carries forward as i continue to play.” 
while she has played a leadership role for the irish attack this year, gilbertson does not take full credit for the offense’s success. rather, it’s the offensive chemistry that has provided her the opportunity to produce at a high level, gilbertson said. 
“our chemistry this year is great,” gilbertson said. “we all are working together re­ally well. our midfield and our forwards are linking up very well, and we’re find­ing the right gaps. we make more efficient opportuni­ties for ourselves and that’s helping us a lot.” 
with the success that the irish have found on that end, the leadership role gilbertson has taken on is something she said she prides herself. 

“it’s meant a lot to me,” gilbertson said. “i want to help the team in any way that i can and make sure 
that  we’re  getting  as  far  
as  possible  in  the  ncaa  
tournament.”  

and she firmly believes the possibility of a national championship is well within no. 3-seeded notre dame’s reach. 
“i think that we can make the national championship and win a natty 100 per­cent,” gilbertson said. “our team is fantastic this year. we have incredible talent and incredible chemistry.” 
now in the postseason of her senior year, gilbertson’s college career will soon be coming to a close. when all said and done, gilbertson said she will never forget what her time with the pro­gram has meant to her. 
“it’s meant the world to me,” gilbertson said. “playing soccer here at the university of notre dame has been a dream. i can’t even express how much it’s helped me just grow as a person. 
“when i got here i was very shy and didn’t really have much confidence or belief in myself. as i started to play more and more and had coaches help me grow and teach me as a player and per­son, i’ve learned a lot about myself, like that i’m good at soccer and confident in my­self. i’m more outgoing and express myself more. it’s done a lot for me.” 
gilbertson and the irish take to the pitch friday when they host oakland in the first round of the ncaa championships at alumni stadium at 7 p.m. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 


M Soccer 
conTinued from page 16 
“it’s a game that we can hopefully learn from and build on going forward [this postseason].” 
The irish tread into demon deacon territory having posted 15 shots against the cavaliers, pushing their shots per game tally to 15.3 for a shot percentage of .124 on the season. wake forest falls just behind the irish at 
14.9 shots per game, though it has outscored the irish 
2.50 to 1.89 goals. 
“wake forest is a very strong opponent, so we will face many challenges play­ing them at their home,” panken said. “specifically, they have a very strong at­tack, so we will have to deal with their movement off the ball in attack and their speed in transition.” 
hodan and panken will help the irish control the midfield and add to the irish attack’s momentum, to out­play wake forest’s danger­ous movement and speed as they did against virginia. 
“i think that the midfield has grown a lot through this season,” senior midfielder evan panken said. “we al­ways focus on getting better after each game, win or lose. i think that we have gotten a lot better at reading each other and playing to each other’s strengths. 
“our shape as a midfield four was something that we have gotten better at and something we did very well in the virginia game. we also picked up second balls really well in the uva game.” 
but as usual, whether against virginia, wake forest or potentially a next opponent, it’s one game at a time for the postseason irish, who continue in their search for the program’s second national title. 
“The team gets really ex­cited for the postseason be­cause everyone knows the importance of each game,” panken said. “in these win-or-go-home games, we all know the importance of staying focused and play­ing our best. There is always a buzz around the postsea­son, and the way we manage this excitement becomes crucial for our success as a team.” 
notre dame travels to winston-salem, north carolina, to take on no. 1 wake forest the acc tour­nament semifinals tonight at 7 p.m. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 







Football 
conTinued from page 16 
probably  the  deadline,”  he  
said.  
while  prosise’s ability  to  
play  is  still  surrounded  by  

question marks, Kelly did have good news related to another injured irish player, announcing senior defensive lineman Jarron Jones might see playing time this season. 
Jones tore his acl in the preseason and was ruled out for the year, but Kelly said he has progressed enough that he could potentially play in the postseason if notre dame needs him. 
“Jarron is now at that stage where it’s building quad and hamstring strength,” Kelly said. “we think that’s going to take about anywhere from four to six weeks with him.” 
Kelly also added that graduate student safety avery sebastian had been cleared for activity monday and would participate in Tuesday’s practice. because sebastian also missed last season with an injury, he would be eligible for a sixth year if he did not play for the rest of this season. 
“if we need to play him, be­cause we need to win games, we’re going to play him,” Kelly said. “but i’m not go­ing to run him down on the kickoff team, you know. we would preserve his year un­less he needs to go in there and start for us and help us win these last three games.” 
while his recovery from a broken ankle is going smoothly, junior quarter­back malik Zaire will not be among those players who could make a comeback to finish out this season, Kelly said. 
“he won’t be back this year, but he’s active to the point where he’s out there already moving around, throwing the football, getting his arm in shape,” he said. “but in no shape or fashion is he going to be able to compete.” 
Moving on up 
The irish moved up a spot in the college football playoff rankings from no. 5 last week to no. 4, with the latest poll announced Tuesday night. 
notre dame took the spot vacated by lsu, who fell from no. 2 to no. 9 after losing to alabama last saturday. 
if the irish stay at their current spot or move up the chart, they will be eligible for a slot in the college football playoff in January. even if the team does win out, however, there is the pos­sibility that one-loss notre dame could be jumped by an undefeated team currently ranked behind it, such as no. 5 iowa, no. 6 baylor or no. 8 oklahoma state. 
discussing that hypotheti­cal situation, Kelly said he wouldn’t have a problem with a one-loss team earning a playoff spot over an unde­feated one. 
“if i’m sitting there looking at the teams, i think being in it now for 25-plus years, you’re looking at strength of schedule, the eye test, who they played, how they’ve played, and i think we all want to get it right, get the four best teams and have them play,” he said. “i don’t think that you can stumble more than once. i think that’s where the cutoff point is. you can’t be inconsistent and be really good, because that can’t be part of the equation. but i have no problem with one loss in that group.” 
Senior sendoff 
saturday’s home finale also marks senior day for notre dame, the final time the team’s most veteran play­ers will compete at notre dame stadium. The team will commemorate a class that has gone 37-11 in its four years with the irish, with three bowl game trips and an appearance in the 2013 bcs championship game that kicked off their collegiate careers. 
Kelly said the strong three-plus seasons this class has contributed to affects how he views it. 
“i would evaluate them in a sense that they’ve been a part of some great successes and have built this program back to national prominence, and that is a great feat that they should feel great about, and i know they do,” he said. “That’s why they came here. 


They’re also representing notre dame on a day-to-day basis, and i know they’ll be able to take all of them with them when they leave here.” 
however, even with the light at the end of the tun­nel now visible in their time with the irish program, Kelly said this group hasn’t let up, adding that some of his best players, like seniors sheldon day and ronnie stanley, are also some of his best leaders. 
“it gives you great resolve that they’re difficult to beat because they’ve invested so much, you know?” he said. “They’ve invested on the practice field. They’ve in­vested in the weight room. They were in here this morn­ing at 7 a.m., 65 of them lift­ing weights. why are you here at 7 a.m. in november? you’ve invested. and they want to get the benefits of that investment, and that’s winning football games. 


“so i think that’s probably more than anything else why you feel good when you have that kind of leadership from your seniors and your lead­ers that they avoid the noise. They want to win badly.” 
one thing Kelly said he hasn’t discussed is whether saturday will also mark the final home game for junior standouts Jaylon smith and will fuller, who could be candidates for early entry in the nfl draft based off their strong careers at notre dame. 
“no, we talk about that stuff at the end of the sea­son,” Kelly said. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Kelly discusses Prosise injury, senior class 
By MARY GREEN 
assistant managing editor 
senior running back c.J. prosise’s status for saturday’s game against wake forest is still unknown, irish head coach brian Kelly said Tuesday. 
“c.J.’s in the next stage of the protocol for concussions, and we’ll see where he is after practice [Tuesday], and then we’ll be able to know more about where he is,” Kelly said, adding the “next stage” was activity in practice. 
Though he didn’t know by Tuesday whether prosise would see the field for senior day after suffering a con­cussion against pittsburgh last saturday, Kelly said they should know soon. 
“There’s a test that he has to get through by wednesday. so wednesday would be 
see fooTball PAGE 15 

MEN’S SOCCER 

nd ready for rematch in accs 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
The irish face no. 1-seed­ed wake forest in the acc tournament semifinal tonight. 
no. 9 notre dame (10-3-5, 4-2-2 acc) heads once again to spry stadium to take on the demon deacons (15-1­2, 6-0-2) for the second time on the road since oct. 23. The irish fell, 2-1, to wake forest, after holding a 1-0 advantage at halftime. 
now, the irish have a post-season-chance to redeem themselves. 
“we just have to play our game,” senior midfield­er and tri-captain patrick hodan said. “last time we played wake, we lost our way a little bit. it was disap­pointing that we didn’t play very well, but thankfully, we get another chance. 
“it’s obviously exciting to play the no. 1 team, but we will prepare just like we do for every other game. it should be a fun one.” 

and prepared they have, recording two shutouts since falling to wake forest. notre dame closed its regu­lar season with a 5-0 vic­tory over pitt at home. The irish then beat the reign­ing national champion, no. 19 virginia, 1-0, in the acc tournament quarterfinals sunday to kick off their postseason. The matchup marked the second con­secutive time the irish and cavaliers have met in the acc quarterfinals, with the irish winning both. 
“The game against virginia was a good win for us,” hodan said. “it was always going to be a diffi­cult game, and we showed resilience. 
see m soccer PAGE 14 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

freshmen set to contribute early 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
notre dame was set to begin the 2015-2016 season with three freshman guards, all capable of making an in­stant impact for the irish. but after 2015 maxpreps national high school player of the year ali patberg was ruled out for the season with a torn acl less than two weeks before the team’s first regular season game, arike ogunbowale and marina mabrey look to play an even greater role their first sea­son with the irish. 
both freshmen showed their talents in notre dame’s 101-52 exhibition win over wayne state on saturday. ogunbowale scored 14 points, while mabrey — the younger sister of senior guard michaela mabrey — led the irish with 22. irish head coach muffet mcgraw said she was impressed not only with the pair’s scor­ing ability but all-around games. 
“i thought they each played well and got a lot of scoring, which is what we are expecting from both of them,” mcgraw said after saturday’s game. “we re­ally got a lot of really good things all around from both of them. They can help us on the boards, they can both pass, and they can both score. defensively, we are really improving with those two. i am excited about the prospects of the future for both of them. 
“i think they’re coming along defensively. initially, it was really difficult. There’s a lot you have to remember defensively, and the play­ers are better. everybody’s a little bit quicker and a little bit stronger. but now i think both of them are starting to understand the rotations and how to guard the ball and how to guard screens. i think they’re getting better.” 
mcgraw had high praise for both guards, praising their physical nature and likening them to two re­cent irish standouts: all­americans Kayla mcbride and Jewell loyd. 
“They’re physical guards, 
see freshmen PAGE 12 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Gilbertson carries Irish into postseason play 
By BEN PADANILAM 
sports writer 
after losing last year’s top two offensive weap­ons, the irish were look­ing for someone to step up this season. 
enter anna maria gilbertson. 
The senior forward was coming off three straight seasons in which she saw moderate playing time. she made made the most of it though, scoring five goals in 2012 and four goals in both 2013 and 2014. but for the first time, she finds herself with a regular spot at the top of notre dame’s attack. irish head coach Theresa romagnolo said she couldn’t be happier with the results. 
“she’s having a great year for us,” romagnolo said. “it’s been fun for me to watch her develop. she’s really put the team on her back at times this year and been a great leader for our offense.” 
gilbertson has been a 
see gilberTson PAGE 13 






