ThE INDEPENDENT TO uNCOVER NEWSPAPER SERVINg ThE TRuTh NOTRE DAME AND AND REPORT SAINT MARy’S IT ACCuRATELy 

VOLuME 48, ISSuE 85 | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2015 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Memorial Mass honors Daniel Kim 
Homilist Pete McCormick reflects on Kim’s ‘loyalty,’ ‘capacity to listen,’ ‘strong sense of self-confidence’ 
By MARGARET HYNDS, KAYLA MULLEN and EMILY McCONVILLE 
Associate News Editors and News Writer 
Notre Dame students and staff and members of the Congregation of the holy Cross filled the Basilica of the Sacred heart on Monday night for a memorial Mass celebrat­ing the life of Daniel Kim, a sophomore in the Mendoza College of Business who died 
last week.  
university  President  Fr.  
John  Jenkins  presided  over  
the  Mass.  university  Vice  

President for Student Affairs 
Erin hoffmann harding and student body president Lauren Vidal presented readings from the books of Lamentations and Romans, respectively. 
In his homily, Director of Campus Ministry Fr. Pete McCormick, Kim’s former rec­tor in Keough hall, described Kim’s loyalty to his friends, his love of fencing and his en­dearing self-confidence. 
“I had the good fortune of being Daniel’s rector his freshman year in Keough hall, and I will save you the suspense: he was not perfect, 
see MEMORIAL PAGE 5 




Chili cook-off supports cancer research efforts 
By SAMUEL CHAN 
News Writer 
The delicious scent of home-cooked food filled the air at harper hall on Monday afternoon as the harper Cancer Research Institute hosted its second annual chili cook-off. 
With an admission fee of $10, attendees were welcomed to sample different varieties of homemade chili and vote for their favorites. A small 
see ChILI PAGE 4 



Author criticizes racial bias in mass incarceration 
By KIERA JOHNSEN 
News Writer 
Bestselling author Michelle Alexander discussed racial injustice and mass incarcer­ation in the American justice system during a lecture at Saint Mary’s in O’Laughlin Auditorium on Tuesday. 
Alexander said the crimi­nal justice system has created a new form of the former Jim Crow laws, exemplified in practices like discrimination against felons. 

“In the era of colorblind­ness, it is no longer socially permissible to use race ex­plicitly as a justification for discrimination, exclu­sion and social contempt, so we don’t,” Alexander said. “Rather than rely on race, we use our criminal justice sys­tem to label people of color criminals and then engage in all the practices we suppos­edly left behind. 
“Today it is perfectly le­gal to discriminate against criminals in nearly all the ways it was once le­gal to discriminate against 
see AuThOR PAGE 5 

Week promotes self-empowerment 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
News Writer 

This week begins the second 
annual  Awkward  Awareness  
Week,  which  is  sponsored  
by  the  gender  Relations  

Center (gRC). According to junior Kimberly Mai, a mem­ber of the gRC FIRE Starters (gRC peer educators fo­cused on Finding Identity, Relationships and Equality), this week is intended to be a celebration of imperfection. 
“Oftentimes students at Notre Dame operate under the impression that they need to be perfect because it seems like everyone else is,” Mai said. 
Regina gesicki, assistant director for educational ini­tiatives at the gRC, said many of the week’s events will be social media-based, including posting “Awkward Moment” student stories on the gRC’s Facebook page. Facilitators will ask students about their most awkward moments and then post the stories with a picture of the student holding an Awkward Awareness Week sign. 
Another social media-based initiative will be a BuzzFeed quiz that will poke 
see AWKWARD PAGE 4 






Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Ann Marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                Brian hartnett  Alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: Isaac Lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin Song Asst. Managing Editor: Samantha Zuba 

News Editor: Lesley Stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela Leskur Sports Editor: Mary green Scene Editor: Allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: Wei Lin Graphics Editor: Keri O’Mara Multimedia Editor: Brian Lach Advertising Manager: Elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine Park Controller: Cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
What is your favorite study spot on campus? 

Joey Curci 


Troy Prince 
freshman 

freshman 
Zahm house 

Keenan hall 
“The Octa in DPAC.” 

“My dorm.” 
Utkarsh Sonkiya 
freshman 
Zahm house 
“Membroza College of Business Cafe.” 


Rudy Bernard 
freshman 
Zahm house 
“Michiana’s hottest Nightclub.” 
Juan Mendez 
freshman 
Zahm house 
“I actually love to read in the bathroom.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 
Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant 
Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
Post Office Information 

The Observer (uSPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The Observer is published at: 
024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 

Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices 
POSTMASTER 
Send address corrections to: 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. 
All reproduction rights are reserved. 


Eduardo Andino 
graduate student Zahm house 
“My own room.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Lesley Stevenson Alex Carson Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Katie galioto Marek Mazurek Selena Ponio 
Scene Graphics Erin McAuliffe 
Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
Keri O’Mara 

Viewpoint Photo Tabitha Ricktets 
Four: 7 Catholic Lynne Tillman Staff Mass Even Fridays Martial Men’s Lacrosse 
Jodi Lo 

Fellowship Reading Log Chapel Arts Night Arlotta Stadium Cavanaugh Hall Eck Visitors Center 10 a.m. - 11 a.m. Rockne Memorial Gym 12 p.m. - 2 p.m. 
8:15 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. 7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Rev. Jim Bracke will 5:30 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. Irish take on 
Corrections 

Worship service and Literary event free to preside. Reserve your spot Georgetown. 
The Observer regards itself as discussion. the public. online via RecRegister. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Stephane Wrembel Corby Night Mindful Meditation Men’s Hockey Saturday Vigil Mass 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
and His Band Corby Hall Coleman-Morse Compton Family Ice Basilica of the Sacred 
however, recognize that we will make 
Legends 8 p.m. - 10 p.m. Center Arena Heart 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
8 p.m. - 10 p.m. Learn more about the 5:15 p.m. - 6:25 p.m. 7:35 p.m. - 10 p.m. 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
French-born guitarist. Congregation of Holy Open to students, Irish take on Worship service. 
we can correct our error. 

Cross. faculty and staff. Providence. 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2015 | ThE OBSERVER 

SMC prepares for Dance Marathon with Riley Week 
By OLIVIA JACKSON 
News Writer 
Throughout this week, the Saint Mary’s Dance Marathon fund­raising committee will host vari­ous events for Riley Week on the Saint Mary’s campus, including a pizza party and yoga, according to junior Marissa galloway. 
“This year, we tried to incor­porate new events that would be popular among the student body,” galloway said. “We are re­ally excited about our pizza party. We got a lot of support from the South Bend community. 
“We are inviting the entire stu­dent body for $5, and the regis­tered dancers get in for free. We will have tons of food from dif­ferent restaurants like Domino’s, Jimmy Johns, Chipotle and hacienda.” 
Sophomore Maranda Pennington said Riley Week is a push to promote the Dance Marathon, which is set to take place March 28, as well as sup­port Riley Children’s hospital in Indianapolis. 
“[Riley Week] is important because it is a whole week dedi­cated to an amazing cause,” Pennington said. “It is a chance for more students to learn about what exactly Dance Marathon members do and also how they can contribute. One of our main goals this year is to increase participation.” 

galloway said Dance Marathon is, above all, about the patients at Riley. She said students who at­tend Dance Marathon will find that they are taking part in some­thing greater than themselves. 
“I know that when I look back on my childhood, my favorite memories consist of swimming in my pool with my sisters, having sleepovers with my friends and playing kickball with the neigh­bors,” galloway said. “That isn’t the case for the kids at Riley. Their memories consist of treatments and hospital visits. 
“We do all of this for those kids. Throughout Riley Week, we want to create awareness for Riley’s Children’s hospital and how rais­ing money can enhance their [pa­tients’] quality of life because they truly deserve it. We don’t realize how lucky we truly are.” 
“All of our funds go directly to Riley hospital for Children in Indianapolis,” Pennington said. 
“The money raised assists chil­dren and families in need and improves the quality of care expe­rienced at Riley.” 
galloway said students should become involved with Dance Marathon because it brings peo­ple together for a worthy cause. 
“I think that a huge part of col­lege is becoming involved in clubs and organizations,” galloway said. “With Dance Marathon, you realize that what you are do­ing is for a much greater good. I have developed incredibly close relationships with other students that I wouldn’t have even had the privilege of meeting. 
“We all work very closely to­gether. We are like puzzle pieces and when one is missing, things start to fall apart. We all rely on each other, and it creates an amazing atmosphere. Each year, we strive to become better and better and to raise more money for Riley Children’s hospital.” 
Pennington said the Dance Marathon committee will be holding registration for the event throughout the week. 
Contact Olivia Jackson at ojacks01@saintmarys.edu 

Students combine social concerns, entrepreneurship 
By SELENA PONIO 
News Writer 
A team of six Notre Dame stu­dents advanced to the regional finals of the hult Prize, a com­petition that aims to find solu­tions for social problems using entrepreneurial approaches, according to the hult Prize Foundation’s website. 
According to its website, the hult Prize Foundation is a non­profit foundation whose goal is to send out the next generation of social entrepreneurs. Seniors Olivia Chen and Veronica guerrero, junior Evelyn Bauman and sophomores Cate Devey, Sierra hajdu and Elle huang make up the team that will compete in this entrepre­neurial competition for social good. 
“President Clinton comes up with the prompt every year,” Devey said. “This year, it is about early childhood educa­tion in urban slums.” 
Devey said the team’s job is to learn about urban slums and the surrounding environ­ment and then make an in­formed decision based on their observations. 
“It’s cool to see how busi­ness is used for good to solve social problems,” Chen said. “Everyone in our group is really passionate about education in general, so it’s fun to just throw ideas back and forth.” 

Bauman is currently studying abroad in France but remains invested in the team through Skype sessions. The Kellogg Institute for International Studies as well as the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts agreed to fund her costs of flying back for a weekend to be present at the regional competi­tion in San Francisco in March. 
“We are trying to design a social enterprise that promotes high-quality early education and is able to be adopted in var­ious countries and for various cultures,” Bauman said. 
Bauman said the team ob­served the “Talk With your Baby” program at the Robinson Community Learning Center in South Bend and certain aspects of the initiative appeal to them. Bauman said the Robinson Center’s program encourages talking to children as much as possible in order to cultivate stronger vocabulary skills and healthy development. 
“We would like to develop a tangible product to encourage talking and playing, as well as a distribution model — almost a micro-franchising model to formalize networks of caretak­ers that already exist in urban slums,” Bauman said. 
hajdu said she feels honored to be part of a team that was selected out of about 20,000 teams in the first round of competition. 
“The competition is going to be very strong, but we’re excited to show that Notre Dame truly is dedicated to impacting the global community for the bet­ter,” she said. 
hajdu said she envisions this competition to be one of the best experiences of her under­graduate career, and she is ex­cited to meet other students in San Francisco and learn about their experiences as well. 
“The hult Prize regional final competition in San Francisco is also a huge networking event for international innovative students to meet each other, share their ideas and spur a movement in social entrepre­neurship that hopes to change the world,” hajdu said. 
Bauman said that if it wins the regional competition, the team will be given the chance to develop their social enterprise in Boston over the summer. 
“Whatever happens at the competition in March, we are super grateful for the oppor­tunity to compete in the hult Prize Challenge 2015 to pro­mote the idea of using the effi­ciency and power of the private sector for global public well-be­ing,” Bauman said. 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 

Lecturer considers implications of pornography 
By MERCEDES de la ROSA 
News Writer 

On Friday, 2014 alumnus Michael Bradley, current managing editor for Ethika Politika and editor of The Whole Story, discussed the effects of pornography on relationships in a lecture ti­tled “Passionless Love, Erotic healing” as part of the 10th Annual Edith Stein Project conference. 
Bradley first defined por­nographic consumption and production, stating that dis­covering the intention be­hind an action is the most important part of actually understanding it. he gave the example of murder versus self-defense to illustrate his point. 
“Self-defense and murder, as we know, can look identi­cal physically, and yet are radically unlike morally,” said Bradley. 
With this in mind, Bradley defined pornographic pro­duction as separate from the consumption of sexually ex­plicit material. 
“I want to say that porno­graphic production is simply the production of material in­tended for pornographic con­sumption; that is, production is a function of the intention­al structure of that consump­tion,” Bradley explained. “Every directorial decision, if you want to call them that, that goes into making porno­graphic material aims at pro­viding a sexual stimulus for the viewer.” 
Bradley said pornographic consumption is strictly por­nography used with the in­tent to sexually arouse. As he explained, a law enforce­ment official who must watch hours of child pornography in order to identify victims is not consuming porn, regard­less of whether or not he or she is sexually aroused. 
“The actual arousal of the viewer is neither necessary nor sufficient to a proper un­derstanding of the definition of pornographic consump­tion.” Bradley said. “[The law enforcement agent] may be aroused by what he views, but it’s not pornographic consumption precisely be­cause he doesn’t mean to be aroused by what he views.” 
After offering his defi­nitions of pornograph­ic consumption and production, Bradley turned to St. Augustine’s teachings on sexual pleasure, which he said are noteworthy despite their apparent harshness. 
“In Augustine’s view, sexual pleasure and the drive for it are irrevocably enmeshed and warped by what Cavadini calls ideologies of power and domination,” Bradley said, referencing Notre Dame professor of theology John Cavadini. 
“For Augustine, pride is the sin of illusory elevation of self, over god. It’s that tendency or inclination to replace god with oneself, the irrational privileging of oneself over ev­eryone else including god,” Bradley said. “… The heart that is configured by [pride] will take great pleasure in its own use of power.” 
“The essence of pornogra­phy is domination, is control,” he said. “The viewer controls the subject, who responds to his wishes and can be appro­priated without concern for his or her personhood.” 
Bradley said lust and por­nographic consumption are closely linked. 
“This appetite for lust is deeply embedded in our cul­ture.” Bradley explained. “It finds expression not just in images, but in written words, ‘Fifty Shades of grey’ and in popular narratives about re­lationships and expectations as well. Pornography is, sad­ly, for us at least, a cultural project. Lust imbues porno­graphic consumption with a horrible and deep boredom.” 
Bradley discussed what a person who seeks to engage in sexual activity must do in order to heal himself or her­self of the tainted perspective that results from being in a culture that is surrounded by pornographic images. he pointed to prayer and the Eucharist and encouraged the audience to seek the hu­mility of Christ instead of pride. 
Bradley said the way to overcome the boredom that porn eventually causes is to fully appreciate the human­ity of the person with whom one is in a relationship. In doing so, a person is thereby doing exactly what porn does not, which is appreciating humanity. he concluded with a final reference to the hope that lies in the Eucharist. 
“We may not have supposed it, but the most humane re­sponse to the problem of pornography may ultimately rest in the joyful hope and humility afforded by a sound ecclesiology and in the con­sumption of a body after all, be it one of a very different nature,” Bradley said. 
Contact Mercedes de la Rosa at mdelaro5@nd.edu 


ThE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2015 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Alumnus examines ethics in transfer pricing 
By JP GSCHWIND 
News Writer 
Jerry Carter, Vice President of Tax and International Finance at IDEX Corporation and a class of 1988 alumnus, discussed the ethical and practical aspects of transfer pricing in an Ethics Week lecture Monday after­noon at giovanini Commons in the Mendoza College of Business. 
Carter defined transfer pric­ing as a set of rules that en­sure businesses with common ownership transfer goods and services between each other at a fair market rate. he gave a hypothetical example of two companies held by the same owner, one being located in the u.S. and one in Italy. If the 
u.S. company sells goods to its Italian counterpart, it must do so at fair market value. 
Carter said companies often 
Chili 
CONTINuED FROM PAgE 1 
bake sale ran concurrently to help taste testers take the heat out of the chili they consumed. 
All proceeds from the event will benefit the harper team taking part in Notre Dame’s Relay for Life, a campus and community fundraising walk in April dedicated to fighting cancer. 
On the origin of the cook-off, Jenifer Prosperi, co-organizer and assistant professor of biochemistry and molecular biology at the Indiana university School of Medicine (IuSM-SB), said, “I wanted to have a chili cook-off with just my lab, and we were trying to decide where the funds would go to. It was about the same time we were talking about Relay for Life and needing a fundraiser.” 
Last year, the cook-off raised $400, Prosperi said. 
Co-organizer Jenna Bilinski, administrative as­sistant at the harper Cancer Research Institute, said, “I would say last year we prob­ably had 12 or 13 chili en­tries. This year we have 19.” 
Staff from the Notre Dame Fire Department were seen quickly dropping off their pot of chili at the venue be­fore returning to work. 
“There are professors, stu­dents, researchers ... even an eight-year-old,” Bilinski said, referring to the diver­sity of the chefs. 
That eight-year-old, Matias Jayden Dahl, said: “I wanted to make chili; Mommy helped me. [I want­ed to make this] because it’s my grandma Sandy’s home­made recipe.” 
Other featured chefs in­clude last year’s cook-off champion Tracy Vargo­gogola, assistant professor sell cheaply to their counter­parts in other countries with lower taxes, so their overall cost decreases and profit is boosted. 
“The subject of debate lies in fair market value,” he said. 
While there are some stan­
“The number one reason transfer pricing is used for tax evasion is greed.” 
Jerry Carter 
vice president 
IDEX Corporation 
dards for establishing fair mar­ket value, it is largely left up to the companies themselves to decide what is a legitimate price, Carter said. 
If a company uses transfer 

of biochemistry and molec­ular biology at IuSM-SB. 
“[I am here] of course to win again,” Vargo said jokingly. “It’s such a great cause.” 
First-time chef participant David Boone, IuSM-SB asso­ciate professor of microbiol­ogy and immunology, said: “I’m supporting cancer re­search here, and I think it’s important to be part of the community. We do social things together.” 
Boone made a sweet chili consisting of pudding, brownies and cherries with a topping of jelly beans and coconut shreds. 
“you can’t please every­one, though,” he said, just as a little girl exclaimed “I hate cherries.” 
“you should try my chili last, as a dessert,” he laughed. 
According to the Notre Dame Relay for Life website, this year will mark the fun­draiser’s 11th anniversary. Apart from walking around a track, there will be a num­ber of activities for adults and children at the Compton Family Ice Arena the eve­ning of April 17, including a silent auction, ice skating, food and a luminary cere­mony “to honor and remem­ber those who have or have had cancer.” 
A press release dated January 30 stated the Notre Dame relay has already raised more than $1 mil­lion overall for the American Cancer Society (ACS). The ACS has awarded the university with 13 research grants, worth more than $4.7 million to date, to allow “faculty and students the ability to conduct innova­tive cancer research.” 
Contact Samuel Chan at  schan3@nd.edu 
pricing at a fair market value to simply pay lower taxes in an­other country, it is not violating any ethical standards or laws, he said. however, if companies arbitrarily lower the selling price of their goods to reduce their tax bill, they are guilty of tax evasion. Transfer pricing requires supporting documen­tation and a justifiable grounds that it meets the criteria of fair market value, Carter said. 
“The number one reason transfer pricing is used for tax evasion is greed,” he said. 
Other reasons for unethical transfer pricing include peer pressure from managers and competitors, eagerness to take advantage of tax credits and even patriotism, Carter said. he said Asian companies, par­ticularly those from Japan, of­ten prefer to pay more taxes to their country than to ones where their subsidiaries are 
Awkward 
CONTINuED FROM PAgE 1 
fun at Notre Dame-specific moments of awkwardness. gesicki said she and the gRC hope that the interactive project will create a sense of solidarity. 
“As people take the quiz and share their results, we hope to show that even though it may seem like no one else has an awkward moment or 10, they really do,” gesicki said. “These moments, hum­bling reminders of our hu­
manity,  can  be  learning  
opportunities.”  
Additionally,  12-day  

Jeopardy champion Arthur Chu will give a free lecture Tuesday evening called “your Princess Is In Another Castle: Misogyny, Entitlement, and Nerds,” which will be based on his article of the same name published in “The Daily Beast.” Speaking at 7 p.m. in the Carey Auditorium, Chu will explore the new class of masculinity within geek culture. 
Mai said later in the week the gRC will release a video featuring Notre Dame pro­fessors and faculty members speaking about their most awkward moments. gesicki said the video will help show that even successful people have awkward moments. 
“Even those people we look up to the most have made mis­steps, and these did not derail their success,” gesicki said. 
Mai said many students hold high expectations of per­fection for themselves, and this week is intended to help them relax those impossible standards. 
“Even though we know that no one is perfect, we still de­mand it from ourselves and have made it an expectation of sorts,” she said. 
The gRC decided to start located. 

Carter cited Toyota Australia as an example: the Toyota Motor Corporation over­charged its Australian sub­sidiary so that it would pay more taxes to Japan. Toyota ultimately paid the Australian government a $250 million set­tlement. Similarly, Carter said, British pharmaceutical firm glaxoSmithKline overcharged its u.S. subsidiary for inventory and eventually paid $3.5 bil­lion in penalties to the IRS. 
Carter said what he calls “the cookie jar philosophy” has tak­en hold at many multinational companies that adopt aggres­sive tax and transfer pricing strategies in the hope they do not get caught with their hands in the cookie jar. 
“At IDEX we don’t subscribe to this at all,” Carter said of “the cookie jar philosophy.”  “As you can imagine, it’s hit or miss.” 
Tax arbitration is a poten­tial solution to transfer pricing issues, but it requires coop­eration between nations, ac­cording to Carter. he said India has struggled to agree with the 
u.S. on tax arbitration, but it is currently trying to reenter dis­cussion on the matter. Another option is advanced pricing agreements that preemptively lay out pricing strategies and gain government approval before being put into action, Carter said. 
Carter said that the ethical line between tax avoidance and tax evasion is often murky but must be carefully exam­ined by everyone. 
“I don’t ask you to be transfer pricing experts, but it is impor­tant to be aware of this topic,” he said. 
Contact JP Gschwind at  jgschwin@nd.edu 

Awkward Awareness Week for implications. the first time last year to show “ultimately, we hope stu­people that it is okay to be dents use this week to think awkward and to have flaws, about ways to be more forgiv-Mai said. ing of themselves,” she said. 
“We all have embarrassing “In doing this, we can move 
“Ultimately, we hope students use this week to think about ways to be more forgiving of themselves. In doing this, we can move beyond fear of being awkward into authentic relationships with self and others.” 
Regina Gesicki 
assistant director 
Gender Relations Center 

moments and, let’s face it, beyond fear of being awkward they’re more fun to talk about into authentic relationships anyways,” she said. with self and others.” 
gesicki said helping stu­dents get over “awkward Contact Megan Valley at  moments” has even further mvalley@nd.edu 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2015 | ThE OBSERVER 



Memorial 
CONTINuED FROM PAgE 1 
but then again, none of us are, and I certainly am not,” McCormick said. “So that makes us one and the same. 
“During our time together, I observed incredible char­acteristics of this young man. Daniel cared about his friends and was immensely loyal to them, and I know be­cause his friends are sitting right here in the front row. 
“In addition to his loyalty, in addition to his friendship, he had this incredible capac­ity to listen. his humility was uncanny. he would listen; he would hear out what I had to say, and we had good and meaningful conversations. 
“One of the defining char­acteristics of Daniel was his strong sense of self-confi­dence. In one of my multiple conversations with him, we would sometimes talk about sports, and some of you may know this, or you may not, but he was quite a fencer. 
“Daniel would say to me, ‘hey, have you ever heard of so-and-so?’ And I would say, ‘No, I don’t know much about fencing, so I’m sorry.’ And he would say, ‘Well, that’s not really important,’ and then he’d go on to list [the fencer’s] characteristics and abilities and whatnot, and then he’d say, ‘I can beat him.’ 
“And I believed him. he said it with a certain look in his eye that said, ‘I’m not ly­ing to you, Mr. Priest.’” 
McCormick asked those in attendance to do two things: to commend Kim’s soul to god and to offer praise and thanksgiving for the gift of life. 
“The second thing we need to do well is to praise the Lord, to call to mind that life is not guaranteed and even in the most mundane moments, it is still a pre­cious gift,” he said. 

“you know, seeing our own mortality, we are embarking on a different level, often­times brings about and visits the deeper questions of life,” McCormick said. “how do I live out my own values? Are my actions consistent with what I hope for myself? how will I use my time that I have been given to answer these questions? 
“In addition to his loyalty, in addition to his friendship, he had this incredible capcity to listen. His humilty was uncanny. He would listen; he would hear out what I had to say, and we had good and meaningful conversations.” 
Fr. Pete McCormick 
director 
Campus Ministry 

“Lean into these ques­tions. Do not back away from these questions. Don’t be afraid if you don’t know the answer or if you don’t like what you see.” 
All dorm masses were cancelled Monday night so that students, hall staff and rectors would be able to at­tend the memorial; several dorms led walkovers to the Basilica. 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu, Kayla Mullen at  kmullen2@nd.edu and Emily McConville at  emcconv1@nd.edu 
Author 
CONTINuED FROM PAgE 1 
African-Americans. Once you’re labeled a felon, the old forms of discrimination, employment discrimination, housing discrimination, de­nial of the right to vote, ex­clusion from jury service are suddenly legal. 
“As a criminal, you have scarcely more rights and argu­ably less respect than a black man living in Alabama at the height of Jim Crow. We have not ended castes in America; we have merely redesigned it.” 
Alexander said the war on drugs and the get-tough-on­crime movement contrib­uted to the problems of mass incarceration. 
“Since the drug war began in the 1980s, more than 40 million people have been ar­rested, primarily for non-vi­olent drug-related offenses,” Alexander said. “There are more people in prisons and jails today just for drug of­fenses than were incarcerated for all reasons in 1980. 
“Most Americans violate drug laws in their lifetime. But this war has been waged exclusively in poor communi­ties of color despite the fact that studies consistently show now that for decades, contrary popular belief, colored people are no more likely to use or sell illegal drugs than whites.” 
Alexander said blindness 
inhibits  progress  against  
the  oppressiveness  of  mass  
incarceration.  

“If you are not personally affected by this new system, if you yourself have not done time and are labeled a felon and are forced to check off that box on housing appli­cations, employment appli­cations, if you don’t have a brother, sister, nephew, moth­er, father behind bars, if you yourself have not been made to lie spread eagle on the pavement with a gun at your head, if you yourself have not been touched, it is easy to go around and have no idea what is going on,” Alexander said. “If we are going to build a movement to end this system, we first have to make visible what is in plain sight.” 

Alexander said more African-American adults are under correctional control to­day, in prison or jail, on pro­bation or parole than were enslaved in 1850. 
“In honor of all those who risked their lives to end earlier forms of racial and social control, I hope we will commit ourselves to building a truly revolutionary human rights movement for justice.” 
Michelle Alexander 
author 

“What makes neighbor­hoods safe is not the num­ber of guns but the number of good schools, good jobs, good opportunities for peo­ple, opportunities to improve one’s life,” she said. “In so many towns and communi­ties across America, a choice has been made, and it is a de­liberate choice, a choice that has been made over and over again. 
“Rather than good schools, we have built hi-tech pris­ons. Rather than create jobs, we have embarked on an un­precedented race to incar­cerate that has left millions of Americans permanently locked up and locked out.” 
Alexander said images of 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


racial progress create mis­conceptions on why prison­ers cannot improve their own prospects. 
“Over the years I’ve given a lot of thought to how we’ve been lulled to sleep, become so indifferent to the suffer­ing and exclusion of those we think of as criminals,” she said. “The reasons are nu­merous, of course, but among the most important, I think, are the images of great racial progress — images that rein­force that those who are left behind, those who have been stuck at the bottom, those who are cycling in and out of prison find themselves there for reasons that can be barely described as ‘their own fault.’” 
Alexander said uninten­tional biases and stereotypes contribute to the reasons po­lice stop African-Americans more than whites. 
“Most police officers, like the rest of us, know better than to state racial biases, but more importantly, so many of the biases that drive law en­forcement decision-making operate on an unconscious level that many well-mean­ing, well-intentioned officers cannot admit to themselves their own biases,” Alexander said. “A police officer driv­ing down the street seeing a group of young black kids walking with their pants sag­ging a little bit — the officer says, ‘Oh you know what, I’m going to jump out, check them out, frisk them, see if they got anything on them. I’m doing my job, keeping the streets safe.’ 
“he may not mean those young men any harm. he’s just trying to engage in some good aggressive policing. But that same officer seeing a group of young white kids walking down the street, even with their pants sagging. The officer is not likely to jump out and have them spread ea­gle on the sidewalk.” 
Alexander said despite all the problems, there is hope and good news after the events in Ferguson, Missouri, and Staten Island, New york, in recent months and the de­crease in incarceration rates. 
“In honor of all those who risked their lives to end ear­lier forms of racial and social control, I hope we will com­mit ourselves to building a truly revolutionary human rights movement for justice,” she said. “A movement for education, not incarceration, for jobs, not jails, a movement to end all legal forms of dis­crimination against people released from prison — dis­crimination that denies them basic human rights to work, to shelter, to food. ... A move­ment that challenges all of us to respond for greater care and compassion and con­cern to those we view as the others.” 
Contact Kiera Johnsen at kjohns02@saintmarys.edu 


INSIDE COLUMN 

This is why: My story 
Susan Zhu 
graphic Designer 

When Madison holleran took her life in January 2014, the university of Pennsylvania reeled at its fourth suicide within a year, which sparked the question: “Why would these kids — top of their class, the elite, bound for suc­cess — choose to kill themselves?” 
The closest I ever came was a letter. I kept that letter for a year in a small drawer on the right side of my desk, where it sat until I folded it up and tucked it into the trash while I was packing to leave for my first semester in college. I had kept it all that time not because I still felt like I did when I wrote it, but because it reminded me I was alive and that I had made the conscious decision to stay so. 
In high school, I was the overachiever. I was the 4.0 student who was bound to be a valedictorian and go to a prestigious university and then become a doctor, or something of the sort. That was my track; that was the way life would work out for me, for people like me. I was constantly working towards success, and though I was in high school, the competition was suffocating at times. It always felt as though I constantly had to prove myself and my worth and my intelligence to my peers, people that really had no right or authority to judge me on any of those things. 
Anything less than my best was failure. This may sound clichéd, but it was the reality. Everything I did was to go towards the goal of getting into a good college, of making something of myself. It was as though I had something to prove to the world, to my peers, to my teachers, to my family; I had to be the best at any expense. I was exhausted, I was worn out, but I plastered that smile on my face so no one would guess anything was wrong. Anything other than the happy, positive person that others regarded me as would be strange and out of place. This was the person I had created, and I had to maintain her for as long as I could. 
I had read that depression was a serious problem, but I ignored it even as it was eating up my mind. When I began to feel empty or apathetic, I worked harder; I didn’t want to dwell on the fact that I was slipping away from myself. The breaking point didn’t occur until my first thought of taking my own life. I didn’t just wake up one morning and decide I didn’t want to live anymore. It developed gradually, until one day I was driving home from school and the thought of running my car off the bridge didn’t scare me, it reassured me. This was in my junior year of high school. I didn’t want to die; I didn’t want to hurt my family or my friends. I didn’t want to live, either; the days weren’t hard, and they blended seamlessly together as I floated through them aimlessly. It was around this time I wrote the letter. It was only a page, with a few paragraphs addressed to my parents and some of my closest friends. I had planned on us­ing pills because the thought of doing it any other way scared me. 
I am a survivor of my own psyche. I have never battled a life-threatening physical illness, but I have battled a life-threatening mental illness. I am here, as a survivor and as a fighter, to tell you to speak up. Don’t talk yourself out of reaching out to seek help. It is a terrifying thought, the idea that you can no longer get through this life without seeking professional assistance. But it is not something you should be ashamed about. you should be proud of yourself, for keeping on the fight when it feels hopeless, and none of us can get through this life on our own regardless. 
If you feel as though you need to seek help, do so immediately. If you are concerned for a friend and are worried that he or she may not go without some convincing, sit with them, listen to their worries, work with them to get them to St. Liam’s. Do not play the hero when you help a friend that is struggling. you are being a good friend, yes, but they are not yours to save, their fight for life is not your achievement. Be their equal, be their heart when they are hurting. But never, in your attempts to help them, make them feel as though they are “cra­zy,” do not tell them to just “cheer up” when they admit to feeling depressed. Do not trivialize their struggles with half-hearted words of “encouragement.” It’s time that “depressed” stops being thrown around like it is a casual emotion. It’s time to take away the stigma of seeking help. 
I can accredit the majority of my recovery from depression to the ones who stuck by my side when I was at my lowest, who never left even when I myself wanted to leave this life, and desperately so. I know the importance of people, the importance of having someone there for you and the importance of unre­quited support. My support system never expected anything back from me, ex­cept for effort and a determined will to live. They weren’t getting public praise for their help; they never thought twice when trying to help me. I’m terrified to imagine what would have happened had I not been lucky enough to have those beautiful people. 
get off your phones. Just go. go be with each other. Be with each other and support one another. 
Be there. 

Contact Susan Zhu at szhu4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
We have met the enemy, and he is us 
JC Sullivan 
Prologue to Farce 
“A better politics is one where we de­bate without demonizing each other; where we talk issues and values and principles and facts, rather than ‘got­cha’ moments or trivial gaffes or fake controversies.” 
For most, this quotation from President Obama’s State of the union prompted identical responses that could not be more different. “Exactly, if only the other side agreed,” members of both political parties said. By nearly every quantita­tive measure, and even a casual glance at the daily news, the united States is more polarized than ever. The last few months in particular seem to highlight a broken political system characterized by funda­mental disagreement and resentment as well as a bitterly divided populace. 
Of the many explanations for in­creased polarization, one I recently came across and think is worthy of discus­sion and reflection comes from social psychology. In “Attitudes, Advocacy and Polarization,” Roger Conner and Patricia Jordan argue that “strong, negative at­titudes, once attached to an ‘attitude object’ such as the ‘other side’ in a policy conflict, will operate subconsciously to distort cognition in ways that generate extreme and polarized thinking.” They go on to describe that there has been dramatic growth in the number of peo­ple involved in policy advocacy and that conversations increasingly occur within advocacy coalitions, which they define as “vast, superficially diverse networks of people and groups with similar world views and policy beliefs.” 
Conner and Jordan argue that a psy­chological connection between attitudes and beliefs strengthens and reinforces attitudes and beliefs. What this means is that when we attach an attitude (I like Paul Ryan/Barack Obama) to a belief (I agree/disagree with raising taxes), this connection serves to increase both (Paul Ryan is a corporate monkey who hates poor people/Barack Obama is a socialist who rewards the lazy). 
Furthermore, increased exposure to those who share similar attitudes and beliefs, as well as increased access to complimentary information, serves to fortify and exacerbate the connection between the two. Once this process takes hold, we develop an increasingly hostile understanding of those attitudes and be­liefs that contradict our own and become profoundly biased in our understanding of relevant information and experiences. As John F. Kennedy once said, “We enjoy the comfort of opinion without the dis­comfort of thought.” 
An oversaturated information market compels us toward sources we agree with, providing seemingly irrefutable evidence for our political ideology. This process has become so easy that we barely even bother to understand our position on a given topic anymore, toeing the party line on a given conclu­sion and entrusting allies to fill in the body paragraphs. This occurs under the false assumption that such allies did their homework in an objective, level­headed fashion. Mark Twain echoed this sentiment when he wrote, “In politics, people’s beliefs and convictions are in almost every case gotten at second­hand, and without examination, from authorities who have not themselves examined the questions at issue but have taken them at second-hand from other non-examiners.” 

This tendency, supplemented by in­stantaneous access to infinite informa­tion, makes it easy for us to so completely immerse ourselves in our own viewpoint that we begin to recognize any disagree­ment as utterly false and even immoral or evil. When we actually engage those on the opposite end of the political spec­trum, we are so deeply entrenched in our own philosophical underpinnings, as­sumptions and conclusions that we can’t even understand what the other person is saying. This is particularly dangerous when some argue that a certain group characteristic prevents or inherently un­dermines what one member of the group says on a particular topic. This argument sounds something like, “you possess cat­egory x and therefore cannot participate in this discussion and/or have a fun­damentally biased viewpoint.” There is perhaps no line of thinking more toxic to political discourse than this sentiment. 
This method of information gather­ing and communication has also trans­formed complex and ambiguous public policy debates into two-sided, zero sum discussions. This in turn discourages compromise and further feeds the beast. 
The reason I decided to write on this topic was not to accuse or lecture, as I find myself guilty of all the charges lev­ied above, but to hopefully encourage some sort of self-reflection in regards to the role we play in what we universally agree is a failure to communicate. This column includes one too many “we all do this” claims and is more pessimistic than usual, which I recognize and admit. But I hope that as a result, it provokes indi­vidual effort and reflection on a topic I would argue we blame on everyone but ourselves. 
As political columnist george Will has pointed out, it is nice to be pessimistic because you are either proven right or pleasantly surprised. My hope is that when we are confronted with political and social challenges that require diffi­cult thinking and conversation, I will be pleasantly surprised by the Notre Dame community’s ability to foster a construc­tive and effective political dialogue. 
JC Sullivan is a junior living in Keenan Hall. He can be contacted at jsulli18@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Is Obama giving away the store?: An answer 
Dan Sehlhorst 
We’ve Lost Our Quorum 

After reading Christopher Newton’s Feb. 6 re­sponse to my previous column, “Is Obama giving away the store?,” I humorously gather he believes my only success was to give it a clever title. As I read his criticisms of my analysis, however, I no­tice some weaknesses in his arguments as well. 
Newton notes that many of the criticisms of Obama’s foreign policy are, in fact, levied against him “too early to pass judgment.” yet, it is a direct contradiction to expect a declarative answer as to whether Obama is giving away the store or not. I cannot say yet whether the President’s novel for­eign policy moves will impair American interests, and it is premature for Newton to conclude that he hasn’t. The question, at this point, remains rhetorical. 
Although Newton’s first point is nominally correct, his effort to display regional knowledge of the Middle East disregards that my reference to al-Qaeda, in good faith, should have been taken to refer to offshoots and other global net­works, such as al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP). In a short piece, I am not afforded print space to give the intricate history between Middle East religious sects and associated mili­tant groups. 
When Newton referred to the difference be­tween hezbollah and the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS) — ideologically opposed and directly fighting each other — as equivalent to confusing AQAP and the houthi rebels, I recognized that my writing was very misleading in failing to es­tablish that I was referring to the role that AQAP’s ongoing conflict with the houthis has played in the eventual collapse of the yemenese govern­ment to the houthi rebels. I apologize for any confusion or consternation that may have caused. More importantly, I should have also mentioned that AQAP claimed responsibility for the Charlie hebdo shooting mentioned later in the article. given its part in these two major events, my larger claim still stands that al-Qaeda and its af­filiates pose a risk about which Americans should stay informed. 
Newton indicates he does not believe China’s human rights improvements have occurred due to Western engagement. At a minimum, though, trading with China led to economic reforms that lifted 500 million out of poverty since 1987, ac­cording to the World Bank. No one can deny the freedom that escaping poverty provides. Newton’s is a valid opinion, however, considering that beyond economic growth, many basic privi­leges remain out of reach to the Chinese. 
With that said, I posit that in an anarchic in­ternational environment, the united States is limited in its options to encourage democratiza­tion in China, as well as Saudi Arabia and Cuba. We can hope (with some anecdotal support) that by demanding that products manufactured in China be made according to minimum standards, we can encourage fair labor practices for certain firms. With growing wealth, fair labor in some firms and greater cultural interaction, we may see the growth of democratic ideals in the popu­lace, such as incidents like the recent events in hong Kong. 
Change is slow, and isolation certainly hasn’t proven effective in toppling many authoritarian regimes. Often, isolation, such as the Cuban em­bargo, harms the poor more than the powerful, and there is a strong moral case against that. 
With respect to ISIS, I know that I am not alone in concluding that the President’s “degrade and destroy” campaign seems far from robust. The coalition combatting ISIS doesn’t appear capable of eviscerating the group without greater external support from the international community. 
Newton declares that if Iran were to obtain a nuclear bomb, that event and its consequences would constitute “giving away the store.” he as­serts that my analysis underestimates the conse­quences of Iran obtaining a nuclear bomb, which is far from the case. I easily grant the fact that a nuclear Iran would comprise a seismic shock to the geopolitical balance and likely set off a series of aftershocks that would leave most of Asia and Europe geopolitically transformed and altogether more precarious. 

Rather, we run again into American limitations in our options to counter Iran’s pursuit of a nuke. Considering that the president is currently pursu­ing a nuclear agreement with Iran, I certainly do not dismiss the value of Iran and the u.S. to each other. In fact, I place the value of the relationship above my fear of Iran’s nuclear potential, hoping that diplomacy will effectively find a road to sta­ble power balance in the Middle East and trust­ing that the President is making the best decision with the information available. 
Lastly, I don’t think it is reasonable to claim that I am overestimating Iran’s “patron-client relationships,” considering Newton’s own state­ment that Iran funds the houthis and may have played a large role in undermining yemen. To hope the united States will convince Iran to use its patron-client relationships to further our Middle East objectives — even with a promise of help against ISIS — seems at least as “wildly opti­mistic” as my claim about Chinese human rights being tied to economic interplay with the West. 
I thank Newton for his input, as positive dia­logue furthers our cumulative understanding of complex world politics. 
Dan Sehlhorst is a junior studying economics and political science. Hailing from Troy, Ohio, and a resident of Zahm House, he looks forward to conversation about his columns and can be contacted at dsehlhor@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Response to Jake Bebar 

In a letter to the editor published Jan. 27, Jake Bebar entertained a question first posed by alumnus gregory Bergman in December: “[I]s SCOP merely a right-wing extremist group?” If such a question de­served a response, an appropriate one would be: Try to avoid pejorative labels, which are usually unjust and harmful to clear thinking. 
Bebar took a different approach. he nodded at there being other views, but then professed himself “deeply skeptical” of SCOP’s mission, implied that SCOP would “link [his] sexuality to pedophilia” and charged that we are “on a quest to take away [his] right to marry and to demean gay relationships.” Besides one intimation of guilt by association, Bebar offered no evidence whatsoever for these very seri­ous charges. 
Without evidence to contest, it is hard to know where to start in refuting these accusations, which are, all of them, false. Allow me, then, to lay to rest some questions whose answers should have been taken for granted from the very start. SCOP affirms the dignity of, and opposes hatred against, every single LgBTQ person on campus and through­out the world. We welcome, support and love our LgBTQ brothers and sisters. We want all LgBTQ persons to be happy, to flourish, to make the most of their lives at Notre Dame and elsewhere. We want this for every human being, and we never would have dreamed of excluding LgBTQ persons from our goodwill toward all. These are views that no individual or group at Notre Dame should have to make explicit: they are to be expected unless proven otherwise. 
Although “deeply skeptical of SCOP’s mission,” Bebar “fully support[s]” the only part of our alleged mission that is true: “to promote policy-making that places primary emphasis on how any particular policy affects children.” Beyond empirical effects, we believe that policies may also affect the rights of children. Among other areas, we believe that educa­tion, drug, pornography and marriage policies im­plicate the rights of children. 
On marriage policy, we believe that one part of any good policy is that it protects the right of every child (rich or poor) to the care of his or her biologi­cal mother and biological father. Those who are responsible for bringing a child into the world have a duty to live as a family with that child. This is why we think that public policy should encourage marriage, understood as the union of a man and a woman: relationships between a man and a woman are relationships that may bring vulnerable children into the world. 
SCOP does not believe that marriage policy is about judging the worth of LgBTQ persons. Affirming the principles of the Declaration of Independence, SCOP believes that no law, no gov­ernment, no group, no individual has any authority over the dignity of any human being. A person’s a person no matter how small, and a person’s a person no matter anything else either. It is impossible to deny the dignity of any person, including LgBTQ persons, although people sometimes engage in fu­tile efforts to do so. SCOP, of course, opposes any effort to deny or injure the dignity of any LgBTQ person. 

SCOP’s only quest is to clarify and vindicate the rights of children in public policy, but some stu­dents on this campus seem determined to think otherwise. In print, the order of the day seems to be misquotation, misattribution of views and false, unsupported claims. In social media, crassness and mockery prevail. Even in person, SCOP members face uncivil discourse. For example, in her first month at Notre Dame, a freshman SCOP member putting up posters in a male dorm had to deal with a young man expressing his “hate” for SCOP and claiming, “No one who believes what they do de­serves to be a group anywhere.” 
Did this young woman deserve such a welcome to Notre Dame? Do SCOP members deserve false ac­cusations and resulting damage to reputation and relationships alike? Certainly worse treatment oc­curs on campus, but can we under the Dome do no better? 
For an answer, we might rely on the gender Relations Center’s tireless efforts, but a good recent articulation is available. On Jan. 27, the university hosted a public debate on marriage. At that event, a student stood and praised civil discourse at Notre Dame. he welcomed views opposed to his own, and he called on Domers to take account of the persons their claims affect. The proponent of this ethic, which we all should follow, was Jake Bebar. 
Tiernan Kane 

president             Students for Child-Oriented Policy Feb. 9 

By MATT MUNHALL 
Scene Writer 

Josh Tillman’s Father John Misty persona is built on a self-constructed mythology; he tells an oft-repeated story involving an artistic revelation sparked by taking ayahuasca with a shaman in Big Sur. Naked and halluci­nating in an oak tree, Tillman — who had released seven albums under his birth name and was then the drummer for Fleet Foxes — decided to embrace his wry, sarcastic humor and Father John Misty was born. 
“I Love you, honeybear,” his second album under the Misty moniker, is an ambitious masterwork that mines the depths of Tillman’s deeply conflicted psychology. In September 2013, he married his wife Emma after meet­ing her in the parking lot of a Laurel Canyon grocery store two years earlier, and that relationship underpins most of this album. The songs on “honeybear” document Tillman’s attempt to reconcile his cynical worldview with the sincerity that comes with falling in love. 
In the bizarrely brilliant press release announcing the album, Tillman wrote that the album moves between two polarities, “the first of which is the belief that the best love can be is finding someone who is miserable in the same way you are and the end point being that love isn’t for anyone who isn’t interested in finding a companion to undertake total transformation with.” 
Tillman’s lyrics exhibit his signature ironic wit as he explores the total transformation wrought by romance. On “The Night Josh Tillman Came to Our Apartment,” he turns a critical eye on his past life, bemoaning a pseudo-intellectual yuppie who “says, like literally, music is the air she breathes.” “I wonder if she even knows what that 
By KEVIN SALAT 
Scene Writer 

There is a promising amount of comedy television programming that displays newfound racial diversity this season. 
ABC currently airs Anthony Anderson’s “Black-ish,” in which an African-American family lives in a white upper-class neighborhood and rediscovers their heritage, and “Cristela,” in which comedian Cristela Alonzo attends law school part-time and lives with her Mexican-American family. Rounding out this trilogy of minority-led sitcoms on ABC is “Fresh Off the Boat,” a new show loosely based on the life of chef and food personality Eddie huang and his memoir of the same name. 
Similar in style to the criminally underrated “Everybody hates Chris,” huang narrates the series about his early ‘90s childhood, when his American-obsessed dad (Randall Park) dragged his Taiwanese family from Washington DC’s Chinatown to Orlando, Florida to open a Western-themed steakhouse. 
The huangs all have their own struggles in making the transition. Eddie finds comfort in rap music, but fails to connect with the only black boy in the cafeteria because associating with the other minority will only word means,” he deadpans, “well, it’s literally not that.” It’s as much an attack on her misuse of the English lan­guage as it a condemnation of his own history of unful­filling one-night stands. 
The first single “Bored in the uSA” likewise applies his ironic lens to the concept of the American Dream in the post-recession era. Tillman’s disillusionment with the promise of “a sub-prime loan on a craftsman home” is underscored with the canned laughter of a sitcom audi­ence echoing over the track’s bridge. The track is perhaps the best example of why the Father John Misty persona works so well, allowing Tillman to express malaise while at the same time mocking the pretentious archetype of the tortured artist. 
What is most striking about “honeybear,” though, is how sentimental it is at times, as genuine emotion breaks past Tillman’s defense mechanisms. On the title track, he admits that “everything is doomed,” before professing his love to his “honeybear” — a term of endearment he no doubt uses ironically, but the sentiment of love is no less sincere. he confesses, “People are boring / But you’re something else completely,” on the surprisingly earnest “Chateau Lobby #4 (in C for Two Virgins).” “Damn, let’s take our chances,” Tillman sings over major chords and a bright string arrangement, deciding to commit whole­heartedly to monogamy. 
“honeybear” also finds Tillman pushing the bound­aries of the psychedelic folk sound of “Fear Fun,” his debut album as his Misty persona. “Chateau Lobby #4” complements his ode to newfound love with an ebullient mariachi band. “True Affection,” with its drum machine beat and pulsing synths, recalls the sparse electronics of Sufjan Stevens’s “Age of Adz.” It’s a lush sound that pairs 
make him stand out more. his father Louis has prob­lems getting customers to the restaurant. But it’s made clear from the beginning that the center of comic relief in “Fresh Off the Boat” is the hilariously overbearing wife and mother Jessica, played by Constance Wu. 
Out of everyone in the huang family, Jessica is the least willing to adapt to her new American surround­ings. She frequently battles between managing her three sons and assimilating with other suburban wives. however, Wu does it all with a charisma and charm that make it easy to forget Jessica is having the toughest time getting used to Orlando, as she’s so quickly become the hilarious star of the show. 
At its core, this is just another gentle family “fish­out-of-water” sitcom, with great performances (again, I can’t say enough about Wu) and decent writing. But being the first Asian-American sitcom since Margaret Cho’s “All-American girl” back in 1994, “Fresh Off the Boat” is undoubtedly important. 
The good news is that creator Nahnatchka Khan (best known for “Don’t Trust the B---- in Apartment 23”) and the show’s likable cast seem more than willing to step up to the plate and represent Asian-Americans on TV. Two episodes in, “Fresh Off the Boat” has displayed a lot of intelligence in its immigrant and culture clash storylines, without falling back on easy stereotypical well with the album’s romantic narrative. 

The album reaches its emotional climax with “holy S**t,” which Tillman wrote on his wedding day. The track builds builds to an “A Day in the Life”-like atonal crescendo as he rattles off a litany of societal issues, from “age-old gender roles” to “mobile lifestyle, loveless sex,” as if listing every single argument against the institution of marriage. “Maybe love is just an economy based on re­source scarcity,” he concludes, “but what I fail to see is what that’s gotta do with you and me.” That crescendo is the sound of Tillman throwing out his objections and giving in to love and intimacy. 
After an album’s length delving into his contradictions of his psyche, marriage ends up bringing out the sincer­ity in Tillman. Despite all his cynicism and self-loathing, “honeybear” finds Tillman chipping away at the Father John Misty persona and admitting maybe there’s some­thing to this “falling in love” thing after all. 
Contact Matt Munhall at mmunhall@nd.edu 
“I Love You, Honeybear” 
Father John Misty 
Label: XXX 

Tracks: “Chateau Lobby #4 (in C for Two Virgins),” “Bored in the USA,” “Holy S**t” If you like: Fleet Foxes, Harry Nilsson, Randy Newman 

jokes. 

But that’s not to say that “Fresh Off the Boat” shies away from talking about race. As evidenced by its very title, the show is often upfront about the huangs’ at­tempts to remain true both to their Taiwanese-Chinese roots and their desire to fit in. And although some situ­ations may be a bit heavy-handed, “Fresh Off the Boat” certainly shows promise in providing sharp comedy and commentary on the Asian-American experience. 
Besides some clumsy situations and occasional broad and boring humor (the huangs’ grandmother gettin’ down to hip-hop, for example), one also can’t help but wonder if family-friendly ABC is the proper home for “Fresh Off the Boat.” Chef Eddie huang will be the first to tell you that he wishes the show could be more provocative and edgy, something you might find on hBO or Amazon as opposed to ABC. 
On the whole, however, it doesn’t matter where the show could air and what may have been different. What matters is that it exists. And as the show contin­ues to find its groove, “Fresh Off the Boat” certainly has the potential to find success and become a staple in television’s increasingly diverse landscape. 
“Fresh Off the Boat” airs Tuesdays at 8 p.m. on ABC. 
Contact Kevin Salat at ksalat@nd.edu 

KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


Thom Behrens 
Scene Writer 

Whether one strategizes their public relations with trashing hotel rooms, smashing guitars onstage or can­celing multi-digit numbers of tour dates with no warn­ings or apologies, the reputation associated with any punk-charged musical act often has more to do with imagery and perceived ideology than it does with musi­cal talent. 
Nirvana, Misfits and The Ramones have all made undeniable and undeniably creative contributions to the world of rock ‘n’ roll, but what sets these groups apart goes deeper than the aesthetics of their respec­tive sounds: it’s the attitude that grounds and fuels that aesthetic. 
In the 21st century, it’s hard to have a conversation about the devil-may-care punk aesthetic without men­tioning Jack White. Call his music simple, causeless or whatever qualms you may have — you can’t deny the dude is a demagogue. Twenty years ago, he dissemi­nated his records by sewing them into the furniture he re-upholstered with bandmate Brian Muldoon as garage rock outfit The upholsterers. White has made major 

Allie Tollaksen 
Scene Editor 

LL Cool J hosted the grammys. Annie Lennox stole the spotlight with a powerful performance. Madonna took the stage and with a crew of elaborately costumed backup dancers, put on one of the most dynamic performances of the night. The crowd got on their feet to dance to the best of ELO. Paul McCartney and his suit-clad friends sang a brand new song together. Beck took home Album of the year. 
If you’re trying to rack your memory for when these grammy moments occurred — 1975? 1985? 1995? — it may be hard to process that they all happened on one night: at the 2015 grammy Awards on Sunday. 
While the biggest music awards show of the year wasn’t entirely one big Throwback Thursday, it seemed that the show was at its best and most surprising when it handed the microphone over to music’s veterans. In the hands of new young artists, Sunday’s three-hour block of awards and performances largely fell flat. 
By the end of the awards ceremony, the night had become a blur of minimalistic ballad performances. uninteresting duets were a central theme, with gwen Stefani and Adam Levine putting on a lackluster show and Sam Smith and Mary J. Blige’s underwhelming per­formance of Smith’s hit “Stay With Me.” 
Fortunately, pop-rock goddess Annie Lennox managed waves worldwide in multiple outfits. Fourteen years of infective, dirty riffs with ex-wife Meg White (who was, for years, by official statement of the band, his sister), the conception of critically and popularly acclaimed acts The Raconteurs and The Dead Weather and now two solo albums have swept White to the top of playlists for high school rebels and young adult rockers. 
What better place to bring such appeal than to a college campus? On Feb. 2, White played a show at Oklahoma university. In a publicity disaster now being referred to (by The Observer) as guacgate, The Ou Daily utilized the Freedom of Information Act and released the artist’s terms of contract with the Ou Campus Activities Council. Their stated intention was to inform readers where their money was going, but the outcome was much more interesting (and way funnier). The very first line of the “meals” stipulations in the terms of agreement reads: “This is a no banana tour. We don’t want to see bananas anywhere near the building.” It goes on to detail elaborate, specific and expensive requests for accommo­dating Jack and his entire road crew — almost 30 people in total. One of the most notable and smirk-jerking items on the list was not only the request for, but an entire recipe to homemade guacamole. “Keep the avocado pits. The tomatoes are to be vine-ripened. The lime juice 
to breathe some life into the night when she joined hozier and gave an energetic rendition of “Take Me To Church.” It was easily the best performance of the night. 
unfortunately, no one seemed to take a cue from Lennox, and instead we were bombarded with stale and repetitive performances from almost every other artist. By the show’s end, when Beyoncé took the stage to per­form “Take My hand” and “Precious Lord,” what should have been a beautiful, even spiritual, way to end the night felt like more of the same after hearing so many intimate, toned-down ballads throughout the night. 
There were a few acts that managed to break away from the single spotlight, monochromatic trend. Along with an upbeat and at the very least, interesting performance from Madonna, AC/DC rocked the stage to kick off the night. Pharrell also made a statement, commendably using his performance of “happy” to comment on recent events in Ferguson. The elusive pop artist Sia gave one of the most compelling acts of the night with the help of friends Shia LaBeouf, Kristen Wiig and pint-sized “Dance Moms” star Maddie Ziegler. It’s telling that the artist with one of the most exciting acts of the night never showed her face. 
Sandwiched between mostly yawn-inducing per­formances were the actual grammy awards. Still, the primetime awards handed out largely mirrored the per­formances. Sam Smith nabbed four awards — Best New Artist, Song of the year, Record of the year and Best Pop Vocal Album. Beyoncé deservingly won Best R&B Song should cover most of the surface of the dip.” This is Jack 

White. 

The article was released three days before the show. 
White’s agency has since blacklisted Oklahoma for future performances. During the show, White dropped a line arguing the legitimacy of The Ou Daily’s abil­ity to publish his contract. It’s been picked up by The Washington Post and The huffington Post and is gener­ally being made into a really big deal. My only question is why? 
The contract isn’t at all inconsistent with the image White puts forth: crazy, eccentric and always writing and playing with the attitude of a man who has long held life by the horns he grabbed 13 studio albums ago. Being an artist is about making something you love, but why both­er with the heat and exhaustion of being famous enough to share it if you can’t ask for a medium steak without any sauce after the show? Especially if people are willing to make it for you. I’m glad he’s having fun and am sur­prised that people are upset about The Ou Daily expos­ing how much fun being Jack White actually is. 
Contact Thom Behrens at tbehren1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the au­thor and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
for “Drunk In Love.” 
Luckily, one unexpected stir brought some drama to the stage. As Prince (dressed in an incredible bedazzled orange jumpsuit in all his glory) announced Beck’s “Morning Phase” as the winner of Album of the year, Kanye West jumped on stage to protest the surprising win.  The whole world held its breath for the microsecond when the rapper lunged towards Beck, anticipating an­other Taylor Swift moment. 
But instead of jumping to Beyoncé’s defense (which would have been justifiable — her self-titled album was incredible), Kanye stepped back. A surprised Beck begged Kanye to come back on stage (likely in agreement that he didn’t deserve the award), but yeezy joined his jilted friends back in the audience. The three-second interac­tion felt like a million years, and the result was the most hilariously awkward moment of the night. 
After a strained acceptance speech from Beck, the night wrapped up with impressive but not particularly thrilling performances from Beyoncé and John Legend. 
The fact that Kanye’s unfulfilled interjection, a half-executed version of an act we’ve already seen, was the most memorable moment of the 2015 grammys is pretty symbolic of the night as a whole: it left us wanting more of what we’ve seen in years before. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the au­thor and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Super Bowl shows power of football 
Michael Ivey 
Sports Writer 
Last Sunday, the New England Patriots defeated the Seattle Seahawks in Super Bowl XLIX by a score of 28-24. It was a thrilling game, and many people are still asking why the Seahawks threw the ball on the one-yard line with the game on the line. The game was watched by 114.4 million people, making it the most-watched program in 
u.S. television history. It broke the record set by Super Bowl XLVIII, which broke the record held by Super Bowl XLVII, which broke the record held by Super Bowl XLVI … should I go on? 
Each year, more and more people are watching the Super Bowl. Super Bowls account for the 21 most-watched programs in American television his­tory in terms of total audience. Millions of people who don’t even watch football on a regular basis tune in every year because that’s just how big of an event the game is. 
The Super Bowl has become more than just a football game; it has become its own national holiday of sorts. It reminds me of New year’s Eve and how ev­erybody goes out and celebrates on that night. Many people ask their friends, “What are you do­ing for New year’s?” It’s almost the exact same with the Super Bowl. 
Every year on Super Bowl Sunday, millions of Super Bowl parties are held in houses around the country, not just in the cities of the two teams com­peting. Special foods are made, and decorations are put up. During the six-hour-long Super Bowl pregame show, a number of celebrities (who have nothing to do with football) host special events and a number of musical performances are shown. 
A big part of the game is the commercials that air during it. Each year, multi-billion dollar companies like Budweiser and Doritos spend millions of dol­lars to make and show a 30-sec­ond commercial advertisement that airs during the game, and many of these commercials don’t even have anything to do with the product the company makes. It has become a small competition to see which com­pany can get the most laughs (or cries, which seemed to be a trend in this year’s batch of commercials). 
you don’t see this coming from any of the other profes­sional sports leagues and their championship games, whether it be the NBA Finals, the World Series, or the Stanley Cup Finals. Part of this is because of how smart the NFL has been in regards to the Super Bowl. 
NBA Finals games usually start late in the night on the East Coast, and NBC keeps insisting that at least two Stanley Cup Finals games be broadcast each year on NBC Sports Network, a smaller channel with con­siderably less viewership than regular NBC. The Super Bowl is broadcast at 6:25 p.m. on the first Sunday of February on either CBS, FOX, or NBC. Additionally, a big advantage the Super Bowl has is that it is just one game, not a best-of­seven series. 
What the Super Bowl has be­come is a sign of how powerful the National Football League currently is. The NFL has be­come more than just a profes­sional sports league; it has almost become part of our daily lives. This past season was not a good one for the NFL’s image, filled with controversy after controversy. It seemed like there were endless national news sto­ries about some of the league’s biggest stars committing crimes or horrible acts. It seemed to go on and on, whether it was Ray Rice assaulting his then-fiancee, Adrian Peterson abusing his child, former player Aaron hernandez on trial for murder, the Patriots being accused of de­flating footballs during games or even the controversy over the name of the Washington Redskins franchise. 
What was even worse than all of the negative stories was the way the NFL handled some of these controversies. League commissioner Roger goodell originally suspended Ray Rice two games for assaulting his now-wife; it was only after video surfaced of just how gruesome the attack was that the NFL suspended Rice indefinitely. goodell claimed he never saw video of the assault before it was released, and he and the league were criticized heavily for the way they handled the investiga­tion. Many people called for a boycott of the NFL, but people still watched the NFL on a con­sistent basis, and the league once again made billions of dollars. 
Why? Because America has become dependent on the NFL. Americans have a thirst that needs to be quenched on four of the first five and the last seven­teen Sundays of every calendar year. No matter the controver­sies or the negative publicity surrounding the league, we watch. This just shows that the NFL and the Super Bowl are too big to fail. 
Contact Michael Ivey at mivey@hcc-nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SOCCER 

Egypt reacts to soccer- related stampede 
Associated Press 
CAIRO  — Survivors de­scribed it as a corridor of death: a narrow route of high, chain-link security fences and barbed wire that thousands of soccer fans were filing through before entering the stadium to watch their team play. 
Then, mayhem broke out. Those at the front of the line were turned back by police. Those in the back continued to press forward. Jittery police fired tear gas into the middle of the crowd, creating what survi­vors said was “like a whirl­pool” — sucking people into a crush of bodies with no way out. 
The stampede killed 22 people Sunday night at the Air Defense stadium, a mili­tary facility in an eastern suburb of Cairo, prior to the game between Egyptian Premier League clubs Zamalek and ENPPI. 
The scene was all too fa­miliar. Almost three years to the day, 74 soccer fans were killed in unprecedent­ed stadium riot in Port Said where the Al-Masry team hosted a match with rival Al-Ahly of Cairo as police watched and failed to in­tervene. That Feb. 1, 2012, bloodshed prompted the cancellation of the national championship, further entrenching the hostility between police and soccer fans. 

Political factions Monday called for the resignation of the interior minister, who heads the security forces. Police were criticized for in­competence and for callous disregard for life. In a fur­ther show of insensitivity, Sunday’s match went ahead despite the deaths, ending in a 1-1 tie. A Zamalek play­er who refused to play was punished, with the team cancelling his contract. 
Many saw the violence as political — police settling scores with fans who have often clashed with security forces even before the 2011 uprising that toppled hosni Mubarak and other unrest that has followed in the countr y. 
“I never thought they would fire tear gas here. I thought it would be im­possible, and they would realize that people would for sure die,” Mahmoud, a 27-year-old survivor, told The Associated Press. 
he said he climbed one of the fences to escape when a boy about 12 years old begged him to pull him up too. When he did, both tum­bled back into the tangle of panicked people. 
“People were fainting. Everyone stepped over the other,” said Mahmoud, who asked to be identified by only his first name for fear of police reprisal. “My luck was I was the last on the pile.” 
Sunday’s match was the first Egyptian Premier League game in which fans were allowed back into the stadiums since the 2012 riot, adding to the excite­ment and eagerness of the fans of Zamalek, one of Egypt’s two top teams. 
NFL 

Hardy avoids domestic abuse charges 
Associated Press 
ChARLOTTE, N.C. — Prosecutors dismissed domes­tic violence charges against Panthers defensive end and soon-to-be free agent greg hardy on Monday after they said the accuser in the case couldn’t be found. 
The dismissal happened just as hardy’s appeal in the case was set to begin. Mecklenburg County district attorney Andrew Murray told the judge that offi­cials attempted many times to contact the woman, but failed. Murray said the woman had set­tled her civil suit against hardy. 
hardy, whose NFL future is uncertain, left with his attorney and did not answer questions. Moments before court con­vened, hardy appeared calm, 

FOR SALE 
Well maintained ranch in Granger. 3BR, 2BA, beautiful sunroom. Open House Feb 15, 2-4. Call Janessa Traylor 574-340-1651 

tweeting that he would be giving away a pair of his game cleats to a fan who could name his favor­ite color, his favorite president and his favorite NBA player. 
hardy was convicted last summer of assault on a female and communicating threats in a case involving a former girl­friend. The Associated Press generally does not name victims of abuse. 
Murray told Superior Court Judge Robert T. Sumner that law enforcement had taken “ex­traordinary” measures to find the accuser so that she could testify during the appeal. he said they took surveillance of her new address, attempted to find her at work and tried to con­tact relatives but couldn’t locate her. 
Murray said in a statement released after the proceedings that prosecutors spoke to the ac­cuser in October and November and that “during those conver­sations the victim expressed that she did not want to partici­pate in another trial.” 
Murray said that the woman’s attorney, Daniel Zamora, also would not share information about her location. Zamora could not be reached Monday for comment. 
The accuser testified on July 15 that she was scared of hardy and worried about her safety if she went to police. 
She also testified that hardy threw her in the bathroom and later onto a futon filled with guns. She also said he placed his hands on her throat and threat­ened to kill her. hardy denied these claims. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Yo, I’ll tell you what I want, wanna, I wanna, I wanna, I wanna re-what I really really want/ ally really really wanna zigazig ha/ If So tell me what you want, you want my future forget my past/ If what you really really want/ you wanna get with me better make I’ll tell you what I want, what I really re-it fast/ Now don’t go wasting my pre­ally want/  So tell me what you want, cious time/ Get your act together we what you really really want/ I wanna, I could be just fine . 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2015 | ThE OBSERVER 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | STANFORD 6, ND 1; ND 4, OhIO ST. 3 

By HUNTER McDANIEL 
Sports Writer 
No. 19 Notre Dame split a pair of matches against ranked foes this weekend, dropping a 6-1 decision to No. 8 Stanford on Friday before responding with a 4-3 win over No. 31 Ohio State on Sunday. 
In Friday’s contest, Notre Dame (3-2) came out on top in only two of its nine matches, as the No. 3 doubles combination of sophomores Mary Closs and Jane Fennelly defeated Stanford juniors Krista hardebeck and Lindsey Kostas, 6-3, however the Irish, who lost at both No. 1 and No. 2, could not secure the doubles point that was awarded to Stanford (4-0). 
The only point the Irish were able to secure on Friday came from Closs, who topped hardebeck at No. 4 singles, 6-2, 7-5. 
Junior Quinn gleason put the last two weeks in perspective when asked about the losses to two high-ranking opponents. 
“I think playing tough teams like Michigan and Stanford helped get us ready to play Ohio State,” gleason said. “having the experience of playing such high-caliber players has made us a lot stronger as a team. I can defi­nitely say I’ve learned a lot these past few weeks of competition, 
NBA | JAZZ 100, PELICANS 96 
NBA | SPuRS 95, PACERS 93 

Hayward leads Jazz to victory 
Irish split pair against ranked opposition 
and I can tell my team has too by the increased intensity at prac­tice and matches.” 
The Irish responded on Sunday afternoon, first secur­ing the doubles point before splitting singles with Ohio State (3-2). 
At No. 2 doubles, junior Julie Vrabel and freshman Allison Miller won a tightly-contested match against Buckeyes fresh­men Anna Sanford and Olivia Sneed that needed a tiebreaker to determine a victor, which the Irish duo won 8-6. 
Then the No. 16-ranked duo of gleason and sophomore Monica Robinson were able to pull out a close victory at No. 1 doubles against Ohio State sophomores gabriella de Santis and Sandy Niehaus, 7-5, in or­der to secure the doubles point for Notre Dame and render the Closs/Fennelly match at No. 3 doubles unnecessary and there­fore unfinished. 
“Monica and I are looking to build off our win over the 26th­ranked doubles team from Ohio State,” gleason said. “After los­ing a close match to the No. 6 team from Stanford, getting a win against a ranked team was really important for us.” 
Robinson also said the win over de Santis and Niehaus of­fered perspective. 
“I think that after our victory 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS — gordon hayward scored 25 of his 32 points in the second half, and the utah Jazz overcame a 14-point, third-quarter deficit to beat the New Orleans Pelicans, 100-96 on Monday night. 
Derrick Favors scored 18 and Enes Kanter had 14 points and 11 rebounds for utah, which won its second straight while handing the Pelicans their sec­ond straight loss. 
Eric gordon tied a career high with seven 3s on eight attempts and finished with 31 points, while Tyreke Evans added 18 points and 10 assists. 
But the Pelicans were un­able to overcome the absence of leading scorer and rebounder Anthony Davis, who sprained his right shoulder on Saturday, and Ryan Anderson, who has a sore right elbow. 
Combined, Davis and Anderson average 39.4 points per game — never mind that point guard Jrue holiday, who averages 15.2 points per game, was missing his 15th straight game with a lower right leg injury. 
The Jazz got a boost from Steve Novak’s 12 points — all in the second half on four 3-pointers. 
New Orleans had its largest lead when Evans’ layup made it 64-50 with 6:42 left in the third quarter. 
utah then outscored New Orleans 21-3 for the rest of the period, with hayward scoring 12 of those points on two layups, an 18-foot jumper and two 3s. 
New Orleans turned the ball over four times during that stretch and scored its only points on free throws. 
Novak, who hit all of his 3-pointers in the second half, made one to open the fourth quarter, extending utah’s run to 24-3 and make it 74-67. 
utah’s lead grew as large as 78-69 on Novak’s 3. 
The Pelicans managed to rally back in front, however briefly, thanks largely to gordon, whose consecutive 3s made it 87-86. 
But Kanter gave utah the lead right back with a jumper, hayward added two free throws and Dante Exam hit a jumper to make it 92-87, and the Jazz never gave up the lead again. 
over Michigan [at No. 1 doubles], we went into the Stanford match with a lot of momentum and en­ergy,” Robinson said. “We were really close against Stanford. We left that match with a good perspective because we put ourselves in a good position to win. On Saturday, the Ohio State [No. 1 doubles] team beat the Stanford team, so we saw it as another chance to get back at Stanford.” 
In the singles portion against Ohio State, Notre Dame relied heavily on the top half of its lineup, as gleason, Robinson and Vrabel won at Nos. 1, 2 and 3, respectively, securing a 4-3 victory over the Buckeyes, who 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — gregg Popovich’s grand plan has pro­duced plenty of wins. 
The Spurs made it an even 1,000 for him on Monday night. 
San Antonio rallied from a 14-point fourth-quarter defi­cit and got an 18-foot baseline jumper from Marco Belinelli with 2.1 seconds left to give Popovich a milestone 95-93 victory at Indiana. 
“I’ve been here a long time and I’ve had good players. That’s the formula,” Popovich said. “getting the players is difficult, but I’ve been fortu­nate to have good ones. The time, that’s the most important element. you have to be around for a while I guess.” 
Popovich celebrated in his typical low-key way. he walked to midcourt, putt an arm around Pacers coach Frank Vogel, hugged one of his former players and stoically strolled into the Spurs’ locker room though he later acknowledged he might drink some wine. 
While Popovich does have five NBA championships, few defeated the Irish at each of the other three singles slots. 

After some intense play against Pac-12 and Big Ten op­ponents, the Irish are now clos­ing in on conference play. 
“We just need to continue what we’re doing,” Robinson said. “We’re really hardworking. Keeping up this energy is huge for us. Just seeing everything as a blessing and an opportunity every day is really important to us as a team.” 
gleason said she thinks the Irish are capable of perform­ing well once conference play comes. 
“The ACC teams we’ll play in the coming weeks will be tough, 
midseason wins have come with this much fanfare. 
Only two coaches, Phil Jackson and Pat Riley, reached 1,000 wins faster than Popovich. Only one other coach, Jerry Sloan, achieved the feat with one team. Sloan won 1,127 games with utah. Popovich is 1,000-462 in 19 NBA seasons, all with San Antonio. 
his regular-season winning percentage (.684) ranks fifth all time. his playoff winning percentage is seventh (.623) though only two men in front of him coached more than 100 postseason games, Jackson and Billy Cunningham. 
And it came on the most fit­ting stage of all for the Indiana native. Popovich was born in northwest Indiana and grew up playing high school basket­ball in Merrillville, Indiana. 
But it was Popovich’s players who wanted this win most — and it showed as they erased a nine-point deficit over the final 5 1/2 minutes. 
Belinelli finally tipped the game with his jumper just be­fore the shot clock expired, and but I definitely think the team’s up for it,” gleason said. “We’ve all been working really hard, and I think this year in par­ticular we have a group that is scrappy and willing to fight to get back in matches when we’re down.” 
Notre Dame will spend the week recovering and preparing for another busy weekend. The Irish will travel to Champaign, Illinois, for a Valentine’s Day matchup against No. 46 Illinois on Saturday before heading to Bloomington, Indiana, to face No. 52 Indiana on Sunday. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 

Popovich gets 1,000th win as Spurs rally late 
george hill’s 3-pointer for the win bounced off the rim at the buzzer. 
“A thousand wins, that’s a lot of wins and I feel very lucky that I’ve been with him for a lot of them,” Tony Parker said after scoring 19 points. “We’ve expe­rienced so much stuff together. I’m just very happy for him.” 
Popovich played this one with some caution. 
After Sunday night’s loss in Toronto, he deactivated Manu ginobili and carefully tracked the minutes of Parker and Tim Duncan. Parker and Duncan, who had 15 points and eight rebounds, each played 30 min­utes, 23 seconds and didn’t en­ter the fourth quarter until just before the closing run began. 
“We just weren’t solid enough down the stretch and gave them too many extra posses­sions,” Pacers forward David West said. “We’re disappointed we let this game get away.” 
West finished with 10 points and a season-high 18 rebounds for Indiana. Rodney Stuckey had 19 points as the Pacers’ three-game winning streak came to an end. 


ThE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2015 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

MEN’S SWIMMING | ND 226, CLEVELAND STATE 66 
Irish dominate Cleveland State 
By SEAN KILMER 
Sports Writer 
Before they could start fo­cusing on the upcoming ACC championships, Notre Dame defeated Cleveland State handily in the last meet of the regular season, winning 14 of 16 events en route to a 226-66 victory Saturday. 
The win raised the Notre Dame’s record in dual meets to 6-6 and ensured the Irish fin­ished above .500 at home (5-3) in coach Matt Tallman’s inau­gural season. 
Like last week, when senior John Nappi and the 800-yard freestyle relay team both broke pool records, an Irish athlete broke a record in the meet. Sophomore Joe Coumos’ time 
409.27 score on the 3-meter springboard broke Eric Lex’s school record of 405.15, which was set in 2011. Notre Dame also took second through sixth in the 3-meter and added an­other top-three sweep in the 1-meter springboard. 
To open the swimming por­tion of the meet, the Irish A relay team consisting of fresh­man Justin Plaschka, junior Bogac Ayhan, and seniors Cameron Miller and Zachary Stephens took first place in the 200-yard medley relay with a time of 1:30.64. The B-team quartet of freshmen Robert Whitacre and harlin Bessire, sophomore Reed Fujan and junior Andrew Jensen finished right behind the A team with a time of 1:33.78 seconds. 
In the next event, freshman Richard Mannix, sophomore Tom Anderson and Miller placed first, second and third respectively in the 1,000-yard freestyle. 
Cleveland State sophomore Philipp Sikatzki snagged one of the Vikings’ two wins on the day when he won the 50-yard freestyle in 20.79 seconds. 
In the 100-yard backstroke, Whitacre led a sweep for the Irish, recording a time of 50.76 seconds. Freshman Benjamin Jany took second, and se­nior Broderick Kelley claimed third. 
“I was pretty happy to get a win in the 100 back, and hap­py to get those points for the team,” Whitacre said. “I was also content with my time, which is right where it needs to be as we head into taper these next two weeks.” 
Sophomore Trent Jackson notched his first win of the day when he took the 200­yard breaststroke in 2:08.36 as the lone Irish swimmer in the event, allowing Notre Dame to continue carrying momentum. 
The Irish closed out the meet with a win in the 200-yard freestyle relay. The quartet of Plaschka and sophomores Jackson, Joseph Petrone and Kevin Bradley touched the wall first in 1:23.90. 
“I think the meet went pretty well for everybody,” Plaschka said. “We all just wanted to get up and race one last time be­fore we really set our minds on the ACC championships, and I think we did well there. For having to lift right before the meet, I think I did relatively well, and I’m pretty happy with my swims.” 
The Irish will now set their sights on the ACC champion­ships, and Whitacre shed some light on a swimmer’s mindset before the meet. 
“heading into a big meet like the ACC’s, it’s important to stay focused on the process of your race rather than the out­come. If you focus on the out­come, or what time you want to swim, it is very easy to get lost in all the hype and make a stupid mistake. Nevertheless, I am very excited to get down to Atlanta and see how we per­form against the rest of the ACC.” 
Diving events at the ACC championships run from Feb. 18 through Feb. 21, while the swimming events commence Feb. 25 and finish Feb. 28, with all events hosted by georgia Tech in Atlanta. 
Contact Sean Kilmer at skilmer@nd.edu 

MEN’S TENNIS | ND 7, BALL STATE 0; ND 6, WISCONSIN 1 
ND ends homestand with doubleheader wins 
By CHRISTINE MAYUGA 
Sports Writer 
The No. 16 Irish came out on top again this weekend, top­ping Ball State and Wisconsin on Sunday in their first dou­ble-header of the season. 
After an eight-day hiatus, Notre Dame (5-1) was able to easily dispatch its op­ponents Sunday, defeating the Cardinals, 7-0, and the Badgers, 6-1. Irish coach Ryan Sachire said that the extended rest let his team handle two matches in one day. 
“We had over a week off, which gave [the players] a chance to heal their bod­ies and train,” Sachire said. “There was a pretty big chunk of time to practice, and we re­ally improved on the things we weren’t doing quite so well on during the past couple of weeks. It was a lot of tennis in one day physically and men­tally, and I think we had some productive work. Our goal was to work physically harder and to build our confidence de­spite the fact it was a long day.” 
The Irish kicked off the double-header against Ball State (2-5) with doubles vic­tories from senior Billy Pecor and junior Alex Lawson in the No. 1 slot and seniors Dougie Bernard and Michael Fredericka in their debut at the No. 2 slot. The Irish domi­nation continued into the sin­gles round, where they swept all six slots. 37th-ranked junior Quentin Monaghan topped Cardinals sophomore Lucas Andersen, 6-4, 7-5, at No. 1 singles to lead the Irish, while junior Nicolas Montoya cruised through his match in his singles debut, defeating freshman Jan Jirus, 6-1, 6-1, in the fourth slot. 


“Nicolas hadn’t played singles for us this season but played both singles rounds and got two victories,” Sachire said. “he’s really coming out for us.” 
The Irish maintained their edge going into the matches against Wisconsin (1-5) as Lawson and Pecor managed their second doubles vic­tory of the day in the No. 1 slot while Monaghan and Schnurrenberger also secured a win at the No. 3 slot. In the singles round, Monaghan and junior Eric Schnurrenberger came out on top in the No. 1 and No. 4 spots respectively, with both ending the day un­defeated in all matches. 
“Quentin had two straight set wins at No. 1 singles and at that level of competition, when you play No. 1 singles for the team it’s intense,” Sachire said. “What he did was certainly a confidence boost for him as well as the team.” 
82nd-ranked sophomore Josh hagar took down Badgers freshman Lamar Remy, 6-2, 6-3, in the No. 2 slot, while sophomore Eddy Covalschi won his match at No.3 singles. In the No. 6 slot, Montoya managed his second win of the day, while Pecor struggled through his singles match and fell for the first time this season. 
“We try to stay as consistent as we can with our prepara­tion and our mindset,” Sachire said. “We were really trying to play the best tennis we could and compete in a manner that was focusing on the prospect of winning rather than match-to-match victories, and I can see we are getting better and better because of it.” 
The Irish will return to ac­tion Saturday when they travel to Ann Arbor, Michigan to face No. 47 Michigan. 
Contact Christine Mayuga at cmayuga@nd.edu 
earned victories in the 100­yard backstroke and butterfly, while Bradford won the 100­yard freestyle and 200-yard breaststroke. 
Notre Dame swims next at the ACC championships in Atlanta, georgia, beginning on Feb. 18. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
Track 
CONTINuED FROM PAgE 16 
compete in the upcoming ACC championships. 
“We’re getting better as a team,” Turner said. “[The team] knows that they have to come out and give 100 percent effort every time, and we did that this weekend. Our women’s team is pretty good, and we’re going to challenge for the ACC title. With the men, we just don’t have enough depth across the board. We’ll probably be mid­dle of the pack, fourth or fifth.” 
Another highlight of the Meyo Invitational for the Irish included a number of profes­sional athletes coming back to compete in the meet, including former Notre Dame track star Jeremy Rae. Turner said having Rae and the other professional athletes at the meet enhanced his team’s motivation. 
“[Rae] knows the tradition of the race,” Turner said. “If you ask him, he’ll say the Meyo Mile is his favorite race and he’ll come back as long as he can … [the team] benefits from having these guys come in be­cause it’s one thing to watch 
WSwimming 
CONTINuED FROM PAgE 16 
only 10 minutes of rest be­tween these events. 
“When you get close to the end, you start looking at some issues that won’t be visible on the scoresheet, how we handle our speed off the wall and off the dive and things 
them on TV, but when you’re actually in the race against some of the best people in the world, you say, ‘They’re in front of me, but they’re not too far.’ Those post-collegiate athletes really enhance the meet and push the collegiate athletes to really go.” 
The Irish will run again next weekend, when the team will split between the grand Valley State Big Meet in Allendale, Michigan and the SPIRE DI Invitational in geneva, Ohio. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 

like that,” Welsh said. “It was a meet to look at those kind of things that don’t show up on the scoresheet, but they’ll help us come championship time.” 
Reaney also won the 100­yard breaststroke in an NCAA ‘B’ cut time, while fresh­man Annie Crea achieved an NCAA zone C qualifying mark in the 1-meter dive. Whyte 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT PAID ADVERTISEMENT ThE OBSERVER | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2015 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 



M Basketball 
CONTINuED FROM PAgE 16 
the Tigers in the mix come Selection Sunday. Before a loss at Miami (Fla.) on Sunday, ESPN Bracketology expert Joe Lunardi had the Tigers as part of his “Last Four Out.”  Brey said that Notre Dame’s opponent tonight has been mostly unno­ticed this year. 
“We have a big challenge at Clemson,” Brey said. “Clemson is slowly becoming an NCAA tournament team. They’ve been off the radar, but they’re sneak­ing up on everybody. They’re re­ally good.” 
The Tigers have been up and down all year. They suffered early-season losses to Winthrop and gardner-Webb and were also blown out at home by North Carolina, 74-50, on Jan. 3. yet Clemson comes into tonight’s matchup having won five of its last seven games against ACC competition, including a 66-53 win Jan. 17 at home over Syracuse and a 68-57 win at North Carolina State on Jan. 28. 
“We’ll move on quickly [from the Duke loss],” Brey said. “I would hope and I would think 
— given the leaders I have and the leaders of this group — that they’ll bounce back in another tough place to play against a team that can guard us really just as well.” 
The Tigers are led by sophomore forward Jaron Blossomgame’s 12.8 points and 
7.9 rebounds per game and pos­sess a top-50 scoring defense, allowing opposing offenses just 
60.3 points per game. Notre Dame scores 80 points a game on average, good for a spot in the top 10 in scoring nationally. 
Brey said Duke deserved a lot of the credit for shutting down the Irish offense Saturday. 
“[Duke] really contested and pressured the ball,” Brey said. “They were so good on the ball screen, and that’s so important to us. I thought [Duke fresh­man forward Jahlil] Okafor was better on the ball screen today than I had seen him all season. We got a little more [ball-screen scoring] in South Bend, but we couldn’t get any of it [Saturday] with [Irish senior guard] Jerian [grant].” 
In his weekly ACC telecon­ference yesterday, Brey said he saw a strong rebound by his guys in the 36 hours following Saturday’s loss. 
“We had a good, spirited, competitive practice [yester­day],” Brey said. “I think for all of them, you’ve just got to play again, because on Saturday you didn’t feel like you really played. 
“… Our guys are really smart. They know what we’ve got to get better at, and they know the big picture of the season and mov­ing on quickly from Saturday.” 
The Irish will look to do just that tonight against the Tigers at Littlejohn Coliseum in Clemson, South Carolina. Tipoff is scheduled for 7 p.m. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 


PAID ADVERTISEMENT NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2015 | ThE OBSERVER 




CROSSWORD | WILL ShORTZ 

HOROSCOPE | EugENIA LAST 
HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | ChRISTOPhER BRuCKER 
SUDOKU | ThE MEPhAM gROuP 

JUMBLE | DAVID hOyT AND JEFF KNuREK 
DOME NUTS | ALEXANDRIA WELLMAN 








Make checks payable to and mail to: The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
Address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
City State Zip 

MEN’S BASKETBALL 

ND aims to rebound at Clemson 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
Sports Writer 
After being hit with what Irish coach Mike Brey said amounted to a “knockout punch” in a 90-60 loss at No. 4 Duke on Saturday, the No. 10 Irish will again hit the road to take on Clemson to­night in a pivotal ACC battle. 
“I think this group will bounce back very quick­ly,” Brey said after the loss Saturday. “They’ve been through a lot; they’ve been a really tight group. Knowing the kind of guys and the kind of leaders I have, I would think they’re going to rally the troops and have some edge about them.” 
On their home floor, the Blue Devils exacted their re­venge for their Jan. 28 loss at Purcell Pavilion, racing out to a 50-24 halftime lead. Notre Dame (21-4, 9-3 ACC) never managed to claw clos­er than 18 points during the second half, but Brey said he saw some positives after his team regrouped at halftime. 
“you give the team hope because we’ve been good offensively, and we’ve been able to put numbers up,” Brey said of his halftime 


MICHAEL YU | The Observer 

Irish senior guard Jerian Grant looks to shoot during Notre Dame’s 77-73 win over Duke on Jan. 28 at Purcell Pavilion. The Irish lost 90-60 in the return game in Durham, North Carolina, on Saturday. 
message. “We had one lit­tle segment in the second half that looked like us, but [Duke] quickly answered.” 
Brey conceded defeat early, removing the start­ers with five minutes left in the game to rest them for tonight’s matchup with Clemson (14-9, 6-5). 
“I got our key guys out be­cause we have a game com­ing Tuesday,” Brey said. “you have to have a short memory, win or lose, in league play.” 
Clemson has flown un­der the radar all season but is starting to assemble a resumé that could see 
see M BASKETBALL PAGE 14 
TRACK & FIELD 

Harris, Bamgbose set school records 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame saw several re-cord-breaking performances by the Irish women’s team in two-day Meyo Invitational, held Friday and Saturday at Loftus Sports Center. 
Freshman Jessica harris set her fourth school record in as many career meets, as she broke the school record she previously held in the 800-meter run by posting a time of 2:06.16. Irish coach Alan Turner said harris has great potential but still has room for improvement. 
“If [harris] can just get a little bit more action with her arms, that will really help her finishing kick,” Turner said. “The sky is the limit for her, and she’s going to continue to run better and better. It’s only her second 800-meter [race] in college, she’s spe­cial, she really is.” 
In the 400-meter dash, ju­nior All-American Margaret Bamgbose broke the school and meet record with a time of 52.45 seconds and also anchored the Irish in the 4x400-meter relay to a first-place finish with a Meyo Invitational record time of 

3:37.20 seconds. Turner said Bamgbose’s performances were a good step in the right direction. 
“[Bamgbose] is ready to go,” Turner said. “The [4x400] relay on the women’s side went a lot better today. They’re going to continue to run well as the season goes along.” 
Along with harris and Bamgbose, junior Danielle Aragon finished with a personal-best mile time of 
4:38.73. Turner said that the result puts Aragon in elite company nationally. 
“[Aragon] set a big person­al best in the women’s mile,” Turner said. “I think she beat her personal best by almost five or six seconds. That puts her in the top 10 in the country.” 
Overall, Turner believes his team is ready and knows what they need to do to 
see TRACK PAGE 12 

MICHAEL YU | The Observer 
Junior Margaret Bamgbose runs in the 4x400-meter relay during the Notre Dame Invitational at Loftus Sports Center on Jan. 24. 
WOMEN’S SWIMMING 
Irish win in rout 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame won its fi­nal home meet of the sea­son with a 209-80 victory over Cleveland State at Rolfs Aquatic Center on Saturday. 
The Irish (7-9) claimed vic­tories in 14 of the 16 events on the day, including two victories each for junior genevieve Bradford, seniors Emma Reaney and Courtney Whyte and freshman Molly Treble. Notre Dame swim­mers also finished first in the other two events but chose to exhibition them, so they did not count on the scoresheet. 
Irish coach Tim Welsh said he was impressed with his team’s performance and glad his team was able to enjoy a successful final home meet of the year. 
“We always like swimming and diving in our own pool,” Welsh said. “So having an­other meet in our own pool is always a good thing. 
“We were able to focus a little bit on the seniors so we had a seniors-only first relay and a seniors-only last relay, so we were able to celebrate our seniors at the beginning and end of each meet, and we always like doing that.” 
Many members of the team also swam in different events from their usual ones. Welsh said this allowed the team to prepare better for the ACC championships, where some members of the team will compete in alternate events. 
“We tried to do something in preparation for confer­ence championships,” Welsh said. 
“Emma Reaney swam the 200 backstroke because one of the events she’ll swim in at the championships will be the individual medley. 
“Molly Treble is going to swim the mile, so we tried to swim her back-to-back in the 1,000 and the 200 to build her confidence about how fit she is and how ready she is to swim a mile at the champi­onships. Several things like that took place in our selec­tion of events.” 
This decision led to victory for Reaney in the 200-yard backstroke, while Treble won both the 1,000-yard and 200­yard freestyle, despite having 
see W SWIMMINg PAGE 12 





