tHe iNdepeNdeNt to uNcoVer Newspaper serViNg tHe trutH Notre daMe aNd aNd report saiNt Mary’s it accurately 

VoluMe 48, issue 70 | MONDAY, JANUARY 19, 2015 | NdsMcobserVer.coM 
Committee studies worker participation 
Students, faculty prepare report on ‘China Policy’ in University’s Licensing Codes of Conduct 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
News editor 
since 2013, a committee of stu­dents, faculty and staff has been compiling data and researching the impact of the freedom of association policy in Notre dame’s licensing codes of conduct, more commonly called “the china policy.” 
“this began in the late 90s when there was a lot of activity around sweatshops, and the previous presi­dent, Fr. [edward] “Monk” Malloy instituted a campus-wide commit­tee to look into what Notre dame’s response would be,” university executive Vice president John affleck-graves said. “that commit­tee met and wrote a report with a series of recommendations. 
“the major recommendation in it was Notre dame should not al­low products produced with Notre dame’s logo on it to be manufac­tured in countries which didn’t have complete freedom of association.” 
this week, the worker participation committee will put forth its findings to the Notre dame community through a series of events focused on explaining the current policies and proposed al­ternatives. the following week, students and faculty will have an opportunity to respond in an open forum with committee members. 
“the question on the table is to 
see cHiNa PAGE 5 



Mayor addresses 
McCormick reflects on 



college democrats plans for Campus Ministry 
his role as the new director of opportunities that i have are 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 

editor in chief campus Ministry. wasted if they’re not used every “i’ve had the benefit of work-day to think about how we can in the past several years, Fr. ing with students in all that care for students better." pete Mccormick has become i’ve done, so from my perspec-Mccormick said he sees 

MICHAEL YU | The Observer 
one of the most recognizable fig­
ures on campus. 
He was formerly the rector of 
keough Hall, a dJ at legends and 
director of campus Ministry’s 
freshman retreat program. 
currently, he’s finishing an 
Mba in the Mendoza college of 

Mayor of South Bend, Pete Buttigieg, emphasized the relationship 
business and serving as chaplain campus Ministry’s mission as 


a three-part process: first, an 
invitation, then a “content-rich 
place of formation” and finally, 
a mechanism for leading people to 
prayer. 
“i think that campus Ministry 
should be a place that constantly 
invites people into what we are do-


between the city and the University Sunday evening. 
of his past roles have a common 

to the men’s basketball team. all tive, the focus of the director of ing,” he said. “it shouldn’t be seen 
campus Ministry is really to be as exclusive or as a club, but a place 


By MATTHEW McKENNA 
News writer 
south bend Mayor pete buttigieg spoke to college democrats on sunday about his career, the relationship between the city and Notre dame and his hopes for the future. 
buttigieg said he is excited to be south bend's Mayor during such a monumental time in the history of the city. 
“when i got in the mayoral race in 2011, south bend showed up on a top 10 list in Newsweek of dying cities in america,” he said. “part of that is a consequence of an economic readjustment that we’ve spent the last 50 years deal­ing with. the wider world knows about south bend because of Notre dame, but south bend did not grow up around Notre dame. it grew up around the car industry.” 

although he acknowledges the hardships the community has faced in the past, buttigieg said he believes his election as a 29 year-old was a message from the com­munity to look toward the future. 
“when one of the biggest au­tomakers here collapsed in 1963, we lost more than a quarter of our population. this is a city that re­ally took it on the chin. it’s taken 50 years to turn the corner on a mindset of trying to get back the industrial structure that we had 
see Mayor PAGE 4 

theme, he said — connecting thinking about students first,” that is welcoming to all. him with students and giving he said. “i really hope to be able “and once people are here and him a better sense of student to use that mindset as a way to needs, which he plans to use in give back. this office and the see director PAGE 5 

SMC hosts activities fair 
By KELLY KONYA 
saint Mary’s editor 
saint Mary’s hosted a spring ac­tivities fair in the student center on sunday to recruit members for campus organizations as a coun­terpart to the fall activities fair during the first week of classes in august. 
the event was coordinated by Janielle tchakerian, assistant to the vice president for student affairs and the director of resi­dence life, and tena Johnson, stu­dent involvement specialist. 

“i think this is a good idea for the spring because we have a lot of transfer students coming in and students coming back from abroad who want to get involved, and it gives them that opportu­nity to know what is available,” student body vice president sam Moorhead said. 
Johnson said 30 clubs and departments registered for the event and had table displays around the student center atrium and on the second floor. 
“we decided to organize the fair mainly to give student clubs another opportunity to recruit people,” Johnson said. “it’s the best way to promote involvement in campus life.” 
one of the newest organizations 
see Fair PAGE 5 


News PAGE 4 ViewpoiNt PAGE 6 sceNe PAGE 8 MeN’s basketball PAGE 16 Hockey PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, Notre dame, iN 46556 024 south dining Hall, Notre dame, iN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann Marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian Hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: ann Marie Jakubowski Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: Mary green Scene Editor: allie tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’Mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Online Editor: kevin song Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez Systems Administrator: Jeremy Vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

the observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 
dame du lac and saint Mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. the observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 

the news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, Managing editor, assistant 
Managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of the observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 

post office information the observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. the observer is published at: 024 south dining Hall Notre dame, iN 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices postMaster send address corrections to: the observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall Notre dame, iN 46556-077 the observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What class are you most excited for? 

Adam Conrath 
sophomore keough Hall 
“Marketing.” 
Caroline Humphreys 
freshman 
off-campus 
“French.” 
Brendan Fay 
sophomore 
alumni Hall 
“Marketing.” 


Michelle Wern 
junior 
lyons Hall 
“portrait photography class.” 
Tom Bonadies 
sophomore 
alumni Hall 
“cad/caM class.” 
Adriana Rivera 
junior 
ryan Hall 
“environmental graphic design.” 

Want your event included here? 
Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
News 
carolyn Hutyra Haleigh ehmsen selena ponio 
Graphics 
sara shoemake 
Photo 
Jodi lo 
Sports 

Mary green greg Hadley christine Mayuga 
Scene 
John darr 
Viewpoint 

gabriela leskur 
Monday  Tuesday  Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  
Prayer Service to  CUSE Undergraduate  Social Concerns Fair  Majors Night  Stress Free Friday:  
Honor the Legacy of  Workshop  Geddes Hall  SDH/Reckers  Yoga  
Martin Luther King  110 Brownson Hall  6 p.m. - 8 p.m.  6 p.m. - 8 p.m.  Rockne Memorial  
Jr.  4 p.m. - 5 p.m.  Hear about local  Discuss majors  3 p.m. - 4 p.m.  
Main Building  Learn how to write a  service opportunities  with professors and  Free admission and no  
11:45 a.m. - 12:15 p.m.  grant proposal.  available to students.  students.  experience needed.  
Women’s Basketball  Classic Film:  Wellness  Women’s Basketball  Graduate Student  
Purcell Pavilion  Stromboli  Wednesday: Cross  Purcell Pavillion  Mass  
7 p.m. - 9 p.m.  DeBartolo Performing  Country Skiing  7 p.m. - 9 p.m.  Basilica of the Sacred  
Notre Dame versus  Arts Center  Rockne Memorial  Notre Dame plays  Heart  
Tennessee.  8 p.m. - 10 p.m.  3:30 p.m. - 5 p.m.  Georgia Tech.  5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m.  
1950 film.  Equipment provided.  Worship service.  

Corrections 

the observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. we do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. if we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
paid adVertiseMeNt tHe obserVer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2014 | NdsMcobserVer.coM 




Mayor 
coNtiNued FroM page 1 
and advance to asking questions about our future.” 
despite his age, buttigieg said he ran for mayor because he believed he had experience, which prepared him to be a better agent of posi­tive change for the city than those who were currently in municipal leadership. 
“i had a business background so i was a little more familiar with the nuts and bolts of that side, and i felt i could get something done,” he said. “i also focused on the relationship i had with the city. i had grown up here. i left, and i found myself with others that were from the city. 
“we would get together for beers and would look at the papers and worry about what has going on here and question some of the leadership decisions. that’s when i knew i really wanted to help.” 
the city is beginning to believe in itself again, buttigieg said, and part of that is a function of an improved relationship with the university. 
“i’ve been extremely excited about students deciding to get more involved in their communi­ty,” he said. “we have a relationship with the university now on every level, from economic development to the arts to public safety. that has really started to transform life in the city.” 
buttigieg said he sees the city level as the most dynamic and fun level of government, and the state of the current national government makes it the level in which one is most likely to be able to improve things. 
“the city level is the level that touches the most people most im­mediately,” he said. “things like trash pickup, roads without holes in them, safe drinking water, these are things that we take for granted. all of these things can impede how you want to live your life, and all of these things are dependent on how good your city is.” 
buttigieg said his experience serving in afghanistan from February to september of last year as a member of the u.s. Naval reserves helped him in his career and gave him a new perspective on cities and those that work hard to support them. 
“there was a perspective shift that was a very healthy thing for sure,” he said. “around here, i’m a little overexposed in the media. when i got in a uniform, i was cut down to size very quickly. when it was my turn to clean the toilets, no one cared if i had a day job.” 
the nature of his job as mayor has allowed him to bypass par­ty lines and work for the good of everyone in the community, buttigieg said. 
while city members may not agree on all of his perspectives, buttigieg said cohesion is present on the local level. 
“i work with people that would never support me for national of­fice, but they see things exactly the way i do when it comes to local problems and how we’re going to try and fix them,” he said. 
Contact Matthew McKenna at mmcken12@nd.edu 

Notre Dame opens online courses 
aimed at a global and nonspe­cialist audience,” according to the press release. 
employees of Harvard and Mit founded the edX platform, Howell said. 
“schools that use the courses include california-berkeley, georgetown and dartmouth,” she said. 
the company was founded as a way to extend the vision edX ceo anant agarwal's vision of a world in which education is a basic hu­man right 
“Notre dame’s courses on the edX platform deliver on the promise we make as a university 
— to advance learning in the ser­vice of human flourishing both here on campus and in the wider world,” said elliott Visconsi, the university’s chief academic digi­tal officer. 
according to the company’s 
paid adVertiseMeNt 
website, edX has awarded more than 100,000 certificates to indi­viduals who have completed their series of necessary coursework. 
Melissa dinsman, a projects and operations manager in the office of digital learning said she doesn’t imagine a time when on-line education will replace a cam­pus-based learning environment. 
“we don’t envision a time when [education is obtained solely through] an online institution," dinsman said. "we’re not going to take away that traditional envi­ronment, but the online elements can be used to enhance those tra­ditional learning environments. 
“we aim to improve the visual aspects of education that can be used to enhance student learning here on campus,” she said. 
Contact Peter Durbin at pdurbin@nd.edu 

proposals that were reviewed by faculty boards, who decided on which courses would be offered.” 
Howell said the decision-making process required sifting through applications of some “superstar” professors. 
according to the college of science press release, vice president and associate provost dan Myers will teach “i ‘Heart’ stats,” theology professors gary anderson and John cavadini will teach “Jesus in scripture and tradition,” engineering profes­sors J. Nicholas laneman and aaron d. striegel, finance profes­sor barry keating and law pro­fessor patricia l. bellia will teach “understanding wireless” and physics professor Mike Hildreth and math professor annette pilkington will offer “Math in sports.” 
“all four inaugural courses are 

By PETER DURBIN 
News writer 
the newest form of a Notre dame education is now acces­sible through the university’s first set of Massive open online courses (Moocs), currently available for registration through the online learning platform edX's website. 
the courses, created in a joint venture between Notre dame faculty and the office of digital learning, will be offered through a partnership with edX. 
course operations coordina­tor sonia Howell, who works in the office of digital learning, explained that the courses came to fruition after talking to faculty. 
“we went through the process of sending out feelers to faculty who may be interested,” she said. “interested faculty submitted 


NdsMcobserVer.coM | MONDAY, JANUARY 19, 2015 | tHe obserVer 

Director 
coNtiNued FroM page 1 
feel comfortable, we can teach them about the things that mat­ter most. i think all too often on campus and in our lives, we spend a lot of time talking about things that are important but are not necessarily what’s go­ing on in the depth of our minds and hearts. we want to be a place where folks can ask hard questions about their lives and what they hope to be about.” 
the liturgical and folk choirs are one area where campus Ministry has historically done well, he said, as are leadership development programs such as anchor and compass. this semester, campus Ministry is beginning a spirituality study to evaluate current programming and brainstorm improvements for the future. 
“we need to know, what are we doing that’s good, what are we doing that’s not so good and what are we doing that could possibly be discontinued?” Mccormick said. “starting now, we’re going to do a benchmark­ing episode where we look at other universities to see what they’re doing and also begin to look in high schools to see what our future students look like now. we’re going to get some good information from those that are here, but i’m also inter­ested in hearing about what the class of 2022 looks like so we can start to come up with new and creative ways to begin to build new opportunities.” 
He cited the relatively new pil­grimage program as an example of pre-planning done well — in the past few years, it’s become “one of the most exciting things that we’re doing,” sending stu­dents to Hawaii, the Holy land, France, Mexico and beyond. 
“to think that four years ago, five years ago, we weren’t do­ing pilgrimages at all makes me think about what the next step will be now,” he said. “it’s always driving in the same direction though, as an invitation, a deep­ening of formation and a leading to prayer.” 
ideally, campus Ministry’s boundaries would blur fluidly with those of the center for social concerns and other faith-based action opportunities on campus, he said. 
“you have to have both a spiritual and social compo­nent,” Mccormick said. “if we’re not giving people the opportu­nity to actually practice their faith, then in my mind we’re not doing our jobs. 

“i just think that you can’t keep faith contained all in one self, so certainly we’re going to provide opportunities for re­treats and reflection and the enhancement of knowledge, but yet my sincere hope is that stu­dents will take what they’re do­ing out into campus or to their halls, giving it back in different ways.” 
Mccormick said the director of campus Ministry position has been a dream of his for a while, inspired partially by his mentor and predecessor in the office, Fr. Jim king. Mccormick will finish his Mba in May and continue as basketball chaplain, but he said he’s leaving many possibilities open about the fu­ture of campus Ministry. 
“i’ve learned that things that are worth doing oftentimes re­quire a little bit of risk,” he said. “sometimes we’re tempted to play it safe, to stay in our comfort zones. My approach to campus Ministry is going to be to have a little bit of risk that we enter into with our programming, a little bit of risk when it comes to our invitation to formation. 
“i just think that leaving that space open to a bit of risk is where god finds his way in. and it’s too tempting to be control­ling to our own environments, but it makes it really difficult for the Holy spirit to work if we have no interest in trying something new.” 
despite a new office and a staff of 30 working under him, Mccormick said he sees this role as a chance to continue what he’s always done — working with students and getting out in the community. 
“i’ve got great people who are working here, so i’m excited to go out and see the retreats. i’m excited to go and listen to a concert. i’m excited to go hear confessions for people on a pil­grimage or whatever the case may be,” he said. “it’s really going to come down to getting invest­ed in the people that are here, and that’s going to lead to all dif­ferent sorts of possibilities.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at  ajakubo1@nd.edu 
paid adVertiseMeNt 

China 
coNtiNued FroM page 1 
engage or not to engage, and i think the question we’re going to explore [this] week is: does engagement make sense as a way to improve the experience of workers in these facto­ries?” christine cervenak, associate director of Notre dame’s center for civil and Human rights, said. “or, i think it’s very possible that a lot of the conversation will be around why not to engage and to allow the existing policy to continue.” 
worker participation refers to fac­tory workers’ right to freely associ­ate, including their ability to form unions, cervenak said. under cur­rent rules, apparel companies like under armour, which the university currently licenses to create apparel, cannot produce Notre dame prod­ucts in factories where workers can­not freely associate. 
“the right of association is the right that the initial policy focuses on, and this committee is really fo­cusing on what we’re now calling workers’ participation,” she said. “if you’re unhappy with your wage or your safety or environmental issues, you should be able to complain to your employer.” 
according to the worker participation committee’s website, the current Freedom of association policy, enacted in 2001 after Malloy’s committee released its recom­mendations, stipulates, “university licensed products cannot be manu­factured in countries lacking a legal right for workers to organize and form independent labor unions of their own choosing. 
“since then, china and 10 other countries (afghanistan, equatorial guinea, iran, laos, oman, Qatar, saudi arabia, somalia, turkmenistan and united arab emirates) have been on a list of countries where licensees were prohibited from producing Notre dame-licensed products. 
“Notre dame is the only univer­sity with such a policy.” 
affleck-graves said the policy was born out of the university’s desire to lead peer institutions like duke and stanford in demonstrating the possibility of doing ethical business abroad in countries where working regulations and human-rights laws differ. 
“it’s very important that Notre dame always does things that it feels comfortable with and that it meets the values and morals and ethical standards that we would be proud of,” he said. “and at the same time, our mission is to be a source for good in the world and to encourage and foster change for the better wherever we can. 

“that’s what’s driving this project. is there a way where we can be an ex­ample to others of how to do ethical business in a country like china? it’s one thing to talk about it, but it’s an­other thing to actually do it and pro­vide a proven and tested model that then other people can implement. 
“… if we can’t, then we won’t do it. but if we can, i think it would be an exciting opportunity for Notre dame to take the lead in this area.” 
affleck-graves said the office of the executive vice president typical­ly reviews each of Notre dame’s poli­cies about every 10 years to ensure their continued relevance. cervenak said affleck-graves and Notre dame administrators realized in their re­view of the licensing codes of con­duct that, though well intentioned, the sanctions against china and nine other countries had not yielded a substantive positive impact. 
“as i understand it, there was a hope that Notre dame would be at the forefront of getting other uni­versities to get behind a movement that would put pressure on china to change its labor policies,” cervenak said. “i think there was some hope, real hope, tangible hope that that would happen, and in the end, the universities that might have joined with us did not do so.” 
student body president lauren Vidal, who served on the panel with student body president emeritus alex coccia, said the fact that many Notre dame students come from china and that the university itself has fostered a strong presence in china encouragedaffleck-graves to review the licensing policy. 
“it’s a unique opportunity be­cause when the committee met to discuss this initially, we realized that although we banned production in china, we’ve seen no change due to the ban,” Vidal said. “… we think that this may be a unique and very constructive way to approach im­proving the lives of workers in a de­liberate way.” 
besides compiling research, the worker participation committee’s responsibilities have included con­sidering alternatives to the china policy. a proposed pilot program would allow “three or four” audited chinese factories that meet certain standards of working conditions and agree to a “rigorous analysis” to begin producing Notre dame ap­parel, affleck-graves said. 
“we’ve done an audit of six fac­tories,” he said. “to get a sense of what we could do in an audit, we took a team over to china includ­ing lauren and alex to visit four of the factories. we were trying to ver­ify that the company that was doing the audits for us had actually got the message on what we thought was important.” 
“so now the question is, would we actually be comfortable applying that program, and how would the companies operate under that sys­tem?” affleck-graves said. 
Notre dame enlisted the help of Verité, a non-profit consulting firm, to identify and assess factories in china that might participate in such a program if the current policy were to change, cervenak said. 
last september, Vidal toured four potential factories in china with seven other individuals, including coccia and assistant provost for in­ternationalization Jonathan Noble, who also directs Notre dame’s beijing global gateway. 
“we visited four factories, two of which were pretty phenomenal in terms of worker representation,” Vidal said. “we also visited two other factories which we decided we wouldn’t be comfortable manufac­turing in. i was very happy to see that the delegation all agreed on that.” 
affleck-graves said the worker participation committee’s work and recommendations offer the campus community a chance to en­gage in meaningful dialogue about an issue that matters not just to the university’s mission and operations but also to concerns of the global economy. 
“china is the focus of the com­mittee because it’s the second-largest economy in the world,” affleck-graves said. “within the next few years, it will probably be the largest economy of the world.” 
“china is a very, very important country and so the ability to go into a country like that and influence behavior is something i personally think Notre dame should be trying to do,” he said. “this can become a model not just for china. … by tack­ling one of the biggest countries, i think you have the biggest opportu­nity to create a role model for others.” 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at  lsteven1@nd.edu 
Fair 
coNtiNued FroM page 1 
at the fair was the college’s three new graduate programs, including a doctorate of Nursing practice, a Master of science in data science and a Master of science in speech pathology. aiming to reach un­dergraduates who may want to attain advanced degrees, Melissa Fruscione, associate director of admission for graduate programs, staffed the table and said she was glad to have the programs on display. 
“i thought the fair would be a great opportunity to introduce undergraduate students to our graduate programs,” Fruscione to see all of the different things i could get involved in at the last minute,” she said. “i also was looking around to see if anything would appeal to my younger sister, who is a freshman looking to join some clubs.” 
Mcsorley said she wishes more students would take the opportu­nity to join clubs mid-year. 
“i was surprised to see such a range of clubs, too, and even a new one called christ lights, which is for students to talk about their faiths and modern-day topics regarding religion,” she said. “i signed up, and i am excited for ev­erything the club offers.” 
Contact Kelly Konya at  kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

said. “we’re not official yet in hav­ing student organizations related to the graduate programs, ... but we thought it was just a good op­portunity for students to be in­troduced to the programs and let them know what they are all about in case they want to continue their education at saint Mary’s.” 
Fruscione said once the gradu­ate programs form student orga­nizations, she believes the small size of the programs will allow un­dergraduate students and gradu­ate students to collaborate and learn from one another. 
senior nursing student grace Mcsorley said the fair was a great success. 
“since it’s my last semester as a senior, i thought it was a nice way 

Continuing MLK’s legacy at ND 
binge on break 

Jodi Lo 
associate photo editor 

this winter break was one of the best breaks i have had in a long time. why is that, you might ask? it’s because of the show, “parks and recreation,” that i started and caught up to date with during my time on the couch or in bed. 
this show has everything that makes a show great: the optimistic main character, the pessimistic anti-government friend, the kind and beautiful best friend, the stupid and clumsy friend, the friend that fell into a hole, etc. every single character is rich in personality and brings their own charm to the show, but perhaps the best character in the show and my favorite is ronald ulysses swanson. 
ronald ulysses swanson is the di­rector of the parks and recreation department of pawnee, indiana, who hates the government and everything that surrounds the bureaucracy of the field. He is a man who excels at woodworking and many manly things while also enjoying things like capi­talism, steak, whiskey, guns and big dogs. Naturally, ron swanson is quot­able. ron swanson is so quotable that there is not a day that goes by that i don’t see good ole ron swanson be­ing quoted on reddit, Facebook and tumblr. 
this brings up the true objective of this article, which is to investigate why ron swanson is so funny. i liter­ally googled ron swanson on google images and spent 20 minutes looking at his quotes as well as his famous swanson look. My favorite meme is of ron swanson and blueberry wine. i think i understand why so many people like this joke in particular and why he is so popular. 
the most common thing i see in all of his quotes is ron saying things that make me giggle like a little child. what makes ron so great is that he says things that are a little bit stereo­typical, a little bit mean, a little bit judgmental and a little bit inappropri­ate. in the grand scheme of things, ron’s humor has a hint of truth to it and is also tastefully inappropriate. this is a great combination because it doesn’t insult most people (at least it doesn’t insult me). additionally, i ap­preciate that he says things that only a man who is confident in himself would say, which is refreshing and great to watch. 
so if you ever have a week to binge-watch a show, i recommend “parks and recreation.” if you don’t want to watch it for the funny plot and stellar cast, at least watch it for ron swanson. 
Contact Jodi Lo at jlo1@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Jennifer Cha 
guest columnist 

today, we commemorate dr. Martin luther king Jr. and his remarkable work in nonviolent activism during the civil rights Movement. Many of us know of his connec­tion to Notre dame, as documented by the iconic photo of him linking arms with university president emeritus Fr. theodore Hesburgh at a 1964 civil rights rally in chicago. in honor of dr. king’s legacy at Notre dame, i’d like to reflect on the campus protest students held in december for eric garner. 
on tuesday, dec. 9, 2014 at 12:16 p.m., more than 100 Notre dame students, staff and faculty protested the sense­less death of eric garner at the hands of police brutality by staging a die-in outside debartolo Hall. we lay down on the sidewalk for 11 minutes—one minute for each time garner gasped, “i can’t breathe,” before he was suffocated to death in police officer daniel pantaleo’s chokehold. 
during the die-in, i lay down and my heart hurt. i stared out under almost closed lids, at the feet that walked around us, at the faces that turned and at the eyes that averted. Most of all i listened to the silence, so unusual during a class change around noon outside debart, until it was suddenly punctuated: 
“Hey man, new shoes?” 
“yeah, got ‘em last weekend.” 
“Nice.” 

said shoe stepped down right by my face as that person deliberately walked between us protesters, despite the mulch path many others were taking along the side. in that suffocating space, i caught a glimpse of what it is like to be simultaneously exposed and invisible. the deliberate choice those two people made to disrespect our memorial for eric garner’s life is exactly the kind of response effected by america’s legal system and general society that makes this protest necessary. 
so to those who have voiced on yik yak and elsewhere “as if campus crossroads didn’t cause enough congestion...,” yes, for 11 minutes the die-in was inconvenient and disrup­tive. it is also inconvenient and disruptive to have a family member die due to police brutality. our campus die-in is an admittedly small step in a larger national movement that is finally forcing the country to grapple with systematic rac­ism. awareness is where change begins. to those asking, “don’t all lives matter?” yes, they do. but to paraphrase a tweet by comedian arthur chu, “do you crash strangers’ funerals shouting, ‘i too have felt loss?’” of course all lives matter. but when police kill black people at egregiously dis­proportional rates and then often walk free without even a trial, our legal system and society as a whole sends the clear message that black lives do not matter as much as other lives. 
at Nd, i want so badly to believe that campus is inclusive to students of all races, but it is overwhelmingly obvious to me that this is not true. in addition to countless everyday microaggressions (“you don’t act black”, etc.), i’m troubled by the acts of blatant racism that go largely uncontested on this campus. i can only begin to understand what it feels like to be attacked by someone all the time — what it feels like to be black on this campus and in this country. Fifty years after the civil rights Movement, we are still fighting for the civil rights of people of color in america. 
the bigger picture is this: regardless of what specifically happened (and/or how much evidence is clear-cut), cases like Mike brown and eric garner are indicative of a much larger problem of racialized police brutality and institution­al racism. brown and garner do not represent opposite ends on a binary; instead, they occupy two points on a spectrum undergirded by systemic racism and violence. 
so how do we, as members of the Notre dame family, be­gin to confront race on campus? 
let me preface my suggestions by emphasizing that i do not believe most Nd students come from a place of deliber­ate ill will, but rather, uncertainty. i believe that as a cam­pus we do not know how to talk about race, especially not with each other. 
controversial issues such as race are always incredibly polarizing, and we should take care to remember that those on the extremes speak the loudest. so drown them out. do some objective research; form your own opinion. talk about race, especially with people who think differently than you do. if you are not a person of color in america, you have the privilege of being tired of talking about race and all its asso­ciated violence and controversy. but for people of color, this is every second of their every day, and it is exhausting. when you see injustice, speak up. silence is, above all, complicity. 
on that tuesday morning when i made my way towards the die-in, i witnessed students, faculty and staff coming from every possible direction to converge in front of debart: people from all walks of life, students of all races, ethnicities and nationalities. i saw hope and solidarity where before i saw only pain and alienation. the die-in represented Notre dame’s beautiful potential to come together ... but it is not enough. in order to heal as a community and as a nation, we need to respect each other, even if we don’t necessarily agree with each other. 
students — you have more power than you know. we, members of the Notre dame community, inherit dr. king’s legacy and the responsibility to continue fighting for racial equality. as dr. king once stated, “we must accept finite disappointment, but never lose infinite hope.” 
Jennifer Cha is a sophomore studying English and American studies. She can be reached at jcha1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



tHe obserVer | MONDAY, JANUARY 19, 2015 | NdsMcobserVer.coM 
cartoon endings and authorial fallacy 
Charlie Ducey 
english, channeled 

during winter break, i suffered the typical post-term slump of spending untold hours binge-watch­ing tV series i’d missed out on due to coursework. i’m not big on all of this game of cards, House of thrones live-action stuff. if i’m going to inundate myself with entertainment media, i prefer to return to the lazy saturday mornings of my childhood with some old fashion Nickelodeon cartoons. 
Many of you millennials may be familiar with “avatar: the last airbender,” a series that aired on Nickelodeon back in our school days concerning a bald boy with arrows on his head who channels elemental powers to save the world. in the last few years, the show’s co-creators, bryan konietzko and Michael diMartino, continued the avatar legacy with “the legend of korra,” a new series that caters to a slightly older audience with its teenage romance and darker villains. like the first series, it also seeks to challenge american cartoon stereotypes with eastern cultural/spiritual influences and its head­strong female protagonist. 
watching the show’s final two seasons in three days was a wild (and mind-numbing) ride. as korra and another female character entered a spirit portal following the climatic final battle, i nodded with sat­isfaction at a job well done — peace and friendship triumph over villainy and destruction. but according to konietzko’s tumblr account, i had missed some­thing big: the final scene was actually a confirmation of the bisexual love interests of the two characters, whose sappho-erotic romance had sprung to life as they peered into each other’s eyes in the last seconds of the series. 
per konietzko’s tumblr: 

“you can celebrate it, embrace it, accept it, get over it or whatever you feel the need to do, but there is no denying it. that is the official story.” 
in no time, news outlets from igN to tV guide blew up with stories praising “the legend of korra” for its progressively-minded presentation of an lgbt relationship. 
Now hold it. official story? lgbt relationship? when is the last time that clasping hands and eye-contact constituted a relationship? and what makes konietzko’s word “the official story”? 
First off, just because the creator of an artwork (and this cartoon counts as artwork if ever one did) says the artwork means something doesn’t mean that is what the artwork officially means. this is what we in the literary world call the authorial fal­lacy. this fallacy defers to the artist’s judgment, pre­venting the artwork from conveying its own meaning and leaving no room for interpretation. artistic meanings spoon-fed to the viewer by the author are no artistic meanings at all, for artistic meanings are not declared but discovered. the fallacy comes down to this essential point: an author can intend for the art to mean one thing, but fail abysmally in convey­ing that meaning through the art itself. 
this is precisely what konietzko & co. have done: they intended to portray an lgbt relationship, but the portrayal was so subtle, ambiguous and last minute that they had to rely on a fallacious authorial decree to grant an interpretation of korra’s bisexual­ity any credence (credence which it should have been granted by ample cues throughout the series). 
diMartino clarified in his own tumbr post that “our intention with the last scene was to make it as clear as possible that yes, korra and asami have romantic feelings for each other.” yet, the scene was anything but clear. konietzko added, “we did this for our queer friends, family and colleagues. it is long overdue that our media (including children’s media) stop treating non-heterosexual people as nonexistent, as something merely to be mocked.” 
at face value, representing the stories of the un­derrepresented and empowering the marginalized is a noble intention indeed. However, if the creators wanted to challenge hetero-normativity in children’s cartoons, why didn’t they design an lgbt character from the beginning rather than contriving one in the last season, nay, the last moment of the last episode of the last season (making the whole social justice project seem like a cursory afterthought)? 
lastly, if the representation of lgbt identity rests entirely in portraying romantic attractions, then doesn’t this reduce lgbt identity to only a small facet of personality, that is, to romantic tastes? this romantic reduction of identity does not present char­acters with same-sex attractions as people like ev­eryone else, but rather pigeon-holes them on a basis of their sexuality. thus, the female character who is attracted to other women becomes the lgbt charac­ter, just as the character who has dark skin becomes the stereotypical black character, defined by a singu­lar aspect of his or her identity. 
it seems to me that tV shows should depict char­acters with complex personalities and relationships built upon more than superficial signs of romance. and if the creators of tV shows need to write blog-posts after the fact to explain what their show “of­ficially” means, maybe they should spend more time developing meaning through the artwork itself. that, anyway, is my interpretation, not my decree. 
Charlie Ducey is a junior studying the languages of Monroe Beardsley (English) and Hans-Georg Gadamer (German). For the next academic year, he is residing on the other side of the Atlantic Ocean in Oxford, UK. He welcomes your words. He can be contacted at  cducey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
When death gives life meaning 
Amanda Peña 
Find your Voice 

Most students can attest that the final semester of senior year has brought the inevitable questions of identity and has brought the future pounding at the front door. whether you’re ready to answer it or not, the door bursts open, and you find yourself frantically racing toward employment, service, graduate school or some concrete opportunity that can get family and friends off your back about what you’re doing with your life. in this first week back at Notre dame i ran out this metaphorical door toward service applica­tions and the gre, slamming straight into a brick wall when my mother called to tell me my madrina (god­mother) Marthy, passed away this past wednesday. as the blood drained from my face and my body fell numb into the chilling snow, the importance of my post-graduate plans and senior year took a pause while the whole “meaning of life” conversation poured out through my tears. 
Maria “Marthy” Zarate emigrated from Mexico to california with my maternal grandmother and with no family of her own, found a home with my grandmother to help raise her six children, including my mom. in an environment where safety, food and comfort were scarce, Marthy grounded my mother in love and later moved in with my parents to help raise their children. singing her favorite songs in spanish over steaming pots of rice and beans from the kitchen, tightly braiding my hair while watching her nove­las and pacing back and forth under the glow of my night light while praying the rosary, Marthy became a formative part of my identity — although i have only realized it in retrospect. speaking only spanish, while my sisters and i spoke english, we often made up words and used spanglish to navigate our lives to­gether. My parents escaped poverty and built a life of opportunity for us because Marthy, along with many other individuals, demonstrated selfless love while they worked tiresome hours to put food on the table and keep a roof over our head. as we grew older and our finances more stable, Marthy moved in with my cousin, Michelle, to help raise her daughter and thus, the cycle continued. 
i loved Marthy with all my heart, and i ache know­ing she will not be there when i return home in May. Marthy played an important role in sculpting the road that brought me to Notre dame, but reflections of her life and death continue to illuminate the direction that path will lead me after i graduate as well. 
as a student of the Fighting irish, i committed to a university where “the aim is to create a sense of hu­man solidarity and concern for the common good that will bear fruit as learning becomes service to justice.” in the wake of Marthy’s death, i call on my experienc­es and the lessons i have learned as an undergraduate to discern how i might fulfill this mission. 
it is easy to dream of someday changing the world, or waiting for the moment you are financially and socially secure enough to begin giving yourself to a world in deep need of your gifts and talents. but, as death has taught me, there is never a better time to start creating the future we would like to see than this present moment. we cannot wait for our diplo­mas to begin the conversation on human dignity and development. we cannot leave this responsibility for someone else to care about. every day, millions of people die from preventable and curable diseases. women are forced into sex slavery and families are torn apart by immigration, war and political debates. states criminalize homelessness, and children grow up in unstable, broken households. 
Human development occurs in the wealthy suburbs of chicago and in the poverty of rural uganda. the key for effective and sustainable development lies in our individual revelation and pursuit for restoring and protecting human dignity across personal, economic and social lines of development. the conversation must begin now while you discern how your education will mold your future and the future you will impact. 
on Jan. 28, through the kellogg institute, a couple of students and i invite you to understand the inter­sections of human dignity and development as they pertains to a variety of academic disciplines. whether you have your post-graduate plans figured out or are a freshman looking to give life to your coursework, seek out opportunities to grow in human solidarity and give of yourself so that others may develop and flour­ish in ways they might have never imagined. if Marthy taught me anything, it is that selfless love for the dig­nity of others promotes true development — who i’ve become today is proof enough. 
Amanda Pea is a senior with a self-designed  major in Sustainable Development and minor in Poverty Studies. She enjoys having fruitful discussions on race, poverty, gender and interpersonal relations. She can be reached at apena4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
tHe obserVer | MONDAY, JANUARY 19, 2014 | NdsMcobserVer.coM 

By BRIDGET DEDELOW 
scene writer 

by the time i made it to legends of Notre dame on saturday night, the venue was absolutely packed, as there were people from wall to wall. shouts of, “Hug me brotha” and “i ain’t calling you a truther” could be heard throughout the crowd. every person in the club stood in anticipation for one reason only: musi­cian drake bell. 
drake bell broke through in his role on the Nickelodeon show “drake and Josh,” in which he played one of two stepbrothers who got into hilari­ous misadventures. after the show’s tremendous popularity, bell then moved onto music,  releasing his debut album, “telegraph,” in 2005. this album was released independently, but all of the songs were written by bell. in 2006, he signed with universal Motown, and his second album, “it’s only time,” came out on december 5. Finally, his third album, “ready, steady, go,” was released on april 22, 2014. 
once drake bell emerged onstage at legends on saturday, many in the club went crazy. Many peo­ple (myself included) grew up watching “drake and Josh” (and maybe even had a cd or two as well). to see him standing there was like reliving a childhood memory, and there were quotes thrown around from the show from audience and musician alike throughout the night. Honestly, though, i did not re­ally know what to expect from his live music — and ended still not knowing what to think. 
bell opened with a cover of olly Murs’s “dance with Me tonight,” which was one of the catchier songs of the entire night. He put rockabilly flair on the pop song and showcased his strong vocal range. throughout the show, i wished that he would do more songs in this style because it was definitely a positive point. 
bell could not play guitar because of an accident earlier in the month, so throughout the concert, he was accompanied by a guitarist. still, with a solid stage presence that was coupled with his vocals, he showed that he could get the crowd going, regard­less of his setback. you could definitely tell he was having as much fun as the audience was. He was very interactive and would talk a little bit between songs, which made a packed house seem a lot more personal. 
another memorable moment of the show was when bell played his “signature” song, “Found a way.” this song ended up being the theme song of “drake and Josh” during the later seasons, and was a major throwback for many members of the audi­ence. bell put this song toward the middle of his set, which was a change from many shows i had seen. He psyched the audience out by starting another song first, stopping, then starting the new one. putting a popular song among his covers (which were most of his set) was a refreshing take because then you did not have to wait an entire show to listen to one of your favorites. However, i noticed that after this song many people left, which was a negative in my book. 
lastly, one other negative of this show was bell’s cover of “blackbird” by the beatles. i love the song, but thought his rendition of it was a little dry. it defi­nitely mixed things up, but brought down the energy of the show a bit. 
overall, this show gave me mixed feelings on drake bell’s music. i didn’t walk out loving it, but i didn’t walk out hating it, either. Maybe if he played more of his original music, i would’ve had a different take. For now, this is one artist i won’t be throwing it back to anytime soon. 
Contact Bridget Dedelow at                                                   bdedel01@saintmarys.edu 




tHe obserVer | MONDAY, JANUARY 19, 2015 | NdsMcobserVer.coM 


Allie Tollaksen 
scene editor 

when i learned recently that all of “the twilight Zone” is available on Netflix, i couldn’t queue up my favorite seasons fast enough. scrolling through the menu, i recalled all my favorite episodes of my youth and was thrilled to watch them on demand rather than on a late-night whim in my childhood home. but while many still hold water, others of the myriad of episodes are less thrilling when you’re no longer watching them as an eight-year-old. 
so if, like me, you’re looking for updated “twilight Zone”-esque terror and eeri­ness, look no further than “black Mirror.” available to stream on Netflix, the british anthology series premiered in 2011 to update all the sci-fi satire of rod serling for the 21st century. 
only two seasons of “black Mirror” are complete, and only six episodes are avail­able on Netflix — three in each season, with episodes running from 40 minutes to around an hour. but what “black Mirror” lacks in quantity is certainly made up for in its quality. 
each episode exists in its own futuristic universe with its own unique cast to tell a different story about the dangers and horrors of technology. From commentary on everything from digital consumerism to data and relationships, the six episodes tackle current concerns about technol­ogy, social media and voyeurism through smart satire. 
as a result, “black Mirror” plays out in a space between “the Hunger games” and “Her.” the imagined futuristic societ­ies don’t quite create a dystopia, but they don’t make a romance either. instead, “black Mirror” is sci-fi at its purest, creat­ing relatable scenarios in a not-so-distant and not-so-unrealistic future and scaring us into thinking twice about technology today. 
However, like my recent realization about “the twilight Zone” episodes, “black Mirror” is hit or miss. stronger episodes accomplish everything the show sets out to achieve, terrifying its viewers long after the episode ends. 

others, however, fall just short. For example, the season two premiere, “be right back,” starts off with an interesting enough concept — a pregnant woman’s fiancé dies, so she tries a new technology that allows her to “bring back” her fiancé in the form of a clone, using videos and data from his social media accounts to program the lifelike body. 
the episode has the potential to give intelligent commentary on the limits of social media to reflect identity, but it spi­rals into a series of distractingly awkward dialogue and lackluster acting, and the rush to tie up loose ends of the plot de­tracts from its potential. in the end, the episode’s characters hijack the story, figu­ratively stepping between the audience and any poignant commentary. 
other episodes sidestep these pit­falls entirely and make watching “black Mirror” worthwhile. at its best, the show juggles multiple themes without sacrific­ing the story or entertainment value. 
in an episode called “white bear,” the show accomplishes all of this. beginning as an edge-of-your-seat thriller mocking society’s addiction to screens, the episode ultimately unleashes a great surprise end­ing that turns the whole program into an unexpected thought experiment. 
“black Mirror” may have a few duds, but its strong episodes more than make up for its missteps. a third season just premiered last december, and the show will hope­fully hit its stride with a few more episodes under its belt. i can’t help but hope, like “the twilight Zone” to which it is so read­ily compared, “black Mirror” will stick around to scare for many years to come. 
Allie Tollaksen can be reached at atollaks@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By ALEXANDRA LOWERY 
scene writer 

thursday morning brought about the final round of nominee announcements for the 2015 award show season with the broadcast of the contenders for the 87th annual academy awards. 
leading the pack in nominations were alejandro g. iñárritu’s “birdman” and wes anderson’s “the grand budapest Hotel,” each earning nine nods despite the anderson comedy’s inability to snag a contending spot in any of the acting categories. 
“boyhood,” the revolutionary coming of age film that took 12 years to make, grabbed a respectable six nominations and remains the front-runner for best picture — because, seriously, 12 years is a long freaking time. 
to the surprise of no one, Meryl streep earned her 19th oscar nomination for her portrayal as the witch who gets a serious makeover in rob Marshall’s “into the woods,” leaving us to look for­ward to yet another Meryl appreciation speech which, let’s be honest, we’re all secretly excited for. 
as far as snubs, this year’s academy selections were not lacking. Jennifer aniston’s raw performance in “cake” didn’t receive the recognition that many predicted, leaving room for Marion cotillard to enter the best actress category for her role in the French film, “two days, one Night”. cotillard is only the second actress to earn a best actress win in a foreign lan­guage film, which she accomplished for performance “la Vie en rose” seven years ago. the lack of previous foreign-film nominations in the category make cotillard’s 2014 nomination another surprise pick from the academy. 
rather than honoring david oyelowo’s outstanding performance as dr. Martin luther king Jr. in “selma” or Jake gyllenhaal’s creepy physi­cal transformation for his part in “Nightcrawler,” this year’s oscars opt­ed for bradley cooper in “american sniper,” a role that received somewhat mixed reviews and steve carell as a creepy multimillionaire with a fake nose in “Foxcatcher.” 

oyelowo’s oversight was not the only one of its kind in 2015’s nomination pool, a fact that has prompted backlash on social media. every actor among the 20 nominat­ed for their performances are white and not a single female director, screenwriter, or cinematographer was nominated. ava duVernay, director of “selma”, would have been the first african-american woman to be nominated in the best director catego­ry. the lack of diversity amongst the nomi­nees led #oscarssowhite to start trending on twitter, as thousands of users criticized the academy’s choices, some pointing out the academy’s own racial and gender bias with a staggering 94% caucasian and 77% male membership. 
a snub that was buzzed about nearly just as much was “the lego Movie,” a no-show for the best animated Feature category. despite an abundance of commercial suc­cess, as the children’s comedy raked in $258 million at the u.s. box office, as well as critical acclaim, the lego’s cinematic adventures were left off the academy’s list, earning outcry from pretty much anyone who saw the movie. 
as for whom we should all expect to give 
an acceptance speech, here is the list of predicted winners in the big six categories: 
BEST PICTURE 
“boyhood”, richard linklater 
BEST DIRECTOR 
richard linklater, “boyhood” 
BEST ACTRESS 
Julianne Moore, “still alice” 
BEST ACTOR 
Michael keaton, “birdman” 
BEST SUPPORTING ACTRESS 
patricia arquette, “boyhood” 
BEST SUPPORTING ACTOR 
J.k. simmons, “whiplash” 
For the full list of nominees, go to oscars. go.com. the academy awards will air live on abc on Feb. 22 at 7 p.m. 
Contact Alexandra Lowery at                alowery1@nd.edu 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Broncos shake up coaching staff 

Aaron Sant-Miller 
sports writer 
No team is more interest­ing right now than the denver broncos. the broncos are revamping their entire coach­ing staff after a strong season, something you typically see from a 5-11 team, not a 12-4 team. Most prominently, the franchise lost head coach John Fox after the team and Fox mu­tually agreed to part ways. 
in four seasons in denver, Fox produced a record of 46-18 and led the team to the post­season all four years. Not too shabby. on the surface, that’s the kind of guy a team should fight to keep around, but John elway and co. didn’t seem to interested in doing so. 
if you were a head-coaching candidate, a team with so much success over the last four years is an appealing option, right? 
all that glitters is not gold. in my opinion, if i were a poten­tial head coach, i would avoid denver. 
when starting your tenure as a head coach, you ideally would like to have some room for error. often, a new head coach installs an entirely new scheme on both sides of the ball. players need to adjust to both a new coaching style and a new system, and as a result, it’s hard to imagine they will be maximizing their talent on day one. clearly, denver isn’t leav­ing much room for error after moving away from Fox. it’s a “win now” feel for the broncos. 
second, a new head coach would like some salary cap room when starting. this al­lows for coaches to bring in “their type of guys.” a coach wants players who fit the new team identity, as well as the new schemes. denver is right up under against the cap, so the new coach who takes the reigns will have very little roster flexibility. 
granted, denver has a strong roster. rarely is there a vacancy with such a strong roster al­ready in place. though wins are often attributed to coaches, denver’s impressive success over the last four years must be primarily attributed to the men playing between the lines. so tip the hat to those guys. realize that not much needs to change, talent-wise. 
those are two nitpicky rea­sons, not enough to sway any­one. if that were all there was swirling around the denver job, any human with a brain would leap at it. No, the problem is under center. 
what is peyton Manning go­ing to do? 
His numbers were great this year, and he started the season on fire. yet due to injuries and declining arm strength, his performance fell sharply as the season went on. currently, he is undecided on what to do next season. 
whether he comes back or whether he leaves, as a head coach, it’s a tough spot to be in. if Manning comes back, you’re faced with a high-injury-risk superstar. if he’s back, and you build an offense around him, but No. 18 gets injured, your season is in deep water. Manning is the guy who you can build an offense around. No, Manning is the guy who builds your offense and keeps it standing. without him, your team is in trouble. 
even if he stays healthy, he is 38 years old. you can’t expect to be a long-tenured head coach and to build an offense around someone who will only be around for another year or two. so even if peyton’s back, you have to start planning for life after peyton. 
if he isn’t back, you have to get someone else. Fast. this team is built to win now. you can’t just throw Joe schmo in there and expect to win the super bowl. with escalating cap numbers on most of the talented players on the roster, you don’t have time to groom a rookie. there are not a lot of available passers who can make a splash right away. you’re talking about the hard­est position to fill. rarely can you find a successful coach without his trusty quarterback by his side. 
so if you’re looking at long­term career prospects, you have to roll the dice on Manning’s health, hoping he stays healthy and that you can groom some­one under him for the next couple of years. yet, you’re also rolling the dice on peyton him­self. will he be back? or will he retire? you have to choose the job before he makes his call. 
without a quarterback, denver can’t make real noise in the playoffs. that’s what the franchise’s front office wants 
— no, expects. why is this an unappealing job? because your success involves rolling the dice, twice, on a 38-year-old quarterback with serious injury concerns. does his body hold up? is he even in the building? whoever signs up for the job hopefully has answers to those questions, answers that i lack. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller atasantmil@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NFL | seaHawks 28, packers 22 (ot) 
seahawks top packers in overtime for NFc title 
Associated Press 

seattle — Never doubt the resilience of the seattle seahawks. 
plagued by turnovers and outplayed much of sunday by green bay, the seahawks staged an improbable come­back and beat the packers 28­22 in overtime. russell wilson, who struggled until the final minutes, hit Jermaine kearse for a 35-yard touchdown 3:19 into the extra period on the only possession. 
the seahawks became the first defending champion to make the super bowl in 10 years, and will play the win­ner of the aFc title game be­tween indianapolis and New england. How they got there was stunning. 
seattle (14-4) trailed 19-7 with about four minutes re­maining and had been ineffec­tive on offense all game. wilson finally put a drive together with passes to doug baldwin and Marshawn lynch — initially ruled a touchdown but called back because he stepped out. wilson finished with a 1-yard scoring run to cut the lead to 19-14 with 2:09 left. 
seattle recovered a bobbled onside kick at the 50, and lynch sped and powered his way to a 24-yard td run. wilson’s des­perate 2-point conversion pass was hauled in by luke willson to make it 22-19. 
then aaron rodgers led the packers (13-5) to Mason crosby’s fifth field goal, from 48 yards with 14 seconds to go to force overtime. 
then wilson and kearse struck, with kearse — the target on all four interceptions wilson threw — beating tramon williams on the winning pass. kearse caught the winning td in last year’s conference title win over san Francisco, too. 
“Just making the plays at the end and keep believing,” said wilson, who was overwhelmed and sobbing after the game. “there was no doubt ... we had no doubt as a team.” 
kearse, who has caught touchdown passes in four straight postseason games, and several other seahawks leaped into the stands behind the end zone, saluting the stadium-record crowd of 68,538. wilson ran through cameramen to jump on kearse’s back, and defensive end Michael bennett borrowed a bicycle from a po­lice officer and rode around the edge of the field saluting the “12s.” 
until the final minutes, there seemed to be no doubt the packers were headed to the big game Feb. 1 in glendale, arizona. despite all-pro quar­terback rodgers’ injured calf that had him limping much of the game, green bay and its overlooked defense was carry­ing the day. 
but special teams trickery lifted the seahawks back into the game after falling behind 16-0. their first touchdown came on a fake field goal when holder Jon ryan threw 19 yards to tackle eligible garry gilliam in the third quarter. after wilson made it 19-14, chris Matthews recovered the onside kick that packers tight end brandon bostick couldn’t gather. 
lynch, who rushed for 257 yards on 25 carries as the one consistent offensive force seattle had, wouldn’t be denied with 1:25 remaining. 
the 16-point comeback was the largest ever in a conference title game. the colts defeated the patriots after trailing 21-6 in 2006. 
and after the packers tied it, seattle wouldn’t be denied in overtime, winning the coin toss and going 87 yards in six plays. 
“it takes everybody and ev­erybody had to contribute to get that done,” coach pete carroll said. 

NFL | patriots 45, colts 7 
Patriots headed to Super Bowl after smashing Colts 
Associated Press 

FoXborougH, Mass. 
— bill belichick and tom brady are headed to a spe­cial place where no coach or player has gone more — the super bowl. 
they earned their trip with the second most lop­sided aFc championship victory ever. 
the New england patriots dominant duo earned a sixth trip to the super bowl with a 45-7 wipeout of the indianapolis colts in the aFc championship game before a raucous, rain-soaked crowd sunday night. 
scoring touchdowns on their first four second-half possessions, the patriots (14-4) moved on to face de­fending champion seattle (14-4) for the NFl title on Feb. 1 in glendale, arizona. 

belichick will face pete carroll, whom he replaced as patriots coach 2000. the seahawks beat the green bay packers 28-22 in over­time in the NFc title game. 
“i only have one thing to say. we’re on to seattle,” belichick said, echoing the statement he repeated sev­eral times, “we’re on to cincinnati,” after a 41-14 loss at kansas city dropped the patriots to 2-2. 
brady threw three touch­down passes, legarrette blount ran 30 times for 148 yards and three scores and the patriots charged away after leading just 17-7 at halftime. 
“i know we’ve had some ups and downs this year,” brady said, “but right now we’re up, baby, and we’re going to try to stay up for one more game.” 
in his first year as a start­er, brady led the patriots to a super bowl win in the 2001 season, starting a run of three championships in four years. Now he and belichick have a chance for their first in 10 years. 
brady completed 23 of 35 passes for 226 yards before being replaced by Jimmy garoppolo with 3:20 left. brady went to the sideline where he was embraced by belichick. Moments ear­lier, while sitting on the bench, brady was shown on the video board with soaked hair. He pumped his fist in the air 12 times then slapped hands with teammates. 
the biggest blowout in aFc title history was buffalo’s 51-3 win over the los angeles raiders in the 1990 season. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

NdsMcobserVer.coM | MONDAY, JANUARY 19, 2015 | tHe obserVer 

WOMEN’S SWIMMING | wiscoNsiN 244, Nd 109; iNdiaNa 255, Nd 98 MEN’S SWIMMING | wiscoNsiN 257, Nd 96 
Irish fall to Wisconsin, Indiana in double dual meet 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
Notre dame lost to both No. 24 wisconsin and No. 14 indiana in a double meet in Madison, wisconsin, on Friday and saturday. 
the irish (4-9) won four events, including three vic­tories from senior emma reaney that bested the Ncaa ‘b’ cut standard, but lost 244­109 to the badgers and 255-98 to the Hoosiers. 
reaney won the 100-yard breaststroke and the 200-yard individual medley Friday be­fore winning the 200-yard breaststroke by a margin of almost six seconds saturday. senior diver allison casareto also recorded a win, taking the one-meter board with a career-best 327.50 points. 
despite reaney and casareto’s wins, irish coach tim welsh said that fatigue meant Notre dame was not able to keep up with its ranked big ten opponents. 
“i think that in terms of our performance, fatigue was a primary factor,” welsh said. “it was a very hard meet, and we’ve been running on emp­ty for quite some time. we ran out of gas before we ran out of races, but we’ll fill up the tank again and we’ll be alright.” 

However, welsh also said that both of Notre dame’s opponents were very strong teams. 
“Fatigue was a factor, but i also think that if you look at the three teams analytically, you would give the advantage to indiana and to wisconsin in almost any circumstanc­es,” welsh said. “they’re both ranked, they’re both doing well this year, and they both swam very well this weekend, so congratulations to them, they both looked great.” 
in addition to the four wins, the irish team of reaney, se­nior courtney white, junior catherine galletti and soph­omore catherine Mulquin recorded a second-place fin­ish in the 200-yard medley relay and finished fourth in the 400-yard medley. Notre dame also took second, third and fourth place on the three-meter board, with casareto finishing ahead of juniors lindsey streepey and emma gaboury. 
the irish also took four of the top six places in the 200­yard breaststroke, as sopho­more danielle Margheret, junior genevieve bradford and freshman sherri Mcintee finished fourth, fifth and sixth, respectively, behind reaney. 
other top finishes for the irish included fourth-place showings for galletti in the 100-yard backstroke and Margheret in the 100-yard breaststroke and a fifth-place finish for senior bridget casey in the 200-yard butterfly. 
welsh said that he was able to take many positives from the team’s performances in a difficult meet, despite the loss. 
“the spirit was good, the camaraderie was good [and] the diving was very good,”welsh said. “i think allison’s win on saturday was excellent. the divers’ 2-3-4 [finish on the three-meter board] on Friday, that was excellent, and of course emma reaney’s always good. we had some great spots, but overall it was a hard meet.” 
the irish next take to the pool when they host the shamrock invitational at rolfs aquatic center on Jan. 30-31. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 


paid adVertiseMeNt 

badgers take down Nd 
Observer Staff Report 
this past weekend, the irish fell in a tough road meet to No. 14 wisconsin, 257-96, in Madison, wisconsin. 
Notre dame was missing sev­eral key players due to the flu and were out-swum by the badgers in every event. the loss moved the irish to 2-5 on the season. 
the irish diving trio of sopho­more Joe coumos (390.95), se­nior ted wagner (330.70) and sophomore James lichtenstein 
(290.20) started things off with third-, seventh- and ninth-place finishes in the 3-meter competi­tion, respectively. the night be­fore, they finished in a similar order during the 1-meter compe­tition, in which coumos finished third, lichtenstein finished sixth and wagner eighth. 
Notre dame received a top-three finish from senior James Mceldrew when he finished third in the 200-yard backstroke (1:51.61). Junior bogac ayhan fin­ished sixth (1:52.33), freshman rob whitacre (1:53.20) came in eighth and senior Matthew deblasio claimed 10th (2:00.35) in that same event. 
the 200-yard freestyle re­lay a-team composed of fresh­man Justin plaschka, senior Zach stephens, sophomore kevin bradley and sophomore reed Fujan missed the po­dium by a second and had to settle for fourth (1:24.61). on the other hand, the b-team of junior Michael Hudspith, senior kevin Hughes, sophomore trent Jackson and whitacre nabbed seventh (1:27.37). 
stephens finished third in the 200-yard breaststroke (2:02.84) and was followed by senior cameron Miller and junior andrew Jensen, who finished seventh (2:06.38) and ninth (2:09.05), respectively. 
in the 400-yard individual medley, bradley touched the wall first for the irish when he finished seventh (4:07.00). senior John Nappi (4:09.18) fin­ished eighth and was followed by deblasio’s ninth-place finish (4:12.62). 
in the 100-yard freestyle, plaschka and Fujan finished one-tenth of a second apart 
(46.76 to 46.86) for seventh and eighth place, while kevin Hughes nabbed 10th (47.00) and Hudspith clinched 12th (47.51). 
even without senior stand­out John williamson, the irish swam well in the 100-yard but­terfly. plaschka led the pack with a fourth-place finish (50.13). ahayan (50.62) and senior patrick olson (51.20) finished sixth and seventh and were fol­lowed by senior broderick kelley, who rounded out the top 10 (51.78). 
in the 400-yard medley relay, the last event of the day, Notre dame’s a-lineup of ayhan, Miller, plaschka and stephens finished third (3:20.73) while the b-team took eighth (3:28.26). 
the irish will be in action once again at rolfs aquatic center for the shamrock invitational on Jan. 30-31. 



MEN’S TENNIS | Nd 4, keNtucky 3 
ND rallies past Kentucky 

However, fundamentally, he is an extraordinary teacher of the game and is abso­lutely committed to helping student-athletes reach their full potential in all aspects of their collegiate experience.” 
swarbrick announced dec. 4 that longtime coach debbie brown would not be returning in 2015 after Notre dame’s second consecutive losing season. while brown had led the irish to 22 Ncaa tournaments previously, the team struggled in its transi­tion to the acc, posting a conference record of 10-28 in those two seasons. 
“our expectations regard­ing competitive perfor­mance are … high, and we regrettably have not been able to meet those in recent years,” swarbrick said in a press release at the time. 
swarbrick later told the observer on dec. 18 that the national search for a new coach was being spearheaded ics director, and that he ex­pected a hire soon. 
Mclaughlin arrives at Notre dame with a his­tory of turning around struggling programs. He took over kansas state and washington programs com­ing off losing seasons and missed the Ncaa tourna­ment just once during his tenure at the two schools. His record as a women’s coach is 437-133, giving him 
a .766 winning percentage. 
“i believe Notre dame can become a top-tier volleyball program,” Mclaughlin said. “the school has so much to offer student-athletes, and i think recruits will see the opportunities available to them here. … i can’t wait to get to work so that we can help return Notre dame vol­leyball to being a program that competes at the highest level.” 
Contact Greg Hadley at  ghadley@nd.edu 


By RYAN KLAUS 
sports writer 
No. 14 Notre dame had a positive start to the dual-meet season saturday, beating No. 18 kentucky, 4-3, in lexington, kentucky. 
“it’s always great to start the season with a win, particularly over a really good team like kentucky from the sec, which is a tennis powerhouse confer­ence, and it’s extra special that it was on the road,” irish coach ryan sachire said. “it certainly wasn’t an easy match to start the season, so we’re really proud of the effort and proud of our guys.” 
while the irish eventually got the win, a comeback was neces­sary. after the doubles portion of the match, kentucky was up 2-0, as the eighth-ranked pair of junior alex lawson and senior billy pecor fell 6-1 to juniors kevin lai and beck pennington, and the ninth-ranked pair of sophomores eddy covalschi and Josh Hagar fell to sopho­more Jerry lopez and freshman william bushamuka. 
despite the team’s early struggles, however, sachire said he was confident in the talent that Notre dame has in doubles. 
“i think our goal every match is to have nine really strong po­sitions out there,” sachire said. “certainly, we did not come out of the gates in the doubles in the way that we normally do and the way that we expect to do. we fully expect our doubles to be a strength of our team this year, but we also know that we have strong single players too.” 
without the doubles point, the irish still came back to beat the wildcats by winning four of the six singles matches. 
“it was great that we could be put in that position and come through and get an overall team win despite not playing our best in doubles,” sachire said. “and we believe we’ll be playing better doubles next weekend. that’s for sure.” 
sachire said he was most im­pressed individually with the performances of junior Quentin Monaghan, who debuted at the top singles spot for the irish and beat pennington, 6-2, 6-4, and pecor, who defeated lai in the No. 5 singles spot, 7-5, 6-2. 
“we graduated greg andrews last year, who was a pretty dom­inant number one player for us for the last two seasons, and Quentin Monaghan was in his first legit match at number one singles, and i thought he put us in a great position,” sachire said. “For billy pecor, who was a staple in our singles lineup a couple years ago, but battled some injuries last year, to come through for us and clinch the match was a huge win. it was re­ally good to see our whole team come through, but especially those two guys because i think those were significant matches for them, and i think they can really build on them moving forward.” 

looking ahead to next week­end, columbia, oklahoma state and tennessee — all of which are ranked — will be in town, with the irish facing off first with oklahoma state on saturday. 
“we’re building the program towards winning a national championship, and my philos­ophy is in order to be the best, you have to play and ultimately beat the best,” sachire said. “our schedule throughout the entire season this year is really challenging, and it’s just kind of the way we’ve chosen to do things. we know we’re prob­ably going to lose some matches along the way, but we want to expose our guys to the best level of competition possible and ul­timately have them develop as players because of it. beating kentucky was a great start be­cause it can build a little confi­dence within our group, and we know we can beat good teams because we are a good team, but we certainly know that we have a huge challenge ahead of us this weekend.” 
Notre dame faces oklahoma state this saturday at 2 p.m. at eck tennis pavilion as part of ita kickoff weekend and con­tinues play sunday. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu 


NdsMcobserVer.coM | MONDAY, JANUARY 19, 2015 | tHe obserVer 


W Bball 
coNtiNued FroM page 16 
away games. 
in fact, the Volunteers have not lost since November, when they surrendered back-to-back games to chattanooga and then-No. 6 texas. the irish beat chattanooga, 88-53, on Nov. 21, but suffered their own losses to No. 2 connecticut on dec. 6 and to Miami on Jan. 8. 
However, momentum and mo­rale could be a factor, as ivey said thursday’s 89-79 victory over No. 13 North carolina helped instill confidence in the team. 
“we’re a young team, so we really have to focus on just one game at a time,” ivey said. “it’s a great confidence-builder for us to beat a really good North carolina team on the road, so it’s going to be good for us, coming into our place with a little bit of confi­dence, having beaten a team like we just beat. but just trying not to look too far in advance and taking each game at a time is great prep­aration for our next opponent.” 
there is considerable his­tory between Notre dame and tennessee, as today’s game will mark the 25th matchup between the teams. tennessee holds a 20-4 all-time record in the series, but the irish have won the last four, including an 86-70 win in 2014, when Notre dame was ranked No. 2 and the Volunteers were ranked No. 11. 
ivey said Notre dame will try to repeat the success it had against tennessee last season. 
“we go back and watch a lot of film, just to see what we did last year,” ivey said. “that was a big win for us. we were down in the first half and came back. we were really resilient but that was because of our senior leadership, so we’re going to back and really dissect that game and just see the things that we need to work on of­fensively and the things we need to do better defensively.” 
the irish and the Volunteers face off at purcell pavilion tonight at 7 p.m. 
Contact Renee Griffin at         rgriffi6@nd.edu 


M Bball 
coNtiNued FroM page 16 

tech and Virginia on Jan. 10, had given the five-guard rotation ex­tra reps in Friday’s practice. 
“your first reaction is we won’t be able to guard or rebound, but heck, we can’t rebound any­ways,” brey said of the rotation. “why don’t we just play small and have some more firepower on the floor? 
“… we got that group some more reps yesterday, and darn if we didn’t need them today.” 
the irish moved to the small-ball rotation at the 15:32 mark of the second half, featuring four guards and sophomore small forward V.J. beachem who re­placed auguste. at the time of beachem’s substitution, the irish were 2-of-16 from beyond the 3-point line and trailed by nine, a deficit that extended to 12 when Miami redshirt junior guard sheldon Mcclellan hit a 3-pointer seconds later to stretch the Hurricanes’ lead to 43-31. 
despite the deep second-half hole, the irish never felt as though they were out of the game, brey said. 
“there’s not really panic or worry or discouragement,” he said of his team. “they really have a strong belief that they will find a way to win. they show signs of being a special team.” 
a 3-pointer by sophomore guard demetrius Jackson with 
14:34 remaining began a stretch in which the irish made seven of their next nine 3-point attempts. Notre dame had a 3-pointer on its three possessions follow­ing Jackson’s make, took its first lead of the day on a 3-pointer by beachem with 8:53 left and went ahead for good after senior guard Jerian grant hit a trey with 6:19 to go. 
sophomore guard steve Vasturia said Notre dame built confidence after breaking its rut from beyond the arc. 
“it’s momentum; it’s confi­dence a little bit,” he said. “people start knocking down shots, ev­erybody feeds off you. the crowd today was getting loud, so it’s a multitude of things.” 
grant, who led the irish with 23 points and eight assists, said the team’s smaller rotation allowed it to better space the floor. 
“i know offensively with hav­ing five shooters out there that we were going to get the looks we wanted, spread the floor, be able to drive and if they helped our shooters, kick out for open shots like we did,” he said. “… defensively, i think having me, steve and demetrius out there, we’re going to lock in, and then 
V.J. and [senior guard/forward] pat [connaughton] were re­bounding, so i figured we were going to be fine.” 
beachem added 13 points off the bench, while Jackson, Vasturia and connaughton fin­ished in double figures in points. connaughton added 11 rebounds to complete a double-double. 
defensively, the irish held Miami to 35.5 percent shoot­ing in the first half, after which the Hurricanes led 30-29, and 
43.9 percent shooting in the game. Notre dame limited Hurricanes redshirt junior guard angel rodriguez, the team’s second-leading scorer entering the contest, to just four points in 31 minutes. 

“i thought we wont the game because we were consistent de­fensively,” brey said. “in the first half, we were horrible on the of­fensive end, but we defended well enough to only be down one when it felt like we should be down by 15. 
“in the second half, we did a fabulous job on rodriguez, demetrius mostly, but we switched some other stuff too.” 
Notre dame freshman for­ward bonzie colson started in place of auguste, finishing with four points and three rebounds in 12 minutes of action. 
brey declined to comment fur­ther on the academic matter that sidelined auguste earlier this week. auguste finished with four points and four rebounds in nine minutes of playing time. 
Notre dame will return to the court thursday, when it travels to blacksburg, Virginia, to meet Virginia tech at 7 p.m. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 


KAT ROBINSON | The Observer 

Irish senior guard Madison Cable leaps for a rebound during a 70-50 win over Michigan on Dec. 13 at Purcell Pavilion. 


Hockey 
coNtiNued FroM page 16 
it was the only time the Huskies beat petersen on sunday, who followed a 17­save performance Friday with a 28-save one sunday. 
“He played well [today],” Jackson said. “He didn’t face a lot of hard shots. ... He made the saves he needed to and that’s what we need from our goaltender.” 
russo leveled the score right before the first intermission when he buried a one-timer past Huskies sophomore goal­tender rob Nichols with 48 seconds to play in the period. 
it was a sign of things to come the rest of the way for the irish, who overcame a ten­dency of late struggles to se­cure a lopsided victory. 
at the 12:33 mark of the sec­ond period, senior center Joe aiken scored his first career goal for the irish to put Notre dame up 2-1. sophomore right winger ben ostlie provided the assist for his first colle­giate point. 
with 1:01 left in the sec­ond period, junior left winger Mario lucia buried a rebound on the power play to give the irish a two-goal lead headed into the final stanza. it was lucia’s second goal of the weekend and 15th of the sea­son, a mark that leads the team. 
More importantly for Jackson and the irish, it marked a third consecutive game with a power-play goal 
— a department in which Notre dame has struggled this season. 
“we made one more person­nel change, and it looks like we might have some chemis­try [on the power play units], not with one group but two,” Jackson said. “it’s a positive, but we’ve still got to work to improve it.” 
russo tallied twice more af­ter the second intermission — 
2:55 and 13:09 into the third period — to get his hat trick, and sophomore defenseman Justin wade joined aiken in notching his first career goal when he beat Nichols to finish the scoring with 2:55 to play. 
“it was especially special for [wade and aiken],” Jackson said. 
the win was the 400th of Jackson’s career as a head coach. However, he mini­mized the importance of his total win total. 
“to me, it’s more about try­ing to win championships and to graduate kids,” Jackson said. “that number, it’s really not about that.” 
Friday’s game got off to testy start when Huskies sophomore defenseman ryan segalla was issued a five-minute major and game disqualification for hitting from behind in a play that concussed irish freshman center dawson cook. irish right winger peter schneider was penalized after the play for an elbow in retaliation, setting up the four-on-four situation that led to russo’s first goal. 


Notre dame’s lead did not last long, though, as a turnover behind the net gave Huskies freshman left winger spencer Naas an opening in the slot to fire past petersen to level the score seven minutes later. 
lucia put Notre dame back ahead 8:45 into the second period when he tapped one in from senior right winger austin wuthrich across the goalmouth, but the irish en­tered the third period down 3-2 after a two-on-one and breakaway in quick succes­sion allowed Huskies junior center shawn pauly and se­nior left winger cody sharib to each score and put the visitors ahead. 



the irish, however, secured a point when wuthrich got a goal of his own, slapping the puck past Nichols on the pow­er play to tie the game up with 
8:23 to play. 
“i just spun and tried to hit it towards the net and it 
paid adVertiseMeNt 
happened to go in,” wuthrich said. 
despite Notre dame’s 44-20 shot advantage on the night, the irish were unable to find the winner the rest of the way, settling for a 3-3 tie. 
the irish return to action when they visit boston next weekend for a series against Northeastern on Friday and saturday nights at 7 p.m. 
Contact Alex Carson at       acarson1@nd.edu 


NdsMcobserVer.coM | MONDAY, JANUARY 19, 2015 | tHe obserVer 
10  11  12  13 too eager to share your thoughts or intentions until you have done the groundwork and have a pretty good idea what will unfold. time is on your l as the year ers are 4, 17, t into the open.  
16  
 side, and building a strong and secure base will prove beneficiaunfolds. trust in your intuition and your attributes. your numb 

 19  
 20 28, 31, 39, 46.  
21  
 ARIES (March 21-April 19): Hidden matters will be brought oudon’t let your emotions cause you to say or do something you’ll regret. it’s important to look at the big picture and have faith that positive results can be  
27  
 
 accomplished.  


CROSSWORD | will sHortZ 

Across 28 “Don’t Tread ___” 1 36” (early flag motto) 29 Former Chrysler 
5 Official language C.E.O.
of Austria 31 Elite group 
11 Tiny ___, singer of 1968’s “Tip-33 Home, in Toe Thru’ the 
Honduras Tulips With Me” 34 Goldbrick 
41 Fidel Castro’s brother 14 Oxford or loafer 
15 Entertain, as 42 Ruth’s mother-in­
children at a library law 43 Healthful
16 Singer DiFranco 
food regimen,17 Purchasing traditionallysystem with 

49 Name that comes payments made from Old Norse 
over time 
for “young man”19 Video shooter, for 50 Devoted follower short 51 Buckles, as a 20 Golfer’s gouge seat belt 53 Actress Ward 
21 “Make ___” 54 Frizzy dos 
(Picard’s 55 Assistant to
command on Santa
“Star Trek: 56 He played 
T.N.G.”) 
the Hulk on 22 Store clerk 
1970s-’80s TV 25 Frilly place mats 62 ___ v. Wade 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

B U Z Z K  I  L  L  
 M E T A L  
O N  I  O N S O U P  A G A P E  
T E N N  I  S A C E  L A Y N E  
E T O N  S T  I  L  L E R  
GU A T S  E C O N  O A S  
G H  G O S S  I  P G  I  R L  
A R E Y O U O K  S E P S  
C A H O O T S  S P R A W L S  
A R G O  P R  I  E D  I  E U  
I  O N E O F A K  I  N D  F  I  N G 
N G  O  I  L S  S T A 
C L O S E T S  O M N  I  
O Y V E Y  A R R A  I  G N E D  
S  I  E G E  B E E N T H E R E  
A F RO S  D ON E T H AT  

63 Present at birth 
64 Bump off 
65 Norm: Abbr. 
66 Flew to great heights 
67 Suffix with cigar 
Down 
1 Designer monogram 2 “Eureka!” 3 Cowboy Rogers 4 Fan of Jerry Garcia’s band 5 Rough road surface 
6 Donkey in “Winnie-the-Pooh” 
7 Engrossed 8 The year 1550 9 One step ___ 
time 10 “Smoking or 
___?” 11 Ploy 12 Very soon 13 Brunch cocktail 18 Nintendo game 
console 21 U.N. workers’ 
grp. 22 Fossil fuel 23 Opposing 24 Captain Hook’s 
mate 25 PrimatologistFossey 
26 Hops kiln 
27 Financier Carl 
30 Food-poisoningbacteria 32 Kind of eel 35 What “W” stands 
for on a light bulb 

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | cHristopHer brucker 

DOME NUTS | aleXaNdria wellMaN 



4 567 
8 
9
3 
15 
18 
20 
25 
26
23 
24 
30
29 
33
32
31 
35 
36
34 
Puzzle by Michael Farabaugh 
36 Like 43 Surgical beams
Michelangelo’s 44 Spotted wildcat “David” or Rodin’s 
45 Devoured, with“The Thinker” 
“down” 37 Where the United 
46 Miami’s home: Nations is in Abbr. Manhattan 
47 Tired or decadent 
38 Jupiter 48 Smeared with 39 Warning sign pitch 40 Recycling 52 Frat.’s 
containers counterpart 




For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
SUDOKU | tHe MepHaM group 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
54 Miles away 56 Fleur-de-___ 57 Singer Yoko 58 Acapulco article 59 Understood 60 Annual coll. 
basketball competition 61 Pepsi ___ 

HOROSCOPE | eugeNia last 
Happy Birthday: explore things that you feel have potential, but don’t be 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): pick up information that will help you expand your interests. a better position is within reach. be tolerant of those who do things differently. take advantage of the contributions others are willing to make. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): partnerships can help to stabilize your position and your future both personally and professionally. Making positive changes at home will add to your comfort and bring greater happiness to those you share your space with. love is in the stars. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): treat important relationships with care. compromise will be necessary to avoid losing touch with someone who doesn’t agree with you. look for alternative ways to meet new people and learn about different cultures, beliefs and hobbies. share your feelings. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): invest more time in learning, improving and getting to know the people who influence your life. Make physical and mental changes that will show your intent to please and help raise awareness about something you care about. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): spend quality time with children, friends or pets. be careful not to make impulsive purchases. don’t get frustrated; just make do with what you have and show others how innovative you can be. strive for simplicity and perfection. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): get involved in activities, hobbies or events that interest you. the people you meet and the things you share with others will help you build close relationships that will be beneficial for years to come. 



SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): check out the job market or other avenues to raise your profile. Minor problems at home will unfold if you decide to change the routine without letting your loved ones know. patience will be required. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Question anyone who promises the impossible. it’s important for you to be realistic if you want to make the most with what you have. positive changes at home will improve your life. steer clear of pushy people. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t allow the changes or choices others make to confuse you. Follow the most practical route, and do your best to keep moving forward at a steady pace. protect your heart, your reputation and your possessions.  

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): take advantage of opportunities to make personal improvements. strive for greater security in your everyday life by setting up a routine that works well with your personal and professional obligations. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): keep your thoughts, ideas and plans a secret. you will get much further ahead if you don’t have anyone questioning or trying to dismantle your plans. dedication and hard work will be your fastest route to achieving your goals. 

Birthday Baby: you are smart, trendy and energetic. you are inquisitive and ambitious. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
GUPER  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
PICAN  

TIVERH SARDIH  
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 


Print answer here: 

(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: HONEY KIOSK SYMBOL CRAFTYSaturday’s 
Answer: What they called the bad Irish tribute band — SHAM ROCK 


Make checks payable to and mail to:  the observer  
p.o. box 779  
Notre dame, iN 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year  
enclosed is $75 for one semester  
Name  

address 

city      state Zip 

tHe obserVer | MONDAY, JANUARY 19, 2015 | NdsMcobserVer.coM 
MEN’S BASKETBALL | Nd 75, MiaMi 70 
Irish overcome early deficit to top Hurricanes 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Managing editor 
after defeating No. 4 duke, 90­74, on the road tuesday, Miami looked prepared to upset its sec­ond top-15 team in a week, as it led No. 12 Notre dame by 12 with 15:06 remaining saturday at purcell pavilion. 
but a furious second-half shooting spree and comeback run vanquished Miami’s upset hopes and secured a 75-70 vic­tory for the irish (17-2, 5-1 acc), marking the program’s best start through 19 games since the 1978­1979 season. 
“Man am i proud of my team,” irish coach Mike brey said. “what a special group we have. [Miami is] really hard to guard. … it was a hard-fought win; it’s great to be 5-1 in the league.” 
the irish welcomed back their third-leading scorer and second-leading rebounder, junior for­ward Zach auguste, who didn’t travel with the team to georgia 

MICHAEL YU | The Observer 
Irish senior guard Jerian Grant makes a pass in mid-air during Notre Dame’s 75-70 win over Miami on Saturday. 
tech due to what brey termed Hurricanes (12-5, 2-2). “an academic matter. but Notre brey said the team, which had dame played a game of second-used a similar rotation in late first-half small ball, switching to a half possessions against georgia five-guard rotation for the final 
15:32 of the game against the see M bball PAGE 13 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Notre dame takes on No. 6 Vols 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
No. 7 Notre dame will take on No. 6 tennessee at purcell pavilion tonight at 7 p.m., with the Volunteers entering on an 11-game winning streak and the irish fresh off a road win against No. 13 North carolina. 
the matchup pits Notre dame’s No. 4 scoring offense against tennessee’s eighth-ranked scoring defense, making the inside game crucial, irish as­sistant coach Niele ivey said. 
“i think the biggest thing for us is going to be rebound­ing,” ivey said. “they have two solid post players in [junior for­ward] bashaara graves and [se­nior center] isabelle Harrison. Harrison is coming off a huge year last year. she’s a veteran post player, [second on the team] in blocked shots. she’s re­ally, really athletic and does a re­ally good job with their high-low type offense. so it’s really going to be a game of trying shut down their inside presence.” 
ivey said that though every player will contribute, solid per­formances by the post players will be key for the irish (16-2, 4-2 acc). 
“i think it’ll have to be a com­pletely total team effort, but our post players have to really focus on keeping them off the boards,” ivey said. “like i said, they have a really good inside presence, really good high-low action, so we expect our bigs — [freshman forward] kathryn [westbeld], [sophomore forward] taya [reimer], [freshman forward] brianna [turner] and [senior forward] Markisha [wright] — to really play significant min­utes to try and contain them.” 
Notre dame holds a 9-1 record at purcell pavilion this season, but tennessee (15-2, 5-0 sec) has shown an ability to win on the road, winning its last five 
see w bball PAGE 13 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Mclaughlin named new coach 
By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 
after a national search that took the better part of six weeks, Notre dame in­troduced Jim Mclaughlin, former head coach at washington, as the new head coach of the irish vol­leyball team saturday. 
Mclaughlin has coached on the collegiate level since 1985 and spent the past 14 years coaching the Huskies to a 355-90 overall record, including 13 Ncaa tourna­ments, four Final Fours and a national title in 2005. 
He also was an assis­tant coach at Notre dame in 1996 under former head coach debbie brown, whom he will replace. He departed after one season to accept the head coaching job at kansas state but remained tied to the irish through his wife, Margaret, who both played and coached for the women’s soccer team. 
the seattle times first broke news of the hire Friday, and Notre dame of­ficially confirmed it a day later. 
“since first having been given the opportunity by debbie brown to coach here as an assistant for one season, i always thought it would be a great place to be a head coach,” Mclaughlin said in a press release. “i love the school’s values, the spirit, the tradition, the beautiful campus and the enthusiasm of every­one that is a part of this great university. there is no doubt Notre dame is a special place.” 
Mclaughlin is the only coach in Ncaa history to win national titles with both a men’s and women’s team. in addition to his title with the Huskies, he coached usc’s men’s team during its 1989-1990 championship run. He was named national coach of the year in 2004 and won pac-12 coach of the year four times. 
“i couldn’t be more thrilled with the outcome of our coaching search,” Notre dame director of athletics Jack swarbrick said. “Jim Mclaughlin is an elite coach who has enjoyed suc­cess at the highest levels. 
see Volleyball PAGE 12 

HOCKEY | Nd 3, ucoNN 3; Nd 6, ucoNN 1 
ND earns win, tie in first series with Huskies 

CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 
Irish senior defenseman Robbie Russo pursues the puck during Notre Dame’s 3-3 tie against Connecticut on Friday. 
series with connecticut this 
By ALEX CARSON 

weekend. 
the irish (10-11-3, 5-2-3 
irish coach Jeff Jackson Hockey east) kicked things recorded his 400th career off with a 3-3 tie against win and senior defenseman Huskies (7-11-5, 4-5-2) on robbie russo notched four Friday at compton Family goals, including a hat trick, as ice arena, before winning 6-1 Notre dame took three points in the return game sunday from a home-and-home at webster bank arena in 
sports writer 
bridgeport, connecticut. 
russo, who opened the weekend’s scoring for the irish with a four-on-four goal in the first period Friday, closed the weekend with a hat trick sunday, the first for an irish blueliner since Frank o’brien’s hat trick in February of 1988. 
russo now finds himself atop the Ncaa leaderboards for points (24) and goals (11) by a defenseman. 
“He’s just brought his full game together,” Jackson said. “He’s doing what he’s always been capable of doing of­fensively; he’s playing with a lot more assertiveness and he’s still doing a good job defensively. 
“He’s certainly if not the best right now, he’s one of the best college defensemen in the country.” 
prior to Notre dame’s of­fensive explosion sunday, connecticut took the lead on a power-play goal with 3:44 to play in the first period when freshman center kasperi ojantakanen fired a shot off the post and past irish fresh­man goaltender cal petersen. 
see Hockey PAGE 14 




