The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 15 | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Students organize tributes to 9/11 victims 
Campus groups host a variety of events to commemorate 14th anniversary of national tragedy 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
news editor 
To commemorate the 14th an­niversary of the sept. 11 terrorist attacks, several groups on campus have planned events throughout the day. 
in conjunction with the young americans for Freedom club on campus, student government director of constituent services John Kill organized a presentation of the colors by a tri-military roTc color guard at 9:20 a.m. at the south Quad flagpole, a cam­pus-wide moment of silence at 
9:30 a.m. and a prayer service at 
1:30 p.m. also at the south Quad flagpole. Kill offered details of the events 
in a statement to the student body. “student government is asking that students request of their pro­fessors to perform a minute long moment of silence on Friday, september 11,” Kill said. “student government has drafted a form letter that can be presented to professors.” 
according to Kill, the national anthem will play following the presentation of the colors, after which the basilica bells will toll for one minute to conclude the exercise. 
Fr. peter rocca, rector of the basilica of the sacred heart, will preside over the prayer service, which will last about 40 minutes, according to Kill. 
student body vice president nidia ruelas said she and student government leaders felt compelled 
see anniversary PAGE 4 




Artist recounts career, past pieces 

By SELENA PONIO 
news writer 
artist and filmmaker Jake Fernandez gave a lecture in the riley hall of art and design about his artistic journey and current projects wednesday. 
Fernandez was born in havana, cuba, and received degrees from the university of Florida and the university of south Florida. he is best known for his durational art 
— artistic pieces that have impli­cations of work done over time. 
“i have worked on things for 10, 20 and 30 years ... building on one particular aspect or concept over a long period of time,” Fernandez said. 
Fernandez talked about how his journey as an artist began in his early childhood and how he be­came aware of the power of provo­cation and two-dimensional work at an early age. 
“my very first impression of the power of 2-d work was this very 
see arTisT PAGE 4 


survivors advocate activism 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 

andrea pino and annie clark, co-founders of end rape on campus (eroc) and fea­tured figures in “The hunting ground” — a documentary released this past spring that highlights the issues of sexual assault on college campuses 
— gave a presentation called “a culture of commitment: everyday activism and supporting all survivors” at saint mary’s on Thursday. The event was sponsored by the saint mary’s department of gender and women’s studies. 
pino and clark began their talk with a moment of silence in honor of all those who have lost their lives as a result of sexual assault, including saint mary’s student lizzy seeberg, who committed suicide five years ago Thursday. both wom­en then shared their personal stories of sexual assault. 
clark said she was sexually assaulted by a stranger. she said despite the common mis­conception that most rapists are strangers, her case is actu­ally rare and most sexual as­saults are committed by people close to the survivor. 
clark said she decided to seek resources to help her, not for adjudication, but for per­sonal healing and well-being. 
she said she was blamed for her assault and was told to look 
see assaulT PAGE 3 


Choir performs at SMC 
By MEGAN UEKERT 
news writer 

The ugandan Kids choir, a ministry of childcare worldwide, performed in little Theatre at saint mary’s college on Thursday. according to the their website, childcare worldwide’s global mission is to “build a bridge be­tween concerned people in the west and children in the develop­ing world, to help meet their spiri­tual and physical needs through a ministry that emphasizes educa­tion and is based on the gospel of Jesus christ.” 
choir tour leader susanna spaid said the choir has been raising awareness and spon­sorship for child poverty since 2006. she said the children are able to perform nationwide, mainly at churches and schools, but they have also performed at disneyland, centurylink Field 
—
 home of the seattle seahawks 

—
 and on the steps of the white house. 


according to spaid, the choir is on an 11-month tour around the united states performing traditional ugandan music and dances. The choir is made up of five girls and five boys all of whom are eight to 12 years old. all of the children come from an impover­ished life and many are orphans. 
“They have the opportunity outside poverty to achieve their dreams,” spaid said. 
she said on their tour, the chil­dren travel with four adult leaders 
— two of whom are from uganda 
and two from the united states. “we as tour leaders act as their 
see choir PAGE 4 


news PAGE 3 scene PAGE 5 viewpoinT PAGE 7 irish insider wiThin 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green 

Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 

Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite club? 

Molly Chen 
sophomore holy cross hall 
“red cross club.” 
Malia Hosoi-Gallucci 
sophomore holy cross hall 
“greend.” 
Alice Russell 
sophomore lemans hall 
“sci-Fi Fantasy.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Emily Pervinich 
freshman 
regina hall 
“chemistry club.” 
Ruby Truong 
junior 
lemans hall 
“student diversity board.” 
Margaret Davis 
junior 
lemans hall 
“dance ensemble workshop or campus ministry.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

clare Kossler Zach Klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
matthew mcKenna marek mazurek martha reilly ryan Klaus 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
Janice chung miko malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 
PEMCo presents Men’s Soccer vs. ND Women’s Soccer European Empires Men’s Soccer vs. 
michael yu Tabitha ricketts caroline genco “Ordinary Days” Clemson vs. Michigan Lecture Xavier 
Washington Hall Lab Alumni Stadium Alumni Stadium Morris Inn Alumni Stadium 
7:30p.m.-9 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 5 p.m.-7 p.m. 4 p.m.-5:30 p.m. 7-9 p.m. 
Corrections Student musical The Irish take on The Irish take on Imperfect Visions of The Irish take on theatre performance. Clemson. Michigan. Imperial Pasts Xavier. 
The observer regards itself as 
a professional publication and 

strives for the highest standards ND Women’s Soccer ND Volleyball vs. One Hundred Years Panel Discussion Workshop: “Getting 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
vs. Indiana Penn State of Automobile Hesburgh Center Started in Research” 
however, recognize that we will make 
Alumni Stadium Purcell Pavilion Snite Museum of Art 5 p.m.-6:30 p.m. 110 Brownson Hall 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7 p.m.-9 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 2 p.m.-4 p.m. The Iran Nuclear 4-5 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. The Irish take on the Part of the Golden Public exhibition and Agreement: Is It a Learn research Hoosiers. Dome Invitational. automobile collection. Good Deal? strategies. 

ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2015 | The observer 


SMC lecture examines significance of soil 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
associate saint mary’s editor 
norman wirzba, professor of ecology and rural life at duke divinity school and author of several books, explained the scientific and theological sig­nificance of soil on Thursday in a lecture titled “For god so loved the soil.” he said over the past 100 years, the human rela­tionship with soil has shifted in such a way that by harming the soil, humans are also harming themselves. 
“This is a totally new situation we find ourselves in because we now have more people in cities across the world than on the land,” wirzba said. “This mat­ters, because human beings are growing up without any deep appreciation for why land mat­ters. we are terrestrial beings, which means we draw our very life from the soil. 
“and if we don’t know 
Assault 
conTinued From page 1 
back and see what she did wrong and what she could have done to prevent it. clark said this led her to start a program for survivors to report assaults anonymously and to seek help. 
unlike clark, pino said she was assaulted by someone she knew. she said she was involved in educational programs on the anything about the soul, we are more likely to become neg­ligent, or even worse, abusive.” 
human abuse of the soil in­creased during the 20th-centu­ry period known as the green revolution, when more miner­als and pesticides were added to soil alongside root-destruc­tive farming techniques, all of which degrade the life of soil while increasing calorie output, he said. 
“we had this relationship to the land that was the direct result of your day-to-day live­lihood … you had to get your hands in dirt,” wirzba said. “what we’ve done is change the way we treat the soil. instead of thinking about soil as a com­plex reality, we have come to think of soil as a receptacle for certain kinds of minerals we need to grow food.” 
along with being an environ­mental concern, care for the soil is also a vocation of humanity, he said. The complex mineral element interactions of soil pro­vide the flavor and nutritional value of foods as well as valu­able kinship with the surround­ing environment, wirzba said. 

“if you despise the ground, you despise the creatures that depend upon it,” wirzba said. “The relationship that joins us to the land becomes very clear once you start to trace patterns of health and ill-health in dif­ferent forms of organisms in the circular chain.” 
From a theological perspec­tive, wirzba said humans have always had a connection to the soil. indeed, he said the name “adam” comes from a hebrew word meaning “from the soil.” 
according to wirzba, in the garden of eden, god is not de­picted as a warrior but a garden­er working close to humanity. 
“This is a god on his knees holding soil so close as to breath into it the life that is human … 
you are an en-soiled being, not just an ensouled being,” he said. 
wirzba said working in a gar­den — such as the way adam works in the garden — should be viewed as an invitation to develop humanity and better see the world as god does. he said working with soil provides valuable life lessons. 
wirzba said the idea of car­ing for the soil is relatively new to humanity, but that there are ways to re-shape today’s culture. There is research be­ing done on regenerative and organic forms of agriculture which take into account the in­tegrity of the soil, he said. 
“by not learning to love the land, the place you are in, you have not been able to experi­ence the reality that the land loves you back,” wirzba said. “Fertile soil is the place where god’s love becomes active, and why would you want to pull away from that?” 
assaulted and not graduating.” 
however, clark said it can be difficult to effect change be­cause of resistance from univer­sity administrations. 
“a lot of time, administrations are scared,” clark said. “really, what we want to do is make sure that everyone knows their rights, that you’re working with your administration. because if you love something, you have to hold it accountable, which is what we were trying to do.” 
clark also said the problem of sexual assault is not confined to any one college, but rather is characteristic of campuses across the united states. 
“This isn’t a one-campus problem. unc is actually a microcosm of a national epi­demic,” clark said. “it’s not just harvard or yale or notre dame or unc. it’s actually the same thing everywhere, and we need to do something about it.” 
They then went into detail about the legal proceedings re­garding campus sexual assault. They said Title iX gives stu­dents access to equal education, which covers sexual assault be­cause those incidents impede survivors from receiving equal education. 
The clery act is another im­portant piece of legislation that requires universities to report on-campus crimes and send timely warnings to students, they said. 
They said the campus save act also requires campuses to report crimes in addition to in­cluding an adjudication process for interpersonal violence and stalking. Finally, they talked about the Title ii act, which grants survivors access to re­sources if they suffer from de­pression, post-traumatic stress disorder or other psychological problems after their assault. 
The two women went on to talk about what students can do to participate in activism pertaining to sexual assault on 
senior biology major cinthya benitez said she was impressed with the lecture and appreci­ated the new perspective on the human relationship with soil. 
“The relationship with the soil goes beyond ourselves,” benitez said. “There were a lot of interesting ideas i had nev­er thought of before, like how we are connected to the soil through adam and also so in­terconnected with everything else.” 
The lecture was the first of four in a series titled “earth, water, air and Fire: Theology, ethics and the elements of life,” sponsored by the center for spirituality. The series intends to look at the environment through the lens of theology in response to pope Francis’ re­cent encyclical, “laudato si.” The next lecture will be sept. 29. 
Contact Kathryn Marshall kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 
issue of sexual assault and be­lieved she knew how to handle cases properly until it happened to her. 
“i thought i knew what my resources were, and i thought i knew what the signs were,” pino said. “but i didn’t when it came to me because it’s not what we think it is. it’s not strang­ers. sometimes it is a person who could also get your degree. sometimes it is a person in your class.” 
paid adverTisemenT 

pino said she reported through the system that clark had created, and this showed her she could help better the way campus sexual assault is handled even as a student. 
“i still wear my unc class ring,” pino said. “To us, being Tar heels meant holding our school accountable. it meant that we had to push for a better carolina because the carolina way could not be the carolina way if students were being campuses. 
“There needs to be some clear, outlined understanding of pro­cedures between saint mary’s, notre dame and holy cross,” clark said. “That just needs to happen because students are so transient among those three campuses. also, i would find al­lies … and work with them on these issues.” 
“what we call ‘everyday activism’ is the radical notion that everyone can play a part in ending violence and oppression by resisting rape culture, sup­porting survivors and challeng­ing our institutions,” pino said. 
she said it means not only challenging schools but also challenging other institutions such as the criminal justice system and the overall society that sees women as disposable objects. 
students can partake in this activism, clark said. she said self-care and self-preservation are important as a particular form of activism. 
both she and pino said believ­ing survivors and making sure survivors knows that they are not alone is crucial to address­ing the problem. 
“believing survivors is radi­cal,” pino said. “it seems to be the only crime in which no one is believed; it’s always alleged. it seems as if sexual assault never happens. really, believing sur­vivors, sharing the stories, be­lieving those who come forward 
— that itself is radical. ... we need to hold others accountable. 
“when someone comes for­ward and tells you they’ve been sexually assaulted the first thing you should say to them is you believe them, the second thing you should say is they’re not alone and the last thing you should say is it’s not their fault. These are oftentimes the three things survivors never hear.” 
Contact Nicole Caratas at ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Artist 
conTinued From page 1 
small black and white picture of elvis presley ... in one of the nation­al magazines,” Fernandez said. “it appeared almost animated.” 
he said in high school the con­stant repetition of painting still-life pieces gave him an understanding of technique at a young age. he said it was intuition that led to the realization of his desire to become an artist. 
“i don’t know that was some­thing i strived for,” Fernandez said. “There was very little there to encourage me. i just had this feeling that that’s what i should be doing.” 
he said musicians and their styles of music had more of an in­fluence on him than artists and painters due to the complexity and understatement of their work. 
“i would work in layers, one layer over the other, like [musician] les paul used to do with his multi-track recording,” Fernandez said. 
during the premature years of his career, Fernandez worked ex­clusively with texture and black and white. he said he restricted himself to black and white for five years because he believed “col­or starts to immediately define forms” and he wanted to tackle certain layers individually. 
“i decided to strip everything down and start working at one lev­el at a time and try to understand 
Choir 
conTinued From page 1 

parents, bus drivers, mentors and teachers,” spaid said. “we currently work in nine countries around the world and we are able to continue this program through sponsorship. our program lasts through trade school so that way the children are set up for future employment and so that they are able break the cycle of poverty.” 
during the performance, the children introduced themselves and told the audience what they wanted to be when they grow up. They aspire to become nurs­es, doctors, pilots, teachers and engineers. 
Together the children said, “greetings from africa. we are happy to be here.” 
at the end of the show the chil­dren went into the crowd and danced with audience members. 
nancy menk, chair of the de­partment of music which spon­sored the event, said the concert offered saint mary’s students a glimpse into the music of other cultures. 
“it’s a great opportunity for our music education majors to see and hear authentic performances of african music,” she said. “This presentation is another example of saint mary’s college’s increas­ing emphasis on global studies and intercultural activities.” 
For more information on spon­sorsip and volunteering with the ugandan Kids choir, visit www. ugandankidschoir.org 
Contact Megan Uekert at  mueker101@saintmarys.edu 


Anniversary 
conTinued From page 1 
to take part in the planning of commemoration events. 
“i think that what’s really im­portant to think is how it’s one of the biggest tragedies that we’ve faced in our lifetime; it’s so par­ticular to our history and it’s a part of what defines us as a generation,” she said. 
of the notre dame fam­ily, she said the commemoration events fit in with the spirit of the university. 
“This is what we do as a com­munity: we come together. we pray. we remember when some­thing tragic happens.” 
in addition to student gov­ernment’s planned events, the notre dame college republicans (ndcr) will host a screen­ing of “american sniper” in the montgomery auditorium of laFortune center at 7 p.m. Friday. 
Junior dylan stevenson, the club’s vice president, said the group chose to screen that film in particular “to commemorate the deadliest attack on the u.s. main­land by reminding people that the united states did not roll over in the face of terror.” 
“The united states stood tall in the face of its enemy and fought back,” he said. “The showing of this film reminds people of that fact and draws attention to her no­blest sons and daughters who have lost minds and lives to defend her.” 
Tess rawlins, director of the ndcr political action committee (pac), emphasized the impor­tance of remembering those who painting,” Fernandez said. “i start­ed working with texture to try and understand how that particular track felt and how it fit with what it was that i wanted to say.” 
Fernandez cited “plausible re­ality” as a recurring theme in his works and showed how most of his pieces displayed images that var­ied in appearance depending on the distance of the viewer. For ex­ample, his hidden mandala proj­ect conveys a pixilated effect from afar, but can be seen as a composi­tion of squares of laminated wood when examined close-up. 
“your mind is the one that con­nects those dots ... you’ll see it in a very individual way,” Fernandez said. “what you see has a lot to do with individual perception, what you bring to it.” 
The artist said many of his piec­es involve layers and collages, best seen in his duration art which is a fusion of concepts thought of years ago, and current ideas and perspectives. remaining loyal to his early discovery of the power of provocation, Fernandez said he drew inspiration from parks in new york city and the Florida landscape to create collages and other forms of visual art. 
“i was interested in finding places that were very ordinary,” Fernandez said. “[i wanted to] turn it into something that was visually exciting and not just common.” 
Contact Selena Ponio at  sponio@nd.edu 
served in the armed forces. 
“[sept. 11] should be a day of reflection but also of celebration, celebration of the men and wom­en who wake up every morning and defend our country,” she said. “whether it’s policemen and fire­man who served us well in 2001 or soldiers like chris Kyle, these men and women have proved them­selves heroes and deserve our admiration.” 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MIKO MALABUTE 
scene editor 

“a season with notre dame” pre­miered on the showtime network this past Tuesday, leaving viewers — fans and foes — purring for more. going into the season premiere, i held my own res­ervations about the show: would it try to be too much in the likeness of hbo’s “hard Knocks” series? would we see enough of the players on and off the field? would we even get to see all of the players, or would it just be the stars on the squad? lo and behold, the 30-min­ute premiere kicked off what is sure to be a smash-hit season covering this year’s squad. 
First off, there is something to be said in how this series is “only” Tv-14. The language was mild, which is surprising considering how many (fairly or unfair­ly) expected coach brian Kelly to really not hold back (á la coach o’brien of the houston Texans). however, anyone who 
By DAKOTA CONNELL-LEDWON 
scene writer 

say hello to the perfect concert to help you say goodbye to summer. The summer set is coming to legends of notre dame and promises to bring to mind heartbreaks and house parties galore. 
The group’s music ranges from care­free to surprisingly tongue-in-cheek — but all consistently energetic; check out some of their less-appropriate songs like “The boys you do (get back at you).” brian logan dales, the lead vocalist, has just the right amounts of edginess and power in his voice to lend the band’s carefree, happy sound some depth. 
described as everything from “alter­native rock” to “emo pop” to “pop rock,” watched the first episode saw that coach Kelly — especially when inter­acting with his quarterback malik Zaire 
— didn’t need to get his point across with a constant stream of F-bombs or anything like that. The cameras caught coach Kelly speaking with an air of directness and determination, which translated to his players’ performance on the field. 
being the first episode, a large por­tion of the 30 minutes was dedicated to showing the storylines of the players heading into training camp. practices were fast-paced and intense, and view­ers felt like they were directly sitting in on the practice to witness the team start to gel as a unit — as well as feel the weight behind sheldon day’s devastat­ing tackles. 
“a season with notre dame” also of­fered plenty of opportunities for view­ers to take part in the off-the-field lives of the different players. Jaylon smith’s passion for bowling was thrust to 
The summer set will appeal to any col­lege student: who hasn’t had a summer fling, an unrequited love or a hangover? who hasn’t been up past 3 a.m. worrying about ridiculous things for zero reasons? 
The band sings about all that and more, combining catchy lyrics with strong guitar and drums to produce mu­sic that fits any mood besides despon­dency. you want relatable pieces about heartbreak, anger, excitement or ner­vousness? you got it. 
at this concert, you’ll be dancing no matter what — whether it’s to yearning slow bridges of songs like “chelsea,” in which dales sings, “but no, i won’t give that call / you’ve got so much to give / i’ve got nothing at all,” or to the energet­ic, bass-driven “lightning in a bottle,” whose chorus boasts, “we don’t need centerstage, which finally shed some light behind his on-the-field celebration (the large sweeping “bowling” motion). The cameras also followed the well-publicized, touching moment where Josh anderson, senior walk-on running back, was surprised with a scholar­ship. however, where the episode really shined was in following anderson as he went into a private area to call his father and mother, trying to hold back tears of joy while he informed them of his suc­cess. it was honestly impossible to not get choked up listening to his mother congratulate him on his hard work and sending her love. Joe schmidt was front and center as one of the team’s captains, but still maintained a down-to-earth attitude when cameras followed him on his “last first day of class.” 

There were many other players who were covered, too many to list — al­though personal favorites of mine were seeing Jerry Tillery shine after being thrust into a large role following 
gravity here in the afterglow / yeah, we’re rolling with the thunder / now take a breath, we’re going under.” 
it’s okay to be a little jealous of their musical genius — these people were performing and producing music when they were still in high school. although The summer set started as a relatively small band with their first ep released in 2007, the group is growing steadily more popular. 
originally from arizona, The summer set has now been all over. They’ve opened alternative press’s ap Tour, toured with bands like never shout never, all Time low and yellowcard, and played at the vans warped Tour, among other music festivals. 
Their most recent album, “legendary,” came out in 2014. be on the lookout for Jarron Jones’ injury, as well as seeing corey robinson playing the ukulele and singing. but the episode brought the focus back to where it all started, with the football. The episode ended covering the irish victory over the Texas longhorns last week, providing excel­lent camera angles and production in an already-sweet victory. 
even after one episode, it already feels like this season has all the makings of being a success. The show was concise, but still felt full with content and plenti­ful storylines. viewers at home were af­forded the opportunity to see through the eyes of the players and coaches without it feeling overly exposing. and the show never forgets its bread and butter, as it beautifully captures the hard work, frustrating struggles and beautiful accomplishments that sur­round the game of football. 
Contact Miko Malabute at                  mmalabut@nd.edu 
some of their older songs at the show, particularly anything from “love like This,” one of their catchiest albums. 
Judging from legend’s propensity for bringing to campus artists who are on the edge of blowing up, it’s obvious that The summer set is only going to get bigger from here. That means that now is the ideal time (and maybe your only chance) to see them in a small, intimate venue like legends. essentially, if you’re looking for some bouncy, feel-good mu­sic and a great show, this is it. 
The summer set performs at legends at 10 p.m. this Friday. admission is free to notre dame, saint mary’s and holy cross students with their school i.d. 
Contact Dakota Connell-Ledwon at dconnel5@nd.edu 
JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 



The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Being a Bieber guy 

Miko Malabute 
scene editor 

around The observer office, i have some­how, someway come to be known as the “bieber guy.” For whatever reason, whenever people have had an issue with the megastar, i have been one of the few with sound mind and clarity to come to think about his situ­ation rationally. This is misconceived as me “defending” him, even when he has not needed any defending. it’s a tough hat to wear, being a “bieber guy,” especially after giving a quick scroll through his instagram comments and seeing all of the actually irrational fans flood­ing the comment sections. however, i will reluctantly wear the hat — not because i love his entire catalogue (even though he does have quite a few great songs), not because i’m a fan of the image he’s putting out (although he does have great hair and fashion sense) or even the way he carries himself (despite the fact that it is quite literally impossible to live in the limelight that he does day in and day out), but because as a fellow human being living in the 21st century, i can only imagine what i would do in his position. 
back in 2012, bieber was accused of reck­less driving, and people pounced on the op­portunity to publicly criticize and scrutinize the child superstar after his long reign on top of the pop culture world. however, it seems as if people have forgotten what it was like when they all first got their driver’s license — people were quick to act as if they never got behind the wheel alone for the first time and pretended as if they were on the set of “Fast and Furious,” only to get their first speed­ing ticket. Then, in 2014 bieber was charged for vandalism in california for throwing eggs and according to video evidence, proceeded to high-five his friends. now i’m not going to defend vandalism at all — i’m actually quite against it, and when walking around down­town los angeles, it irks me whenever i see the distasteful graffiti (especially when it’s the horribly rushed-looking type). but with that said, this charge of vandalism was not graffiti, it was not spray painting on sides of histori­cal buildings. it was egging — a poor, unwise decision, but still not vandalism in the same stratosphere as spray paint graffiti. bieber was also most recently charged with dangerous driving in 2014 and was allegedly engaged in a physical altercation. however, it was later learned that he was acting out in response to the “unwelcome presence of paparazzi.” now, again, i am not defending his decision-making here — it’s no joking matter once it comes to human lives. but i am being absolutely serious when i urge people to imagine what it must be like to have no sense of privacy at all. you’re entire life is scrutinized and constantly in the public eye, and you can never let down your guard. That has been bieber’s reality before he even reached puberty. 
i don’t defend bieber because i’m an irratio­nal fan. i’m not a “bieber guy” just for the sake of being one. i simply, rationally think about what it must be like to be like him and live his life — for the good and the bad. 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
biden: democrats’ best option 
Kyle Palmer 
mr. precedent 

Joseph r. biden, Jr. has served as vice presi­dent of the united states for two terms. The vice president’s primary duty is to be ready to replace the president if he is ever incapacitated. his elec­tion to serve at barack obama’s side means that his party and his country believe he is qualified to take the reigns of the country should the occasion ever arise. This simple fact, as well as a number of other factors, make biden the democratic party’s best option for holding onto the white house come 2016. 
i want to preface this by saying that i am a republican. at the moment, i would really like to see Jeb bush, John Kasich or marco rubio elected poTus, with any of the three serving as vpoTus to the nominee. it is exactly for that reason that i hope the democratic party nominates hillary clinton as its presidential candidate. i would relish nothing more than to see the democrats take a step backward by choosing clinton. she’s a wealthy, disconnected moderate with no pas­sion, charisma, relatability or record to present as qualifications (in other words, clinton is what democrats characterized mitt romney as in 2012). she’s the exact direction the democrats chose not to follow in 2008 when they chose the young, lib­eral, populist movement championed by obama. clinton is the default candidate, but nothing more. people aren’t excited about her; they’re just “alright” with the idea of her becoming poTus. generally, people aren’t passionate about an­other clinton presidency, which is evidenced by the surge of bernie sanders, who was supposed to be nothing more than a minor gadfly to the clinton candidacy. That translates wonderfully for republicans, because that means she won’t be able to motivate volunteers or young people to help on her campaign; it means voters won’t be excited to turn out to the polls like they were in 2008 and 2012. 
it is because i am a republican that i am actu­ally worried about biden running for president. 
biden has served as u.s. senator from delaware from 1972 until 2008 when he took office as vice president, during his tenure in the senate he served as chairman of both the senate Foreign affairs and senate Judiciary committees. he also has substantial legislative accomplishments to boast about, such as the violent crime control and law enforcement act of 1994, which included the Federal assault weapons ban and violence against women act; he describes the vawa as his “proudest legislative accomplishment.” he continues to speak and work for change on these issues as they again reach the top of american political priority; he’s done so by spearheading white house efforts on firearm violence and sexu­al assault. his favorability within the democratic party is at a sky-high 71 percent, according to a recent monmouth university poll. in the same poll, he is outpacing bernie sanders to take a second-place 22 percent to clinton’s 42 percent in the presidential preference poll. That may seem like he has a lot of distance to make up, until one considers the fact that he hasn’t yet announced he will be running and clinton has been running for five months. biden is also a very charismatic fig­ure, exemplified in that anytime he makes some public gaffe, as bad as it might be, the public typi­cally never seems to doubt his genuine intent and is willing to laugh it off. in short, he can outmatch clinton in every category when it comes to per­sonal characteristics and qualifications. The only hurdle he would have to overcome is the clinton campaign machine, which is no small feat. 
however, this wouldn’t be the first time he’s faced impossible odds. 
in 1972, two-term incumbent u.s. senator from delaware, J. caleb boggs, was about to coast to reelection with support from all levels of his party all the way up to the president richard nixon. boggs was a former three-term congressman and two-term governor in delaware and no one decid­ed to run against him except for a county coun­cilman and democrat named Joe biden, Jr. biden had virtually no money and, during the summer months before the november election, was down 30 points against boggs. however, biden was able to overcome opponent incumbency and the cam­paign cash disadvantage to become delaware’s next united states senator at the young age of 29 (he turned 30 before he assumed office). 
now, biden doesn’t face such disadvantages. sure, a presidential election is obviously very dif­ferent from a delaware senate election, but he is wiser and in a much better position than he was when he began. donors in the democratic party are worried about clinton’s candidacy as more and more issues surrounding relatability, media relations and her inability to adequately deal with her e-mail missteps while secretary of state continue to arise. The liberal wing of the party has been hoping for someone such as elizabeth warren or sanders to inject some passion back into the party. donors and liberals alike seem like they would be more than happy to support a better candidate, and they may just have one in biden. Then there’s obama, the party’s de facto leader, who has long demanded and rewarded loy­alty. biden has been loyal to obama and helped him in his efforts and, though obama may not end up endorsing biden, his refrain from endorsing clinton would speak volumes. 
biden could beat clinton for the democratic nomination, and he would be the best person to unite the democratic party to deliver another relief to the republicans. biden would be wise to jump in, and democrats would be wise to follow my advice and nominate him. 
as for me, i hope they nominate clinton. 
Kyle Palmer is a senior from Dillon Hall studying accountancy, he welcomes any challenges to his opinions. He can be reached at kpalmer6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Better define our expectations 

EDITORIAL 

sometimes important milestones don’t get the attention they deserve. 
while students at notre dame were busy trying to find the right classroom on the second day of classes, aug. 26, the office of community standards (ocs) sent an email about its new expectation of responsibility policy. This policy is similar, but not identical, to medical amnesty and “good samaritan” laws many states and colleges across the country have put in place. 
notre dame student government has prioritized medical amnesty for years, and the content of the new expectation of responsibility is hugely important. unfortunately, in the chaos  of the beginning of the school year, we feel many students may have mentally marked the ocs email as just another blast email and ignored its important message. like ocs, we believe student safety is the most important issue on any col­lege campus, and therefore, it is necessary to fully and clearly explain the expectation of responsibility. 
The clause guarantees underage students will “be exempt from the assignment of disciplinary status outcomes” — defined as “disciplinary probation or dismissal from the university” — if they get medical attention for another student who needs it. This is true even if the university’s alcohol or controlled substances policies have been violated. 
put simply, if you seek emergency medical assistance for a fellow student, and alco­hol or drugs were involved, you will be protected against dismissal from the university and disciplinary probation, defined as “a specific period of observation and evalu­ation of a student’s conduct.” a student who is on disciplinary probation “may not participate in an international study abroad program or any other off-site university academic program.” 
we feel it is also important to note this exemption applies to the student who re­ceives the medical attention. if you receive attention for a medical emergency after heavily drinking or drug use, you are also protected from dismissal and disciplinary probation. 
This exemption does not include repeat offenders. The expectation of responsibility states it is “intended to create an environment where a student … will change their future behavior,” and therefore those who have repeated “alcohol and/or drug-related incidents involving the need for medical attention” may still be subject to disciplinary status outcomes at the university’s discretion. 
This is a monumental step in the right direction here at notre dame. before this year, a policy of this kind never existed in du lac, in contrast to both saint mary’s and the state of indiana, which have both had medical amnesty clauses since 2012. 
The policy lays out a clear three-step process students are expected to follow. First, in situations that require emergency medical attention, students must “proactively contact an appropriate authority (i.e. notre dame security police, residence hall staff, 911, etc.).” second, until those authorities arrive, students are expected to “remain with the individual requiring medical attention,” and third, “cooperate with respond­ing emergency officials.” if students fulfill those three requirements, they have ful­filled the expectation of responsibility policy. 
but we feel there is still room for improvement. as we have said, notre dame clearly lays out the expectations for students to be granted medical amnesty under the expectation of responsibility policy. however, we are concerned the university fails to clearly define how students can expect to be treated once they invoke this policy. 
under the current expectation of responsibility policy, the only clear expectation a student can have is what won’t happen: They will not be subject to dismissal from the university or disciplinary probation. while this is important, what will actually hap­pen to them is far less clear. 
according to the policy, “the student [who helped another] may be referred to an appropriate setting of the university conduct process for a conversation grounded in formation and development.” after this conversation, a student may still be subject to “formative and/or professional referral outcomes.” 
The same applies to the student who received the medical attention, except in ad­dition to the “formative” and “professional referral” outcomes there may also be “ad­ministrative and/or loss of privilege outcomes.” 
as far as we can tell, this means students may still lose on-campus housing privileg­es if they are living on campus when the emergency occurs or may be subject to other punishments, from written assignments to random drug screening to bans from spe­cific areas of campus. There is too much room for inconsistent outcomes if the policy is not clear enough. 
This concerns us. we want to make our community as safe as it can be, and this new policy definitely helps in that regard. however, since the university clearly outlines the expectations for students, we believe this needs to be a two-way street. if students know exactly what to expect when they seek medical attention for themselves or an­other person, we believe there will be more of an inclination to err on the safe side and seek help. 
when a student sees another student in need of medical assistance, the last thing that should be on anyone’s mind is what will happen to them if they help. if the stu­dents and the university are completely in sync on this matter, our community will reap the benefits. 
Though we are not there yet, we believe the expectation of responsibility policy moves us in the right direction towards keeping students safe. 
pope declares journalism doesn’t require facts 
Luis Erana Salmeron 
guest column 

“in an unexpected but much needed statement from the vatican, the controversial leader of the catholic church has officially decreed that it is now morally oK to publish made-up ‘facts’. he also has commanded all priests to forgive those who have sinned by pointing out the falsehood of said ‘facts’, but only if the mischievous rascals seek confession between 5:52 p.m. on sept. 29 through 4:41 a.m. on nov. 16 of the following year.” 
i really hope at this point you realize i just made that up. yet it appears people can really get away with publish­ing made-up facts nowadays, particularly regarding the holy Father and the church. last week pope Francis is­sued a statement that essentially said all catholic priests would have the authority to absolve the sin of abortion during the upcoming holy year of mercy. such statement, taken for what it really is, shouldn’t be a big deal for the general population, primarily because most priest al­ready have said faculty. For those unfamiliar, when a per­son goes to confession he or she asks for forgiveness for the sins committed. although the person is really asking god for forgiveness, the priest is an intermediary of sorts who listens, advises and gives god’s absolution. while all priests have such faculty, when it comes to very grave sins (like abortion, which is after all the sin of terminating an­other human life) it is up to the bishop (the priest’s supe­rior) to carry out the confession. nevertheless the bishop can pass down the authority to give absolution for an abortion to his priests, and as it turns out, many bishops do so. all that pope Francis did (as the superior of the bishops) was say that during this year where the focus is mercy, all priests will have the authority to forgive the sin of abortion. it is important to note the pope reiterated a) abortion is a very serious sin, and b) god forgives all sins and wants every person to find their way back to him. 
The day after the vatican issued the statement, i saw a headline in a newspaper that said something like, “pope shifts abortion policy.” i simply laughed to myself think­ing of the surprise people were in for when they read that in fact the pope had reiterated the church’s position on abortion as sinful and had only fine-tuned how people seek forgiveness for it. nevertheless, over the next 24 hours i would come to realize this was no laughing mat­ter. while i didn’t pay attention to that particular news article, i later ran into what damian Thompson called “the worst piece of religious reporting ever,” referring to an article by Tom Kington in the Times. i am not familiar with either author, but after reading a couple of lines from Kington’s article i quickly came to agree with Thompson. The problem with Kingston’s article, titled “pope offers forgiveness to women who had abortions,” was not that it was written uncharitably or in a hostile language (al­though arguably not the best qualities for a professional writer), but rather that it straight up had its facts wrong. even the article’s subhead was severely misinformed, claiming the pope “ordered” priests to absolve women; giving someone authority and ordering someone to do something are significantly different. 
To make things worse, i soon ran into another article by Julia hartley-brewer in The Telegraph, which, as it seemed, wanted to give Kington’s “worst piece of reli­gious reporting” a run for its money. not only was her article tremendously opinionated for the news section of the journal (instead of being in the opinions section) but it was, just like Kington’s, terribly misinformed. hartley-brewer produced lie after lie in what seemed an article written for The onion instead of The Telegraph. The worst claim was perhaps saying women could be “forgiven by priests for the coming Jubilee year as a once-in-a-pope’s-lifetime offer.” she also stated that given the holy year starts in december, women will have to wait a few months before they can be absolved. To use hartley­brewer’s own words, “honestly, i’m not making that last bit up.” 
The problem here is greater than letting journalists get away with writing clearly-biased pieces. it’s the fact that they are publishing lies as facts. Treating any of the mentioned articles as opinion columns still does not absolve the writers from making false claims and using them as the starting point of their critiques. no matter if the piece is an opinion or a news story, it is unethical either way if the facts are made up. nevertheless, let’s give these authors the benefit of the doubt and assume they genuinely thought what they wrote was factual; even so, the consequences are still very real. when people read these misinformed articles they themselves become misinformed. on Friday, a viewpoint by an alumnus was published on a different topic, yet coincidentally he referenced the pope’s actions as “[he] shattered another rigid practice by embracing those within our church who were previously shunned — remorseful women who had sought atonement for their abortions.” while my fellow author was seeking to give an example of humbleness, he unfortunately referenced something that never hap­pened. The pope didn’t do away with any rigid practice of denying women forgiveness for abortion, because the church has never had such policy (nor can it ever). yet it is articles like those in The Times and The Telegraph that spread this damaging misinformation to the world. and keep in mind i’m only writing here about a single state­ment pope Francis made. Just type “pope Francis said” into google. or don’t, because you likely can’t trust most of what you find. 
Luis Erana Salmeron is a junior living in Keough Hall. He can be reached at leranasa@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Opening Week must change 

Zach Klonsinski 
sports editor 
The best game of the open­ing week of college football wasn’t in blacksburg, virginia, or evanston, illinois, nor was it in dallas, salt lake city, minneapolis, houston or charlotte, north carolina. 
it happened in missoula, montana. 
The weekend before Fbs play started, no. 1 north dakota state, the four-time defend­ing national champion in Fcs, squared off with no. 12 montana, a team that used to be as dominant as north dakota state in the early and mid 2000s and is now on the rise again. 
Facing a fourth and goal from the one-half yard line with six seconds left in the game and the host griz down 35-31, red-shirt junior running back Joey counts took the handoff and was about to jump over the pile of humanity forming at the goal line. instead, though, he made one of the best cuts i’ve ever witnessed and squeaked through into the end zone off the left side. 
griz 38, bison 35. Final score. 
what a start to the college football season, i thought to myself at the time — and not just because i’m from big sky country. i was so excited for the next weekend when Fbs ac­tion started, so sure the game i had just witnessed was a great omen. 
before it even started, how­ever, i already knew i’d be sorely disappointed. and i wasn’t let down. 
when i first heard montana and north dakota state were kicking off the season, i imme­diately started getting excited for it. when i looked at the rest of college football’s opening weekend, though … nothing. 
in the only matchup of the weekend featuring ranked teams, alabama and wisconsin was largely a snoozer. ohio state on monday night took all the drama out of its rematch against virginia Tech. Tcu finally woke up to avoid an upset bid from minnesota, while Texas a&m rolled arizona state, and north carolina couldn’t hold on to the ball long enough to earn a win over its neighbor to the south. northwestern pulled off the only noteworthy Fbs upset of the weekend in about the most northwestern way possible, de­feating no. 24 stanford, 16-6, in an ugly, sloppy and defensively-dominated bore. 
The ncaa owes byu and nebraska a spot in the college football playoff this year: if not for the hail mary grab by cougar senior receiver mitch mathews, the first week of the season would have been an absolute waste instead of just a total loss. 
but i guess that’s what hap­pens when 45 of the 85 Fbs games this weekend featured an Fcs opponent against an Fbs team. 
That statistic is absolutely absurd. 
even mother nature was sick of it: Toledo versus stony brook and mcneese state versus lsu, would-be game numbers 46 and 47, were both cancelled part of the way through the game due to inclement weather. 
Those screaming at the ncaa to reduce the number of games on the schedule have a perfect example to use now. it would have been better if this weekend had never been played. 
From the fan’s perspective, what’s really that enjoyable about watching your team beat up another team 69-6, like georgia Tech over alcorn state? same with clemson’s 49-10 beating of wofford. how about ole miss hanging 76 on Tennessee-martin, navy’s 48-10 beating of colgate, appalachian state’s 49-0 drubbing of howard, or miami’s 45-0 shut­out of bethune-cookman? 
was this weekend even worth playing? The ncaa has said player safety is one of its top priorities, but the very fact this weekend happened doesn’t sup­port that stance at all. 
when the best and most in­teresting game of the opening weekend was between two Fcs teams, college football needs to address the problem. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.                

Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmcobserver 

Volleyball 
conTinued From page 12 

so changed and we’re getting there. each day, each practice and each game, we keep re­fining ourselves and getting better.” 
it won’t be easy to get past penn state, who is arguably the highlight opponent of the invitational for the irish giv­en their ranking. The nittany lions have yet to lose a single set this season, and one of those shut outs was against no. 3 stanford. 
higgins, who is one of three upperclassmen on the team, said new irish head coach Jim mclaughlin has prepared them well leading up to the invitational. 
“starting in the spring, when he [mclaughlin] got here, in practice, he’ll set up situations for us,” higgins said. “say it’s 24 to 23, game point on penn state. you’ve got to play every play in practice just like you would be playing in that situ­ation. obviously they have a great history and a great team, but we have nothing to lose. we’re excited to play against great competition, and it’ll probably draw the best out of us.” 
notre dame ranks on the bottom end of most statisti­cal categories in the acc six games into the season, but there are individuals that have been impressive for the irish thus far. sophomore setter maddie dilfer currently ranks fourth in the acc in assists, av­eraging 9.85 per set. Freshman libero ryann deJarld has also ranks as one of the top defend­ers in the conference. she’s av­eraged 4.08 digs per set, which is 54 more digs than anyone else on the team. 
sophomore outside hitter sam Fry, who leads the irish in kills with 75, said it is going to take more than just their game plan to walk away from the golden dome invitational with wins. 
“we’re going to work on our mentality,” Fry said. “we have to be gritty, being confident and having positive attitude.” 
higgins was quick to agree with Fry on her thoughts for the keys to playing well this weekend. 
“grit is really big,” higgins said. “it’s defined as passion and perseverance, and that game [against penn state] is definitely going to show it.” 
excited to show the coun­try they’re not the same team from a year ago, the irish are ready to compete in this year’s golden dome invitational, which starts Friday against mississippi state at 7 p.m at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 

MLB | mariners 5, rocKies 0 
cruz gets to 40 hrs, mariners blank rockies 
Associated Press 

seaTTle — nelson cruz reached 40 home runs for the second straight season, Felix hernandez pitched three-hit ball for eight in­nings and the seattle mariners downed the Texas rangers 5-0 Thursday. 
The rangers were shut out for the second straight day. Their lead for the sec­ond al wild-card spot was cut to one game over idle minnesota. 
Texas missed a chance to gain on al west-leading houston and fell 2 1/2 games behind the idle astros. 
cruz missed the previ­ous six games because of a strained right quadriceps. he matched his career high for homers set last season with baltimore, connect­ing for a two-run shot in a three-run seventh. 
hernandez (17-8) struck out eight and walked four. he tied houston’s dallas Keuchel for the most victories in the al. 

derek holland (3-2) worked seven innings, al­lowing all five runs and nine hits. 
The rangers were blanked in back-to-back games for the first time since July 2013 at cleveland. They have been shut out four times on their 10-game road trip. 
cruz became the fourth different mariners player to hit at least 40 home runs in a season. Ken griffey Jr. did it six times and alex rodriguez and Jay buhner had three each. rodriguez was the last to do it with 41 in 2000. 
it was cruz’s 14th home run this year at safeco Field, the most in a season at the ballpark since Jose lopez in 2008. 
mark Trumbo’s two-run homer in the first extend­ed his hitting streak to a career-high 12 games. he’s batting .375 with five home runs and 11 rbi during the string. 
Trainer’s Room 
rangers: slugger Josh hamilton will have ar­throscopic surgery on his ailing left knee Friday. The team is hopeful he can re­turn before the end of the season. 
mariners: lhp James paxton, on the dl since may 29 with a strained left middle finger, threw a bull­pen session Thursday morn­ing. if he feels oK Friday, he will start sunday, his first since may 28. ... oF Franklin 
gutierrez (strained groin) missed his straight game.  right sixth  
Up Next rangers:  rhp  colby  

lewis (14-8, 4.68 era) will make his fourth attempt at a career-best 15th victory, at home against oakland. he has struggled his past three starts, going 0-3 with a 8.62 era. he is 9-4 with a 
3.08 era in 25 career starts against the a’s, his most wins against any opponent. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
paid adverTisemenT 



Football 
conTinued From page 12 
of the first and third quarters to become the first irish freshman running back to rush for two scores in a game since darius walker did it in 2004. 
Kelly, however, said adams’ preparation was different this week, knowing the role he’ll have saturday. 
“i think he probably sees him­self playing more, and because of that, he’s maybe thinking a little too much this week,” Kelly said. “ … i think he was a little better when he didn’t know that he didn’t know. but he’ll be fine. 
“The best way i can put it is both freshmen are still learning and they’re young, and they’ll both have to play.” 

notre dame Football,” a teaser hold Zaire’s head staying level clip showed Kelly saying se-when Kelly called into “The 
after a game in which he threw nior offensive lineman ronnie rich eisen show” yesterday, as many touchdown passes stanley was unable to accept a he said the chances of notre (three) as he did incompletions, captainship for the 2015 season. dame resuming its series with junior quarterback malik Zaire Thursday, Kelly said he preferred michigan were “trending up.” received significant praise na-not to explain the clip, and ex-Thursday, however, Kelly said tionwide, with many “experts” pressed his regret it got out. he “picked his spot” on the show placing him on early-season “That’s something between with the michigan alum, and heisman watch lists. however, myself and our team,” Kelly said. highlighted the difficulties in despite the performance and “it’s unfortunate that clip got working out a return to the on-the nationwide buzz, Kelly said out.” again, off-again rivalry. the quarterback didn’t change but despite stanley’s inabil-“what i was trying to say is his demeanor in the build-up to ity to accept a captainship, Kelly that’s a game that we definitely virginia. praised his highly-rated senior’s want to get back on our sched­
“[There’s been] no appreciable leadership capabilities. ule,” Kelly said. “ … it’s on our 
and junior brandon aubrey, ju­change at all; great in the meet-“here’s what i would say: i radar. let’s put it that way. we’re 
M Soccer 
nior goalkeeper chris hubbard conTinued From page 12 ings all week,” Kelly said. “Just can tell you that i have no prob-looking at it. 

earned a pair of clean sheets the same guy. i don’t expect any lem with ronnie representing “now, there’s a lot of juggling 
and managed three saves in the change in malik regardless of our football team,” Kelly said. that would have to go on. i think 
per game, but the irish offense two games. whether it’s adversity or success. “his integrity and his character they’re locked in to the mid-
excelled this past weekend at saturday’s contest against he’s been around here a long are not in question here, and 2020s, and we would have to be 
the mike berticelli memorial clemson will serve as another time in the sense he knows how i wouldn’t say that if we had creative with different games 
Tournament. The irish shut out opportunity for the irish to to handle himself, he knows something here that was such and such.” 
south Florida, 2-0, to open the continue to grow their chemis­what to expect week in, week that i had to back away from Kelly later went on to note 
tournament Friday, and they try on the field, hodan said. out. him. that, to his knowledge, no dis­
continued to dominate the field “it’s early in the season, so “i know this: he won’t change “ … he’s still a captain in cussions had occurred between 
with a 4-0 win over uab on there are a lot of things to work in the way he prepares himself.” our minds in terms of the way the two schools on the resump­
sunday. on both offensively and de­he handles himself on a daily tion of the series. 
notre dame out-shot uab fensively,” hodan said. “our Showtime trailer distracts basis.” 
28-6, while dominating shots finishing definitely improved prior to the season premiere Contact Alex Carson at  
on goal 11-1. sophomore for-this past weekend and hope-of showtime’s “a season with Michigan rivalry still on acarson1@nd.edu 
ward Jon gallagher posted fully will continue to improve 
three goals during the week-[against clemson].” 
end, while recently named Top with that determination to 

hunting and winning balls. forward Taylor Timko has been 
W Soccer 
acc weekly defender senior improve, hodan and the irish it’s really a team effort. we can lighting up opposing defenses. 
defender michael shipp scored take on their first acc oppo­
conTinued From page 12 

stop people one on one, or work The michigan native and big 
his first career goal sunday nent of the season when they together.” 10 all-freshman selection leads 
afternoon. welcome clemson to alumni winning records. The hoosiers romangolo said her team the wolverines in goals (five). 
The irish defense held its stadium on saturday at 7 p.m. (3-2-1) will be playing with a needs to be cautious of getting her total ties her with a host 
ground, too. with the support chip on their shoulder as they too comfortable, however. of others for 15th in the nation 
of shipp and defenders gradu-Contact Kit Loughran at were embarrassed by lsu over “it’s so early, but there’s — three back of the national 
ate student max lachowecki kloughr1@nd.edu the weekend, 4-0. The irish’s a lot we can improve on,” leaders. second opponent will be dawn-romagnolo said. “we need to after spending last weekend ing a familiar maize and blue continue to grow as a team. in hostile environments, the when michigan (4-2-0) comes we need to keep working on irish will be happy to play in to town. The wolverines will creating opportunities in front the friendly confines of alumni be looking to right the ship af-of the goal. we could improve stadium, romagnolo said. The ter having its 3-game winning our one on one defense and re-irish are 4-0 at home and have streak snapped sunday on the acting to the opposing team’s surrendered only one goal in road at washington. attack.” those games combined. 
both the hoosiers and the offensively, the team is led romangolo said the team is wolverines will have to deal by a veteran and a newcomer. excited to spend the weekend with the irish’s stifling defense. senior forward anna maria in south bend. romangolo’s club has outshot gilbertson leads the team in “anytime you can stay at their opponents 144-9 in the goals (four), points (nine), your own house and sleep in early season. The irish also shots (39), and shots on goal your own bed, it’s an advan­hold a heavy 17-3 scoring ad-(16).  gilbertson scored in each tage,” she said. vantage and have posted clean of the last three games. she play begins Friday at 7 p.m. sheets against foes four times. has been helped by the arrival with the match against indiana 
romagnolo credited the of freshman forward natalie followed by sunday’s game entire team on the defensive Jacobs. The california product against michigan at 5 p.m. success. leads the team in assists (four) both matches will be played at 
“The players in the front do a and only trails gilbertson in all alumni stadium. good job and every other layer major offensive categories. is playing well,” romagnolo sunday poses a unique chal-Contact Dominic Bush at said. “we’re doing a good job lenge, as michigan sophomore dbush@nd.edu 





ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2015 | The observer 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

ACROSS 32 Letters after Sen. Charles
1 Tomfoolery Schumer’s name

10 Xerox rival 33 Quote lead-in? 
15 Real soon 34 What a horse
16 One who kicks with
comes from Qom 38 Prepares 

17 Pick, of sorts 40 Anita of song 
18 Guilty gang 41 Super ___ 
19 Mardi Gras, for 43 Little jerk one: Abbr. 

44 Lid for a laddie 20 Observant 
45 Zest providers 
individual 47 “Check,” in 
21 These, to a cardsTico 51 Common 
22 Jazz setting images onstamps

24 Yarn 54 See 58-Across 
26 Cool red giant 55 Moral creator 
28 Adherent of the clockwork 56 Canal-clearinguniverse theory tube 
29 Schlemiel 58 With 54-Across, something30 Out of worn on a road practice?: Abbr. trip 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
S  I T  T I  N G DUCK  N O D E  A  L  
O N E  S C O O P  A X  I  L  L  A  
A N D R  E  T  T  I  S  L A L  O M  
S  E  A N S  I  R E N E  
DUCK W A  L  K S  P  E K  I  N G DUCK  
S O N  I  A  S H A R E  S  
O N S  E  T  H  I  R E  T W O D  
U K E  E G O  T  R  I  P  A Y  E  
P A  L  O  A U  T O  L  A R V A  
B E  L  L  O W  E N D E D  
DUCK B  I  L  L  E D  D A  I  S Y DUCK  
P A N A M  I  M S  E  T  
O R A  T  E D  O N T H E D O T  
N E W E R A  N O R E A  L  L  Y  
D R E  S  S Y  GOOSE B E R R  I  E  S  

59 Antelope with lyre-shapedhorns 
60 Be able to sue, say 
62 Doesn’t keep off the grass? 
63 Introductoryoffers 
64 Material named for a country 
65 Specialelevator? 
DOWN 
1 Break 2 Places for jacks 3 Eye with awe 
4 Cigna offering 5 Couple 
6 Reply of denial 7 Brought home 8 Prepared to 
give a ring, say 
9 Like much flatware 
10 At maximal maturity 
11 “___ perplexed with a thousand cares”: Shak. 
12 They often include balloons 
13 Being displayed conspicuously 
14 Diva’s conspicuousdisplay 
23 Rugged 25 Hitherto 
27 Kind of denom. 31 Halfhearted 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  14  
15  16  
17  18  
19  20  21  
22  23  24  25  
26  27  28  29  
30  31  32  33  
34  35  36  37  38  39  
40  41  42  43  
44  45  46  47  48  49  50  
51  52  53  54  
55  56  57  58  
59  60  61  
62  63  
64  65  

Puzzle by Jeff Chen 

33 Accouterment 39 It might take 50 Mother ___ for Fred of the cake “Scooby-Doo” 
52 Rubber-___
42 Cuban coin 34 Barely-there 
45 Digestive

bottoms 53 A real dummy 
enzyme

35 Simple 46 Obama energy 57 Site of many
challenge 
secretary Chu 
London 36 Junior, e.g. 48 Leavening 
hangings
agent, briefly

37 One may followthe news 49 Rubber 61 No-goodnik 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: learn from the experts. The knowledge you pick up will result in financial rewards. use your skills along with the information you gather to formulate upgrades to the way you do your job. staying ahead of the competition will ensure your success as long as you don’t take on unnecessary debt. use your imagination and initiate changes. your numbers are 6, 10, 17, 23, 26, 32, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): a networking event will boost your confidence and make you realize how much you have to offer. a special relationship will flourish if you discuss long-term plans. update your look and take on a physical challenge. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): concentrate on what you can change, not on what you cannot. don’t waste your time trying to please someone who is impossible to satisfy. learn from past mistakes and revamp an old skill or hobby that has come back in style. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t feel you have to take on someone else’s responsibilities. Keep your life simple, stick to the truth and put time aside to spend with the people you love the most. interacting with children or your lover will make you happy. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): accept the inevitable and find a way to make it work for you. adaptability is a quality that can help you stand out and be noticed. if you are able to make do with what you’ve got, you will come out on top. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): emotions will run close to the surface. express your true feelings and you will bring about the changes you want to see happen. be the first to jump into action when it comes to trying something new. your enthusiasm will be infectious. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): an investment, settlement or contract you have been working on will pay off. The inside information you come across will help you make an important decision regarding a partnership proposal. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): your intuition and intelligence will pay off. Follow your gut feeling and don’t look back. put an end to a situation that has made you feel vulnerable. choose the people you want to have in your life. romance is encouraged. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): don’t fight a losing battle. you are better off looking for a way to turn something you enjoy doing into a lucrative pastime. don’t let love stand between you and your success. stick close to home and explore your options. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): plan a trip, but stay within your budget. pick up new information and skills, and be sure to enjoy some downtime with someone you love in order to make the most of your day. a change you make will pay off. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): negotiate a deal or invest your time and energy into something you know will pay off. Taking forceful action will result in a sudden change you didn’t expect. be prepared to move forward regardless of what others do. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): be the one to instigate a change in what you do for a living. spend time nurturing a relationship with someone you love and you will come to an agreement regarding domestic matters and lifestyle choices. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): an unusual way to make money will develop. don’t ignore the signals that someone is sending you. your imaginative approach to whatever you do will capture attention. added discipline will help you finish what you start and lead to greater opportunities. 

Birthday Baby: you are outgoing, insightful and unique. you are unpredictable and popular. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer  
p.o. box 779  
notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year  
enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 

city      state Zip 

The observer | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

New backs to play large role against Cavaliers 
BY ALEX CARSON 
associate sports editor 
after junior running back Tarean Folston suffered a sea­son-ending acl injury saturday against Texas, it was clear notre dame’s backfield would be shuf­fled more than the irish staff had planned on earlier in the season. 
while senior running back c.J. prosise will assume the majority of the carries for no. 9 notre dame on saturday in charlottesville, virginia, a pair of freshmen, Josh adams and dexter williams, spent this week adjusting to their new roles in the offense. 
For williams, who had seven fourth-quarter carries for 24 yards during the 38-3 win over Texas, brian Kelly said it was a “pretty good” week of practice. 
“i think he’ll have to be involved in the game plan,” the irish head coach said. “[he’s] certainly not ready to handle everything, but we feel confident enough that we’ll get him in the game, and we think he’s got a chance to certain­ly help us in the rotation.” 

unlike williams’ relatively-qui­et debut, adams made his mark last week, scoring near the end MICHAEL YU | The Observer 
Freshman running back Josh Adams carries the ball during Notre see FooTball PAGE 10 Dame’s 38-3 victory over Texas on Sept. 5 at Notre Dame Stadium. 

MEN’S SOCCER 
ND prepares for rival Clemson 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
looking to avenge a loss in penalty kicks in last year’s acc tournament semifinals, notre dame opens its 2015 acc reg­ular season against reigning acc champion clemson on saturday. 
The second-seeded irish (3­0-1) will play host to the no. 9 Tigers (3-0-1) on saturday at alumni stadium at 7 p.m. The irish and Tigers have met five times in their history, with this matchup marking the fourth consecutive season the two squads will face off. 
last year, the two teams met for the first time as conference rivals in the acc semifinals on nov 14. The double-overtime contest ended as a 1-1 draw, but the Tigers then won 5-4 in penalty kicks to advance to the acc championship. clemson went on to beat louisville, 2-1, in double overtime to win the acc championship title. 
“clemson is a great team and off to a great start [this sea­son],” senior tri-captain and midfielder patrick hodan said. “we are really going to have to play at a high level. 
“we have to be ready for a battle.” 
The Tigers boast an identical 3-0-1 record as the irish, with three high-margin wins to their name. clemson took down east Tennessee state, 3-1, mercer, 4-1, and south carolina, 3-0. Following the shut out, the Tigers tied coastal carolina, 1-1, in double overtime. 
averaging 2.75 goals and 20 shots per game, the Tigers will be one of the most offensively aggressive team the irish will play this year. only maryland, which notre dame tied in its season opener, tops the Tigers in shots per game at 20.5. 
clemson sophomores mid­fielder oliver shannon and for­ward diego campos lead the Tigers offense with three goals and two assists, respectively. 
“clemson is a very good pressing team,” hodan said. “we will have to figure out how to break their pressure and move the ball well.” 
so far the irish have not had much trouble moving the ball well either, though. The irish stand slightly below the Tigers with 1.75 goals and 14.8 shots 
see m soccer PAGE 10 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

irish set to face no. 1 nittany lions 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
purcell pavilion’s arena lights were abruptly shut off. as the darkness set in, the irish cheered as they sat in clusters across the empty arena. about 20 seconds after the lights were turned off, the video board above the floor flashed on and the team’s new video introduction played. cheers from the team filled the arena like an echo chamber ex­pressing their excitement for the team’s first home stand this weekend. 
notre dame (2-4) will start its season at home Friday as it hosts mississippi state, eastern Kentucky and no. 1 penn state in their annual golden dome invitational. 
“we can’t wait to have the home-court advantage,” junior middle blocker Katie higgins said. “Fans and students will be able to see how hard we’ve been working, the new era that we’re in and how much better we are.” 
last season, the irish finished 6-23, and this year they are much younger across the roster than they were last year. at the seton hall classic, notre dame left with a 1-2 record, which included their first win away from south bend since september 19 of last year against saint louis at the purdue active ankle challenge. 
notre dame’s next challenge is to improve upon last year’s record at their golden dome invitational where they went 0-3. They’ll face mississippi state (6­
1) on Friday and then eastern Kentucky (1-7) and the top team in the nation, the nittany lions (5-0), on saturday. 
“we’re developing every game and we’re progressing,” higgins said. “it’s a long-term process and it’s not going to happen in­stantly, so i don’t think we’ve found our identity exactly yet, but we’re right there. we are 
see volleyball PAGE 8 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Pair of Big Ten foes coming up for Notre Dame 
By DOMINIC BUSH 
sports writer 

The no. 13 irish aim to continue their undefeated streak to open the season as they play host to big Ten foes indiana and michigan this weekend at alumni stadium. 
despite a dominant 2-0 win over michigan state and a 2-2 draw with western michigan, notre dame (5-0-1) fell from no. 6 to no. 13 in the rankings. 
second-year coach Theresa romangolo said the team is excited about the quality of this weekend’s opponents. 
“They’re two good pro­grams and whoever we play we have to continue to work on possessing the ball, at­tacking and shutting down opponents,” romagnolo said. 
looking to make an early statement at home, the irish welcome two clubs with 
see w soccer PAGE 10 






