The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 118 | Wednesday, april 15, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
McAleese talks social issues 
Former Irish president speaks on time in office, roles of religion and gender in politics in Ireland 
By KELLY KONYA 
senior news writer 
addressing the topics of gen­der and religion in the present and future trajectory of ireland, former president of ireland mary mcaleese joined the saint mary’s community on Tuesday evening in carroll auditorium of madeleva hall. 
college president carol ann mooney introduced mcaleese, who is the second women to serve as the president of ireland and the first to come from the ulster region. 
mcaleese was elected in 1997 and served for two terms until 2011, using her time in office to 
see mcaleese paGe 5 



club remembers holocaust 
By JENNIFER FLANAGAN 
news writer 
wednesday night at 8 p.m. the Jewish Federation of south bend will host a holocaust remem­brance service at the grotto to mark the 70th anniversary of the end of the holocaust. 
Trent spoolstra, a 2013 gradu­ate of notre dame who has volun­teered with the Jewish Federation for the past seven months, helped to bring the event to notre dame’s campus. 
The service coincides with yom hashoah, israel’s official day of commemoration for the approxi­mately 6 million Jews and 5 mil­lion others who died as a result of the actions of nazi germany and its counterparts. This year, yom hashoah begins the evening of april 15 and ends the evening of april 16. 
spoolstra said the Jewish Federation usually hosts events in downtown south bend every year to honor of yom hashoah but this year wanted to bring holocaust remembrance to notre dame’s campus. 
The grotto, as a place of reflec­tion for all religions, seemed the ideal location to host the remem­brance service, spoolstra said. 
“The grotto, for those who are catholic, is a place to remember mary and honor mary and, for those who are not catholic, is a 
see holocausT paGe 5 


students, faculty reflect on pieronek’s life 
By MARGARET HYNDS and EMILY McCONVILLE 
news editor and associate news editor 
last Thursday, catherine “cathy” pieronek, an asso­ciate dean in the college of engineering and the director of the women’s engineering program, passed away sud­denly at the age of 52. 
according to college of engineering dean peter Kilpatrick, pieronek proved to be a champion of the women engineers on notre dame’s campus, but also on a national level. students have recalled her dedication to the engineers and also to the school as a campus leader who sought to continually improve the university and, specifically, the college of engineering. 
in an email, Kilpatrick de­scribed one of pieronek’s large contributions to the women’s engineering pro­gram that dealt with resi­dence halls. when pieronek joined the engineering facul­ty in 2002, female enrollment in the college was lower than it was now, and each women’s residence hall only had “one to two” engineers living in it. 
“This meant that women who wanted to study with their classmates and other engineers would have to go to another residence hall (of­ten a male residence hall) and when the parietals require women students leaving male dorms at midnight (despite whether the homework or studying was all finished), this placed a hardship on the women engineering stu­dents,” he said. 
“so cathy, in concert with others in the college, got [the office of residence life] to start clustering women en­gineers in fewer dorms so women could develop natu­ral study partners in their own residence hall. This strategy, and many others, has led to a dramatic increase in both the retention and the numbers and percentages of women in engineering here at notre dame. we are now well over 30 percent, a remark­able increase in the last 10­plus years. cathy played by far the dominant role in this transformation.” 
Kilpatrick and others re­called her tendency to be ex­tremely direct with students in her role as an advisor. 
see pieroneK paGe 3 



‘TBAB’ benefits pediatric cancer research 
By MATTHEW McKENNA 
news writer 
The bald and the beautiful (Tbab), a campus event hosted by the club of the same name, will place in the laFortune student center from wednesday until Friday this week. The annual event raises money for pediatric cancer re­search while raising awareness for childhood cancer. 
grace carroll, senior and co-chair of The bald and the beautiful, said the event takes place in the dooley and sorin rooms in the main lounge of laFortune. 
“we have over 15,000 par­ticipants in the event, and the event includes three parts,” carroll said. “Firstly, there’s do­nating eight inches of your hair to pantene beautiful lengths to make wigs for patients with cancer.” 
“Then, you can also purchase colored hair extensions to sup­port someone you know who has cancer,” she said. “There’s a different color for each type of cancer. money raised from that goes to memorial hospital.” 
The third part of the event involves shaving your head to walk in solidarity with those losing their hair due to chemo­therapy, she said. 
“There is a minimum dona­tion to have your head shaved and also a minimum donation for a T-shirt,” carroll said. “The money raised from that goes to st. baldrick’s Foundation. so there are three different parts that go to three different organizations.” 
according to carroll, Tbab began in 2009 when a group of students came together after their friend was diagnosed with 
see Tbab paGe 5 



news paGe 3 viewpoinT paGe 7 scene paGe 8 men’s lacrosse paGe 16 baseball paGe 16 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney alex Jirschele Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: lesley stevenson Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: brian lach Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu lsteven1@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Do you have any strange talents? 


Grace Hills 
freshman 
mcglinn hall 

“i can flip my tongue over.” 

Madison Zeiss 
senior 
howard hall 
“online shopping.” 

Phil Stenger 
sophomore 
siegfried hall 
“i can cross my eyes.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



Amanda Springstead 
senior 
howard hall 

“i can say the abcs backwards.” 

Erin Lattimer 
sophomore 
howard hall 

“i can bend my upper pinky knuckle.” 

Taylor Kolbus 
senior 
off-campus 

“i can wink without moving my cheek.” 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
margaret hynds renee griffin Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
selena ponio marek mazurek Jennifer Flanagan stephanie snyder 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
emily danaher maddie daly 


Photo Viewpoint 

“South Bend on a “The Hard Problem” Labor Cafe Run Forrest Run Strikeout Cancer 
michael yu austin Taliaferro 
Dime” DeBartolo Performing Geddes Hall 5K/10K Softball Game McKenna Hall Arts Center 4:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. Campus-wide Melissa Cook Stadium 12 p.m.-1 p.m. 7 p.m.-9:15 p.m. Sponsored by Higgins 8:30 a.m.-11a.m. 12 p.m.-2 p.m. 


Corrections 

Panel with Downtown National Theatre Live. Labor Studies Benefit for wounded Notre Dame vs. 
The observer regards itself as South Bend. Program. veterans. Syracuse. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
“MFA Student “Dead Man’s Cell ND Relay for Life Blue-Gold Game “La Misa en Espaol” 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Reading” Phone” Compton Family Ice LaBar Practice Dillon Hall 
however, recognize that we will make 
Hammes Bookstore DeBartolo Performing Arena Complex 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7:30p.m-8:30 p.m. Arts Center 6 p.m.-11:55 p.m. 12:30 p.m.-3:30 p.m. Spanish Mass. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Sponsored by Creative 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Fundraiser for cancer Streaming online. 
we can correct our error. 

Writing Program. Theatre performance. research. 

ndsmcobserver.com | Wednesday, april 15, 2015 | The observer 



SMC dance recital showcases student talent 
By STEPHANIE SNYDER 
news writer 
saint mary’s department of communication studies, dance and Theatre will per­form its annual dance arts recital this Thursday, Friday and saturday. 
The dance arts 2015 re­cital has been put on annu­ally for more than 30 years. This year’s dance arts is in­spired by everyday life and american culture. it features various genres of dance that are combined to communi­cate several different views of american society. 
saint mary’s dance in­structor michele Kriner, se­nior lecturer laurie lowry and guest artist Kristina isabelle all contributed in 

choreographing the seven “not only can the students dance pieces for the show. be a part of it, they can con-all performers are part of tribute to it,” lowry said. the saint mary’s dance mi-“it’s good for young people 

“You have to commit, show up and contribute, all of which prepare them for other aspects of life as well. I like to see young dancers be challenged in different ways and to see them grow.” 
Laurie Lowry 
senior lecturer 
Saint Mary’s College 

nor program, which gives to get exposed to art in many students the opportunity to forms.” work on serious dance works lowry said this is not only in order to learn as aspiring a performance that would artists. lowry said this per-benefit students, but faculty formance is a chance for stu-and those who do not attend dents to share their artistic the college as well. talent with the community. “when you’re out of college and you’re in the commu­nity, you don’t necessar­ily have good access to art,” said lowry. “saint mary’s is great because it allows easy access to art through shows like this.” 
lowry said the show is a significant part of the dance program for the perform­ers at saint mary’s and she hopes it will be a useful ex­perience for them moving forward. 
“you have to commit, show up and contribute, all of which prepare them for other aspects of life as well,” said lowry. “i like to see young dancers be chal­lenged in different ways and to see them grow.” 
There are many other op­portunities for dancers to 



pieronek 
conTinued From page 1 
recalled her tendency to be extremely direct with students in her role as an advisor. 
“i have so many memories of cathy, but perhaps my favor­ite memory was when i shared with her recently how grate­ful a parent was for the direct and forceful advice that cathy gave his son on the occasion of struggling academically and disciplinarily and the way the young man had been able to turn things around with cathy’s support and en­couragement,” he said. “cathy gave me a simple ‘aw, shucks’ response and immediately de­flected the accolade. 
“This was classic cathy. she did what she did for our stu­dents because she was deeply committed and cared about them as persons. in this re­gard, cathy taught us how to be fully human and fully christian.” 
senior cecilia ruiz said she met pieronek when she was a first-year engineering student and member of the First year engineering council. 
“what i remember the most is her passion to education and her devotion to her stu­dents,” ruiz said in an email. “she touched many lives with her advice and picked up many of us who struggled through some of our semesters. 
“always understanding, but firm, she encouraged me to continue in my endeavors and challenged all whose lives she touched to be the best version of themselves. i can’t think of a better role model to follow as an aspiring female aerospace engineer, and i am grateful for her presence in my life.” 
senior maggie miller said her relationship with pieronek be­gan during her freshman year. she said pieronek took an in­terest in her summer job with notre dame’s introduction to engineering program and talked to her frequently throughout the summer. 
“most of the conversations we would have were about how we could make the college better, how we could improve the perception of engineers on campus,” miller said in an email. “This was especially pertinent to me as i have been heavily involved with various performing arts groups during my time at notre dame, and cathy always took a surpris­ing interest in this and in other students that were leaving their mark on campus in areas get involved at saint mary’s. students can take classes to enhance their skills or they can audition to be a part of other productions similar to dance arts. The annual showcase is another oppor­tunity for student dancers who are not part of a class to grow and develop as artists. 
dance arts will be pre­sented Thursday through saturday in o’laughlin auditorium at 7:30 p.m. There will also be a mati­nee saturday at 2:30 p.m. Tickets are $8 for students, $10 for faculty and $13 for non-students and can be purchased at the box office in o’laughlin auditorium. 

Contact Stephanie Snyder at ssnyder02@saintmarys.edu 
other than engineering. she wanted us to feel like we were students and to get away from seeing ourselves as nerds who could only sit in their rooms and study. 
“she fought relentlessly for the students in the college, and even though she was often very hard on struggling stu­dents they were always better for it. Tough love was definitely her approach, but it was in fact a deep love that she showed the students.” 
miller said pieronek was especially important for the women of the college, which she witnessed firsthand as a student representative on the college of engineering council. 
“i remember in one meeting looking around and realizing that cathy and myself were the only women in the room of 20 or so other people, and cathy always played a large role in running those meet­ings,” miller said. “she became someone i very much wanted to emulate in her confidence and in her caring.” 
senior ryan griffin said pieronek cared about all her students in the college of engineering, which led to a tough but rewarding mentor­ing style. 
“she expected you to own up to your mistakes and act like an adult,” griffin said in an email. “but if you were capa­ble of doing that, cathy would match you every step of the way working with you, teach­ers, the department, advisors, you name it, in order to help you succeed. she was also an incredible mentor to the stu­dents who got close to her. 
“Those of us who were lucky enough to call her a mentor will forever treasure the ad­vice she gave us and carry her words with us in our careers.” 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu and Emily McConville at  emcconv1@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | Wednesday, april 15, 2015 | The observer 






TBaB 
conTinued From page 1 
cancer. 
“They wanted to do some­thing to support him,” carroll said. “it started as a small group of students that were very dedicated, but each year it grew and grew. This will be our sev­enth year, and we’ve raised over $200,000 for memorial hospital in south bend.” 
while Tbab started as a small student-run event, participants later formed the club in order to organize the event each year, she said. 
“The students wanted the event to be something long-term that, even after they graduated, would take place at notre dame every spring,” carroll said. “so to ensure its longevity, The bald and The beautiful be­came a club.” 
The bald and the beautiful is meant to be an event that unites the entire notre dame and south bend com­munity, carroll said. 
“we have about 50 people from memorial hospital coming wednesday, and, at the same time, we have players on the football team come and shave their heads,” carroll said. “stylists from around the area donate their time, as well as Frank, the barber from university stylings. also, three area restaurants are donating food for participants.” 

carroll said cancer, as a disease that is diagnosed in children around the world once every three minutes, is a disease that needs a lot of attention. 
“everyone is affected by cancer in some way and we wanted to be able to do something about it,” carroll said. “as college students, trying to find the cure for cancer is just an overwhelm­ing question. This event is something small. in the grand scheme of things, your hair isn’t that big a deal, but when you have cancer, los­ing your hair is everything, especially for a child.” 
The money raised by Tbab will go towards a specific lo­cal project, the club decided. 
“we’ve decided that the money we’ve raised over the past six years, and will con­tinue to raise, will go spe­cifically towards a room in that oncology room called The bald and the beautiful room,” she said. “This room will have toys and games for patients who are undergoing chemo and their siblings.” 
carroll said she wants to specifically applaud the six women who are planning to shave their heads over the course of the three days. 
“The decision to be in soli­darity with those who lose their hair to cancer treat­ment takes a lot of courage,” she said. 
Contact Matthew McKenna at mmcken12@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



Mcaleese 
conTinued From page 1 
address issues concerning “so­cial justice, social equality, social inclusion, anti-sectarianism and reconciliation,” mooney said. 
according to mooney, mcaleese described the theme of her presi­dency as “building bridges,” as she hoped to resolve the tensions of the conflict that afflicted ireland during the Troubles, which oc­curred between the late 1960s and 1990. after years of relieving fric­tions, the good Friday agreement, a peace deal, was struck in 1998 during mcaleese’s presidency, which established a power-sharing agreement in belfast and included political forces on both sides of the conflict, mooney said. 
now, mcaleese is a member of the united nations’ council of women world leaders, and she is ranked the 64th most power­ful woman in the world by Forbes magazine, mooney said. 
in conversation with saint mary’s professor Karen chambers, who is the director of the ireland study abroad program and an associate professor of sociology, mcaleese addressed her view of the irish presidency, her main goal during her terms and the his­toric visit by Queen elizabeth ii of england in 2011. 
mcaleese first explained the three main roles of the irish presidency. 
The three roles of the irish presi­dent, then, are to sign and pass legislation, to oversee the details of other elections and to be com­mander-in-chief of the army. 



Congratulate your graduate with a senior ad in the commencement edition of The Observer! 
May 15th, 2015 

For more information, please contact: (574)-631-7471 or observergradad@gmail.com 
Ads are due May 1st 
however, according to mcaleese, the other major duty that she as­sumed is to operate within the moral/pastoral space, as she de­fines it. it is within this space where the gateways to reconciliation be­tween the north and south and be­tween britain and the republic of ireland could form and strengthen. 
“The problems we have are es­sential problems with neighbors,” she said. “The truth is that no­body is going anywhere, so it’d be well to get on with one another. … we needed to know how much resistance there was … because we weren’t doing this for photo opportunities.” 
instead, mcaleese inspired at­titudes of reconciliation amongst opposing forces, desiring for all to be decent to each other and to find platforms of shared and joint benefits. 
“and over a period of 14 years, that worked,” she confirmed. “[it worked because] we weren’t try­ing to turn anyone into irish na­tionalists or catholics. … what we were trying to do was turn them into people who could think of us as good neighbors, as people that they could have huge political dif­ferences with, but that those differ­ences not be dealt with by violence. 
“my husband started work with the protestant paramilitaries … and we began to realize the fact that we were from their areas … actually meant a lot to them — that somewhere inside of them, they were actually quite proud of us, that we belonged to them in some way or other,” she said. 
Then, the “miracle of friend­ships growing” occurred, and this culminated into a new infrastruc­ture for government in northern ireland to build upon with good, positive compromises and an eventual referendum, she said. 



Holocaust 
conTinued From page 1 
place of quiet and of peace, and a place where people can really gather their thoughts,” he said. “Knowing how powerful that is, we wanted to hold the event there.” 
The agenda includes two read­ings, one by a notre dame stu­dent and the other by a saint mary’s student, a Jewish mourn­ing prayer led by a notre dame professor and brief talk by a local holocaust survivor. 
spoolstra said the Federation purposely chose to include stu­dents and staff in the event’s or­ganization to make the event as student-, faculty- and staff-cen­tered as possible. 
“obviously, the Jewish fed­eration is hosting, but we did not want just us running the show, but wanted students to get involved because it is a day not just for Jews and the Jewish Federation, but a day for everyone,” he said. 
raz revah, an israeli emissary who has worked with the Jewish Federation since september, also helped organize the service as part of her mission to educate the american public about modern-day israel. 
“part of my job is to talk about 
“it was a compromise that went hard on everybody … but every­body signed up to it. it’s still in op­eration … it’s not pretty, [but] no government is,” she said. “... They’re less ugly than the politics of the past, and they don’t use the same contemptuous language anymore because they have to work with each other now.” 
according to mcaleese, the edu­cation of religion has been drasti­cally different amongst the current generation and the previous one, though she wishes more of the church’s focus would be on the gos­pel of loving one another. 
“i grew up in the church in belfast and only began to notice in my early teens that the church maybe had an attitude towards women,” she said. “There’s a subtext in the church, a historic subtext, of think­ing about women in ways that are deeply unhealthy. one of the things that’s worth looking at … is the 1917 code of canon law. … women are actually referred to as objects of suspicion.” 
director of the center for women’s intercultural leadership (cwil) dr. elaine meyer-lee said mcaleese’s lessons that she shared are easily transferable to what it takes to lead effectively in today’s complex and interdependent world. 
“as a catholic woman who has pioneered and made a significant difference in addressing one of the more complex challenges of the contemporary world, i’d say professor mcaleese has lived our [saint mary’s] mission pretty much to a T,” meyer-lee said. “of course, one could also say she is a model of intellectual vigor, religious sensi­bility and social responsibility.” 
Contact Kelly Konya at  kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
israel and show a different side to israel, and it is very obvious that this is what the yom hashoah service is,” she said. 
revah said the celebration of yom hashoah at the grotto shares a tradition principal to the history of israel with the south bend community. 
“in israel, there are services and ceremonies throughout the day, and there is a siren that sounds throughout israel and ev­eryone stands silent for one min­ute during the siren,” revah said. “students at school, and even people in the roads and highways 
— everybody stops and will get out of cars to stand while the siren is sounding.” 
spoolstra said he hopes the ser­vice at the grotto also serves as a reminder that genocides still hap­pen in the modern world. 
“after world war ii, there were the instances in cambodia, rwanda, darfur and other coun­tries, and what isis is doing in iraq could be considered geno­cide,” he said. “it is a day to reflect on not only what happened dur­ing the holocaust but also a day to reflect on what happens when good people sit by and let evil persist.” 


Contact Jennifer Flanagan at  jflanag2@nd.edu 



inside ColuMn 


dead(lines) 
Selena  Ponio 
news writer 

i have 56 minutes left to write and submit this article. 
in hindsight, i probably should have written this a lot earlier. viewpoint is nothing at all like writing for news, where we are told to limit our use of adjectives. i love the little box i’m put in when i write news articles; i know the approximate word count i should aim for, i love knowing the topic at hand before i write it and i know i should attribute every piece of in­formation to a source. 
i miss that little box right now. 
as the minutes continue to slip by, i become increasingly more aware of my deadline, which has led me to the conclusion that a simplified description of college is just a constant bombardment of deadlines. 
when i hear 6 p.m. or 8 a.m., my pulse automatically increases as i try to remember if i have an article due and if i completed my online spanish homework. 11:59 p.m. on a Thursday night suddenly isn’t just some generic time but rather the last window of opportunity to submit my macroeconomics homework. 
i hate running, but this sure feels a lot like it. except, you know, i am not receiving any physical benefit and am probably doing the exact opposite as the pressure of dead­lines convinces me to reach for my bag of hot cheetos. so that’s good. 
with only a little over three weeks of the school year remain­ing, i am left wondering if some­how i missed a month or two. Just like i do with my random cravings for cherry garcia ice cream at 2 in the morning, i place the blame on deadlines. 
Time seems to move so much faster when you’re scared of it. This school year has consisted of ner­vous anticipation of the next dead­line and attempting to outrace it. whether that race results in victory or defeat, one has only a short time to recover before the next sprint. 
don’t get me wrong — i am by no means condemning deadlines. if one manages her time correctly, they can even serve as a form of motivation. however, living exclu­sively by deadlines and running full force with the mentality that it will all be over soon can leave one finally looking up at the end of her race wondering what she even did to get there. 
i have two minutes left to submit this piece. i think i’ll put these Thin mints away now.
      Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu

      The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The happiness dilemma 
Erin Thomassen 
The examined life 

The seagulls in “Finding nemo” cry, “mine. mine. mine.” They say this every time i watch the movie. it is a curious phenomenon. 
gollum from lord of the rings has been known to call some ring “my precious.” now, i have only seen the first 10 minutes of loTr, so my character analysis of gollum may be faulty. i will say it anyways, because i am not graded on this column. (with good reason. Full sentences. are a struggle.) 
i think gollum was corrupted because he wants to keep the power of the ring to himself. he would be happier and less hunched-over if he did not spend his whole life obsessing about keeping the ring safe. he might venture out of the cave and see some sunlight. he could certainly use the color, or at least a color other than green. 
i don’t like to think that i am like the seagulls from “Finding nemo” unless it means i can fly. i don’t like to think i’m like creepy Tolkien characters unless it means i can speak elvish. There are times when i am like both of them, though, and i can neither fly nor speak elvish. 
i am often tempted to live for myself. correction: i am always tempted to ‘live for myself.’ sometimes (many times) i give in to that temptation. 
surprising fact: when i ‘live for myself,’ when i spend all my time worrying about how to make erin happy, i am not happy at all. i wonder why this happens. oh, i know why: i cannot be happy when i am worrying about me. 
when i stop worrying about how to make myself hap­py, when i decide to be content with whatever comes my way, i am happier. when i focus on serving the needs of the external world rather than obsessing over my perceived internal needs, i realize how little i need what i thought i needed. 
instead of thinking about what i want, i realize how much i have. i am breathing. check. i am not starv­ing. check. i am wearing clothes. check. These clothes are not tattered and torn. check plus. if they are, it is because i am trying to look cool by wearing tattered denim. check minus. 
people nowadays are accused of making themselves into god and worshiping themselves. modern society is a bit of an anomaly in the fact that most people do not adhere to a religion. some sociologists claim that people worship themselves instead. They obsess over how to make their lives the best possible lives instead of wondering if god made the best of all possible worlds. They work themselves up over whether it would be better for them to go to medical school or law school (answer: probably neither). They ask themselves, and sometimes google, if they should marry when they graduate college or wait until they are older and wiser. 
but when they are older, they are not actually wiser. instead of spending their time reflecting on what it means to truly live and pursuing meaningful lives, they worried about how to get ahead and how to create for themselves the best possible life. but this did not help them be happy. 
you might be a naturally good and selfless person. you may not be like those seagulls and gollum at all. 
or you might struggle like i do. in that case, i’ll share my mantra with you: the first step towards personal happiness is caring first about other people’s happi­ness more than your own. 
Erin Thomassen is a sophomore studying mechanical engineering. Send her comments or questions about her sanity at ethomass@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
ediTorial CarToon 




leTTers To THe ediTor 

‘The Hunting Ground’ 
graduating from notre dame with a degree in film, television and theatre in 2000, i didn’t believe i would really have a chance to make it in the film industry. That was for ‘other’ people. That was for people who watched movies their whole lives, people who moved to hollywood and knew famous people. 
another notre dame graduate had scored a job working on “The sopranos.” he gave me a call — i would have taken any job, let alone one getting cof­fee for James gandolfini and edie Falco. 
working on set gave me the determination and confidence to turn it into a real career. as i worked my way up in the camera department, i can’t even tell you the things i saw. non-disclosure agreements will do that. been on every job from snl to oscar winning movies. worked with Tom cruise, nicole Kidman, david bowie, gosling, denzel, miley, JT and b. The shorter the name, the greater the power. you’ve got it made when you only need a single letter. 
i can tell you that it can be hard to stay true to your values in this business. you have to turn down jobs — commercials for fracking, low-budget horror movies, gangster rap videos and even infomercials, shudder. 
so when i showed up for work on “The hunting ground” i never imagined how much my values would come into question. The only thing i knew 
— it was a documentary fighting for social justice for rape survivors in college. one in four women are sexually assaulted at college every year, which amounts to hundreds of thousands every year. an absurdly low number of these women ever see jus­tice, and their lives are forever altered, haunted by these crimes. 
as i set up the lights and the camera for an in­terview with Jeff benedict, a reporter for sports illustrated, i didn’t know what to expect. when he described the awful travesty of Jameis winston of Florida state and the horrible rape he allegedly com­mitted, it fit in well with my worldview. i was righ­teously indignant to hear about the crimes covered up by another Florida Football Factory. i came of age during the “catholics vs. convicts” era. a botched investigation by the Florida police, a district attorney who never pressed charges and corruption at the highest levels, not a surprise. 
as story after story about assault and rape at university after university unfolded i grew more uncomfortable and angry. how could these things be happening? at the university of north carolina? dartmouth? harvard? 
when the conversation turned to notre dame a chill went up my spine. 
rape. assault. suicide. 
at notre dame? 
i didn’t know the story of lizzy seeberg. didn’t know about another reported rape by a football player. didn’t know about the delayed investigations in south bend, the weeks that went by while players walked onto the hallowed field that rockne built, accused of these heinous crimes but allowed to play, unassailed and unquestioned. weeks went by before they were even asked about the incidents by the police. 
i went home feeling conflicted. was this really the school i went to? i decided that i had to do what i could to get this film screened at notre dame. To start a dialogue on campus, to get students talking about their experiences and make sure this couldn’t happen again, especially at a place that i love. a place that i don’t want to see corrupted. 
we all know the power of documentaries now. ask sea world how much “blackfish” cut into their bot­tom line. ask robert durst about “The Jinx.” 
i hope that “The hunting ground” will sound the alarm for notre dame, and that the university can get in front of this issue and show the leadership that is so desperately needed. 
if the recent scandals in the catholic church have taught us anything, i hope they’ve taught us that you can’t run from the truth. Transparency and account­ability are more important now than ever before. 
i hope notre dame can correct this course for the future. we desperately need national leadership on this issue, and our lady is just the place to start. For all ladies. “The hunting ground” will screen on campus april 17 at 6:30 and 9:30 p.m. in the browning cinema at the debartolo performing arts center.
 Daniel Feighery 
class of 2000 april 14 

people are more than their actions 
“i hate you.” The worst thing i have ever done is say these words to my mom. i was 12, impa­tient and unsure of the power of my voice. so i tested my words on her. i abused her with them. i hurt her. 
it’s taken eight years, hard conversations and long reflections for me to realize that i couldn’t possibly comprehend the strength of my mother. i will never know the courage that it took for her to step on that plane to a new country that she had no connection to except through dreams. i will never know the difficulties she faced in trying to survive a land that treated her like an alien rather than a person. i will never under­stand how i have hurt her in my articulations, my absences and my being her daughter. 
as a part of a center for social concerns course, i had the chance to speak to Fr. Tom mcnally, a retired priest who ministers to those on death row every Thursday. he talks about the injustice of how so many in the prison are obvi­ously mentally ill and talks warmly of each of the inmates. he himself is a warm, gentle man, and you find yourself nodding as he talks about the inherent worth of each life. however, when he begins to recount the murders committed, you feel your blood curdle. when you hear how someone has murdered every single member of his family, has slain his one-and-a-half year old, you stop nodding. 
a one-and-a-half year old. 1 and a half years old. not even a child, but an infant. are you re­ally still human if you can murder your whole entire family, stopping only when the blood of a baby stains your hands? you may wash your hands clean, and you may say the moment has passed, but i am not sure if the worth of your life will ever again be worth anything. These phrases of inherent dignity and the worth of a life are such intangible, untouchable and maybe even irrelevant concepts when you first hear that a one-and-a-half year old is slain. yet, these concepts are at the heart of sr. helen prejean’s stor y. 
sr. helen, on whom “dead man walking” is based, is a nun and national advocate against the death penalty. in her recent visit to south bend, she shared her guilt in ministering to those on death row. she recounted discovering the files of two friends on death row, recounted the ugliness of their crimes consuming her. she spoke of the father of a victim, the real hero of any story she can weave about the death pen­alty, who reached out to her and to the mother of the murderer in question. Forgiveness is not an easy choice, but the enduring strength of the soul. however, returning to her subjects, sister helen emphasized that those on death row are not just ugly criminals that need forgiving. They are people, and “people are more than the worst thing they have ever done in their lives.” 
i think about the worst thing i have ever done, and of course it is not comparable to the crimes committed by those on death row. yet, how could any action ever describe or define an in­dividual? i am more than the proclamation of hate to my mother, more than the written love letters to trees, more than any ‘good’ or ‘bad’ action can depict. you are more than the worst thing you have ever done. you are also so much more than the best thing you have ever done. you are. doesn’t that extend to every single per­son — even those on death row? 
if you are interested in learning more about the death penalty, please contact the center of social concerns or the catholic worker in south bend.
               Sherry Zhong
              junior april 14 event Creation flags bring the user to a page displaying total at-





By DANIEL BARABASI and ADAM RAMOS 
scene writers swoopin’s event creation is a three-step pro-tendees and which specific friends are currently 
cess. First, you click and hold on the screen to attending. 
living on one campus with over 8,000 un-select the location of your event. This opens up nomo shines in its ability to quickly display dergraduate students, it’s almost inevitable to a menu asking for further information includ-number of attendees, but for a busy college stu­hear about exciting local events on a daily ba-ing the title, time and description. Two other dent, the app does not display enough informa­sis, whether it be talks, club meetings or parties. tags are available for a created event: “catego-tion to be effective. Furthermore, once one has perhaps the only occurrence more common ry” adds a colored label that indicates whether created an event for nomo, the event can’t be is missing said events. Fortunately, two new you’re hosting a sports, social or school-based deleted and users can only rsvp to one event a homegrown apps are beginning to change how event, and “location hint” allows for specificity time. lastly, nomo does not even have an event students approach events on campus and will for the map location, including room or apart-time capability, which makes the writers ques­hopefully bring an end to the stress involved ment number. tion how it is an event app in the first place. in planning out one’s day. both apps, swoopin nomo has a longer but more streamlined pro-swoopin’s ability to clearly display all relevant and nomo, present users with a visual repre-cess. users click a plus sign to initiate event cre-information, including the time of the event, sentation of local happenings, and they have ation, which brings up a screen where one must gives it the clear advantage in user interface. great potential for attracting a diverse user base. search for locations based on address or descrip-winner: swoopin here's an analysis of their pluses and minuses so tion, such as dorm name. This location needs you can decide for yourself their effectiveness. to be approved, to make sure it is the place you Final Thoughts 
meant, and then an “alternate name” can be en-The topics nomo focuses on have the upper network tered, paralleling the location hint in swoopin. hand in what an event app should look like. 
swoopin has amassed around 400 down-Finally, you invite friends and create the event. when i open my event app, i want to see what’s loads from 23 different schools, between both in theory, nomo’s process should be a lot going on around me, where people will be and ios and android markets. nevertheless, as they more straightforward and accessible. however, what my friends are doing. as of yet, these ideas are based out of notre dame, the south bend swoopin offers a much simpler location selec-have only been poorly integrated into nomo. area has been the main focus of downloads and tion system, and then it displays all of the five The overall interface of nomo does not offer events. swoopin has been involved in sponsor-fields necessary to create an event. also, nomo enough information about the details of avail­ing events on campus such as carroll and badin requires a minimum of five friends to start an able events — not even the time at which they hall’s lakeside festival and last weekend’s event, which makes sense marketing-wise, are taking place. nomo is an app marketed at dance-a-Thon. come finals week, swoopin will but starting an event open to the whole school those living in the now; however, with a hectic also be delivering care packages to those who should not need a critical mass to be put up. college schedules, students want to be able to post their study spots on the app. For a social swoopin still needs to develop friend integra-know what events are happening later. This re-aspect, swoopin users can comment on events, tion, but nomo’s friend function is more of a quires an rsvp function that does not only ap­thereby connecting their registered names with hassle at this point. ply for the next 24 hours, but can remind users of their interests and concerns about the events. winner: swoopin events happening days or weeks ahead. 
nomo has seen success with downloads, collecting around 720 in just one week after event interface overall Winner launching on april 8. on the date of their launch on the surface, swoopin displays all events with a clear, easy to understand interface, party, nomo was able to check in 250 people in the area, color coded by the category tag swoopin shines in its allowance to sched­using their app to display their location. nomo mentioned earlier and the number events at ule ahead and have a distinct idea of what’s to has also seen exposure through the popular each location. clicking on an event brings up a come. even better, the tap and create function blogging platform her campus. For their social short overview, including title, duration, loca-allows for a more informal yet practical feel.  you component, nomo has integrated into their app tion, host and time of creation. pulling up this may wish to simply get a few friends together the ability to invite contacts to events and pro-tab uncovers further info, allowing the user to to play pickup football in the field behind your vide a list of all published locations of registered rsvp, or “watch,” and access a comment section dorm: it tremendously easier with swoopin. contacts. on the event.  at the very bottom of the screen, a nevertheless, it still contains limitations. The 
with an impressive amount of downloads and time slide function allows users to curtail events friend function, pioneered by nomo, is neces­the integration of contacts, nomo has the leg up based on timing. sary for a social app. we would also like to see an in networking.  Though swoopin has been very upon opening the nomo app, users are greet-option to create “private” events, for planning active on campus, without the ability of con-ed with a map peppered with purple flags on of smaller get togethers where maybe the entire necting with friends it is very hard to properly the top half of the screen. below, a list of events campus is not invited. organize events.  however, because swoopin appears, clearly labeled with the amount of offers both android and ios markets, it's a very both friends and total attendees. one may also Contact Daniel Barabasi at  close call. tap the friends tab in order to see which friends dbaraba1@nd.edu and Adam Ramos at  
winner: nomo have published location, and where. Tapping a aramos6@nd.edu 
EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 




By KEELY BERGIN 
scene writer 

warning: This review contains spoilers for the “game of Thrones” season five premiere. 
one day prior to the highly anticipated season five pre­miere of hbo’s “game of Thrones,” the first five episodes were leaked online, which amounts to half of the season itself. in an unusual exercise of self-control, this writer has refrained from watching any episode beyond the premiere. 
The premiere opens with an incredible but necessary two-minute-and 13-second long recap, covering the com­plex storylines of each key figure from the previous season, which would probably take the whole of this article to de­lineate. instead, the focus will be on the themes prevalent in the episode. 
The first half of the episode focuses thematically on the isolation of several characters. darker lighting consistent­ly accentuates the idea of isolation, whether it is cersei and Jamie lannister standing around the body of their father, the perspective of Tyrion lannister within a crate as he arrives in pentos, the grey atmosphere of life at the wall, petyr baelish and sansa stark (currently known as elaine) entering self-imposed isolation or the dim lighting sur­rounding daenerys Targaryen as she is depicted within the pyramid in meereen. 
Falling outs abound, building up the sense of tension within each of the narratives. cersei and Jamie are on the outs because of his “stupidity,” from cersei’s persepec­tive. Tyrion and varys argue about their current state and the point of saving westeros. Jon snow and stannis are in 
By KELLY McGARRY 
scene writer 

here’s to the only band i’ve know to have passed out pizza in the middle of a show. The dr. dog that performed in chicago this weekend is not your neighborhood veteri­nary clinic, but rather a neo-psychedelic rock band with indie roots based in pennsylvania. The second of two shows this weekend, dr. dog’s sunday performance was moved just days before the show from its original loca­tion at The house of blues to lincoln hall, located in the stylish lincoln park area on the north side of chicago — a considerably smaller venue with a maximum capacity of about 500 people. 
i had seen this quintessential festival band perform at bonnaroo to a huge field of people with divided atten­tion, but this small concert hall provided an experience that was totally unique with an audience that came spe­cifically to see dr. dog. This enthusiastic crowd had not wandered in by a chance of fate; they were seeing this show with intention. 
an opening performance by secret colours, an conflict regarding mance raider bending the knee. The confrontation is heightened by the fact that they are physi­cally isolated from the men of the night’s watch and the Free people, standing on top of The wall. daenerys also faces opposition to her humanitarian move of shutting down “human cock-fighting.” The tension seems to rise to the point where the narratives can no longer be quite so self-contained, and so in the second half of the episode, some of the narratives begin to bleed together. 
after four seasons of following the various story lines in “game of Thrones,” there are hints that these separate webs of stories within westeros and those outside will fi­nally collide. at Tywin’s funeral, the issue of intruding re­ligions enters the capital. at The wall, the storylines of the Free people and the Knight’s watch begin to intertwine. in pentos, Tyrion agrees to go with varys in an attempt to as­sist daenerys Targaryen. with these story lines beginning to interact, there is a sense that the expansive nature of the series will become more closely tied together throughout this season. 
cersei’s disdain for her father and the entire ceremony cuts ser loras’s platitudes like a knife. For all her flaws, cersei certainly does not put up with disingenuous peo­ple. generally, she takes a glass of wine to slack her thirst as she dismisses her haters. yet, she is not able to so easily dismiss lancel, who appears as a “religious fanatic” of the light of the seven. 
meanwhile, melisandre, also known as the red woman, demonstrates religious tension at The wall. she essentially draws a line in the sand, ordering the Free people to follow stannis baratheon. The example of mance raider is used as the example of what happens to dissenters. The effect is 
innovative local band with a vibey sound, captured the early-arriving audience. during the time you might ex­pect people to be hanging around the bar or checking out merch, the area in front of the stage was as crowded as if it were the headliner. 
in such an intimate setting, the fact that dr. dog main­tained an air of mystery is quite a feat. breaks between songs were filled with an anticipating drumbeat rather than banter, not to mention the dark sunglasses worn by half of the band members. nevertheless, the relatively bright lighting allowed conversation between the band and crowd members, but in a way that was to the point. For three of their songs, they choose a particular person from the audience and played whatever song that person requested, even taking one request from the balcony. 
The band as a whole did a great job of showcasing the multiple talents of each band member. scott mcmicken and Toby leaman shared the responsibility of lead vo­cals, each leading a distinct sound. mcmicken led the entrancing, psychedelic songs while leaman led those that were heartfelt and straightforward. members also switched between bass, guitar and keyboard, which negated when Jon snow shoots an arrow through mance’s heart before mance has the chance to scream. here, Jon snow is finally seen taking action for himself, moving morally and literally onto the high ground. in this scene, there is a great deal of interacting storylines: the war for the iron Throne, represented by stannis’s presence, the threat from beyond The wall, represented by the Free people’s presence and the issue of defending The wall, represented by the location. 
perhaps the most compelling pair interacting story lines does not technically take place in this episode, but the an­ticipation of the interaction is enough. The idea of Tyrion and daenerys meeting is certainly the climax of the epi­sode. Finally, the mother of dragons may be able to take back westeros. she is “someone stronger than Tommen, but gentler than stannis. a monarch that can intimidate the high lords but inspire the people. a ruler loved by mil­lions with a powerful army and the right family name.” 
overall, the episode is incredibly engaging, and as per usual, it leaves the viewer wanting more and wondering how that could possibly have been an entire hour. The in­terconnecting story lines create a new perspective of the world in “game of Thrones,” and they are a complete a game-changer in terms of how the series has been focused thus far — particularly with the eventual interaction be­tween Tyrion and daenerys’ story lines. while this episode won’t leave you anywhere near as emotionally drained as “The red wedding,” it certainly leaves you wanting more and perhaps thinking about finding those leaked episodes somewhere. 
Contact Keely Bergin at kbergin1@nd.edu 
could be distracting if you were trying to keep track of them individually, but otherwise they pulled it off seamlessly. 
The small crowd of close friends of the band sang along to their top hits such as “lonesome” and the up­beat cover “heart it races.” The audience engaged in a particularly heartfelt rendition of “Too weak to ramble.” nevertheless, the true highlights of the show were found in lesser-known psychedelic numbers and hypnotic jam sessions. as if the encore itself weren’t enough of a sur­prise, band members emerged from backstage each with a stack of pizzas to re-energize the crowd for four final songs. 
a strong setlist included songs from eight different al­bums (i was able to snag a hand-written version after the show).  The performance ended with the catchy hit “my Friend,” followed by the sincere ballad “county line.” 
The show left nothing to be desired, except that i wasn’t called on with my song request of “The pretender.” hopefully i’ll get a chance next time. 
Contact Kelly McGarry at kmcgarry@nd.edu 
EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 



sporTs auTHoriTy 

Spieth represents new face of golf 
Brian Plamondon 
sports writer 
in may, the class of 2015 will receive their diplomas amidst a memorable graduation weekend filled with family and friends. Jordan spieth could have had that same experience if he had stayed a full four years at the university of Texas. instead, he turned pro early. and now, just a month before he would have graduated, he’s won his first major title at the masters. 
not bad. 
spieth didn’t only win the masters, he manhandled the entire field. he became the tournament’s first wire-to­wire champion in 39 years. on sunday, when every golf fan would have understood if he had cracked under the pressure, he kept his head down and nev­er gave anyone a chance. every time a challenger would close the gap, spieth would roll in a birdie putt and say, “not so fast.” 
Two months ago i wrote a piece about how rory mcilroy is the face and future of golf while Tiger woods needs to be forgotten — and i stand by that. but rory needs to watch out, because Jordan spieth is the real deal. 
his performance at augusta national was nothing short of jaw dropping. he tied Tiger’s masters scoring record and became the second youngest winner ever of the tournament. he set a masters record for most birdies. rory even said himself after the round that his score of -12 (six behind spieth’s) would win most years. sure, spieth robbed us of some sunday dra­ma, but wasn’t it pretty cool to see someone dominate the field like that? 
and the thing about spieth is he does it the right way. he’s polite and respectful but not shy about where he thinks his tal­ent and skill can take him. he carries himself around the golf course like someone 10 years his senior yet still shows that raw emotion that can energize a fan base. he embodies a true cham­pion, someone everyone can get behind. he lets his golf do the talking. 
The best part about spieth, though, is how driven he is. although he already has a fantastic skill set, spieth isn’t the most talented golfer on the course most weeks. he does, however, want it more than oth­ers. There are a lot of golfers that can only get amped up for the major tournaments, and i get it 
— playing a schedule of 25 to 30 tournaments a year, you can re­ally get burned out. For spieth, it doesn’t matter if it’s the masters or the valspar championship, he gives 110 percent week in and week out. how else can you ex­plain his last four tournaments? he’s finished first, second, tied for second and first. i can’t wait to see him when his game ma­tures and he feels more com­fortable with his shot-making capabilities on courses that will become familiar. he’s only go­ing to get better. 
whether he likes it or not, spieth’s going to become the face of american golf as Tiger vanishes further and further into oblivion. 
he has officially arrived, and now he’ll lead a host of american youngsters that need to make golf fresh again in the eyes of the american public and shepherd in the next generation. help will come from the likes of patrick reed, brooks Koepka and rickie Fowler, but it starts with spieth. making america forget about Tiger yet still care about golf is a daunting task, but a few more performances like this past week from spieth should be a wake-up call. 
even with a runaway victory, the masters saw television rat­ings jump 26 percent from last year. people want to see this kid duke it out with rory over the next decade and a half. 
if this past week was any indication, the future of golf is bright. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


sMC GolF | smc 8, adrian 1 
Saint Mary’s stands in last after first round of MIAAs 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 

with a final score of 365, saint mary’s finished fourth out of four in the first round of miaa qualifying tournament hosted by olivet, which is a three-round tourney that decides which member of the confer­ence will receive an automatic bid into the ncaa tournament. 
sophomore courtney carlson had the best score out of all belles golfers on the day, shoot­ing an 81 to take sixth place in the individual standings. Freshman Kaitlyn cartone shot a 91 to take 17th place individu­ally. Junior Katie Zielinski shot a 94 to finish in a tie for 18th place individually. Freshman Kelsey conkright shot a 99 to finish in a tie for 21st place with fellow freshman belle lydia lorenc. 
“i was very happy with the way that courtney carlson played today,” belles head coach Kim moore said. “she will be the first one to say that her ball striking wasn’t exactly the best today, but she did a great job of scrambling. her 81 was our team’s best score and was her best round of the spring, so that was a positive from today’s round. 
“one thing my team did was they hung in there and did a great job finishing. Two play­ers, Kaitlyn cartone and Katie Zielinski, both started the front nine with high scores, but played better on the back nine. There were too many big num­bers today and that is what hurt the team, but they did a great job of forgetting a bad hole and moving on. no one strung con­secutive bad holes together.” 
olivet finished in first place with a score of 323 score, hope finished in second place with a score of 325, Trine finished in third place with a score of 343. hope sophomore britni gielow was the best-performing indi­vidual of the day, shooting 76 to finish no. 1 overall. 
moore said there are several areas in which saint mary’s needs to improve in the next rounds. 
“our team needs to work on eliminating the big numbers, learning to play smart and work on some course management,” moore said. “we work on our short game at every practice, but that is something that is always in need of work and we will continue to spend time in that area. 
“also, some of the players need to work on more consis­tent ball striking. not always knowing where your ball will go can be hard on your confidence, which then starts to hurt your mental game. we need to take some time on the range this week and get some of that con­fidence back. 
“we need to keep believing in ourselves and not settling or expecting those bad holes to come. This team is much better than some of the scores we have been shooting lately and it will be my job this week to help get them to transition their efforts and progress during practice onto the course.” 
The belles will have a chance to regain some ground monday as they compete in the second round of the miaa conference golf course at ravines golf club in saugatuck, michigan. The third round of the miaa Tournament will take place april 25, and it will be then when the belles find out if they will represent the conference in the ncaa tournament or not. 
Contact Michael Ivey at mivey@hcc-nd.edu 

MlB | dodgers 6, mariners 5 
mariners miss out on win despite two homers 
Associated Press 

los angeles — alex guerrero hit a bases-loaded single with two outs in the bot­tom of the 10th inning, and the los angeles dodgers overcame a four-run deficit for a 6-5 vic­tory over the seattle mariners on monday night. 
nelson cruz hit two of the mariners’ four home runs off brandon mccarthy. yasiel puig homered and howie Kendrick had a tying rbi single in the fifth for los angeles. 
dominic leone (0-1), work­ing his third inning of relief, gave up double to andre ethier leading off the 10th before re­tiring puig on a comebacker. after adrian gonzalez was walked intentionally and howie Kendrick also walked to load the bases, Tyler olsons relieved. 
he struck out carl crawford for the second out, but guerrero lined a 2-2 pitch to right-center to end seattle’s third straight extra-inning game. 

yimi garcia (1-0) pitched a perfect inning to get his first major league victory. 
dustin ackley and Kyle seager also connected off mccarthy, who gave up five runs and six hits in seven in­nings. he struck out 10 without walking a batter. 
The only other time mccarthy gave up four hom­ers in a game was in his second major league start on may 27, 2005, with the chicago white sox at the Texas rangers. 
according to baseball­reference.com, mccarthy was the 11th pitcher since 1914 with to give up as many as four hom­ers and strike out at least 10 batters — and the first since milwaukee’s mike Fiers on sept. 30, 2012 against houston. 
seattle lefty James paxton gave up five runs and six hits over 6 1-3 innings and struck out six. 
The dodgers didn’t get their first hit until puig’s leadoff single in the fourth triggered a three-run rally that sliced seattle’s lead to 4-3. guerrero hit a bases-loaded sacrifice fly and fellow rookie Joc pederson followed with a two-run single, after scott van slyke alertly tagged up at first and made it to second on guerrero’s fly with no one covering the bag. 
ackley got one of the runs back in the fifth with a two-out homer, which turned out to be the mariners’ final hit. 
cruz, whose nine interleague homers last season led the ma­jors, staked paxton to a 2-0 lead before he threw his first pitch. 
it was the 200th career hom­er for cruz, who barely cleared the fence in right-center with one out in the fourth. The next batter was seager, whose hom­er increased seattle’s lead to 4-0. seventeen of seattle’s first 25 runs this season have come on home runs. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


ndsmcobserver.com | Wednesday, april 15, 2015 | The observer 
nd WoMen’s Tennis 

Miller shines on court for Notre Dame 

in addition to playing singles, miller has also participated in doubles play with junior Julie vrabel. she and vrabel have com­piled a record of 10-7 this season at no. 2 doubles. miller said she has really enjoyed playing with vrabel and she believes the two of them are a good fit as partners. 
“Julie and i are a great combi­nation,” miller said. “i’m really lucky to get to play with her. we get along really well on the court. she’s more serious, and i’m more silly, so i think [louderback] was really smart to have her keep me in check out there. also, she has a fantastic backhand, and i prefer my fore­hand, so our games complement each other well too.” 
now, as the end of the regular season approaches, miller and the rest of the irish are preparing for the postseason. miller said she 
sMC Tennis 
believes the team is poised for a strong playoff run. 
“i think we can have a great postseason this year,” miller said. “last year, the team made it to the round of 16 at the ncaa champi­onships and it would be great to see that happen again.” 
Furthermore, miller said that she is very excited for the future of the team and her next three years as a member of it. 
“next year looks really bright for us,” miller said. “we are going to return all of our starters and we will also have [freshman] brooke broda back, who’s a real winner. she’s been hurt this year. our team really loves tennis, and we have the passion to make some great things happen.” 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 
By BEN PADANILAM 
sports writer 
Few athletes are able to join a program as a freshman and have an instant impact on the court. however, freshman allison miller has been a significant part of the success the irish have had this year. 
during her high school career at rivers academy in alpharetta, georgia, miller was a four-time usTa national open champion. ranked as a five-star recruit com­ing out of high school last year, she drew interest from several schools. in the end, however, miller said choosing notre dame was an easy decision and her reasons still hold true to her experience as a mem­ber of the team today. 
“The girls on the team here are really special,” miller said. “everyone just tries to get along. They’re really, really good girls, and there’s just no extra drama that i have to deal with, which is perfect. i also have a lot of respect for [irish head coach Jay louderback], and the academics around here are unbelievable, too.” 


upon joining the team, miller said she was able to make the tran­sition from high school to college tennis fairly smoothly. she said her ability gave her the confidence to be able to step up immediately. 
“i’d say the easiest part about the transition was that i already had enough skill to play,” miller said. “i didn’t feel like the level was over my head when i got here, which was nice. i could just come in and compete right away.” 
even still, miller said the tran­sition has not been without its hurdles. one aspect of college ten­nis that challenged her was hav­ing others determine her training schedule, miller said. 
“The toughest part has been adjusting to the different routine,” miller said. “i had a lot of autonomy in high school over my own train­ing, so it’s been different for me to be a part of a large group. but i try to practice on my own, too, when i can.” 
since the start of the season, miller has made an instant impact on the court.  playing mostly at no. 5 singles, she has compiled a re­cord of 14-6 for the irish, including a record of 9-3 in conference play. despite her success, miller said she has just been happy to have the op­portunity to play this year. 
“playing so many matches has been great,” miller said. “i love playing, and so i’m really thankful i’ve been healthy and been in all the matches.” 


belles beat adrian 
Observer Staff Report 
saint mary’s took the court Tuesday night in a conference matchup against adrian, earning its 10th win of the season by a score of 8-1. 
The belles (10-8, 4-2 miaa) dropped just one singles match to the bulldogs (9-7, 2-3 miaa) en route to the victory. in just over two hours, the belles were able to quickly defeat the bulldogs for their fourth conference win. 
doubles play continued to be a point of strength for the belles, as all three pairs won their matches. senior captain Kayle sexton and sophomore sam setterblad earned the first victory of the day at no. 1 doubles by a score of 8-2. Fellow senior captain shannon elliott and junior andrea Fetters won their no. 2 doubles match, 8-3. Finishing the day for the belles at no. 3 doubles were junior margaret Faller and freshman maddie minaudo, who outlasted bulldogs junior Justine hanson and sophomore victoria watson by a score of 8-3. 
The belles showed strength in singles against adrian after senior captain Jackie Kjolhede recorded the lone singles victory against calvin on saturday. Fetters, sexton, elliott and Faller joined Kjolhede in the singles win column in Tuesday’s match, adding to their victories in doubles. Fetters, at no. 1 singles, earned an easy 6-1, 6-1 victory, followed by sexton’s 6-0, 6-0 sweep at no. 2. Kjolhede won her no. 3 singles match 6-0, 6-3, followed by elliott’s 6-3, 6-1 victory in the no. 4 slot and Faller’s 6-1, 6-0 no. 5 singles victory. The only dropped match on the day came at no. 6 singles, in which freshman bailey oppman could not catch up to adrian freshman mcKenzie Krieg, dropping the match 6-2, 6-2. 
The belles are keeping their postseason hopes alive as they maintained their no. 4 position in the miaa. only the top four teams at the end of the regular season ad­vance to postseason play. 
saint mary’s will return to action saturday against struggling albion (3-6, 1-3 miaa). albion will take on adrian on Friday before facing off against the belles on saturday. The britons are currently place second-to-last in miaa standings, with their only conference victory coming against last-place olivet in a close 5-4 decision. The belles handled the comets earlier in the season, 8-1. 
saint mary’s will travel to albion, michigan, this saturday to take on the britons in one of i final con­ference matchups of the season. matches are set to begin at 1 p.m 


Men’s Tennis 

monaghan works to carry irish to playoffs 

paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT 
By DOMINIC BUSH 
sports writer 
at 6-foot, 142 lbs., junior Quentin monaghan may not be the most recognizable athletic force as he walks through north Quad on the way back to his dorm after classes. but with a 28-5 singles record and a current no. 9 national ranking, monaghan is deserving of the same kind of praise and recogni­tion reserved for the likes of grant and connaughton. 
For the chatham, new Jersey, native, it all began when he was three, he said. monaghan, whose father played tennis at Trinity university in Texas, took to the game instantly after watching his older brother play. by age 10 or so, it was apparent that Quentin, too, would play collegiate tennis. 
during his teenage years, monaghan consistently found himself ranked nationally for his age group. he reached no. 25 on the u.s. u18 list, which garnered the attention of numerous col­lege coaches. one such coach was irish head coach ryan sachire. The former irish tennis standout knew the addition of monaghan to the team would go a long way for a program on the rise. monaghan credits sachire as one of the primary reasons he chose 
softball 
conTinued From page 16 
for the second run of the inning. Junior casey africano drove in a pair of runs with a single, giving the irish a six-run advantage heading into the fourth. 
bowling green plated two runs in the fourth, bringing the contest within four, but it failed to scratch across another in the final two innings 
irish junior pitcher allie rhodes earned the victory on the evening, her 13th of the season. while both Falcons runs came with rhodes on the mound, neither were earned, giving rhodes a fi­nal stat line of four innings pitched, three hits surren­dered, five strikeouts and no walks. 
leading 6-2, the irish add­ed a pair of insurance runs in the bottom of the sixth, with senior outfielder emilee Koerner knocking a base hit up the middle to plate a pair notre dame. 
“[i] can’t say enough about how important sach’s presence was,” monaghan said. “i can’t say enough how grateful i am to have him in my corner. he cares so much about me and this program, it will be tough to leave.” 
The highest-ranked recruit of the 2016 class came to south bend with high expectations and an even greater desire to exceed those expectations. monaghan went 18-4 in singles matches that first spring and was named big east Freshman of the year. 
monaghan built on his first-year success during his sopho­more campaign. he posted a 13-8 singles record and was named third-team all-acc. however, it was what he did in the postsea­son that added him to irish tennis lore. in the ncaa tournament, sachire turned to monaghan for the decisive match in the round of 32. his 4-6, 6-4, 6-4 win over his ole miss counterpart sent the irish to the sweet 16 and erased the sting of losing in the ncaas the previous year. 
For monaghan, this remains the highlight of his notre dame career. he called the trip to the sweet 16 “a huge stepping stone for notre dame tennis.” 
all of this had led to the monster 
of irish base runners. 
Koerner and sophomore outfielder Karley wester led the way for the irish at the plate, both notching two hits on the evening. 
Freshman Katie beriont earned her first save of the season, pitching three in­nings in relief for notre dame. beriont gave up no runs or walks and yield­ed just a trio of hits to the Falcons. 
The victory marks the fourth time the irish have won 19 straight games, with notre dame squads reaching that total in 1996, 1999 and 2005. 
The program’s longest winning streak remains the 2001 team’s 33 straight victories. 
notre dame will host northwestern on wednesday and then will take on acc opponent syracuse in a three-game home series over the weekend. 
The first pitch wednesday is scheduled for 6 p.m. at melissa cook stadium. 
season monaghan is enjoying now. in addition to his notewor­thy overall record, monaghan is 14-3 against nationally ranked players. perhaps most impressive is his current streak of 11 consec­utive singles victories. he said he doesn’t like to focus on individual stats or accolades, though. 
“it’s far more important to keep working hard and sticking to what has made you successful than to sit back and worry about rankings or win streaks,” monaghan said. 
with the acc tournament and ncaas right around the corner, monaghan will need to heed his own advice. notre dame is cur­rently ranked no. 37, and a strong showing in the conference tour­ney will go a long way in seeding for the ncaa tournament, a task monaghan was confident the team could accomplish. 
“i think the expectations are to win the acc tournament and make a deep run to the Final Four in the ncaa tournament,” monaghan said. 
The irish have two more regular season matches beforemonaghan leads them into the playoffs, the first of which takes place Friday against wake Forest. 
Contact Dominic Bush at  dbush@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 



doss 
conTinued From page 16 
mom for [taking me to play in the sunday league] be­cause, even though i hated it at the time, lacrosse has become such a huge part of my life, and that’s mostly because of her,” doss said. “she also encouraged me to try out goalie and con­vinced me that i could be good at it, and that also was a huge turning point for me early on.” 
doss went on to become one of the best players in new Jersey as he took his talents over to glen ridge high school. as a sopho­more and junior, doss at­tended the nike blue chip camp, which allowed him to showcase his skills in front of several division i programs. in 2011, he helped lead glen ridge to a state championship. along with the state title, doss earned all-america hon­ors as a senior from u.s. lacrosse, earned team mvp and defensive mvp dur­ing his senior year and was rated the nation’s 10th-best goalie by inside lacrosse. 
after receiving several offers as a senior, doss weighed his options, know­ing notre dame was in the lead. 
“i wanted to attend the best possible school that la­crosse gave me the oppor­tunity to do, so notre dame was an easy choice,” doss said. “The alumni network is so huge and really gives you a lot of options, no mat­ter what you want to end up doing in life.” 
he carried over the suc­cess he had in high school over to notre dame with ease. in his first season, notre dame made it to the national championship. For doss, it was something he had always dreamed to be a part of. 
“making it to the Final Four last year is definitely going to be a memory i’ll keep forever,” doss said. “i used to go to every Final Four growing up with my family so being able to run out on the field last sea­son was pretty surreal, along with having all of my family and friends there watching.” 
while the end of that ex­perience failed to go his way, doss understands that this season is a chance to return to that moment and claim the national cham­pionship. This season, doss has faced some of the toughest competition in the country. 
his first test was against denver early in the season when the pioneers were ranked no. 4. although the irish fell 11-10 in overtime, doss took the experience as a learning moment and made the necessary adjust­ments to improve in the cage. From that point on, 


Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmcobserver 

doss has led notre dame to three wins over top-10 opponents. 
The irish defeated no. 8 virginia, 11-9, on march 14, no. 6 duke, 15-10, on april 4 and, in the most exciting win of the season, a 13-12 double-overtime victory over then-no. 1 syracuse on march 28. along the way, doss earned acc defensive player of the week twice. 
There isn’t anything spe­cial doss does to prepare for his games, he said — just whatever keeps him fo­cused. whether that means listening to music through­out the day or hanging out in the locker room, doss stays calm before warming up for a game. and up to this point, it’s been work­ing out pretty well for him. 
with one game left in the regular season against no. 2 north carolina, top-ranked notre dame’s mission is going to be challenged in the acc and ncaa tour­naments. doss knows the irish have a target on their backs, but it doesn’t bother him, he said. he just has one goal in mind heading into the postseason. 
“i came here to win our first national champion­ship,” doss said. “and i want to contribute in whatever way possible to make that a reality for my teammates.” 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 





Baseball 
conTinued From page 16 
at us, which i think every­body is trying to do as they look at our numbers,” aoki said. “we haven’t hit lefties as well as we have hit right­ies throughout the course of the year. i think they are trying to find lefties and scrap heaps around the country and throw them at us.” 
The nonconference games are just as important to the season, aoki said, because with little hopes of catch­ing louisville in the acc, notre dame will need all the wins it can get. 
“i think it’s important to play at a high level,” aoki said. “... The ncaa tour­nament, unless you win the acc championship, to a certain extent that’s be­yond our control. we can influence it by our play on the field. we just try to play as well as we can and worry about the things we can control and get up the next day and do it all over again.” 
against Toledo, notre dame will look to continue its roll, aoki said. 
“... whoever it happens to be, we’re not trying to com­pete against the opponent; we’re trying to compete to be as good as we can be,” aoki said. 
The irish will take on Toledo on wednesday, with first pitch slated for 6:05 
p.m. at Frank eck stadium. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com | Wednesday, april 15, 2015 | The observer 

CrossWord | will shorTZ 


HiGHly punlikely | chrisTopher brucKer 

doMe nuTs | alexandria wellman 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
sudoku | The mepham group 

HorosCope | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: put your dreams first and your path to success will open. it’s important not to neglect the ones you love or avoid your professional responsibilities. incorporating greater organization into your routine and including the ones you love in your plans will help you reach your destination with ease, and you’ll have time left over for personal improvements. your numbers are 4, 10, 16, 24, 26, 32, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): someone who is jealous or ruthless will try to outsmart you. don’t be a follower -- it’s up to you to size up situations and find solutions. Trust your judgment and get things done. your take-charge attitude will win points. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): you’ll receive mixed messages. don’t get involved in a debate or a physical confrontation if you aren’t prepared to finish what you start. a loss of respect will result if a personal secret is revealed. protect your reputation and your position. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t limit the possibilities because you don’t want to express your true feelings. say whatever is on your mind and offer suggestions that can help turn your ideas into a reality. believe in yourself, project your style with confidence and forge ahead. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t feel the need to donate or help others when it’s your own wellness that should concern you. be smart and make a point to eliminate unhealthy habits. get informed and strive to make positive lifestyle changes. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t get angry or flustered -- get moving. make changes to your surroundings or search for information that will contribute to your advancement. you can win favors and points if you make good use of your talents. romance will lead to good fortune. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): stay on top of rates, loans and changing economic issues that can affect your personal financial situation. be proactive and ferret out information that can help you make wise decisions regarding your professional direction. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): check out any investment that promises to help you improve personally, professionally or financially. working alongside someone you feel close to will help you bring about the changes you want to see happen. embark on a new beginning. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): stay in sync with your creative ideas and don’t let what others are doing sidetrack you. your imagination will not let you down. emotional matters can lead to financial loss or poor choices. don’t make a financial commitment you cannot afford. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): listen carefully when it comes to emotional matters. someone will offer important information that could alter a decision you have to make. concentrate on the changes you want to make at home. working alone will bring the best results. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you can help your community, but don’t let anyone take advantage of you or prompt you to donate too much. put time and effort into your home and personal surroundings. don’t let a love interest cost you. be discreet. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): if you take part in industry events or networking with people you have worked with in the past, an opportunity will present itself. romance is in the stars, and letting someone special know how you feel will enhance your personal life. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): don’t be fooled by others. Take care of matters personally and you won’t have regrets later on. a slower pace will give you a chance to consider other options. Keep your personal and professional lives separate. expect emotional interference. 

Birthday Baby: you are objective, compassionate and understanding. you have integrity and depth. don’t settle for anything less than your best today, be bold and you will succeed. 
JuMBle | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


Men’s laCrosse 

Doss coming into his own as goalie for Irish 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
in glen ridge, new Jersey, about 40 minutes away from manhattan, shane doss grew up figuring out whether lacrosse was, in the long run, worth the effort and time he had spent on it. There’s no doubt in doss’s mind now that being dragged to his sunday league games by his mom as a seven-year-old boy was worth his time. 
doss, a sophomore, is the starting goalie for the irish, who are 8-1 this season and 3-0 in the acc. no. 1 notre dame is looking to return to the ncaa championship where they were a cou­ple goals shy of winning their first title last season. coming into this year, doss wasn’t sure if he was going to start at goalie given com­petition from conor Kelly, the senior goalie who car­ried the team’s defense to the title game last year, and freshman owen molloy, the third-best goalie in his re­cruiting class. 
last season, doss played a key role in notre dame’s championship run despite being a backup. he played nine games, garnering a 5-3 record and allowing an aver­age of 8.53 goals per game. This season, doss has played like an elite goalie. he ranks no. 25 in the nation in saves per game, averaging 10.11 while helping notre dame’s defense reach no. 12 in the nation in goals allowed per game with 8.22. he’s come onto the scene almost out of nowhere, giving notre dame another chance to legiti­mately contend for their first national championship. 
as a kid, however, doss wasn’t very fond of the idea of having to play lacrosse. in fact, he said he used to hate it. 
“i am so thankful to my 
see doss paGe 14 


EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 

Sophomore goalkeeper Shane Doss celebrates during a scrimmage against Air Force on Jan. 31 at Loftus Sports Center. Doss leads the team with 91 saves this season and has a 7-1 record. 
BaseBall 

Notre Dame preps to face Toledo 
By ISAAC LORTON 
senior sports writer 
after a weekend sweep over no. 7 Florida state, the message remains the same for the irish heading into wednesday night’s non-conference matchup against Toledo. 
“i think it’s one of those things naturally that as a coach you’re worried about that it’s going to be sort of a let-down game,” irish head coach mik aoki said. “i trust this group. we’re go­ing to talk to them about it. we talked to them a little bit about it [Tuesday] and we’ll talk a little bit about it to­morrow, but i feel good that this group is going to answer the bell. They’ve done noth­ing but answer the bell all year long.” 
notre dame (24-10, 9-9 acc) is getting more at­tention in the acc, shoot­ing up into a three-way tie for third, but aoki said the team needs to keep continu­ing with taking their season “pitch by pitch,” as they did after being swept by now-no. 5 louisville and now-no. 23 virginia. 
“i think the big message is just the same as it was on the heels of those losses against virginia and louisville that those didn’t fundamentally change anything about our team,” aoki said. “now that we’ve experienced wins against pitt and Florida state, that doesn’t funda­mentally change who and what we are. we still have a road map to have success and we need to continue to follow that road map. Just because people are talking about us a little bit doesn’t change anything that.” 
The irish will take on a Toledo (12-23) team com­ing off of 3-0 loss to dayton on Tuesday and a series win over western michigan over the weekend. The rockets almost stole one from notre dame last season. The irish needed a late two-run ral­ly to beat Toledo 4-3 in the ninth. 
“i think they are always well-coached, [rockets head coach] cory [mee] does a good job with those guys,” aoki said. 
The irish expect Toledo to bring out a left-handed starter, aoki said, as the irish have hit slightly worse against lefties on the sea­son, going 10-5 against them compared to 14-5 against righties. 
“They’re throwing a lefty 
see baseball paGe 14 


MARY McGRAW | The Observer 

Senior right-hander Scott Kerrigan throws a pitch in a 4-2 loss to  Virginia on March 28 at Frank Eck Stadium. 
nd soFTBall 
nd tops bowling green 
Observer Staff Report 
no. 25 notre dame topped bowling green, 8-2, Tuesday evening at melissa cook stadium, extending its win streak to 19, the program’s longest string of success since the 2005 season. 
The irish (33-11, 13-5 acc) outhit bowling green (13-20, 4-6 mac) 9-6 and jumped out to an early 2-0 lead in the bottom half of the first. 
irish junior all-american infielder micaela arizmendi drove in the first run for the irish with an rbi fielder’s choice, which was followed up by an rbi sacrifice fly from senior catcher cassidy whidden. 
The irish rallied for four runs in the bottom of the third, with freshman in­fielder morgan reed driving in the first run of the inning on an rbi base hit. 
in the next at-bat, arizmendi scored from third on a wild pitch, accounting for the second run of 
see soFTball paGe 12 




