tHe IndePendent to unCoVer neWsPaPer serVInG tHe trutH notre daMe and and rePort saInt MarY’s It aCCuratelY 

VoluMe 48, Issue 111 | MONDAY, MARCH 30, 2015 | ndsMCobserVer.CoM 
Prayer service rallies students 
Student government hosts prayer service for sexual assault victims 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
news editor 
“‘Welcome home.’ You all remember that on your ac­ceptawnce letter. We push the home-mindset hard: ‘Home under the dome,’ ‘domesick.’ but when we receive emails like the one we received on tuesday, I struggle to call notre dame my home,” senior Michael nolan said to about 50 students, faculty and staff gathered at the Grotto on Friday afternoon. 
last tuesday, the university community received its fourth sexual assault-relat­ed crime report email from notre dame security Police (ndsP) this academic year. the assault took place in the early hours of March 20 in a 
see assault PAGE 5 



SMC Dance Marathon raises over $90,000 
By KATE KULWICKI 
news Writer 
saturday, saint Mary’s students laced up their dancing shoes in support of the College’s 10th annual dance Marathon and raised a total of $90,322.94. 

the 12-hour marathon benefitted riley Hospital for Children, a Children’s Miracle network hospital in Indianapolis, and this year’s theme was superheroes, se­nior nora Clougherty, 
see MaratHon PAGE 5 




keynote shares genocide work 
By CLARE KOSSLER 
news Writer 
students and faculty who attended this year’s notre dame student Peace Conference, an annual, student-run event, gath­ered Friday in the Hesburgh Center auditorium to hear the keynote address from Gillian kitley, the se­nior officer in the united nations (un) office on Genocide Prevention and the responsibility to Protect. 
kitley said despite receiv­ing increased support from the international commu­nity in recent years, the un still faces considerable challenges in attempting to prevent and prosecute genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. 
“Why is it that we still face so many situations where so many people’s lives are put at risk?” she asked the audience. “Why suffering for so many pop­ulations around the world? and what more can we do now to improve the situ­ation, to improve the in­ternational community’s ability and will to respond more quickly and more ef­fectively when we see the risks?” 

kitley said she first became interested in these questions during her early years growing up in the african Great lakes region, which in­cludes burundi, democratic republic of Congo, kenya, rwanda, tanzania and uganda. the region has a long history of violent con­flict, she said. 
since joining the un in 1993, kitley said she has wit­nessed significant changes in the field of peacekeeping and conflict resolution, in­cluding the creation of her current office in 2004. kofi annan created the office 
is there still so much see keYnote PAGE 5 

students react to loss 
By SELENA PONIO 
news Writer 
this past saturday, notre dame men’s basketball fans traveled to Cleveland and left disappointed as the no. 3 seed Irish lost against top-seeded, undefeated kentucky. kentucky eked out a victory at the last minute with a final score of 68-66. 
sophomore kaitlin Farren was at the game in Quicken loans arena and said even though the Irish suffered a loss, she thought it was the best bas­ketball game she had ever seen. 
“It was such a fun atmo­sphere, so though I did feel dis­appointed, I was more so proud of our team for accomplishing all they did this year,” Farren said. “Honestly, I think this was, and will be, the best game of the tournament.” 
Farren said notre dame fans were on edges of their seat throughout the entire game. Head coach Mike brey and the notre dame players seemed confident while kentucky head coach John Calipari and kentucky players seemed ner­vous, she said. 
“the nd fans fed off of that nervousness,” Farren said. “It was so much fun that nd, a team that so many people re­fuse to believe has talent, could freak kentucky out so much.” 
Junior kelsey sullivan also attended the game and said al­though she was disappointed by the loss, at the end of the game she still felt nothing but pride for the Irish. 
“at the end of the day they made it to the elite eight for the first time since 1979, so they should be nothing but proud,” sullivan said. “From not even making the tournament last year to losing by one shot to an undefeated kentucky team in the elite eight this year, they’ve had an awesome season.” 
both sullivan and Farren said senior forward Pat Connaughton’s thunderous 
see loss PAGE 4 





ndsmcobserver.com 

P.o. box 779, notre dame, In 46556 024 south dining Hall, notre dame, In 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Greg Hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                Jack rooney                            alex Jirschele 

Asst. Managing Editor: Mary Green Asst. Managing Editor: lesley stevenson Asst. Managing Editor: Wei lin 
News Editor: Margaret Hynds Viewpoint Editor: tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 
Scene Editor: erin Mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: Haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: brian lach Online Editor: Michael Yu Advertising Manager: elaine Yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine Park Controller: Cristina Gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu lsteven1@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

the observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint Mary’s College.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. the observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
the news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-Chief, Managing editor, assistant 
Managing editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of the observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief  Greg Hadley. 

Post office Information the observer (usPs 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. the observer is published at: 024 south dining Hall notre dame, In 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices PostMaster send address corrections to: the observer P.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, In 46556-077 the observer is a member of the associated Press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
How are your brackets standing? 

Kyle Mulholland 
senior 
off-Campus 

“Have Msu in Final Four — Hail Hydra!” 
Carolyn Ebner 
freshman 
lyons Hall 

“that’s a very good question ... ” 
Kevin Frost 
junior 
o’neill Hall 

“Had six out of eight teams in the elite eight, and they’re not in it anymore. :(” 
Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Maggie McInerney 
junior 
McGlinn Hall 
“I’m currently in the middle of all three of my pools. I will be dropping to last in all three soon.” 
Matthew Williams 
junior 
keenan Hall 
“I don’t want to talk about it.” 
Travis Gayle 
freshman 
keenan Hall 
“Had seven out of eight teams in elite eight. notre dame lost. I’m sad.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Haleigh ehmsen renee Griffin Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

andrea Vale rachel o’Grady Gabriela Malespin Megan Valley 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
keri o’Mara Jimmy kemper 
Photo Viewpoint 

“Presenting your “Islam and the MFA Student “Behind the Beautiful “Prayer from Around 
emmet Farnan tabitha ricketts 
Research” Building of America” Reading Forevers” the World” 
Brownson Hall Hesburgh Center Hammes Bookstore Debartolo Performing Coleman-Morse 4 p.m- 5 p.m. 4 p.m.- 5:30 p.m. 7:30 p.m.- 8:30 p.m. Arts Center Center 
Corrections 

Undergraduate Lecture by Amir Reading sponsored by 7 p.m.- 9:15 p.m. 7 p.m.- 8:30 p.m. 
the observer regards itself as workshop. Hussain. English Department. National Theatre Live. Jewish Seder meal. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Last Lecture Series Last Lecture Series Softball Mindful Meditation Stations of the Cross 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
Washinton Hall Washinton Hall Melissa Cook Stadium Coleman-Morse Bassilica of the 
however, recognize that we will make 
7 p.m- 8 p.m. 7 p.m- 8 p.m. 4 p.m- 6 p.m. Center Sacred Heart 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
Lecture by Maria Lecture by Mike The Irish take on 5:15 p.m- 6:15 p.m. 7:15 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
McKenna. Seelinger. Eastern Michigan. Weekly Meditation. In honor of Good 
we can correct our error. 
Friday. 


ndsMCobserVer.CoM | MONDAY, MARCH 30, 2015 | tHe obserVer 

saint Mary’s student examines ethical examples 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
news Writer 
In the latest installment of saint Mary’s “Justice Friday” series, senior accounting ma­jor taylor etzell gave a pre­sentation on ethical business practices. 
etzell said ethics is involved in any situation in which there is actual or potential harm to another party, and ethical de­cision-making is what comes into play when you attempt to resolve those actual or poten­tial conflicts. 
“You can relate ethics to any­thing in your life, not just busi­ness decisions,” etzell said. “I think it’s important to imple­ment an ethical framework into your daily lives so that you can always recognize those ac­tual or potential conflicts and then be able to immediately, without second guessing your first judgment, make a deci­sion for that situation.” 
Chesley sullenberger, the pilot of the plane that crash-landed in the Hudson river in 2009, is a real-life example of someone who implements a good ethical framework, etzell said. 
“the pilot had a matter of moments to decide what he was going to do and why he was going to do it,” she said. “He is a person who had a pre­established ethical framework … and he made the decision to land the plane on the river. He didn’t know what the out­comes would be, but he also knew that by doing that he was going to harm fewer people. It definitely would have been a different situation had he not been pre-accustomed to mak­ing those decisions in a split second.” 
etzell said another good example of a company with an ethical framework is the Johnson & Johnson case from 1982. 
“tylenol capsules were poi­soned with cyanide,” she said. “once people started to realize that there was a tie between the tylenol capsules that had been taken and the fatalities that had occurred, tylenol execs decided to pull off all the tylenol bottles across the nation. 
“It was all in a concen­trated area around Chicago. 

PaId adVertIseMent 

they couldn’t prove it was in California, but that didn’t mat­ter. they decided to stop all production, they sent out all of their employees to take off all the bottles from the shelves so that no more fatalities would occur based on these capsules. this lost millions of dollars.” 
etzell said Vice President of external affairs bob kiffin immediately recalled all the bottles and sent out his em­ployees despite the large loss of revenue. because of kiffin’s 
“You can relate ethics to anything in your life, not just business decisions.” 
Taylor Etzell 
senior 
ethical framework, she said, he was able to recognize the mon­etary loss was less important than the many lives that could potentially have been harmed had they left the bottles on the shelves. 
“He didn’t even refer to [the company’s] code of ethics. He just automatically sent people out. … every employee didn’t second guess it. they under­stood why.” 
etzell then gave tips for how everyone can implement an ethical framework into their daily lives. 
“the first thing you need to do is to gather all of the facts,” she said. “You need to under­stand the issues and identify the aspects that within your control. … You have to under­stand the whole issue.” 
“Gathering all of the facts is very important because then you can substantiate your de­cision. You have to tell people why you came to that conclu­sion and how you got there. 
“Converse with yourself. If you converse with yourself, then you’ll be able to reflect on all those facts you gath­ered, and you’ll be able to un­derstand why you made that decision.” 
“the third [step] is to reflect on that decision,” etzell said. “does this decision that you made make you embarrassed? If the answer is yes, it was probably not the right decision for that instance.” 
etzell said having an ethical framework is important to be a valued decision-maker and lifelong learner. she said being conscious of ethics will make people self-aware, which will help them to find their right place when it comes to em­ployment or service. 
Contact Nicole Caratas at  ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 

bookstore basketball raises funds 

By JP GSCHWIND 
news Writer 

one of notre dame’s most storied traditions, bookstore basketball, began last week­end March 21. 
the world’s largest out­door five-on-five basket­ball tournament has been played every year since 1972, and this year’s bookstore basketball co-commisioner Patrick butler said he hopes to continue its legacy with this year’s tournament and a field of roughly 620 teams. 
the tournament raises money for a charity called Jumpball, butler said. 
“Jumpball is a non-profit run by notre dame alumni in kingston, Jamaica, and it helps encourage basket­ball skills in young children who don’t really have much and lack any athletic outlets. this is their only introduc­tion to basketball and coach­es,” butler said. 
according to butler, Jumpball has also expanded to Haiti after successfully running clinics in Jamaica since 1995. However, butler said many people are unaware of bookstore basketball’s charitable purpose. 
“a lot of people think it’s just time to have fun and play basketball with your friends, which is exactly what we want people to do, but your donations are going to Haiti, to kingston and we’ve really tried to publicize that this year,” butler said 
butler said many promi­nent members of the notre dame community have played in the tournament, including Joe Montana, lou Holtz and university President emeritus Fr. edward “Monk” Malloy, who played on a team named “all the President’s Men.” However, butler said bookstore basketball re­mains an excellent oppor­tunity for everyone to get involved in the notre dame community. 
“the tournament is for ev­erybody. It’s not just for var­sity athletes or people who play at rolfs all the time,” butler said. 
bookstore basketball be­gan as part of antostal, notre dame’s weeklong festival held every spring, butler said. It used to be played on the roof of the old bookstore which was located near stepan Center, butler said. It grew from its origins to include around 700 teams at its zenith and gained the attention of media out­lets and people outside of campus. 
butler said examples of the tournament’s prominence include a book devoted to its history, “look out for the Manhole Cover,” and fre­quent coverage from nation­ally-syndicated sports writer rick reilly. 
butler said a variety of students work as volun­teers to support bookstore basketball, including com­missioners who score games and members of the execu­tive board who oversee the rules and regulations of the tournament. 
butler said he encour­ages students of any class year to apply so the tour­nament is not run only by upperclassmen. 
Contact JP Gschwind at  jgschwin@nd.edu 



tHe obserVer | MONDAY, MARCH 30, 2015 | ndsMCobserVer.CoM 
Lecture highlights impact investing 
By JEREMY CAPPELLOLEE 
news Writer 
In the fourth lecture in the ten Years Hence series, tara kenney, managing director at deutsche asset & Wealth Management, spoke Friday on the significance of impact in­vesting in emerging markets. 
“Impact investing is a con­cept that has gained a lot of traction in our market today,” kenney said. “there is a way forward in terms of promoting inclusion for the masses in our society today.” 
While 2 billion people live in poverty and lack access to basic financial services, technologi­cal improvements have the po­tential to deliver these services to the impoverished, kenney said. 
“For the first time in history, major developments make it realistic to imagine a world where we can change this,” kenney said. “technology, es­pecially digital and mobile communications, big data and micro-finance make a vision of a financially inclusive world a possibility.” 
kenney, who also serves as a board member for accion International, a nonprofit orga­nization that supports micro-finance institutions, said the company is setting the example in the field of impact investing. 
“We’ve tried to build the next frontier of financial institu­tions,” kenney said. “We’ve pushed them to think outside the box and tried to build a strong industry, and, moreover, as a leader in the space we feel it incumbent on ourselves to be the role model for what is and is not ethical in this sector.” 
kenney said though the majority of people in develop­ing countries lack access to traditional banking channels, many of these people have ac­cess to cellphones. 
“eighty-eight percent of the world has a cellphone in their 
“We’ve tried to build the next frontier of financial institutions.” 
Tara Kenney 
managing director 
Dutsche Asset & Wealth 
Management 
pockets, and almost half are in emerging markets,” kenney said. “even in some of the most remote corners of the world, you have access to Internet and Facebook.” 
Providing access to financial services for this impoverished yet technologically literate de­mographic is a potential source of economic growth, kenney said. 
“by 2025, the emerging mar­kets will be roughly be half of the world’s consumption stan­dards,” kenney said. “If you take a look at the lowest seg­ment of the population earning less than two dollars a day, that can be a huge marketplace for banks and growing consumer goods markets.” 
kenney said accion, which has helped build 63 micro-finance institutions in more than 30 countries, carefully selects possible investments to ensure that the organization can maintain future growth. 
“Working towards scalability and profitability is our man­tra,” she said. “We have to re­main relevant and look to the future.” 
Part of accion’s success in se­curing profitable investments comes from taking calculated risks in environments the com­pany knows well, kenney said. 
“It was incumbent for [accion] to invest where others would not go,” she said. “It’s en­abled us to grow our platforms and to be a standard-bearer in the industry to understand things like capital protection and over indebtedness.” 
kenney said accion oper­ates in an environment which encourages collaboration even among traditional business rivals. 
“We’re working both with MasterCard and Visa to pro­mote access to credit cards in emerging markets,” she said. 
Contact Jeremy CappelloLee at jcappell@nd.edu 

students take part in ‘love Your Melon’ 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN and JENNIFER FLANAGAN 
saint Mary’s editor and news Writer 
since its inception in 2012, the love Your Melon Foundation, a not-for-profit organization dedicated to helping children with cancer, has built a net­work of over 900 ambassadors nationwide. 
the ambassadors, dubbed “Campus Crews” by the Foundation, help to advance the mission of love Your Melon (lYM) to put a hat on every child battling cancer. the Foundation produces high-quality winter hats, beanies and baseball caps, and for ev­ery hat sold by ambassadors, another identical one is given to a child with cancer. 
notre dame has its own Campus Crew led by Crew Captain freshman riley Chelsky. Chelsky said he intro­duced the program to notre dame this year. 
“one of my friends was part of love Your Melon at Marquette, and so I decided to bring it here,” Chelsky said. 
Junior leah ramaekers said she started a love Your Melon campus crew at saint Mary’s this semester. 
“lYM campus crews do a lot of promotion with social me­dia,” ramaekers said. 
ramaekers said if the saint Mary’s lYM campus crew reaches 120 credits — 120 hat purchases credited to sMC on-line — the campus crew will host a donation event at the lo­cal hospital and hand out 120 hats to local patients. 
With the help of sophomore Paige russell, Chelsky said he 
“ ... I can only imagine how much little kids hate being in the hospital.” 
Riley Chelsky 
Campus Crew Leader 
Notre Dame Love Your Melon 


Loss 
ContInued FroM PaGe 1 
dunk late in the second half was one of the most memorable moments of the game. sullivan said at that moment the crowd went wild and immediately got on their feet. 
Farren said the dunk was impressive considering the recruited 18 members to join the notre dame chapter. 
on March 19, the notre dame group visited south bend Memorial Hospital and gave away hats to children and their families undergoing treatment for cancer. 
“We had 150 hats to donate,” Chelsky said. “It was a great donation event, and just seeing the smile on kids’ faces really made a difference.” 
Chelsky said he lost his own father to cancer and under­stands the strain of hospital life. 
“My dad really hated being in the hospital, so I can only 
height disadvantage the Irish had. 
“kentucky has a huge team 
— they had 20 inches over us — and I expected that we’d have to spend most of the game outside the 3-point line taking long shots, but the guys did such a good job tak­ing it to the hoop and getting inside the paint,” Farren said. 
Farren said watching the 
imagine how much little kids hate being in the hospital,” he said. 
typically customers support Campus Crews by purchasing love Your Melon products on-line and selecting to support the notre dame or saint Mary’s chapter at checkout. Customers will have the opportunity to purchase products on notre dame’s campus on april 8 at the bald and the beautiful gradu­ate student event at legends from 5 to 8 p.m. 
ramaekers said students should buy a hat to benefit kids in local hospitals battling cancer. 
game, it was obvious that a huge reason the team worked so fluidly was be­cause of the leadership un­der Connaughton and senior guard Jerian Grant. 
“I wish Jerian and Pat could stay because I think they add a lot to the team dynamic and are just unbelievable leaders and motivators, but I think next year we have the 
“I think it’s important for students to be involved with a campus crew to promote the ‘buy one. Give one’ philoso­phy,” she said. “We have seen similar companies like toMs promote this, which is great. I think the more we can promote and create awareness for ‘pur­chases with a purpose,’ the bet­ter community we can create.” 
Chelsky said the notre dame ambassadors are also helping with the women’s softball strike out Cancer event in april. 
“We are just trying to con­tinuously grow and spread the word about love Your Melon,” Chelsky said. 
strength and stamina to be just as great, if not better, as we were this year,” Farren said. 
the common feeling in the arena was disappointment that the Irish almost man­aged to capture what would have been only their second Final Four appearance in program history. However, both Farren and sullivan 
similarly, ramaekers said she is hoping to develop the club over the next year and gain awareness on campus. 
Further information about the notre dame Campus Crew and its events are available on Instagram (@ndlycrew), Facebook (university of notre dame love Your Melon Campus Crew) and twitter (@ndlycrew). 
For interest in the saint Mary’s Campus Crew, email lramae01@saintmarys.edu 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu and Jennifer Flanagan at  jflanag2@nd.edu 
agreed there was no lack of Irish pride despite the loss. 
“It was a great season,” sullivan said. “look at the Final Four, they beat two of those teams and one of them twice. they did not disappoint us, they made us proud.” 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 


ndsMCobserVer.CoM | MONDAY, MARCH 30, 2015 | tHe obserVer 

campaign launched by it.” 
work as an executive at 
Assault Marathon 
the White House last year, drawing from his own per-Indiana university’s dance 
ContInued FroM PaGe 1 ContInued FroM PaGe 1 
ricketts asked aloud how sonal experience, nolan said 

Marathon and decided to the ending ruelas described healing required not only a 
start the marathon at saint north Quad men’s residence could also be viewed as a be-change in perspective, but 
catering executive chair for Mary’s her freshman year. hall, according to the ndsP ginning for the community reclaiming the university as 
dance Marathon, said. the first year, they raised crime alert. as it moves forward. a home for those who suf­
“It’s the riley kids who $21,000, she said. In response to the alert “I suggest to you that we all fered there. 
are the real superheroes, “I had been in children’s and in accordance with its recognize that in coming to-“I’m not happy with us. I’m 
we just help them fly,” hospitals when I was lit-policy, student Government gether to respond to a single not proud that this is only 
Clougherty said. tle, so doing something hosted a prayer service sexual assault, we see the re-the fourth email we have 
all funds raised at the for the Children’s Miracle Friday afternoon to pray for newal of our work to build a gotten this year,” nolan said. 
marathon benefit the hos-network was very near and survivors of sexual violence culture on campus that says “over 20 cases of sexual as­
pital’s general fund and dear to my heart,” Johnson on campus. ‘one is too many,’” he said. sault at notre dame have 
ensure that all children are said. “Wanting to do dance Incoming student body “We mark the renewal of a been documented each year 
treated at riley regardless Marathon at a school that president and vice presi-while I have been here. I 
of their ability to pay, she I loved was a very natural dent juniors bryan ricketts 
know. My sophomore year, 

said. thing.” and nidia ruelas delivered 
I was one of 24. I thought 

local families treated sarah Voss reed, the reflection, in which they 
exactly what this person is 

at riley came to angela Johnson’s classmate and 
“ ... We all recognize 
contemplated beginnings 
probably thinking now. 

athletic Facility through-a member of the founding 
that in coming 
and endings. 
“If I didn’t drink that 

out the day to share their group, said she was thrilled “Why, then, are we gath­
together to much, it wouldn’t have hap-

stories and motivate the to see the continuation of ered here today? What has 
respond to a single pened. If I kicked, screamed 

dancers to stay on their feet dance Marathon at saint ended?” ruelas said. “I sug­
or bit him, it wouldn’t have 

all day. the event lasted Mary’s. 
sexual assault, we 
gest to you that we all have 
happened. If I didn’t go to 

from noon to midnight, ac-“Just to see that [dance 
see the renewal 
recognized that in a single 
that party, it wouldn’t have 

cording to a College press Marathon] has contin­
of our work to 
sexual assault, we saw the 
happened. If I didn’t go to 

release. ued on even when no one end of someone’s trust and a 
build a culture on notre dame, it wouldn’t 

Within those 12 hours, knows who we are and our fracture in our community. 
have happened. 

saint Mary’s dance legacy is long gone, but the 
campus that says 
“We marked the end of al­
“What happened to this 

Marathon raised more legacy of the marathon still 
‘one is too many.’” 
most seven months to the 
home? our home? For a place 

than $9,000, which is the lives is amazing,” she said. day since the last time we 
Bryan Ricketts that strives to be so intellec­

highest amount the orga-senior Jen lefere, dance received an alert. We felt an 
Incoming student body tual and about high achieve­

nization has ever raised on Marathon vice president, end to our belief that notre 
president ment and so much better 

the day of the marathon, said she was blown away by dame is not a place where 
than the rest of the world, we 

senior kristen Millar, in-the results and only hopes sexual assault happens. 
should know better. notre 

ternal president, said. that the dance Marathon “this feeling is not a dame should be better. this 
Millar said she hoped will continue to grow. pleasant one. but it’s im-time period in which we will home was extinguished for 
the event would raise “I hope to build off what portant that we are all here, do our part to be our broth-me and for everyone who has 
awareness and funds we did this year and con-together, to feel it collec-ers’ and our sisters’ keeper. suffered a trauma here. but 
for riley as well as give tinue to have the amazing tively. Here, we can be hon-“We feel a renewal of our we’re going to make it a new 
people the opportunity relationships that we do est about the pain. We can belief that notre dame can home. 
to have fun dancing in and to challenge ourselves admit to one another that a be a place where sexual as-“ … notre dame will be 
support of the hospital. because that is what we did breach of our trust has oc-sault no longer happens. home. It will be a place 
the dancers at the event these last couple of weeks. curred. a breach of our fam-this feeling is a hopeful one. where you are welcome, 
were encouraged to stay as you can see, the results ily, of our Catholic ideal of and it is crucial that we are where you are looked out for 
on their feet for the du-were insane,” she said. the dignity and respect of all here, together, to feel it and where you are loved. so 
ration of the marathon. “We hope to keep moving every human being, has tak-collectively. a sense of heal-please, join me in my call. 
entertainment at the event forward and getting more en place, and we cannot ig-ing may take days, weeks or Welcome home.” 
included learning the cho-people involved because it nore this,” ruelas said. months to build, but we be­
reographed group dance, a is a fun thing to be a part Calling to mind the na-lieve that it can be done and Contact Margaret Hynds at  
bounce house, three meals, of.” tional “one is too Many” that it is meaningful to do mhynds@nd.edu 
listening to the stories from Junior allison lukomski, 
riley families, live perfor-external president, said 
mances by Pat Mckillen, a question resonated 
efforts as a threat to their politi-with us, they have no interest in 

the notre dame Pep band, throughout the mara-
Keynote 

bellacappella, Irish dance thon, “Why do you dance cal authority. international law, they run a so-
ContInued FroM PaGe 1 

team and the saint Mary’s Marathon?” enthusiastic about endorsing campaign — very media savvy, 
“states are never going to be phisticated media recruitment 

cheer team, according a For lukomski, the an­on Genocide Prevention and the limits on their sovereignty,” she much more than we are.” 
college press release. swer is simple: “dance responsibility to Protect as the said. nevertheless, kitley said it is 
ten years ago, Francesca Marathon is all about secretary General of the un at but state noncooperation is important to maintain hope, 
Johnson, a saint Mary’s fighting for a cause that is the time, and during the 2005 not the only challenge encoun-because she said, “for all these 
alumna from the class of bigger than yourself, fight-World summit, all un member tered by un officials. kitley said challenges, there are solutions.” 
2009, created the dance ing for the continuation of states pledged to defend their limited funds and resources, dif-“We have a growing inter-
Marathon organization at hope that is given at riley, populations against genocide, ficulties in achieving justice in national community which is 
the College. she returned fighting for the little fac­war crimes and crimes against the aftermath of violence and the committed to tackling these 
to saint Mary’s to attend es I see dancing, for their humanity. participation in conflicts of non-problems,” she said. 
the event’s 10th anniver-health and for their lives.” unfortunately, she said, the state actors — such as armed kitley said among the efforts 
sary, she said. un continues to meet the resis-militant groups like the Islamic made by the international com-
Johnson said she was Contact Kate Kulwicki at tance of many countries who are state of Iraq and syria (IsIs) and munity to combat genocide and 
inspired by her brother’s kkulwi01@saintmarys.edu viewed as particularly at-risk for multinational corporations — all violent conflict is the research genocide. present obstacles to the success being done by academic insti­
“Preventing atrocities is dif-of un initiatives. tutions such as notre dame ficult and demanding, and even dealing with non-state actors into the sources of violence and if we have limitless enthusiasm, is particularly difficult, she said, effective methods of conflict consensus and resources, it because they refuse to engage resolution. would still likely prove impossi-with the un and often have su-“We really appreciate the ef­ble to prevent every atrocity,” she perior resources and technology. fort that goes into this research, said. “so we have to be realistic. “non-state actors like the so-and I know that this university 
“We have to accept that there called IsIs present new chal-is one of the universities that has are limits to the influence that lenges,” kitley said. “these are been doing some really impor­outsiders can wield.” groups that are intent on hold-tant work,” she said. 
kitley said a further compli-ing territory rather than carry-cation of the issue is that many ing out guerilla attacks. they Contact Clare Kossler at  states view un peacekeeping have no interest in negotiating ckossler@nd.edu 


Education: a saving grace

INSIDE COLUMN 

to the men’s team 

Zach Klonsinski 
sports editor 

dear notre dame men’s basketball team and staff, 
thank you. From all of us here on cam­pus and around the world, thank you. 
at the beginning of the year, very few people anywhere had expectations for this team: on campus, in the media or around the country. Maybe an nCaa tourna­ment bid, but even then probably only a one-and-done. 
You were an afterthought when students looked ahead to what the south bend winter would hold. I don’t know what the original student-ticket package numbers were, but I’m sure they weren’t pretty. 
as the year went on though, you started winning. a lot. still everyone made ex­cuses for why you were having such suc­cess: we hadn’t played anyone good yet, we were just on a hot shooting streak, so on and so on. 
I use the word ‘we,’ but it was actually still ‘they.’ the rest of us weren’t behind you yet. It was still ‘they,’ the men’s basket­ball team, and ‘us,’ the students. 
You showed us what you could do against Michigan state. We could have jumped aboard the bandwagon then. a few did, but there was still a sense of cau­tion, trepidation; we weren’t ready to be all there yet. 
the first duke game at Purcell may have been a turning point for most. Pulling off the upset in front of us all this year — not over Christmas break like last season — surely had a little sway. that’s not to say our faith wasn’t tested still: the Cameron Indoor nightmare, Pittsburgh and the late loss to syracuse had some of us shaking our heads. 
then you went on the postseason streak, starting with the aCC tournament and running all the way to Cleveland and the elite eight this weekend. You set records and notre dame firsts left and right, and somewhere along the way you convinced us. 
saturday night, we were with you. Your head coach Mike brey said you were “america’s team,” and saturday night you were. still, most just hoped it would still be a game at halftime; I don’t know how many of us thought you had a legitimate chance unless you played ‘perfectly.’ 
Yet even as you took all of kentucky’s punches, you delivered more of your own. by the second half, you had everyone in Cleveland, back on campus and across the country thinking not just that we could win this game, but we were going to. You completed the process of making ‘they’ and ‘us’ become ‘we.’ 
thank you for making us believe again. 
though this year’s run may be over, I hope and sense we’ve started something that will last a long time. our story is far from over — merely a chapter written. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Amanda Pea 
Find Your Voice 

being a university undergraduate is an interesting life experience and one a majority of people in the world are not, or may never be, privileged enough to have. Whether they actively seek to or not, university students experi­ence an irrefutable wealth of opportunities that influ­ence their holistic development and understanding of the world around them. as graduation draws near, the reality of this privilege has complicated and colored my reflec­tions of my last four years at notre dame. It has also led me to question the actual value, impact and role of edu­cation in general. 
a university education is almost always erroneously reduced to a simplistic equation of [this major] + [this school] = [specific career] which, in theory, is supposed to offer the irresistible benefits package of economic security and personal happiness. It’s a commonly held belief and one that provided me with the only understood value for any real reason to go to college. While that may be true for many people, it ultimately was the only de­fense I had to gain my family’s support to pursue higher education in spite of our financial hardships. 
“Why can’t you just be close to home? You can’t afford to get into that kind of debt,” I recall various family mem­bers saying. “You need to work. Why can’t you just com­mute to the local community college like everyone else? our insurance doesn’t cover you outside of the state.” their list of reasons went on and exceeded any argument I could muster up that didn’t reveal my actual intentions. 
If I’m being completely honest, college was an escape route. It was buying four years of time that distanced me from the heartache, loneliness and drama that was slowly pushing me to ideas of suicide. We couldn’t afford coun­seling, so I just needed four years to figure out a new life plan that gave me financial independence and the oppor­tunity to start over. I didn’t care what it cost or how many loans I would need. the smiling college students in the movies, on the brochures and from the motivational talks my school hosted growing up were enough motivation to recognize that saving my life was worth at least the esti­mated $60,000 a year. 
Having to explain why debt seemed better than stay­ing where I was wasn’t so easy to sell to my family and friends, though. eventually, I was able to communicate the value of a notre dame education to the point where they have easily become the most proud, excited and sup­portive people in my life … not to mention the biggest notre dame fans I have ever known. this May, my bache­lors degree will become as much theirs as it will be mine. the tears and sacrifices my family has made over the last four years to be present when I graduate helped me real­ize that coming to notre dame wasn’t just about saving my own life but also inspiring theirs and allowing them to experience something they never could have dreamed about if I had stayed home. 
However great, though, from Frosh-o to the over­whelming athletic presence on campus, the notre dame cultural atmosphere was a frustrating, lonely and, at times, destructive place for my mental and emotional health. I was stereotyped, the victim of ignorant and rac­ist comments and misunderstood when I attempted to explain my socioeconomic upbringing and Mexican heri­tage. even when I wanted to transfer, my family’s pride allowed me to grow through these difficulties and ulti­mately become a leader and advocate for social justice. 
I’ve learned that the academic, social and constructed living arrangements in a university setting exposes stu­dents and faculty to new experiences, personalities and perspectives that challenge who we believe we funda­mentally were and, in some cases, are. For me, it created two competing identities that I will have to learn how to navigate for the rest of my life. It challenges who I am in a world of highly educated, influential world leaders and, simultaneously, who I used to be in — and have become to — the (mostly) unchanged settings of my upbringing. 
My education opened the door for my holistic develop­ment in ways I will never be able to fully explain to the most important people in my life. I will always straddle the borders of who I was, am and want to become so long as they can only hope to live vicariously through me. to my educated peers and readers, we are blessed with the privilege of having an opportunity regardless of our dif­ferent starting lines. I encourage everyone to reflect on what their education means to them and how, here at notre dame, we can seek to use this privilege to truly be a force for good throughout the world. In my experience, my education was a saving grace. I wonder how many others need to be saved? 
Amanda Pea is a senior with a major in Sustainable Development. She can be reached at apena@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



the careerist 
Charlie Ducey 
english, Channeled 
the hyper-ambitious college student operates on a hermetically tight schedule. Following an early morning run and workout focused on core muscles with a rotating anaerobic upper-body/arms/legs exercise routine, the hyper-ambitious college student arrives in class at 9:25, well-groomed in corporate casual attire, latte in hand, the day’s assignment lifted from a labelled, multi-section folder with the appropriate syllabus laminated and bound in front. the hyper-ambitious college student asks questions, the answers of which, by principle, are already known to him, but anticipate potential misunderstand­ings of his peers. His comments cut to the chase, articu­lated with eloquence but not overburdened by jargon or stock phrases such as “in the context of.” In smaller courses, he thanks the professor at the conclusion of the lecture and proceeds swiftly to the door, minding his carriage as other students slump. 
between each class of his 18.5 credit hour course load, the hyper-ambitious college student educates himself on national and global news, the dow Jones Industrial aver­age and the vocabulary of several foreign languages, all via a polished smartphone. lunch and dinner consist of punctual, measured meals in the company of whichever peer or club-member possesses information pertinent to the day’s endeavors or whose good relations are neces­sary to maintain in the long term. such shared means have enabled the hyper-ambitious college student to ascertain which courses and extracurricular oppor­tunities best contribute to his career goals and profes­sional aspirations, which are financial in nature. one evening the co-president of the investment club began divulging emotional anxieties, which prompted the hyper-ambitious college student to quickly refer her to university counseling resources (again via smartphone) and productively redirect the conversation toward mar­ket trends. 
during the first half of his college career, evenings consist of club meetings, special lectures and student government colloquiums. He rises to co-president of two course-related clubs by the end of sophomore year, hold­ing officer positions in three more. His bid for student body treasurer succeeds the following autumn. He up­dates his resume and linkedIn profile to reflect this. 
over the summers, he has assisted in the research of a prominent economics professor, presented independent findings on strategic hedge fund management and in­terned with the investment club’s co-president’s father, a useful springboard for a paid internship with a top-10 investment firm the following summer, courtesy of con­nections forged during a spring break undergraduate future financier conference in Manhattan — invitation only. He updates his resume and linkedIn to reflect this. 
In spring term of his junior year, the hyper-ambitious college student declines an offer to join the club squash team after an impressive showing during an early morn­ing workout. He regards organized sports for purposes other than fitness as indulgent, puerile ‘time-sinks.’ other ‘time-sinks’ include non-club-related social gath­erings, conversations lasting over 30 minutes and the consumption of media entertainment. also, art. 
over dinner, the co-president of the investment club highlights the potential benefit of non-academic ex­tracurriculars and invites the hyper-ambitious college student to her choral performance, laying an endearing hand on his forearm. due to the clash with a business strategies competition, he kindly declines, adding that she might consider keeping her hands in her own per­sonal space, thank you. 
the thought of artistic erudition, however, haunts him — additional aesthetic engagement might assist his career. He decides to partake in enjoyable activities that nonetheless contribute to his future financial stability, job acquisition and perceived holistic happiness. He joins an a capella group, building off his years of high school voice-lessons. the performances, he finds, strengthen his left-brain creative skills and general aesthetic apprecia­tion. He updates his resume and linkedIn to reflect this. 
a mental recalibration sweeps over the hyper-ambi­tious college student in the fall of his senior year. He real­izes that activities not directly related to his career might better prepare him for the intellectual demands of the fi­nancial industry. outside-the-box thinking. People skills. 
Philosophical frameworks. He enrolls in a course on exis­tentialism and joins an on-campus charity organization. Philanthropic engagement, he reads in the economist, reinforces internal drives to earn more in order to give back. Giving back, he figures, pays dividends. 
so, too, does philosophy. He finds that familiarity with basic philosophical methods allows him to talk circles around the investment club’s co-president (whom he believes is on the verge of abdicating full presidency to him). While reading kierkegaard one night in March, he comes across a passage that vindicates his new philan­thropic ventures: “ ... the commandment is that you shall love, but when you understand life and yourself, then it is as if you should not need to be commanded, because to love human beings is the only thing worth living for.” Filtering out the cries of a locked-out roommate, he re­cords this on his smartphone for reference in an upcom­ing business ethics seminar. 
Graduation approaches and the hyper-ambitious col­lege student’s GPa is stellar, his résumé resplendent, his Wall street placement at Goldman sachs virtually guaranteed. at a final philanthropy panel discussion, the former co-president of the investment club asks him when he last “actually did something for another person that didn’t directly benefit you?” Failing to locate the kierkegaard quotation on his smartphone, he smiles and recites something about participation in basic human kindnesses — consoling friends, opening doors. 
Four years of erudition, and he has not once considered what it means to love, not once taken a class for enjoy­ment, not once disclosed any semblance of interior­ity. the hyper-ambitious college student, in a flicker of awareness, conceives of himself as he truly is: no student at all, but a careerist. 
Charlie Ducey is a junior studying the languages of John Henry Newman (English) and Immanuel Kant (German). For the next academic year, he is residing on the other side of the Atlantic Ocean in Oxford, U.K. He welcomes your words. He can be contacted at cducey@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
A game to make Fr. Ted proud 
over the years, I had a few chances to talk sports with former university President emeritus, Fr. theodore Hesburgh. I watched a bookstore basketball game with him one time. sat with him at a varsity mens’ game another. even talked football with him at a political fundraiser. I actually had the moxie to ask him if he and Fr. ned Joyce really wanted to deemphasize football at notre dame, as Fighting Irish conspiracy theorists loved to assert after a particularly tough loss, a bad sea­son or a Gerry Faust. 
“Heavens no,” ted said without hesitation. “Football is a huge part of who we are, what we are, at notre dame. Mind you, it’s not all of who we are, or what we are, but any successful whole is always the sum of its parts.” 
still, whenever I was with him and the subject of sports came up, I always got the feeling that, while he was a fan, he really didn’t understand, nor did he care to understand, the minutiae that so many Irish fans get (overly) immersed in. 
(For example, my guess is ted would think ‘a good pick’ was not something that would set up a clean three-pointer from the corner but rather someone selected to serve on some commission set up to save the world.) 
nevertheless, despite his lack of technical interest in last night’s heartbreaker of a loss in the nCaa regional Final, I suspect ted enjoyed the game immensely, al­though perhaps for reasons different from those of the average fan. 
May I speculate? 

I think ted would be extremely proud of every player and coach on the team, from Mike brey on down, not only for how they play but also for how they conduct themselves, how they treat others, show respect for everyone and never, ever, display any kind of negative reaction that would reflect badly on the university he loved — that we all love — so much. 
still, I also believe he would take a long, deep puff on his cigar and smile at the effort with which this team paved the floor of the Quicken arena. they played their guts out. no quitting and, most importantly, no excuses. ted’s whole life was a living documentary on the simple fact that good, clean hard work matters, a 97-year les­son on effort — giving and trying and not quitting and always believing that somehow, some way, this would always be enough. It usually is. 
but not always. 

and when it’s not — when you bust your butt and fall just a-little-too-long-Jerian Grant prayer-from-the-cor­ner-at-the-buzzer short, there are to be no cheap fouls, no cheap shots, no television close-ups of ugly moods or uglier words. no John Mcenroe-like “%*&$@” video for sportsCenter allowed. no excuses. not from notre dame men. and believe me, ted would say absolutely that the guys on this team, were — are— not only a reflection of their families and their coaches. they are nd. 
and last night they made all of us who believe very deeply in that chant, that moniker, very, very proud. 
but you know what? Most of all, I think ted would be proudest of and most touched by the coming together 
— the communion — of a black kid named Grant and a white guy named Connaughton — two strangers who didn’t know each other only four years ago, who now know they will be closer than brothers for the rest of their lives. these two kids — two men — whose mutual respect and, yes, love for each other set an example for every other kid on this team, at this university and hopefully across a nation where cops and kids still kill one another just because the other is a different color. Individually, neither Jerian Grant nor Pat Connaughton could have provided the leadership necessary to propel a team that was never the biggest, usually not the quick­est and many times did not have the most raw talent on the court, to the places these guys went this season. 
together, however, Grant and Connaughton made a team, a university and for all but a few seconds last night, a nation, actually believe that it really is charac­ter, not color, that makes the difference between suc­cess and failure. 
that belief, more than anything else, is what ted ded­icated his life to. and that, I am sure, is what made him most proud last night. 
so today, while we mourn what ended last night, and think about what could have been, we also celebrate what was. and what was is one of the finest collections of men, notre dame men, that ever played any game at any time for the Fighting Irish. 
I am quite certain Father ted would agree. 
Frank LaGrotta 
Class of 1981 March 29 


By KEELY BERGIN 
scene Writer 

the atmosphere before the sam Hunt concert was electric, despite the 25-degree temperature outside. by the time I arrived, the line stretched from legends to Mendoza College of business. some had been waiting “since 6 o’clock,” according to one legends staff member. dedication to country music didn’t mean the basketball Game was forgotten, with students huddling around cell phones to watch the game as they waited for the doors to open. Finally, once people were allowed inside, it was to everyone’s relief that the concert was postponed until the end of the Game. to be honest, I almost didn’t make it into the concert. legends hit capacity that night. 
With the end of the potentially heart attack-induc­ing game, sam Hunt came on stage, and his appear­ance made it clear that he wasn’t the country star of our parents’ days, decked in a snapback rather than a cowboy hat. He opened with “speakers” before continuing with “ex to see,” “leave the night on” and “raised on It.” despite the gloom that hovered in the moments before the concert began, the crowd was more than excited to see him, with the sea of plaid dancing and singing along with almost every song. 
Hunt mixed in some different styles of music as well, doing a rendition of “bump n’ Grind” and a few other more r&b songs. When Hunt went acoustic, all bets were off. to use the cliché, the crowd went wild. He performed a medley of several quintessen­tially country songs like “Fancy,” “she’s In love With the boy” and “strawberry Wine.” He also performed covers of other songs, such as “say My name” and “Girls Just Want to Have Fun.” 
“House Party,” one of the biggest hits of the night, had the crowd singing along with every word. With its finish, the crowd demanded an encore. the de­mand was met with “break up In a small town,” when, if even possible, the crowd became even more ecstatic, taking on an entire chorus by itself. 
Hunt owned the stage, keeping his performance dynamic. despite the huge number of people, even those toward the back of the room were able to see him. the lighting really added to the performance, shaping the mood of each song. dimmer lights ac­companied the acoustic music, and more vibrant lights went with songs like “House Party.” 
Hunt proved himself worthy of his nomination for american Country Music new artist of the Year, with his ability to take on such a variety of music. His songs reflect the modern country genre, including verses of country-esque rap, and a little less fiddle. Considering that his album “Montevallo” spent four weeks at no. 1 for billboard’s top Country album and that his first tour, lipstick Graffiti, sold out in 15 locations within minutes, he could very well be­come one of the dominant country stars of our time. 
the group finished the performance with as much energy and dedication as they had when they began. It was incredible experience to be part of an audience for such a rising talent. In the years to come I doubt that there will be many more free con­certs at colleges. 
I was thoroughly impressed when I heard that legends had gotten sam Hunt to perform. as a country fan, I knew a decent amount of his songs from the radio and spotify. like many, I listened to most of “Montevallo” in preparation for the concert, but I was by no means a dedicated fan. the perfor­mance given at legends changed that for me. sam Hunt definitely proved that he was on his way to be­coming a major musical star. 
Contact Keely Bergin at kbergin1@nd.edu 



KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


By JONAH POCZOBUTT 
scene Wrriter 

the television industry has been experiencing rap­id changes with services like netflix, Hulu and Hbo Go eating their way into the market of traditional tV networks. the newest company to try to cut out some profits from creative industry destruction might sur­prise you — snapchat. 
as of Jan. 31, snapchat has been releasing four-minute episodes of its original series, “literally Can’t even,” through the snapchat discover page on staurdays. as alluded to by the title, the show is a witty, pseudo-satirical view of the lives of two twenty-something women living in los angeles and the unex­pected situations they get themselves into as a result of their naiveté. 
the most surprising aspect of this new snapchat feature may be that, in true snapchat fashion, each episode will disappear 24 hours after its release on the discover tab. this requires users to stay on top of the show as soon as it is released to keep up with the plot line. a quick Youtube search reveals that no episodes are posted after the fact, so if you are planning on 
By ADAM RAMOS 
scene Writer 

nothing screams, “Festival season is back!” quite like killer Mike being attacked by a rogue fan on stage during a performance at south by southwest music festival. ah yes, the wonderful time of the year — where neon clad, bandana-sporting young people flock to the nation’s big­gest festivals in hopes of catching unforgettable perfor­mances via the world’s biggest names in music — is here once again. 
despite an injured killer Mike, 2015 marks a big year for music, as attendance for festivals across the nation is on the rise and new festivals are popping up in almost all major cities. With more than 80 u.s. major music festi­vals from boise, Idaho, to savannah, Georgia, you don’t have to live near l.a. to have a Coachella-like experience. diversification in terms of genres is also becoming ap­parent, allowing festivals to accompany to any music fan’s taste. Yet if just can’t see yourself making a festi­val this year, whatever the reason may be, concerts like Coachella and ultra are beginning to offer a live streams for fans away to partake in all the festival fun. 
While every festival offers a unique lineup, many of the big festivals this year like bonaroo, Coachella, following the show you had better block off four min­utes of your saturday schedule. 
between its subject matter and its platform for reaching viewers, we can be assured that if nothing else, “literally Can’t even” will at least be the trendi­est “tV show” of 2015. 
another surprise comes from who is behind the pro­duction of such an ambitious and eccentric idea. emily Goldwyn and sasha spielberg both write and co-star in the show. those last names should sound familiar: the women are daughters of two of the most famous producers and directors, respectively, in Hollywood. 
despite the success of their families in the tradi­tional Hollywood movie path, the pair was excited to try something new. 
“Working with snapchat feels very separate from Hollywood,” Goldwyn said in an interview with the new York times. the two also added that they like the idea of using snapchat to reach viewers because they feel it is very in tune with the way that their generation lives and consumes content. 
skepticism of the idea for the show draws strong parallels to the premieres of netflix’s original tV se­ries. at the time of their inception, criticism of netflix’s 
lollapalooza and many others will be sharing a few big headliners. appealing to an older demographic, aC/dC, Paul McCartney, elton John and billy Joel are featured. as far as rap, kendrick lamar, snoop dogg, run the Jewels, G-eazy and drake will all be gracing the stage at differ­ent festivals. other big names this year include Foster the People, sam smith, Wilco, the killers, Modest Mouse, Jack White and tame Impala. 
While many festivals may share headliners, they do all not capture the same prestige concerts like Coachella and bonnaroo have attained over the past couple of years, which just isn’t fair. newer festivals like alabama’s Hangout Festival, san Francisco’s outside lands Festival and the festival I will be attending this year, delaware’s Firefly Festival, all boast impressive lineups despite their recent inceptions. one of the aforementioned festivals, san Fran’s outside lands has even outdone others festi­vals with a hilarious “too Many Cooks”-esque lineup an­nouncement video. accompanied with the 49ers’s aldon smtih, the lineup video is both funny and impressive. Well done outside lands; step it up, every other festival. 
but what exactly does a typical festival experience entail? a quick visit to any major festival’s website will bring up a myriad of packages, price levels, camping op­tions — and it doesn’t even end there. Many festivals are plan to create original content seemed to overwhelm support for the idea. Without a doubt, netflix’s origi­nal series “House of Cards” and “orange is the new black” have been resounding successes and likely spurred snapchat to try their hand at original content production. 
true to netflix’s form of investing heavily into origi­nal production, snapchat seems to be willing to spend substantial amounts of money to improve their prod­uct. according to the new York times, Harry Potter star tom Felton (draco Malfoy) is slated to make a guest appearance on the show in the near future. early reviews of the show have also cited its surpris­ingly high production quality. 
the jury is definitely still out on this show and its medium. snapchat’s promotion of their discover tab has not resulted in high usage, but the potential for something special is definitely there. Maybe in five years snapchat binging will be just as prevalent as netflix binge watching. Goldwyn and spielberg hope to be on the forefront of social media change, and it will only cost four minutes of your time to join them. 
Contact Jonah Poczobutt at jpoczobu@nd.edu 
beginning to offer “glamping” options. the days of a grit­ty festival experience marked with an abundance of dirt, stains and b.o. are no longer, at least for those willing to pay. For a pretty penny one can find themselves “camp­ing” with full amenities. Coachella, for example, offers a “fully furnished shakir-style tents with air conditioning” for a mere $7,000. 
While the rough-and-tumble camping experience is available for us plebeians, it undoubtedly takes a bit of saving even for most base-level festival experiences. between camping, ticket price and those god-awful fees, three to four day festivals will, in most cases, run around $350 to $400. For a college student, that is nothing to scoff at; however, I was okay with sending in half my savings if it means four days of nonstop great performances. Yet with attendance rising, do not wait to buy. It seems like price packages increase with the days. 
despite not being able to check my bank account with­out cringing, I look forward to my first festival experience with giddy anticipation. However, with a lineup saturat­ed so heavily with great acts, the biggest problem is really that I will be forced to miss some, and that’s upsetting. Well, I guess I will survive. 
Contact Adam Ramos at aramos6@nd.edu 

KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Don’t count out these NBA teams 
Manuel De Jesus 
sports Writer 
With the nba season wind­ing down, people are starting to write off almost every team in the playoffs and putting the Cleveland Cavaliers in the finals along with the Golden state Warriors. but I warn ev­eryone to not look past any of the other 14 playoff teams com­peting in april. 
since the Houston rockets won the nba title in 1995, every team that has won the cham­pionship has won at least 52 games. If we follow that rule in this year’s playoffs, the only teams eligible to win the cham­pionship are the Warriors and the atlanta Hawks, but that’s just based on today’s stand­ings. Projecting how many wins teams will have by the end of the season, the rockets, the Memphis Grizzlies, the los angeles Clippers and the Cavaliers should win 52 games. 
With that being said, we should just forget about every other team, right? Wrong. this year will be the first year since the 1995 postseason that a team with less than 52 wins in the regular season will win the nba championship. 
Dallas Mavericks 
this is a team that hasn’t really gotten the chemistry down since the arrival of rajon rondo, but I think this team is going to turn things around come playoff time. rajon rondo is still one of the best point guards in the league, dishing out eight assists per game. dirk nowitzki isn’t as productive as he once was due to age, but he’s still a potent offensive threat shooting the ball and posting in the paint. Monta ellis is in a slump, but he won’t be shooting less than 40 percent from the floor for much longer. I think he has a solid chance to lead the Mavs to their first title game since 2011. 
Portland Trail Blazers 
this team can really do it all. they’re 10th in scoring, second in rebounds, 12th in assists per game and 10th in points al­lowed per game. they also have two stellar players in laMarcus aldridge and damian lillard, who both average more than 20 points per game. even with the loss of Wesley Matthews, I think this team has what it takes to push past the rest of the Western Conference. they made it past a talented Houston rockets team last season after lillard’s heroic buzzer-beater three, so I’m confident in their ability to rely on his play to get them into the finals and pos­sibly win it. 
Chicago Bulls 
I know what everyone is say­ing. How could they possibly win a title without a healthy derrick rose? I’m not saying that when rose comes back, he’ll be back to full strength, because he definitely won’t. I think the depth this team has is what sets it apart from every team in the league. It’s something head coach tom thibodeau preaches every year. If you don’t have a solid bench coming in to relieve your start­ers, you can’t win. leading the bench mob is rookie power for­ward nikola Mirotic, who will probably finish second in vot­ing for rookie of the Year. since the all-star break, Mirotic is averaging 17.6 points per game, which just adds to the firepow­er the bulls have. Jimmy butler is scoring about 20 points per game, Pau Gasol is averaging 18 points per game, and if rose can get back to the form he was in before the injury, he’ll add another 18 per game. they’re also third in rebounds, which means more possessions for this versatile offense. let’s not forget that they also have reign­ing defensive Player of the Year Joakim noah. they’re loaded, and I wouldn’t be surprised if they bring it all together and make an incredible run in the playoffs. 
Oklahoma City Thunder 
russell. Westbrook. this guy is one of the most electrifying athletes in all of sports, without a doubt. the absence of kevin durant makes it almost impos­sible to think that this team has a chance, but Westbrook has put this team on his back, leading the league with nine triple-doubles this season. He’s also the league’s leading scorer, ranks second in steals and ranks fourth in assists. He can do it all for this team, and with the help of a couple of emerg­ing big men in enes kanter and steven adams, who can have 20 points and 20 rebounds any night of the week. 
there aren’t many eight seeds in nba history who have won a title, but if any eight seed can do it, it’s this team. 
again, don’t just assume lebron is going to carry the Cavs to the finals or Curry is just going to shoot his way to a ring. there are a lot of teams that could make a run, and the teams that I listed are the teams I think are the most likely to shock the world and win a title. 
Contact Manuel De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

SMC LACROSSE | sMC 14, IllInoIs teCH 2; JoHn Carroll 20, sMC 9 
Belles rout Illinois Tech, fall to John Carroll 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports Writer 

the past two games told two very different stories for saint Mary’s, as the belles collected a 14-2 win on thursday night at Illinois tech before falling 20-9 to John Carroll at home saturday. 
thursday’s game at Illinois tech (1-3) featured an early flurry of production from saint Mary’s (3-4). thebelles managed to score nine goals in the first half, adding five more in the second en route to their 14-2 victory over the scarlet Hawks. sophomore attack emilie Vanneste paced the team with five goals on the afternoon, and fresh­man midfielder Clare theisen added a hat trick of her own. Four other players also scored, and Vanneste added the team’s only two assists on the afternoon. 
the match was a matter of pos­session for much of the game. the belles managed 33 shots to Illinois tech’s 10, with only six of those 10 shots finding the net. two result­ed in goals, while four were saved by sophomore goalie shannon Weyer. 
the belles earned their advan­tage in shots via turnovers. the two teams were nearly even in ground balls (27-24) and draw controls (8-5), but Illinois tech committed 29 turnovers com­pared to 18 for the belles, who took advantage of the added pos­session to limit the number of shots available for the home team. the belles were able to capital­ize on their opponents’ mistakes and score on almost half their at­tempted shots. 
unfortunately for the belles, that shooting success proved diffi­cult to replicate during saturday’s game against John Carroll (5-2). seven different players tallied goals for the visiting blue streaks, while the belles had trouble find­ing the net. 
the belles conclude their early nonconference schedule Monday when they host loras. the duhawks (2-5) visit two days af­ter a difficult 9-8 loss to Wartburg that saw the teams go to triple overtime before a winner was de­cided. Monday’s game marks the belles’finalnonconference match before they host MIaa conference rival Hope on Wednesday. 
saint Mary’s coach amy long described the team’s early season nonconference games as “crucial to [the team’s] success.” 
“We will learn and improve each game and make the neces­sary adjustments to be as pre­pared for our conference games as we can be,” long said. “We are treating them as learning experi­ences to help us prepare for our conference games.” 
Wednesday’s game will also mark the start to Hope’s con­ference season. so far this year they have posted a 1-4 record, with losses to otterbein, eastern Connecticutstate, Worcesterstate and Fdu-Florham. their lone win of the season came against defiance, whom they beat 12-2. by contrast, saint Mary’s posted a 14-5 victory over defiance. 
the belles host loras on Monday afternoon at 4:30 p.m. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 

NBA | roCkets 99, WIZards 91 
Wittman decries focus after Wizards’ loss to rockets 
Associated Press 

WasHInGton — For a team that entered the sea­son with aspirations of winning 50 games and earning home-court ad­vantage in the playoffs — the former now impossible, the likelihood of the lat­ter fading quickly — John Wall’s Washington Wizards sure are slumping down the stretch. 
they can’t even seem to run plays properly right af­ter coach randy Wittman draws them up during a timeout. 
losing for the fifth time in six games, which de­layed their bid to secure a postseason berth, the Wizards were beaten 99­91 sunday by the Houston rockets, who got 24 points from James Harden, along with 11 points and 10 re­bounds in 19 minutes from dwight Howard, appearing 

WANTED 

TRIPLE DOMER NEEDS NANNY-­SUMMER ONLY, P/T, or F/T: ND family 
in his third game back from a right knee injury. 
the Wizards shot 29.2 percent in the first quarter, 
38.7 percent for the game, and Wittman lamented af­terward that there were ba­sic problems when his team had the ball. 
“We were running things that I’ve never seen be­fore. We weren’t focused on what we needed to do from an offensive standpoint,” Wittman said, adding with a wry chuckle: “Coming out of timeouts, a guy doesn’t even know he’s supposed to catch the ball, and we turn it over.” 
“that’s terrible,” the point guard said. 
asked whether the play­ers or Wittman were at fault, Wall answered: “I wouldn’t put it on the coach, because he’s doing a great job of drawing it up. ... like he always says, if you don’t know, you’ve got time before you walk on the court to ask again. so it’s all on us as players.” 
the Wizards are fifth in the eastern Conference and could have guaranteed themselves a place in the postseason with a victo­ry. but they dropped 2 1/2 games behind no. 4 seed toronto and, at 41-33 with eight games remaining, they can’t wind up with 50 victories. 
the Wizards also had a chance to clinch a play­off berth based on other teams’ results later sunday, but that didn’t go their way, either. 
“We show a sense of ur­gency one game, and an­other game, we take it off. to be where we want to be and go as far as we did last year, we have to turn it around or ... we’ll be done quick,” said Wall, who fin­ished with 25 points, 12 as­sists and eight rebounds. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
needs an energetic, outdoor-loving, re­liable gal to travel to beautiful Jackson Hole WY from end of May/early June to early August as our live-in nanny. Email: info@greymattersintl.com. 
“Alabama, Arkansas, I do love my ma and pa, not the way that I do love you. Holey, moley, me, oh my, you’re the apple of my eye. Girl I’ve never loved one like you.” 



BASEBALL | VIrGInIa 9, nd 1; VIrGInIa 4, nd 2; VIrGInIa 5, nd 4 
Cavaliers sweep Irish in home weekend series 
By ISAAC LORTON 
senior sports Writer 
the weather was bleak for notre dame and no. 12 Virginia this weekend, with Friday’s game being resched­uled to a chilly saturday dou­bleheader, and torrential winds and sleet whipped into Frank eck stadium during sunday’s game. the weekend was simi­larly bleak for the Irish, as they were swept by Virginia. 
notre dame (16-10, 3-9 aCC) was trounced by the Cavaliers (18-8, 6-6) 9-1 in its first game saturday, then lost in heart­breaking fashion, 4-2, in the second game. sunday, the Irish did their best to avoid the sweep, but were unable to make up a two-run deficit in the ninth inning and lost 5-4. 
the weekend series marks the end to a tough stretch of aCC play for the Irish, af­ter facing Georgia tech and Clemson on the road and no. 8 louisville at home the past two weekends. 
“You look at a year ago at this point, we were 1-11 or some­thing like that in the league,” Irish head coach Mik aoki said. “I mean, 3-9, that’s not the kind of progress we want to be making, but at the same time I don’t know if anybody in our conference has gone through the gauntlet that we just went through.” 
senior right-hander scott kerrigan got the start against one of college’s best pitchers in Virginia junior nathan kirby in saturday’s first game. kerrigan kept the Irish close, 3-0, until six Virginia runs in the seventh and eighth innings opened up the game. kerrigan pitched 6 1/3 innings, giving up nine hits and six runs, while striking out three and walking three. kirby, on the other hand, pitched six innings of shutout baseball, striking out eight and giving up five hits and two walks. 
“scott was okay for five or six innings, but you know this is where you speak to the situa­tion with your bullpen that we don’t have it fully loaded,” aoki said.  “so you’re kind of mak­ing decisions on the fly about you’re chasing three runs against one of the nation’s best pitchers, do you come in and use one of the ‘bullets’ that you have at that point? and I made the decision that we are going to try and get maybe one more out of scott and see where we can go, and I probably left him in there for one pitch to many.” 
aoki said he elected to go with several inexperienced re­lief pitchers to close the game after kerrigan began to strug­gle so he could save regular relief pitchers for the next two games. 

“to be honest with you, it was kind of like a family-first outing for [kerrigan] because he did get knocked around a little bit in that last one, and then they got an obviously great deal of separation there but without that we don’t have [freshman pitchers evy] ruibal and [sean] Guenther to be able to give ourselves an opportuni­ty to win yesterday and today,” aoki said. “We kind of had our shot, but we weren’t able to get it done.” 
notre dame did have shots at the late game saturday and the game on sunday, but simply could not get over the hump, aoki said. Irish freshman right-hander brandon bielak kept notre dame in saturday’s later game long enough for them to tie it up 2-2 in the seventh. bielak pitched 7 1/3 innings of four-hit ball with five strikeouts, giving up four walks and two runs. the relievers ruibal and Guenther both gave up a run apiece in the ninth and Virginia took the game. 
notre dame was outpaced sunday by the Hoos, who scored a run in each inning from the third to the seventh. Junior right-hander nick McCarty took the mound for the Irish, allow­ing nine hits, five runs — four earned — while Virginia junior starter brandon Waddell gave up two runs in 5 1/3 innings. 
“You look at Virginia as a team who scuffled with a couple of teams, but you can tell how good they are,” aoki said. “their pitching is really good, we’ve been a little banged up, which I don’t want to use as a crutch, but that fact of the matter is that it has limited a little bit of the use of our bullpen. It’s kind of short­ened our lineup a 

little bit.” 
the Irish were able to get one back in the fourth and fifth in­nings and one in the eighth and ninth innings, but failed to take advantage of some crucial situa­tions. notre dame put runners on second and third with no outs in the sixth, down 4-2, but were unable to capitalize on the situation. 
“that’s a tough one, you know, certainly a tough one,” aoki said. “In that case you hope that you can make a productive out to even just score a run and look­ing back on it, maybe it’s a tie ball game.” 
the Irish had trouble string­ing hits together, as they went 12-for-62 saturday for a .193 team average, while going 8-for­37 sunday (.216). 
“I think some of the things that we were doing at a really high level early on, we’ve gotten away from, for certain guys, not for all of them,” aoki said. “Just like anything else, some guys are doing really well, and some guys are struggling. but that’s sort of the nature of this game, and the way in which guys deal with the adversity that they’re facing is going to define who we are as a team.” 
Junior first baseman Zak kutsulis stood out for the Irish, going 2-8 with three rbIs and one run. 
Junior shortstop lane richards hit his first career home run in the ninth inning of sunday’s game to bring the Irish within one, but that was as close as they would get. 
notre dame next faces eastern Michigan at Frank eck stadium at 6:05 p.m. on tuesday. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at  ilorton@nd.edu 

ND SOFTBALL | nd 2, Va teCH 0; nd 11, Vt 1; nd 6, Vt 1 
Winning streak continues for Irish 
By MIKE GINOCCHIO 
sports Writer 
the Irish came into the week­end riding a six-game winning streak, having thrown several shutouts in a row when they took on Virginia tech. While the streak of consecutive games without a run was broken, the Irish winning streak was not, as notre dame swept the Hokies over the course of three games, winning by scores of 2-0, 11-1 and 6-1. 
the streak marks the second time this season the Irish (23-11, 7-5 aCC) have achieved an aCC sweep at Melissa Cook stadium, and senior infielder katey Haus said she noticed the uptick in the team’s performance. 
“I think the key to our success lately has been the focus we’ve put on our game and what we do,” Haus said. “We’ve really looked to control what we can and bring our best game regard­less of our opponent.” 
the Irish experienced a power surge at the plate, outhitting the Hokies (24-9, 3-8 aCC) 23-11 over the course of the weekend. With offensive performances from players like junior infielder Micaela arizmendi, who led the team with four hits and scored two runs sunday, and senior catcher Cassidy Whidden, who contributed four rbIs in addition to a home run, the Irish moved to 21-2 on the season when they outhit their opponents, as well as an undefeated 11-0 when they compile ten hits or more, as they did in both games on sunday. 
but it was the Irish pitch­ing that once again proved the difference. sophomore rachel nasland won the saturday game by pitching a shutout and then opened the doubleheader sunday with a complete game three-hitter while allowing only one run against six strikeouts. Junior allie rhodes was also dominant on the hill, allowing only one run on two hits over four complete innings in the last win of the weekend. With their victories, nasland extends her current winning streak to six consecutive starts, while rhodes has won her last three in a row. 
their performance on the mound has been critical in helping kickstart the Irish win streak, which has in turn helped the team at the plate, Haus said. 
“I think it works both ways,” Haus said. “When the pitching staff shuts down a team, it gives the offense confidence and pro­vides them a chance to attack. but conversely, when the offense excels it provides the pitching staff with a peace of mind that allows them to perform at their best.” 
In the end, the dual pitching and offensive performances have helped the Irish race along on a hot streak, though Haus said she knows there is still work to be done. 
“We are constantly striving to improve our mental game and better execute the little things,” Haus said. 
the Irish resume play Wednesday when they host eastern Michigan at Melissa Cook stadium. the game is set to begin at 4 p.m. 
Contact Mike Ginocchio at mginocch@nd.edu 



tHe obserVer | MONDAY, MARCH 30, 2015 | ndsMCobserVer.CoM 

MEN’S LACROSSE | nd 13, sYraCuse 12 (2ot) 
Irish dethrone no. 1 syracuse in double overtime 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports Writer 
after two and half hours of lacrosse saturday at arlotta stadium, nothing had been resolved between the top two teams in the country. then, Irish senior midfielder Jack near, who had the game-winning goal last year against syracuse in the aCC Championship, sent a raucous crowd of 3,602 fans to their feet as no. 2 notre dame outlasted no. 1 syracuse 13-12 in dou­ble overtime. 
“I realized I had a short [stick defender] on me, and that’s a play we like,” near said. “they didn’t slide, and I kind of just went to the net. I wasn’t [even] sure if it went in or not.” 
near was part of a bal­anced Irish attack that saw nine different players score a goal. near, senior mid­fielder nick ossello, soph­omore midfielder sergio Perkovic and freshman at­tack Mikey Wynne paced notre dame (6-1, 2-0 aCC) with two goals apiece, while junior attack Matt kavanagh added a goal and a game-high three assists. 
syracuse (7-1, 2-1 aCC) was more or less a one-man show with redshirt junior attack dylan donahue ex­ploding for seven goals. 
as pleased as Irish head coach kevin Corrigan was with his team, he said he re­minded them that with the strength of notre dame’s opponents, they won’t have an easy game the rest of the season. 
“I told the team … while they were celebrating, I checked with the nCaa, and we still have to play duke next week,” Corrigan said. “We’re playing a bunch of teams that could be [ranked] one or two for the rest of the year. …We had a great week of prepara­tion this week, probably our best week of preparation for a game, and we needed ev­ery bit of it.” 
the Irish took a 5-3 lead into halftime before open­ing up a six-goal lead 
6:29 into the third quar­ter, which happened to be syracuse’s largest deficit all season. Yet, notre dame needed that entire cushion, as it spotted the orange six of the next seven goals. the sequence began with orange redshirt senior midfielder nicky Galasso beating Irish sophomore goalie shane doss. Galasso would finish with two goals and two assists. the story for syracuse, however, was donahue. He netted four goals during the orange’s run to close the gap to 10-9 with 10:20 to play in regulation. 

“[donahue] gets rid of the ball so quickly that it’s almost impossible for goal­ies to catch up to that ball,” Corrigan said. “but you have to defend them as a team because they play to­gether so well as a team.” 
Graduate student mid­fielder Jim Marlatt stopped the bleeding for notre dame before syracuse went on a 3-0 run to take their first lead of the game, 12-11, with just 1:06 left. 
While faceoffs were by committee for most of the game, Corrigan trotted out sophomore midfielder P.J. Finley to do battle with syracuse sophomore spe­cialist ben Williams, who finished the day 18 of 29 on faceoffs. Finley won the draw and went straight to the net to score in under six seconds. It was Finley’s first collegiate goal. 
after failing to score dur­ing their last possession of regulation, the Irish started overtime with possession. after they came up empty again, syracuse took the last shot of overtime, but doss stymied donahue’s at­tempt at the go-ahead goal. 

doss was strong all day, fin­ishing with 12 saves. 
“He made all the stops he could make and more,” kavanagh said. 
everything culminated in near’s shot 1:06 into the second overtime period. 
“We trust [Jack] in those situations,” Corrigan said. “We know Jack in that situ­ation is really hard to cover. nobody wants to come off of [kavanagh, Wynne and se­nior attack Conor doyle] in that situation.” 
still, Corrigan said the Irish will get right back to work because in the aCC ev­ery game is meaningful. 
“I think our guys really en­joy competing at [this] level, knowing that you can enjoy this one but it doesn’t change the fact that on Monday we have to get back to work be­cause it just keeps coming,” Corrigan said. “We’re not the team that we want to be yet. We’re the team that we were today and it was just barely good enough today. but if we’re not better than this a month from now, we’re not good enough.” 
the Irish head to durham, north Carolina, this week­end for a showdown with aCC foe no. 6 duke. Faceoff is slated for 5 p.m. saturday. 
Contact Brian Plamandon at  bplamond@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE | nortH CarolIna 9, nd 8 
ND comeback falls short 
By ALEX CARSON 
associate sports editor 
a goal from tar Heels senior midfielder brittney Coppa with 3:55 left lifted no. 3 north Carolina to a 9-8 victory over no. 17 notre dame on sunday afternoon at arlotta stadium. 
Coppa’s goal — her second of the game and 19th of the season — kept the tar Heels (10-2, 3-1 aCC) from losing a game they once led 7-1. 
When north Carolina soph­omore attack sydney Holman scored on a free-position shot with 8:30 left in the first half to put her team up by that margin, Irish head coach Christine Halfpenny took a timeout. 
What followed was a frantic comeback that eventually saw the Irish (6-5, 1-3 aCC) tie the game in the final six minutes. 
“out of that timeout … we just simply looked at the girls and said, ‘Hey, let’s just have it, let’s just start this game over,’” Halfpenny said. “‘let’s tighten this up, let’s tighten that up.’” 
Irish sophomore midfielder alex dalton scored a free-posi­tion goal with 6:21 remaining in the first, and the Irish later gained a numbers advantage when north Carolina senior attack sam McGee received a yellow card and had to briefly sit on the sidelines. 
but despite controlling play in the final five minutes of the half, the Irish left emp­ty-handed, heading into the break down 7-2, though they outshot the tar Heels 18-12 through the first 30 minutes. 
tar Heels sophomore goal­keeper Caylee Waters came up big for her team, saving nine of notre dame’s 11 shots on goal in the first half en route to a 13-save performance. 
“she really got after it, she’s a strong goalkeeper,” Halfpenny said. “she came into this game making 45 per­cent of her saves. … We knew that, and we just didn’t throw enough fakes around her. We gave her a little bit of momen­tum early on and with great goalkeepers, you don’t want to do that.” 
but the second half was where the Irish made their run for the game. 
two minutes into the stan­za, sophomore midfielder Casey Pearsall started the scoring burst. Pearsall — who also scored notre dame’s first goal of the game — took a feed from sophomore attack Cortney Fortunato and beat Waters for a goal. 
From there, Fortunato — notre dame’s leading scorer 
— cut north Carolina’s lead to three with 23:58 to play on a free-position goal, before a goal from junior midfielder brie Custis trimmed the defi­cit to 7-5 as the second half neared its midway point. 
and that’s when the visi­tors answered to widen the gap again. Just 33 seconds later, tar Heels senior mid­fielder kelly devlin beat Irish sophomore goalkeeper liz o’sullivan to stretch the ad­vantage back to three. 
but it did not stay there for long. sophomore midfielder katherine eilers scored in the following minute for the Irish to take the deficit back to two, before Fortunato tallied with 
14:29 to play to narrow the gap to 8-7. 
after a series of agonizing misses — including a free-po­sition chance from eilers that hit the crossbar and appeared to cross the line but was ruled not a goal — and a big save from o’sullivan to keep it a one-score game, notre dame got the goal it needed to re­store parity to the contest. 
Junior attack rachel sexton was fouled around the goal area and converted from a free-position opportunity, getting the Irish back on lev­el terms for the first time in 47:11. 
“We’re down 7-1 and really, for us, we decided to push this one all the way to the limit,” Halfpenny said. “We felt great about it the whole second half and we know this game could be ours.” 
but for the Irish, it was not meant to be. Just 1:13 later, Coppa scored what would prove to be the game-winner for north Carolina. 
“our goal today was to come out and defend our home field, and I think that we did it,” Halfpenny said. “but unfortunately, down the stretch once we got back in it, Carolina made a couple more plays than we did, and unfor­tunately, that’s devastating. It’s a devastating loss for our program.” 
For notre dame, it marks another loss against a ranked opponent — the Irish have lost five of six such games on the season — but Halfpenny said she saw a big improvement from earlier losses. 
“I think we’re growing up,” Halfpenny said. “ … We found some great chemistry since then, that’s the first thing. With those losses, we learned what we needed out there.” 
the Irish next take the field when they travel to Charlottesville, Virginia, to take on the no. 5 Cavaliers on saturday. 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu 



FOOTBALL 

Kelly discusses linebackers, quarterbacks 
By ALEX CARSON 
associate sports editor 
When notre dame takes the field in september, it will have three middle linebackers 
— sophomore nyles Morgan and graduate students Jarrett Grace and Joe schmidt — who could stake a claim on the starting position. 
Irish head coach brian kelly indicated saturday that all three are in his plans at the position for 2015. 
“I don’t think we’re just gon­na say, ‘this is your job, you go take it, and you’re the only guy,’” kelly said. “You’re going to have a committee of play­ers there that are going to help and give us great depth at the position.” 
Grace, who missed the en­tire 2014 season after breaking his leg against arizona state on oct. 5, 2013, is close to be­ing fully recovered and might come back better than before, kelly said. 
“He could be better [than 2013]. He could be,” kelly said. “Monday, we’re going to go easy on him; Wednesday, we’re going to turn him loose in the full live scrimmage.” 
kelly said he also is pleased with Morgan’s determination to get on the field. 
“I just love the kid, he’ll do anything to get back on the field,” kelly said. “He loves the game of football. He loves it. He has a passion for the game and continues to learn. 
“ … but Jarrett Grace and Joe schmidt are smart foot­ball players too, so we’re going to have a really good problem there with the number of play­ers that can help us.” 
Quarterback competition 
as has been the case all spring, kelly said neither graduate student everett Golson nor junior Malik Zaire were seeing more first-team snaps in the quarterback competition. 
“there’s a clear rotation. It’s 50-50,” kelly said. “everett was with the first group [saturday], Malik started [Friday]. It’s been balanced. so they’re splitting reps with the first team, and they will continue to do that for the spring. 
“We flip them in our prac­tice itself. they’ll rotate. For example, if we go seven-on­seven, they’ll alternate reps. they’ll both get first-team reps and second-team reps.” 
kelly said he was not concerned about the way Zaire was approaching the competition. 
“ ... Whatever way [Zaire] sees it and whatever way he processes it in his own mind, I’m not really that interested in how that works for him, other than — we’ve got two guys that can go out there and compete every single day to be the best player they can be,” he said. “and it’s our job to compare them, to coach them, to teach them. and I think he knows it’s an incredibly com­petitive situation every day.” 
Earning Kelly’s trust 
amongst some of the young­er players trying to move into the fold in 2015, fresh­man defensive lineman Jerry tillery — who practiced with the first-team group at times saturday — has stood out as worthy of kelly’s trust, he said. 
“everyone else is in the pro­cess of doing that,” kelly said. “[sophomore offensive line­men] alex bars and Quenton nelson, they’re in the process of doing that. [Freshman line­backer] te’von Coney is in the process of doing that.” 
bars and nelson are cur­rently in a battle for the start­ing spot at left guard. While kelly said he is impressed with both players, he would not ex­pect either of them to move to a different position on the line in order to start them both. 
“I would say they’re competing for one spot there, would be my feeling right now,” kelly said. “that could change possibly, but that’s my feeling right now.” 
Injury updates 
sophomore defensive line­man andrew trumbetti (vi­rus) and junior receiver Corey robinson (concussion) both sat out saturday’s practice, but kelly said both should be back soon. 
“trumbetti still has that vi­rus, he’s really close,” kelly said. “I would say he probably gets cleared to do some ac­tivities [this] week. Corey robinson had his physical today, passed his aXon test, so he’s probably going to get some work in [this] week. 


“I think those were the last two guys that were out. they should get cleared by [this] week and we should have ev­erybody, at least in some form, in practice on Wednesday, knock on wood. that’s pretty good for spring ball.” 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu 
Allen 
ContInued FroM PaGe 16 
and starting this year, she has become a leader on and off the court, Irish head coach Muffet McGraw said. 
“last year, she was able to come in and simply run the team with­out having to be vocal,” McGraw said. “ … this year, we asked her to do more. We asked her to score more. We asked her to be more in­volved in the offense, to be more vocal, to be the true leader of the team. 
“and that was a challenge for her, because with a young team, there was an awful lot of talking needed, and she’s not a very vocal person. so I think to see her de­velop, she worked incredibly hard this summer.” 
allen significantly upped her average points per game between last season and this year, going from a 6.2 average in 2013-2014 to 
10.4 this year. 
In recognition of her hot-shoot­ing weekend, allen was named the regional’s Most outstanding Player. she said she could not re­member having this much success in back-to-back games before. Her combined total for the weekend was 51 points — more than the en­tire Montana team scored against the Irish in the first round. 
“this weekend was just a really great weekend,” allen said. “our posts set really good screens for us in both games, and the guards got really great free-throw line jump­ers in both games, so this was a really good shooting weekend overall.” 
allen was quick to attribute her production to her teammates, three of whom also scored in the double-digits against the lady bears. 
“We rebounded really well down the stretch, and we were just really excited to win, no matter who was going to be MVP or who scored the most points,” allen said. 
after the game, McGraw repeat­edly called allen the best point guard in the country. between her and loyd — whom McGraw has often praised as the country’s best player — they make up a back-court that fuels the fourth-best of­fense in the nCaa. 
In the sweet 16 and elite eight, however, the pair took things to a new level, providing notre dame with 54 percent of its offense on the weekend. 
but while loyd sometimes struggled to connect on her shots, shooting 30.8 percent from the floor, allen was lights-out, con­necting on 58 percent of her field goals, 50 percent of her 3-pointers and 90 percent of her free throws. 
riding allen’s torrid scoring streak, the Irish head to tampa, Florida, for a Final Four match-up against south Carolina next sunday. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu and Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 
W Bball 
ContInued FroM PaGe 16 

sunday for the combined effort. 
“I think she’s the best point guard in college basketball, but I’ve been saying that throughtout the year,” McGraw said of allen. “she really showed it throughout the night [sunday].” 
Irish sophomore guard lindsay allen collects two of her 23 points with a layup in a 77-68 win over baylor. 
While allen’s performance fu­eled the Irish in the second half, junior guard Michaela Mabrey completed a perfect 4-of-4 game from behind the arc in the first half, notching 14 total points. 
Mabrey played just over a min­ute after the break before head­ing to the bench for good because of lightheadness, McGraw said. 
senior guard Madison Cable stepped in Mabrey at that point and was on the court for 18 min­utes in the second half, when she picked up six points and five rebounds. 
However, Cable’s biggest mo­ment of the night came with a rejection of a layup by lady bears sophomore forward nina davis, when baylor (33-4) was begin­ning to cut into notre dame’s single-digit lead. the block sent the ball flying into the baylor band and brought the Irish bench to its feet. 
“I thought she had two huge plays, the block on nina davis in transition, which was just a huge stop that we had to have at that point, and then she hit the 3 at the other end,” McGraw said of Cable. “I thought those two were really key for us down the stretch.” 
Irish senior guard Madison Cable defends baylor junior guard niya Johnson during the notre dame win sunday. 
Cable offered a different per­spective on the defensive stop. 
“I was probably one of the peo­ple supposed to be back, not let­ting them get down in transition, so I ran back and jumped in and got lucky and got the ball,” she said. “I think it was good for us that they didn’t score there.” 
davis led all players with 26 points and 13 rebounds, but she and two other starters for the lady bears — senior center sune agbuke and junior guard niya Johnson — finished the 40 minutes with four fouls apiece. agbuke was also charged with flagrant 1 foul in the first half after referees determined she intentionally elbowed brianna turner in the head. 
However, notre dame was not able to fully capitalize on its trips to the free-throw line, converting just 12 of its 24 shots. 
“I don’t know — like four fouls, you have to play smart at the end of the day,” Johnson said. “I guess we tried to stay off of them. they were calling it pretty tight at the end, and I don’t know, it was just difficult playing with four fouls.” 
Irish junior guard Jewell loyd drives past baylor sophomore guard alexis Prince during sunday’s elite eight game. 
Irish freshman forward brianna turner totaled 12 points and 10 rebounds, and junior guard Jewell loyd — who joined allen on the all-region team — added 13 points. sunday’s game marked the third consecutive in which four Irish players were in double-digit points. 
notre dame next heads south to tampa for a national-semifi­nal matchup next sunday with south Carolina, the top seed in the Greensboro, north Carolina, region. 
though a trip to the Final Four has become something of a tra­dition for the Irish — no current player has experienced a season ending before the final weekend 
— McGraw said this one was es­pecially sweet. 
“I’ll tell you, this one was the hardest,” she said. “ … I think we played the toughest sched­ule in the country, so we learned a lot through it. I thought they came into practice every day, ready to learn, but I still felt we were going to take some lumps at some point, so when we kept on winning, it really built our confidence. 
“ … but this one is incredibly satisfying, to see what this team was able to do together.” 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 


Monaco in a deafening arena in the first 
M Bball 

half. 
ContInued FroM PaGe 16 ContInued FroM PaGe 16 

there was Mike brey squat-never wavered againstkentucky’s ting into an all-aCC defensive 
kentucky ahead, 64-63, with 3:15 high-profile ensemble. stance after a bull-like second-
remaining. It was kentucky’s first “We really didn’t think about half Jackson drive, pumping both 
lead in nearly 12 minutes. it,” Irish all-american guard fists, hiking up his pants and 
Irish senior guard Jerian Grant Jerian Grant said of being under-spinning around with another 
countered by burying a deep, right-dogs. “us 13 guys in this locker fist pump that sent a tiny piece of 
wing 3 of his own to nudge notre room didn’t feel like underdogs. metal flying off his person — all 
dame ahead, 66-64, just 40 sec-We felt confident that we were in one imperfect motion. 
onds later. gonna go out there and get a win.” every second mattered. notre 
Grant strolled back down court, they almost did — even dame just ran out of them. 
slightly shaking his head. He though they weren’t supposed the logic-defying game resist-
turned around and readied to de­to. and in so many ways, notre ed explanation. 
fend sophomore guard andrew dame’s performance — a 68-66 notre dame out-dunking 
Harrison. staring straight ahead, loss to the Wildcats in the elite kentucky? of course. 
Grant spoke softly to himself, bare-eight on saturday — defied ex-Pat Connaughton practically 
ly changing his facial expression. planation and common sense. scraping his highlighter shoes on 
“It’s time. It’s time. We’re here,” the Wildcats were 37-0. they the backboard after a two-hand­
he said. “one stop. let’s get it. We’re “He went for the win,” brey said kentucky, and the Irish responded boast nine Mcdonald’s all-ed dunk? Yup. 
one stop away from doing some-of Grant. “I don’t fault him for that. with a quick 13-4 run of their own americans. their average height a steve Vasturia 3-pointer from 
thing special.” I don’t think he could turn the to vault back ahead, 46-42, with in the starting lineup is 6-foot-9. the top of the arc that dropped 
but kentucky converted down corner.” 14:23 remaining in the second half. the no. 1 team in the country, John Calipari’s arms to his 
the stretch. the Irish didn’t score notre dame led for almost twice auguste threw down a vicious put­kentucky had won 59 of its last sides and raised Zach auguste’s 
after Grant’s 3. as long as kentucky. back slam, and senior captain and 61 games as the aP’s top-ranked right hand to his right ear as he 
With the game tied at 66 with “We were just scratching to stay guard/forward Pat Connaughton program. stopped at midcourt to tease big 
33.7 seconds remaining, andrew in the game,” kentucky head coach streaked down the lane with a two-so the Irish needed a perfect blue nation? Why not? 
Harrison drove past Grant and John Calipari said. handed flush that ended with the game to top kentucky, right? notre dame’s nearly historic 
drew a foul on Irish sophomore “We really thought we had a soles of his shoes tapping the un­“no. not at all,” Grant said. “We performance thrived somewhere 
guard demetrius Jackson, who ro-great chance,” brey said. “as the derside of the backboard. Calipari definitely didn’t play a perfect in the unquantifiable concoc­
tated over to help. Harrison buried game was going on, we just felt we used a timeout, quieting the rau­game, and we still put ourselves tion of leadership, chemistry, 
both free throws. could win the game. We were very cous notre dame crowd. in position to win. Honestly, we confidence and momentum — 
“I shouldn’t have turned my confident.” the offense went dormant, felt we should’ve won, but they the very mix that brought a 17­
head,” Grant said. “I felt a ball Irish junior forward Zach though, as notre dame suffered made more plays than we did.” win turnaround and an aCC 
screen coming. You can’t do that auguste powered notre dame through a 10-shot stretch in which notre dame committed championship. 
with a guy like that. ... right when with 20 points, while Grant added it hit just two field goals. still, the three turnovers in its first four “leadership. student-athlete 
he saw me do that, he drove past 15, and sophomore guard steve Irish clung to a 52-49 lead with 8:13 possessions. leadership,” notre dame director 
me.” Vasturia chipped in 16. remaining. notre dame drilled just one of athletics Jack swarbrick said 
“We couldn’t get the key stop despite a rash of early turnovers and they had a chance to win 3-pointer in the first half. before the last syllable of a ques­
to get it to overtime,” brey said. and a dearth of 3-pointers, notre in the final minute — the final Grant hadn’t attempted a shot tion about the program’s growth. 
“that’s where you lose the game, dame hung tight with kentucky seconds. in the first eight minutes. “It’s so important. and when you 
really. You’ve gotta get that stop.” throughout a back-and-forth first “We gave ourselves a chance, still, there it was, hanging in get it right, it’s magical. and we 
With no timeouts remaining, half that featured 10 ties and 13 and it’s disappointing because you the middle of Quicken loans had it as right as you can get it this 
Grant raced up-court and missed lead changes. the teams entered really had the thing ... ” brey said. arena for anyone to see — 31-31 year with Jerian and Pat. 
a desperation shot from the left the intermission tied at 31. at halftime, 66-66 in the final sec-“that’s when you see it. It’s the 
corner. the clock struck zero. ball notre dame weathered an early Contact Mike Monaco at onds — as real yet striking as all difference maker.” 
game. second-half offensive surge from jmonaco@nd.edu the celebrities smattered in the It doesn’t fully explain a near crowd: lebron James, kendrick takedown of would-be epic pro-Perkins, Chris Christie, ashley portions. but it helps. 
steve Vasturia. the 6-foot-5 appearance since 2003 and elite 
Seniors 

Judd. a team that played together — Connaughton finished the season eight appearance since 1979, 
ContInued FroM PaGe 16 

It sure felt like the game was from the moment it was huddled 
as notre dame’s leading rebound-Connaughton said he and Grant hanging in the balance with ev-tightly on the nCaa-stained 
er and shot blocker and snagged have passed on high standards to ery bounce and every whistle. hardwood — also made even 
for Connaughton, a spot on the nine rebounds in the loss to the notre dame’s returning group, and notre dame acted like it. more history. 
usbWa all-american team for Wildcats. which includes starters Vasturia, there was demetrius Jackson “It’s over. It’s tough,” Grant said. 
Grant, 32 victories this season, an “He’s one of the toughest junior forward Zach auguste and diving on the floor, extending, “being so close to doing some­
aCC tournament championship kids around,” Vasturia said of sophomore guard demetrius contorting and belly-flopping for thing so special and just like that, 
and what Connaughton described Connaughton. “For him to re-Jackson. any and every loose ball, even as it’s over and it’s done, you lost — 
as the emergence of the brand of bound the way he does at his “Hopefully, [there is] a new his shots weren’t falling. it’s tough.” 
notre dame basketball. size is extremely impressive. He’s legacy of us doing these things there was top Irish assistant tough to put into words. 
“[notre dame basketball] is a probably one of the best rebound-in March all the time,” he said. anthony solomon forcefully 
winning culture,” Connaughton ers in the country.” “the most important thing to us holding up his right hand, quiet-Contact Mike Monaco at  
said. “I think the most important Grant, who added 15 points and was winning … and these guys ing fellow assistants rod balanis jmonaco@nd.edu 
thing for me was to get wins and six assists saturday night, finished bought in fully. all the guys com-and Martin Inglesby, who The views expressed in this 
share wins with the 13 guys in this the season as notre dame’s leader ing back next year know that it’s flanked him on each side and column are those of the author 
locker room. For that, I’m proud of in points per game, assists per on them now, the assumption that were screaming at each other, and not necessarily those of 
them.” game and steals. Grant’s passing we wanted to show them the path, trying to be heard three feet away The Observer. 
on the court, the Irish have ability helped open up opportuni-break through, do the tough things developed a skillset that dif-ties for notre dame’s other play-that you have to do, and they com­ferentiates them from many ers, added Vasturia, who finished pletely bought in, and now it’s up other programs in the country, with 16 points against kentucky. to them to keep it going.” Connaughton said. “everything he does on the While Grant said he couldn’t 
“It’s toughness, it’s competitive-court makes it easier for everyone fully put notre dame’s season in ness, it’s all those intangibles that else,” Vasturia said of Grant. “He’s perspective, he added that the so many people may undervalue able to create for everyone, he’s Irish learned how to win again, a in today’s day and age of college able to score, he’s able to defend.” necessity for a program looking basketball,” he said of his team’s beyond their skills on the court, to rebound from a 15-17 mark last strengths. “there’s those one-and-Grant and Connaughton have year. dones, those guys that are phe-helped set the bar for future notre “We put in so much work, and nomenal basketball players, and I dame teams, Irish head coach we got to show it with a lot of wins don’t want to take anything away Mike brey said. this year,” he said. “that was the from them. obviously, that works, “Pat and Jerian were the ulti-most important thing — being but it’s fun to be a true team, to go mate role models to lead, to be able to put this program back on out there and be with guys for four fearless, to be unselfish, to set the map, getting some wins and years and lay it all out on the line the tone for winning, to chase doing something special. with them night in and night out the team goal,” brey said. “It was “We were a couple of seconds for an entire college career.” so pure, it was really pure. I was away from a Final Four; it means 
Few notre dame players have spoiled. I hope we can bottle it and everything.” exemplified such intangibles keep it next season.” as Connaughton has, accord-after a season that included Contact Brian Hartnett at  ing to Irish sophomore guard notre dame’s first sweet 16 bhartnet@nd.edu 



ndsMCobserVer.CoM | MONDAY, MARCH 30, 2015 | tHe obserVer 

CROSSWORD | WIll sHortZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | CHrIstoPHer bruCker 
SUDOKU | tHe MePHaM GrouP 


DOME NUTS | aleXandrIa WellMan 

HOROSCOPE | euGenIa last 
Happy Birthday: You have what it takes to make things happen. Your showmanship and ability to use your skills to get the results you want will separate you from any competition you face. express your dreams, hopes and wishes at networking functions, and you will spark the interest of people who can help you turn an idea into a prosperous venture. Your numbers are 8, 12, 21, 26, 37, 41, 45. 
Birthday Baby: You are outgoing, aggressive and enthusiastic. You are competitive and proud. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): take part in events that allow you to show off your attributes, and you will find opportunities to advance. an energetic approach to getting your personal papers in order will help you resolve issues that have been holding you back. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Problems at home will escalate if you are too stubborn or emotional. don’t try to change others when you should be working on self-improvement. Getting out of the house with a friend will help you temper your anxiety and frustration. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): be specific regarding what you will and won’t do. someone will take advantage of you if you don’t lay down ground rules. look for ways to improve your home environment or make a move that will ensure better living arrangements. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): use your skills to bring in extra cash, but don’t let your confidence lead to overspending. You have good ideas, but the object is to bring money in, not to go into debt. start small and let your plans grow naturally. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can make changes, but don’t do so at the expense of losing a friend or upsetting a partner. lay your plans out, offering perks to anyone who will be affected by your decisions. an emotional plea will help you gain interest and support. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Consider joining a professional group. offer your services and engage in talks that will lead to prosperous contracts. keep a close watch on anyone showing competitive interest. romance will result in a change to the way you live. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Get involved in a worthy cause. the satisfaction you get and the new acquaintances you make will help you build a better future for you and for the organization. Hands-on help will bring the highest returns. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): take a secretive approach to whatever you are working toward and you will avoid unwanted interference. Making changes to your home that are geared toward a more efficient space will pay off. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will face opposition at home if you want to make changes. Present a plan that includes everyone, and offer something to appease anyone who may be trying to spoil your plans. being one step ahead of others will ensure success. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): look for a unique way to invest. don’t share your personal financial situation with anyone. expect to face changes that will upset your plans. be kind to someone you care for, but don’t try to buy love. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): there will be plenty of excitement to deal with if you don’t have your plans lined up and ready to execute. Challenges should be met with a highly energetic and enthusiastic approach. believe that you can, and you will succeed. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): let your creative mind wander. keep your spending to a minimum and refuse to pay too much for a product that promises the impossible. Focus on sharing quality time with someone special instead of going on an expensive outing. 


JUMBLE | daVId HoYt and JeFF knurek 



Make checks payable to and mail to: the observer 
P.o. box 779 
notre dame, In 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
City      state Zip 

Agony and ecstasy 

Notre Dame fall short in upset bid against undefeated Kentucky in Elite Eight 
and will face Wisconsin on saturday in 
By MIKE MONACO 

senior sports Writer Indianapolis. notre dame falls short of its second Final Four appearance in program 
CleVeland — Jerian Grant sprinted to history. the Irish hadn’t reached the elite the left corner of the court and heaved up eight since 1979, a year after the only run a contested shot. It missed long. the horn to the national semifinals. notre dame’s 32 blared. wins are the second-most in program his­
notre dame fell — two points, mere tory and the most since 1908-09. inches, precious seconds — from a mo-“I’m proud of our group,” brey said. “We mentous victory, as no. 1 seed and unde-emptied the tank tonight and that’s all I ask feated kentucky survived the no. 3 seed them to do before the game.” Irish, 68-66, in the elite eight on saturday the Irish (32-6) led the Wildcats (38-0) night at Quicken loans arena in Cleveland. by six with 6:14 remaining in the second 
“What a great college game,” Irish head half. notre dame led for nearly 22 min-coach Mike brey said. “It was thrilling to utes total. but Wildcats sophomore guard be part of it. It lived up to the hype. We’re aaron Harrison buried a deep, high-arcing extremely disappointed. We really thought 3-pointer to vault we had a great chance of beating them.” 
kentucky advances to the Final Four see M bball PAGE 14 
ND almost completes win over Kentucky 

Mike Monaco 
senior sports Writer 
CleVeland — kentucky strolled onto the court, cir­cled one another and danced. long, dangling arms sprawled around each other, the Wildcats moved in unison, side to side, as “Zombie nation” blared. 
notre dame stood together some 50 feet away, practically 
motionless,  exchanging  just  
a  few  barely  noticeable  fist  
bumps.  

From the opening introduc­tions, notre dame’s steadiness 
see MonaCo PAGE 14 
Grant, Connaughton close out careers as leaders 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
senior sports Writer 
CleVeland — trailing kentucky by two points with six seconds remaining in saturday’s Midwest regional final at Quicken loans arena, notre dame gave the ball to its two se­niors, guards Jerian Grant and Pat Connaughton. 
Just as he had done so often, Connaughton inbounded the ball to Grant. Just as he had done so often, Grant rushed down the court to set up a corner 3-point attempt. 
unlike so many other times this season, Grant’s shot did not go in, flying over the hoop as time expired in no. 3 seed notre dame’s 68-66 loss to no. 1 seed kentucky (38-0). 
on what would end up be­ing the final play of their college careers, notre dame’s two most experienced players were in posi­tion to topple the only undefeated team left in the nation. 
“We gave the ball to our best player and let him try to make a play,” Connaughton said. “to be honest with you, I was right un­der the basket to try and get the rebound. It looked pretty close to going in.” 
Connaughton and Grant didn’t add an elite eight victory to their respective resumes. but the resumes of the two-man senior class have a list of high­lights — 120 consecutive starts 
see senIors PAGE 14 
KEVIN SABITUS and JODI LO | The Observer 

Notre Dame tops Baylor to earn ‘incredibly satisfying’ trip back to Final Four 
in terms of our persistence, our relent-
By MARY GREEN 
assistant Managing editor less approach,” Irish head coach Muffet McGraw said. “We got down early, and we 
oklaHoMa CItY — add tampa, just never quit, and we kept coming back, Florida, to a growing list that includes kept coming at them, did what we had to nashville, new orleans, denver and do.” Indianapolis — the last four sites of the Irish head coach Muffet McGraw cuts Women’s Final Four. down the net after the Irish top baylor in 
no. 1 seed notre dame booked its trip sunday’s elite eight. to the nCaa tournament’s final week-sophomore guard lindsay allen found end for a fifth straight year with a 77-68 her shooting touch for the second straight win over no. 2 seed baylor on sunday in game at Chesapeake energy arena, put­oklahoma City. ting up a team-leading 23 points, 17 of 
the elite eight matchup featured 15 those in the second half. allen preceded lead changes and seven ties, and the Irish that by collecting a career-high 28 points (35-2) led for just over 16 of the 40 min-in a win over stanford on Friday and was utes, including only the last 12 seconds of named oklahoma City regional MVP on the first half. 
“I think this was one of the best games see W bball PAGE 13 
Allen explodes for 20-plus points to lead Irish into Final Four 
By GREG HADLEY and  RENEE GRIFFIN 
editor-in-Chief and sports Writer 
at 5-foot-7, lindsay allen sometimes has trouble standing out on a top-seeded notre dame team full of all-conference play­ers and big personalities. 
In oklahoma City, though, the sophomore guard was the big­gest force on the court for the Irish, scoring a career-high 28 points against stanford in the sweet 16 and 23 more against baylor last night. both were team-high totals. 
add that to her 11 assists and 10 rebounds over the weekend, and it would be easy to mis­take allen’s stat line with that of the more decorated member of notre dame’s backcourt, junior guard and national player of the year candidate Jewell loyd. 
It’s a comparison loyd herself does not shy away from. 
“Well, she’s like my twin, real­ly, and she’s unstoppable,” loyd said after sunday’s win. “I think people have really underesti­mated her, and for us, she’s been awesome all year. It’s been awe­some to see how talented she is. 
“I look up to her on the court and off the court. she’s very humble. she’s the MVP.” 
no player has been more reli­able for notre dame over the last two years. she has started every single game and logged more than 2,100 minutes on the court. 
see allen PAGE 13 





