The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 68 | THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND earns gold rating in sustainability 
Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education recognizes green initiatives 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer 
increasing its rating from the past three years, the university of notre dame was recently awarded a gold rating from the association for the advancement of sustainability in higher education (aashe) for ex­ceptional sustainability achievements. 
“we are extremely proud of the gold rating the university received in the aashe sTars [sustainability Tracking, assessment and rating system] program,” direc­tor of sustainability linda kurtos said. “The sTars rating system is unique from other systems because it takes into account sus­tainability aspects from all across the university, not just one or two areas.” 
looking at a wide vari­ety of aspects, the rating is indicative of an overall ex­tremely positive change in the environmental aware­ness of the university, as well as an execution of the 
see gold PAGE 6 




campus ministry names Author to address mccormick as new director racial injustice 
served as associate vocation director of campus ministry alexander has taught at uni-
Observer Staff Report By KIERA JOHNSEN 
director for the congregation in 2014 and serves as chap-news writer versities such as stanford law 
Fr. pete mccormick will 

begin serving 
as notre 

dame’s director of campus 
ministry on Feb. 1, according 
to a university press release 
issued monday. 
mccormick served as rec­

tor 
of keough hall from 

2007-2013 and is currently 
Fr. Pete McCormick 
director 


lain to the notre dame men’s school, where she was an as-
basketball team, the press michelle alexander, ac-sociate professor of law and di­
release stated.  claimed  civil  rights  lawyer,  rected the civil rights clinics,  
“i’m  incredibly  grateful  advocate,  legal  scholar  and  according to a press release.  
for  this  opportunity  and  bestselling  author  will  speak  in 2005, she accepted a joint  
look forward to serving the  at saint mary’s on Feb. 9 at 7  appointment  at  the  kirwan  
notre  dame student body,”  p.m. in o’laughlin auditorium.  institute for the study of race  

mccormick said in the press her lecture, titled “mass and ethnicity and the moritz 
release. incarceration in the age of college of law at The ohio state 
pursuing an executive mba  as director, mccormick  
degree from the  mendoza  of holy cross from 2007-2010,  
college  of  business.  he  was  appointed  associate  see direcTor PAGE 6  




Alum earns spot on Forbes ‘30 under 30’ list 
Frameri while i was getting and start my own company, 
By MELISSA RIORDAN 

news writer my mba at notre dame,” so i spent most of my time billetz said. “while a lot of taking advantage of all the mendoza college of awesome resources and 
colorblindness,” will be based off her book “The new Jim crow,” discussing racial in­justice in the american legal system. 
university, where she is now an associate professor. That same year she won a soros 
see race PAGE 7 

business class of 2013 grad-

uate konrad billetz earned 
a spot on the 2015 Forbes 
30 under 30 manufacturing 
and industry list. billetz 
founded Frameri, the 
world’s first interchange-

Konrad Billetz 
founder 
programs the school has to 
offer.” 
billetz said he worked 
closely with professors and 
mentors from mendoza 
to lay the groundwork for 
Frameri, including karen 
able eyewear company. he 

slaggert, associate direc­is the second notre dame tor of the gigot center for graduate to make the Forbes my classmates were inter-entrepreneurship. 
Photo courtesy of Gwen O’Brien 

30 under 30 list. viewing, i knew i wanted 
Michelle Alexander, author of “The New Jim Crow,” will deliver a  

“i started working on to go into entrepreneurship see alum PAGE 7 

lecture on racial injustice in the criminal justice system Feb. 9. 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 10 men’s baskeTball PAGE 20 women’s baskeTball PAGE 20 





Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
brian hartnett alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college. editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



If you were invisible for a day, what would you do? 


Emanuele Baruffaldi 
sophmore 
duncan hall 
“i would see how my friends react about my disappearance… or rob a bank.” 

Matthew Greene 
junior 
sorin college 
“i would listen in on as many Fortune 500 board meetings as i could.” 

Sarah Tomas Morgan 
freshman 
pasquerilla west 
“Take a train or get on a flight for free.” 



Jenn Cha 
sophmore 
welsh Family hall 
“Throw a snowball at malfoy.” 

Emma Tackman 
freshman 
pasquerilla west 
“i would freak out my roommate, sara and make her things float around.” 

Brooke Turrell 
senior 
off-campus 
“i would go to… this is weird… i would sneak into a pet adoption place and pet puppies all day.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

kelly konya mary green Email news@ndsmcobserver.comTHE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
kayla mullen alex carson Jp gschwind christine mayuga 

Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday
keri o’mara caelin miltko 
Photo Viewpoint 

Artist Talk: Emmi Graduate Student Basketball Game Mass in Spanish Prayer Service to
wei lin gabriela leskur 
Whitehorse Mass Joyce Center Dillon Hall Chapel Honor the Legacy of Snite Museum of Art Basilica of the Sacred 2 p.m. - 4 p.m. 1:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. Martin Luther King 12 p.m. - 12:45 p.m. Heart Men’s basketball plays Worship Service. Jr.
Corrections 

Discussion of artist’s 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Miami. Main Building 
The observer regards itself as prints. Worship service. 11:45 a.m. - 12:15 p.m. a professional publication and 
Vigil Mass Film: The Tale of the 
strives for the highest standards 
“JOHN” Hockey Game Basilica of the Sacred Princess Kaguya Basketball Game 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
DeBartolo Performing Compton Family Ice Heart DeBartolo Performing 7 p.m. - 9 p.m.
however, recognize that we will make 
Arts Center Arena 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. Arts Center Women’s basketball 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7 p.m. - 9:15 p.m. 7:35 p.m. - 9:35 p.m Worship Service. 3 p.m. - 5 p.m. plays Tennessee.
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Performance depicting The Irish take on 2014 film about
we can correct our error. 

poignant life story. Connecticut. Japanese folktale. 


Professor wins book prize 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
associate news editor 
professor alexander martin of the department of history was recently awarded the 2013 marc raeff book prize for his most recent work, “enlightened metropolis: constructing imperial moscow, 1762-1855.” 
The prize is awarded annu­ally by the eighteenth-century russian studies association (ecrsa) to works of “exception­al merit and lasting significance for understanding imperial russia, particularly during the long 18th century,” according to 
the group’s website. 

i,” in the late 1990s, he said. his research for his latest book took him abroad on several occasions. 
“i spent one semester in 1999 working with rare books in germany, and two semesters in 2002 and 2004 researching in ar­chives and libraries in moscow,” martin said. 
martin said his book explores two major questions that histo­
“Two of the biggest questions of Russia after 1700 are how Russians became culturally 

this strengthen the regime’s popularity? 
“To find an answer, i explore three things. First, how the re­gime tried to modernize the city 
— the police, the schools, street lights, pavement, drainage and so on. second, how this affect­ed the life and the attitudes of moscow’s middle classes; and third, how journalists, novel­ists and so on described these changes. 
“what i found is that muscovites thought increas­ingly like europeans, but for precisely that reason they held the tsarist regime to a western standard that it wasn’t able to 
according to martin, who had 

European and why meet,” martin said. 
nd physicist joins Fulbright specialist program 
By MATTHEW McKENNA 
news writer 
umesh garg, professor of experimental nuclear physics, was selected as a Fulbright specialist in physics education, allow­ing him to travel around the world to other universities and interact with teachers specialist will not only be beneficial to the students and teachers with which he will interact, garg said, but to himself as well. 

“interaction with intellec­tuals is always an enhanc­ing experience,” garg said. “of course i will try to tell them about research and about what i do, but through conversations and interac­
tions with the students, i 
will learn a lot as well. i may 
find out a few things that 
they do that i can use in my 
own work.” 
garg said interacting with 
other cultures has been en­
riching for him over the 
not known that his book was un­

looking to the future, martin 
the 1917 revolution 
der consideration for the prize 

plans to expand the release of 
until he was notified that he had 
happened.” 

“enlightened metropolis” and 
won, the ecrsa, an affiliate of  Alexander Martin  also has another project on the  
the association for slavic, east  professor  horizon that will take him in a  
european and eurasian studies,  history  different direction than his pre­ 
appoints  a  prize  committee  vious research and writing.  

that reviews all new books in english, russian and several other languages on russian his­tory, literature and art in the period from about 1689 to 1825. The prize is named after late historian and professor marc raeff, who taught at columbia university. 
work for “enlightened metropolis” began af­ter martin finished his first book, “romantics, reformers, reactionaries: russian conservative Thought and politics in the reign of alexander rians of modern and imperial russia study. 

“Two of the biggest ques­tions of russia after 1700 are how russians became cultur­ally european and why the 1917 revolution happened,” martin said in an e-mail. “in my book, i address both questions. i look at moscow, a place that previ­ously reminded europeans of the middle east, and i ask: how did it change under the tsars from a supposedly “asiatic” city to one that was recogniz­ably european? and, why didn’t 
paid adverTisemenT 

“my book on moscow will come out in a russian-language edition later this year, which i’m very excited about,” he said. “my next project is a biography of a german immigrant who had a fascinating life in germany and russia in the decades around 1800. after writing about a whole city, it’s fun to immerse myself in the detective work of reconstructing the life of just one person.” 
Contact Margaret Hynds at  mhynds@nd.edu 
and students to enhance the physics curriculum and impart an enthusiasm for research. 
garg said his first as­signment is at the indian institute of Technology. he said wants to find a way to provide indian students with the same research op­portunities that undergrad­uate students in the united states have. 
“i have come to believe that undergraduate stu­dents should be exposed to research very early in their careers,” garg said. “as a Fulbright specialist, i can help various universities around the world develop programs that integrate re­search into the regular cur­riculum for undergraduate students.” 
garg said he is mainly in­terested in raising research awareness because under­graduate research provides students with a new type of learning that is beneficial to students no matter what their eventual career path is. 
“when an undergradu­ate does research, they are exposed to what is beyond ... what they are taught in their courses,” garg said. “research opens vistas that classrooms simply can’t and it makes them independent thinkers. 
“They are not searching for answers that are simply hidden away somewhere like they would be in the class­room,” he said. “you will develop an ability to think beyond what is known.” 
being a Fulbright course of his career and welcomes the continued op­portunity to be exposed to new ideas. 
“There is also a cultural aspect to all of this,” garg 


“When an undergraduate does research, they are exposed to what is beyond ... what they are taught in their courses. Research opens vistas that classrooms simply can’t and it makes them independent thinkers.” 
Umesh Garg 
professor 
experimental nuclear physics 
said. “i do my research all over the world, and i have grown in more ways than just as a physicist. 
“you learn that people think differently, and they do the same things you do in different ways,” he said. “we like to think that sometimes we know best, but that’s not always true. 
garg said he always takes pride in represwenting notre dame when he travels to other universities. 
“wherever i go, even though i go as a Fulbright scholar, i also go as a pro­fessor of notre dame,” he said. 
Contact Matthew McKenna at mmcken12@nd.edu 




The observer | THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND musical groups showcase their talents 
By SELENA PONIO 
news writer 
over the winter break, members of The chorale, The undertones and the liturgical choir went on their winter tours and showcased their music to audiences across the country. 
The chorale, the official concert choir of notre dame, began their winter Tour on Jan. 9 and will conclude Jan. 15 in chicago.  according to their website, The chorale sings a variety of songs from the renaissance to present day. 
“i was really pleased with how it went,” carmen casillas, senior and tour manager of chorale, said. “There were a lot of freshmen who came on tour, which is always incred­ibly exciting, and i really be­lieve that we sounded the best that we ever have.” 
according to casillas, their performance on tour included songs from their Fall concert as well as christmas music. The chorale practiced with when they arrived back on campus with a long rehearsal and also practiced for half an hour before each concert. 
“my favorite song to perform on tour is always the alma mater sung directly into the fight song because we invite any alums and current stu­dents to join us to sing it, but this year it was almost eclipsed by our performance of silent night,” casillas said. 
The undertones, notre dame’s 13-man a cappella en­semble, toured five cities on their winter tour in Florida, georgia and south carolina. 
“we had a great time and were blessed with incredible hospitality from notre dame clubs across the southeastern united states,” stuart streit, junior and president of The undertones, said. 
daniel pedroza, sophomore and communications director of The undertones said that one of his favorite moments included recording an ep with five songs from the past se­mester. pedroza also said the 13-member group had enough free time on tour to go kayak­ing through the everglades. 
“it’s an experience that you wouldn’t get normally,” pedroza said. “To get to tour with 12 of your best friends is great … it’s a lot of singing in the car.” 
The notre dame liturgical choir went on their a Texas tour and sang for one high school and five parishes in dallas, san antonio and austin. 
“it was a wonderful way for the choir to get to know each other better and share our mu­sic with parishes throughout Texas,” patricia bartlett, junior performance during their Texas tour consisted of 17 pieces that the choir had learned throughout the year. while on their tour, members of liturgical choir were wel­come into the homes of notre dame’s alumni clubs of dallas, austin and san antonio. 
and  treasurer  of  liturgical  
choir, said.  
liturgical  choir’s  

Jimmy kelly, president of the liturgical choir, said that his favorite moment on tour was when he and other cho­risters sang the notre dame alma mater in austin under 
the dome of the Texas  state  
capitol.  
“circled around the  lone  

star seal adorning the capi­tol floor, we joined together in harmony as one family [and] one voice,” kelly said. 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 




‘The Shirt’ Project chooses Alta Gracia as vendor 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news writer 
For the fourth consecutive year, The shirt committee selected alta gracia as the vendor of the 2015 The shirt. 
Junior abbey dankoff, president of The shirt project, said alta gracia’s mission to provide its work­ers with a living wage played a large role in the commit­tee’s decision. 
according to alta gracia’s website, the dominican republic-based college ap­parel company pays its a lot of sense because alta gracia does give us compet­itive prices for each shirt,” hill said. “There’s a busi­ness aspect to our selection which allows us to keep the prices of The shirt lower, which means more money goes back to the students.” 
both dankoff and hill have visited alta gracia’s factory in the dominican republic in past years to see in person the effects of The shirt project. 
“our contribution and support of their company really does ultimately affect 

“Alta Gracia really enjoys our business, and we really enjoy working with them. We’re excited to continue working with this company that embodies a commitment to social justice, in accordance with Notre Dame’s mission.” 
Abbey Dankoff president The Shirt project 
workers more than three times the minimum wage. additionally, alta gracia is committed to providing its employees with “the right to a safe and healthy work­place, the right to be treated with dignity and respect on the job and the right to form a union.” 
“i think a major part of why we chose alta gracia is that their mission aligns perfectly with our mission, both as an organization and a larger university,” dankoff said. “alta gracia provides its employees with a living wage that allows them to afford life’s essen­tials. That recognition of the value and integrity of each person is something i think notre dame tries to instill in all of its students.” 
Junior camden hill, cre­ative director of The shirt project, said he had a good experience working with alta gracia in past years. although the committee considered three other ven­dors, it ultimately decided to continue its relationship with alta gracia for a vari­ety of reasons. 
“economically, it made the lives of those working in the dominican republic,” hill said. “we can help em­ployment down there by placing these large orders. The employees were so ex­cited to go to work in this country and very grateful for the opportunity to part­ner with us.” 
according to a press re­lease, The shirt is “the single highest-selling col­legiate apparel item in the nation.” The funds raised by The shirt project are used to help students in need of financial assistance and to support clubs and organi­zations on campus. 
The shirt committee is currently working on the design of this year’s shirt, which is set to be unveiled april 17. 
“alta gracia really enjoys our business, and we really enjoy working with them,” dankoff said. “we’re excit­ed to continue working with this company that embod­ies a commitment to social justice, in accordance with notre dame’s mission.” 
Contact Katie Galioto at  kgalioto@nd.edu 


Gold 
conTinued From page 1 
goals set forth by notre dame’s sustainability strat­egy, kurtos said. 
“our achievement of a sTars gold rating is a result of a campus-wide commit­ment to sustainability,” ex­ecutive vice president John affleck-graves said in a press release. “This recog­nition supports our ongo­ing efforts over the last few years and reinforces our continued commitment to sustainability.” 
“From the construction of more leed-certified build­ings to expanding the num­ber of sustainability-related courses and research, the promotion from silver to gold is a testament to how 
Director 
conTinued From page 1 
will oversee a staff of about 30 clerical, religious and lay ministers. he re­places Fr. James b. king, who has served as director since april 2012, according to the press release. king will continue to serve as religious superior of holy cross priests and brothers at notre dame. 
“campus ministry is cen­tral to notre dame’s catholic mission, and i am very pleased that someone with Fr. pete’s energy, enthusi­asm, administrative skills and dedication to service as a much the entire university is doing to advance sustain­ability,” kurtos said. 
students were excited by the news, particularly those involved in the campus en­vironmental club, greend. 
“overall, this is positive news, but we still chal­lenge the university to take more ambitious action on sustainability and on cli­mate change in particular. as pope Francis is mak­ing clear with his upcom­ing encyclical on climate change, this issue is a mor­al one and notre dame can do more,” greend leader 
and senior  garrett  blad  
said.  
The  improvement  from  

just three years ago is ma­jor, but the club and the we are 9 campaign hope to see 
holy cross priest will assume the director role,” university president Fr. John Jenkins said in the release. “i want to thank Fr. Jim king who, in addition to other signifi­cant responsibilities at the university, served as direc­tor until the ideal person was ready to take over.” 
“campus ministry’s work is inspired by the charism of the congregation of holy cross to educate the heart and mind of our students,” vice president for student af­fairs erin hoffmann harding said in the release. “Fr. pete’s outstanding service as a rector, administrator and more change in the future. 
“That’s why greend is challenging the university to divest the endowment from fossil fuel corpora­tions with the we are 9 campaign. notre dame cannot be a truly sustain­able campus if it continues to profit from corporations driving climate change,” blad said. 
The new rating puts notre dame in the top 13 percent of 300 schools reporting data, and it is the highest rated school in indiana. 
“we’re very proud of what we’ve accomplished so far and are looking forward to making even greater strides in the future,” kurtos said. 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 
chaplain has shown his ex­ceptional capability to con­nect with all students and inspire them to deepen their faith. i am delighted that the notre dame community will benefit from his leadership in this crucial role.” 
mccormick is a native of grand rapids, michigan, who entered moreau seminary in 2000 after graduating from grand valley state university. he earned a master’s degree in divinity from notre dame in 2006 and was ordained a holy cross priest in 2007, according to the press release. 
paid adverTisemenT 




Alum 
conTinued From page 1 
“konrad took advantage of all of the resources avail­able to all aspiring notre dame student entrepre­neurs,” slaggert said. “he was president of the mba entrepreneurship club. he participated in a very cool experiential learning pro­gram – the venture capital immersion program – and shadowed an angel investor in washington d.c. he par­ticipated in the mccloskey business plan competition (on 3 teams) while an mba student – this is where he really put the tremendous work necessary into moving Frameri to market.” 
billetz also credited the time he spent participating in extra-curricular activi­ties with his success. 
“getting my business de­gree from notre dame gave me that foundation of busi­ness education, but it was really what i did outside of the classroom that pre­pared me for the big adven­ture of starting a company,” billetz said. 
slaggert said the oppor­tunities that were avail­able to billetz showcase the value of an education from and the resources provided by the mendoza college of business. 

“The education and the opportunities provided 
“Getting my business degree from Notre Dame gave me that foundation of business education, but it was really what I did outside of the classroom that prepared me for the big adventure of starting a company.” 
Konrad Billetz 
founder 
Frameri 

by the mendoza college of business and the gigot center for entrepreneurship are definitely helping set our students, both gradu­ate and undergraduate students, up for success in launching their ventures,” slaggert said. 
moving forward, the Forbes list means great things for Frameri and its team. 
“The award is a huge re­flection of how awesome 
Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmcobserver 
our team is – while my name was attached to it, it’s really a team award,” billetz said. “it also helps legitimize the business and our expertise in the eyewear industry. This makes recruiting a team with great culture so much easier as we grow.” 
as for the university, the list means a chance to share the talent of students and graduates of the mendoza college of business, as well as an opportunity to help future entrepreneurs. 
“our desire is to help stu­dents who have a passion for startups; stories like these, successes by our stu­dents, simply help get word out about resources avail­able to all students and serves to encourage other student entrepreneurs,” slaggert said. 
since graduating, billetz has returned to mendoza several times to speak with entrepreneur hopefuls. his advice for launching a busi­ness is simple. 
“go and do it,” billetz said. “There’s never a better time in your life to start a com­pany than when you leave school. if it’s something you’re passionate about, go all in and never look back.” 
Contact Melissa Riordan at mriordan@nd.edu 
Race 
conTinued From page 1 
Justice Fellowship, which supported the writing of “The new Jim crow.” 
“we have not ended racial caste in america; we have mere­ly redesigned it,” alexander said in a press release. she criti­cized the “war on drugs” and said when prisoners leave jail labeled as felons they become trapped in a cycle of discrimi­nation preventing them from improving their lives by find­ing a job, housing or health benefits. 
in her book, she analyzes the criminal justice system from racial and ethical standpoints and proposes ideas to combat what she calls an epidemic. 
elaine meyer-lee, direc­tor of the center for women’s intercultural leadership (cwil) at saint mary’s, said alexander’s lecture comes at a critical time in america. 
“we look forward to hearing michelle alexander’s very time­ly perspectives on these critical issues of race in our justice sys­tem with which our nation is so actively wrestling,” meyer-lee said. “bringing such speakers is part of our institution’s com­mitment, as outlined in saint mary’s strategic plan ‘boldly Forward’ to be a ‘college where students learn to live, study and work with intercultural aware­ness and competence.’” 
mana derakhshani, asso­ciate director of cwil, said awareness of the systemic ra­cial issues is important be­cause students have the power to change it. 
“michelle alexander’s re­search points out the racial­ization of the criminal system as well as at the unconscious biases that we all carry,” derakhshani said. “it is impor­tant for students and everyone to understand we do not live in a post-racial era and that in spite of the advances made through the civil rights move­ment, there are still many ways that systems are keeping our society very stratified.” 
The lecture is free and open to the public, but due to anticipat­ed high demand it will be ticket­ed. Tickets may be reserved by calling the moreau box office. 
Contact Kiera Johnsen at kjohns02@saintmarys.edu 

climbers reach top of el capitan 
wife and Jorgeson’s girlfriend, 
Associated Press 


paid adverTisemenT 
yosemiTe naTional park, california — a pair of americans completed what had long been considered the world’s most dif­ficult rock climb wednesday, us­ing only their hands and feet to scale a 3,000-foot vertical wall on el capitan, the forbidding granite pedestal in yosemite national park that has beckoned adventurers for more than half a century. 
Tommy caldwell and kevin Jorgeson became the first to free-climb the rock formation’s dawn wall, a feat that many had considered impossible. They used ropes and safety harnesses to catch themselves in case of a fall, but relied entirely on their own strength and dexterity to ascend by grasping cracks as thin as razor blades and as small as dimes. 
The effort took 19 days as the two dealt with constant falls and injuries. but their success com­pletes a yearslong dream that bordered on obsession for the men. 
caldwell was the first to finish wednesday afternoon. he wait­ed on a ledge for Jorgeson, who caught up minutes later. The two embraced before Jorgeson pumped his arms in the air and clapped his hands above his head. Then they sat down for a few moments, gathered their gear, changed clothes and hiked to the nearby summit. 
about 200 people were waiting for them, including caldwell’s who welcomed them to the top with hugs and kisses. it will take the pair two to three hours to hike down the mountain. 
in the meadow far below, an­other crowd broke into cheers. relatives of the men watched on telescopic monitors. 
caldwell’s mother, Terry, said her son could have reached the top several days ago, but he waited for his friend to make sure they got there together. 
“That’s a deep, abiding, life­long friendship, built over suf­fering on the wall together over six years,” she said. 
president barack obama sent his congratulations from the white house Twitter account, saying the men “remind us that anything is possible.” 
The trek up the world’s larg­est granite monolith began dec. 
27. caldwell and Jorgeson lived on the wall itself, eating and sleeping in tents fastened to the rock thousands of feet above the ground and battling painful cuts to their fingertips much of the way. 
Free-climbers do not pull themselves up with cables or use chisels to carve out hand­holds. instead, they climb inch by inch, wedging their fingers and feet into tiny crevices or gripping sharp, thin projections of rock. 
caldwell, 36, and Jorgeson, 30, had help from a team of sup­porters who brought food and supplies and shot video of the adventure. 


The observer | THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Counting down 

Brian Hartnett 
managing editor 

if i’ve learned anything two days into the second semester of my senior year, it’s that life is now de­fined by a series of countdowns. 
There are the fun countdowns, the countdowns to the weekend or to spring break. 
There are the anxiety-inducing countdowns, the countdowns to the day you hear back regarding a job (in my case) or to the day when you start work­ing and enter the “real world” (the case for many of my fellow seniors). 
and of course, there is the greatest countdown of all, that of the time remaining until graduation. 
These countdowns do a great job of inciting panic, especially for those unsure of what life will bring after may 17. but in the same twisted way that an illness or loss causes one to focus on the value of living every day to the fullest, they really do force one to examine his or her time here at notre dame. 
in most cases, this is manifest through the person trying to check items off his or her notre dame “bucket list.” and while you might not use that specific name because it invokes memories of a morbid movie featuring two dying men, you definitely have one. you probably even created it before stepping onto campus for the first time as a student. 
and if you’re anything like me, you probably have a lot of uncrossed items still on the list. 
That’s not to suggest that your time on campus has been wasteful or not worthwhile. no, it’s just that in the midst of the myriads of classes, meet­ings and activities that comprise a typical student’s schedule, you lost sight of some of the things that make this school so unique. and now the time is running out for you to cram these things into your schedule. 
as mentioned above, i’m a prime example of someone who hasn’t accomplished all that i set out to do just a few years ago. i still have to ex­plore much of what south bend has to offer, play bookstore basketball (if any team is looking for a slightly uncoordinated 6-foot-3 forward, i’m on the market), attend hundreds of events and activities and try to meet so many of the interesting people who make attending this university so great. 
as you can probably deduce, unless i get a Time-Turner, i won’t be able to cross off all of these things. 
This brings me to my main point, which is largely directed at underclassmen, though i guess ambitious seniors (an oxymoron at this point?) can do it too … don’t be afraid to take time out of your day to check things off your bucket list, or whatever you call it. 
perhaps i understate the importance of academ­ics, but i see no issue with deserting homework for an hour or two to go do something you’ve wanted to do for a while. similarly, ditch the netflix for a weekend — it will still be there later — and go do something worthwhile, whether it is exploring, meeting others or even just having an unforget­table night with your friends. 
if you make these efforts, then you’ll be able to see senior-year countdowns as what they are — just simple listings of times — instead of frighten­ing rushes to get everything done. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The beginning 
Matt Miklavic 
The maine idea 

seven long semesters ago, i emerged from my nicely bunked bed, responded to my mom’s “have a great first day!” text and bounded across campus to class. my first syllabus week had begun. The week that followed was full of unparalleled debauchery: books were purchased, homework was done, movies were watched, postcards were sent and on Friday we snuck a shot, ruining my relationship with rum ever since. i was kind of a badass. 
as the semesters have come and gone, syllabus weeks have come with them. They bring forth a wave of energy, excitement and opportunity. as i reflected on past weeks, i decided to come up with a list of shenanigans to recommend before your sylla­bus weeks are over. as the intrepid journalist i am, i surveyed campus far and wide (i posted a question on Facebook) and interviewed countless subjects (my table at the dining hall). what follows is the collection of suggestions we have that might add to your syllabus week bucket list, whether this is your last or you have many more to come. 
Take on the perfect week, which i think means study? make a new friend. go see an old one. serenade a crush, ice the ego and move on to the next one. Take on trivia night, wing night and the backer. do something ridiculous, like going to class. 
Take on a challenge, and maybe stop by the librar y. 
commit to doing all of your reading this semes­ter. Forget that idea by the second day of class as you realize karaoke night sounds like a much better time. wow the crowd at o’rourkes with a rendi­tion of “we’re breaking Free” that would make Troy and gabriela jealous. make a few more high school musical references than you should. 
Two words: Feve. 

Throw a snowball. show up to a freshman organic chemistry class and tell everyone you’re in it be­cause you failed it the first time. explain with me­ticulous detail the horrific tests that await. 
make a fool of yourself. defend yourself at your resulting community standards meeting with a di­atribe on the role of civil disobedience in american society. walk away unsuccessful. 
make the british exchange student your wing­man. watch as the raw seduction of his accent rapidly eclipses whatever mediocre qualities you possess. 
relive your 2002, 2007 or 2015 crush and go see drake bell. don’t show up to a bar with mclovin’s hawaii i.d. or a license as fake-looking as maine’s real one. 
definitely show up to class early and introduce yourself to your professor. your class will be jeal­ous. ask a lot of questions, like how best to study for the final. remind your professor to assign the homework for Thursday. be sure to impress the rest of your class with your breadth of knowledge by interjecting as the professor goes through the syl­labus. The rest of the students may be silent, but they’re really thankful you did. 
call a sibling, or grandparent, or someone you haven’t talked to in a long time. do your best to avoid calling a lawyer. 
volunteer. Join a new club. explore a new hobby. watch a movie. send a post card. sn … i’m not al­lowed to say sneak a shot. but do whatever it is that you want to in what will be a final week of opportu­nity and of unburdened freedom. and if you don’t knock everything off the bucket list? don’t worry. The semester is just beginning. 
Matt Miklavic is a senior finance and political science major from Cape Elizabeth, Maine. He always swipes right. He can be reached at mmiklavi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



The observer | THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Selling oneself to the highest bidder 
Chris Damian 
The Ideas of a University 

am i an intellectual prostitute? as a profes­sional student in contemporary america, what else could i be? Former cornell law school dean roger crampton, once said law school tends to present the “hired gun” as one of the main “models of profes­sional conduct to law students.” i suspect this is the implicit model of most professional and technical schools. as a hired gun, the professional functions as an “intellectual prostitute,” who hires out his intellectual talents to the highest bidder. 
even at notre dame, our graduates largely out­source their talents and capabilities to employers who dictate to them the expectations and require­ments of professional life. The highest-paying jobs are usually those in which recent graduates have the least control, in terms of the ends and means of their work. yet, these are the jobs most respected and sought-after. many of our graduates are taught to desire prestigious positions in large multi-nation­al corporations or the organizations that serve such companies. and the more money that is offered, the more our graduates are willing to give employers control over their lives and work. 
at notre dame, we can contrast the prostitute­employee’s work with our students’ commitment to service. at least 10 percent of each class spends a year or more in volunteer service. students serve in appalachia and other impoverished areas. ace and other programs transform communities for the better. but such service “opportunities” are often partitioned off from the rest of our lives and can thus obscure a truly catholic — that is, universal — vision of service. 
consider, for example, wal-mart corporation. as one of its hallmark business strategies, wal­mart stores sell certain products below cost. local consumers, who previously bought from smaller locally-owned businesses, would begin buying the lower-cost items at wal-mart. eventually, local shops that sold these products would go out of busi­ness and, after these businesses closed, wal-mart would raise the prices of these items. This practice of “predatory pricing” not only took advantage of consumers but also destroyed local businesses and communities, aiding and creating the very pover­ties that notre dame students can engage in with their “service opportunities.” 
The irony is that many of our graduates wish to serve communities harmed or destroyed by com­mon corporate practices, while also serving and promoting these practices by buying from and working for these corporations. we are prostitutes in our careers and our shopping carts, selling our minds for a profit and our communities for a tem­porary discount. we can only see the dollar in front of us. 
dean crampton suggests one source of this prob­lem: “There was a time when the deficiencies of legal education could be compensated for by the breadth and depth of liberal education. i fear, how­ever, that the deficiencies of legal education are now increasingly characteristic of university education generally.” crampton suggests that contemporary students have minds that are limited, compared to their counterparts of previous decades. indeed, most students’ prioritization of professions and salaries over persons, communities and practices shows the lack of depth with which students often see their lives. students would rather impoverish than be poor. and they view their professional lives with such narrowness that they would be unable to even see how their work aids in the impoverishment of others. Their prostitution is completed, not only by disinterest in the broader consequences of their work, but also by their general inability to pursue such an interest. They can understand methods and numbers but not communities and persons. 
graduating students whose lives are imbibed with a catholic commitment to service would involve creating within each student a habitual reflective­ness that most college majors cannot provide on their own. we can easily teach students technical competencies and the workings of natural science and mathematics, but a another kind of teaching will be required if we wish for our students to ask why they might want to pay four dollars for a carton of eggs or what their salaries have to do with their neighbors. 
The goal of a notre dame education should be, in part, to make every industry a service industry, to imbibe within each career, profession and calling a commitment to transform, as dr. michael naughton has written, “collections of individuals” into “com­munities of persons.” This would involve graduates who recognize much more than the current politi­cal and economic climate. it would involve valuing more than analytical competency and technical skill. it would involve forming accountants, engi­neers, doctors and lawyers to also be philosophers, theologians, missionaries, neighbors and, most es­pecially, saints. 
Christopher Damian graduated from Notre Dame in 2013. He is currently pursuing a J.D. and an M.A. in Catholic Studies at the University of St. Thomas. He can be contacted through his blog at  universityideas.wordpress.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

regression in race relations 
Faith Alford 
The daily cougar 

over the past year, the phrase “no justice, no peace” has become famous. This chant has been heard at numerous protests against police brutal­ity all over the country and in different parts of the world. as a result, tension and division have risen once again among americans. 
as a nation, america has come so far and made great leaps towards allowing every child to have the same rights and opportunities. however, recent events involving police brutality paint a completely different picture for children. 
The consecutive deaths of unarmed young black men by police officers allow many to believe the fight for justice is ongoing. To add to the matter, with every death there have been no indictments of officers that killed the men. 
of course, even if many of the situations do vary, the apparent presence of racial profiling has not. There is a clear problem with interactions between blacks and officers, and it has been apparent for years. 
according to the virginia gazette, under new york city’s infamous “stop and frisk” law, police officers were allowed to detain and search any­one they wanted to. nearly 700,000 people were stopped in 2011 – 55 percent of whom were black, while only 9 percent were white; 88 percent of those stopped were released since they did nothing wrong. 
“we’re still fighting,” said accounting sophomore nathan platt. “as a young black man with a promis­ing future, i feel as if i always have to remain on the defense when stepping into society. with the recent events occurring in the nation, we are constantly being set back with little to no room to progress.” 
The lives of oscar grant, Trayvon martin, eric garner and so many more unarmed black men prove that justice in america is not yet an equal term. The frustration in black communities is growing every day with the constant injustice that many young unarmed black men are receiving af­ter having their lives taken. 
The progression of this generation has regressed because of the chaos that has happened. There is a natural division taking place. 
some of the injustices that took place 50 years ago are being mirrored today and causing the same uproar. The protests, violent raids and news broad­casts are intensifying the issues and only adding to the negativity in the situation. 
many people have discarded the feelings of the families of these young men by saying they “de­served to die” or “maybe they should have been wearing something else.” The simple fact that peo­ple have no sympathy for a parent or relative who has lost their loved one shows that some are still trapped in a static and destructive state of mind. 
There should be no complacency with the justice in america. There are so many underlying issues that have stopped us as a nation from continuing to move forward as one. 
The war of equality in america must not continue on for another generation. burning down commu­nities and spreading hate will not help us get back to progression. 
honesty is key in the race situation, and the is­sues black men face are real and happening every day. The pigment of someone’s skin should not af­fect how they are treated under the law. 
black people have fought for many generations just to have the opportunity to have a voice in america. many have lost their lives in the quest that one day children of all races would have the same opportunities and receive the same treatment. 
The debate of race has gone on so long in america, and it is a cycle that has been going on for so long. The progression of this nation is far too great; we’ve come too far to regress. 
The Daily Cougar is the official student-run news organization of the University of Houston. Opinion  columnist Faith Alford is a journalism sophomore and may be reached at opinion@thedailycougar.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Allie Tollaksen 
scene editor 

in the late hours of Jan. 13, singer ciara released her first song in two years. while the r&b artist recently announced the single, a ballad titled “i bet,” wouldn’t be released until Jan. 27, the song’s audio was uploaded via youTube. 
The track, which is the first release from ciara’s up­coming sixth studio album, isn’t particularly great. it’s a standard heartbreak ballad, and the early release of the audio is likely a smart pr move — the singer has made headlines recently for her recent split with rapper and former fiancé Future. 
whether the song is about the couple’s public breakup or not, the song is likely to grab the attention of curious fans. 
even if “i bet” isn’t the most compelling single, i’m still thrilled for ciara’s comeback. The reason for my excite­ment is that i firmly believe ciara is an unsung hero, and 2015 is another year, another opportunity to have the year of ciara. 
while many liken ciara back to her “one, Two step” days or came to love the singer after her 2013 hit “body party” (a song a friend recently dubbed “the most re­mixed of all time”), she has had a long and, i think, un­derappreciated career. 
By EMILIE KEFALAS 
scene writer 

henry david Thoreau said it best: “i went to the woods because i wished to live deliberately.” This leads one to assume little red riding hood’s granny might be a tran­scendentalist among an ensemble of scrambling roman­tics in the stephen sondheim sing-song fairy tale collage, “into the woods.” 
i first went “into the woods” this past november, en­tering an awaiting world of adventure, romance, and strange magic past the mahogany doors of washington hall. 
aware a film adaptation was to premiere christmas day, i indulged and introduced myself in a long-over­due encounter with the baker and his wife, a couple of charming-but-not-sincere princes and a witch who iron­ically embodies reality’s harshness.  my expectations for the upcoming film were set remarkably high following pemco’s phenomenal production. 
To compare and contrast the abilities of college-aged actors with film and theatre veterans is almost unfair, but on both hands did i count the number of times the screen did not do justice to the stage. 
Film is an arena of its own language, and “into the woods” is one of the more flexible musicals when it comes to setting and picture.  audiences can fully im­merse their sense of scenery when a vibrant vision of for­est covers a 22-by-52 foot screen.  rob marshall returns as director to his comfortable forte of translating musical KERI O’MARA | The Observer 
in 2004, ciara released her first album, “goodies,” at age 18. she topped the charts with the album’s epony­mous single, as well as “oh” and “one, Two step,” and the record went platinum. 
along with her appearances on tracks with missy elliot during this time, ciara’s music was a perfect blend of r&b, pop and crunk (rolling stone called her “The princess of crunk” after her debut), and her music vid­eos proved she wasn’t just a singer cranking out hits, but a talented dancer and great entertainer. 
Following up her debut, the singer released “ciara: The evolution” in 2006 and began developing an iden­tity as a serious and seriously grown-up r&b artist. The album’s singles, “like a boy,” “promise” and “get up” continued ciara’s streak of catchy tracks, and she went platinum again. Though her next two albums weren’t as well received, she jumped back on the map in 2012 with her self-titled record. 
Throughout the ups and downs of her 11-year career, ciara has been fascinating to watch. she transformed with each record, especially turning up the sexual­ity with each new album. and while she was deemed princess of crunk, her true title is the Queen of the dance video. surrounded by backup dancers, she pulls off dancing not seen anywhere else in popular music, and her moves are the focal point of nearly all of her videos. 
it’s clear that ciara is an entertainer first and foremost. 
theatre to the big screen.  of course, i wouldn’t be writing this review had sondheim not agreed to collaborate with marshall on the proposed adaptation. 
being backed by walt disney studios called for obvi­ous and unfortunate rewrites.  all and any changes to the original story were approved by sondheim. however, some of them are certain to dissatisfy loyal fans of the musical. 
The skeleton of the story is ever so breathtaking in all its cinematic glory.  now, we can see more of Jack’s (daniel huttlestone) beanstalk, the princes’ (the dreamy duo of chris pine and billy magnussen) castle and rapunzel’s (mackenzie mauzy) tower.  speaking of rapunzel, her story is one of the major plot strings to be completely redirected (i won’t disclose any spoilers here, but i was severely disappointed with what was excluded from her story and how it ended). 
several songs are removed for the sake of fluidity and cinematic translation, most notably act ii’s “agony (reprise)” and my favorite of the baker’s (James corden) repertoire, “no more.” 
only one prince is ousted for being a lowlife, cheating scumbag and the audience misses out on a hilariously orchestrated revelation of infidelity.  even when we wit­ness the sensual affair between pine’s prince and emily blunt’s baker’s wife, we get nothing more than a lame adult version of a high school make-out. 
with a big-name cast including meryl streep, pine, blunt and Johnny depp for the sake of appealing to non-theatre enthusiasts, these disney “woods” are not as dark like michael Jackson, who she identified as her hero in a recent interview with l’uomo vogue, she is a performer, not just a musician. but that doesn’t mean she shouldn’t be considered an influential voice in pop and r&b. one look at a music video or listen to an X-rated lyric and it becomes clear that ciara was making a statement about female empowerment and sexuality with her music (and her movement) long before minaj’s “anaconda” dropped jaws. 
her 2006 video for “like a boy” takes beyoncé’s “if i were a boy” and combines it with rihanna’s “pour it up” before either of those songs even existed, yet ciara doesn’t get thinkpieces written about her like rihanna, beyoncé or nicki do. 
For the last two years, i’ve been trying to convince everyone i know that ciara deserves a spot at the table when talking about talented, powerful women in popu­lar music. 
now with her new album, titled “Jackie,” coming out this year, perhaps she’ll finally get that seat. 
it will be fascinating to see what direction ciara takes with “Jackie,” but looking at her last 11 years, i want so badly for it to be the album that gives ciara the attention and respect she deserves. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
and menacing as their theatre counterpart. act i is flaw­lessly abridged, giving one hope the true drama of act ii will live up to its cinematic potential. unfortunately, death by giant is seen as too violent for a pg-rating.  This film is tailored to attract families, so none of the charac­ters face any more of a disturbing death than falling off a cliff. 
The sexual undertones are also lightened.  lilla crawford makes her enjoyable film debut as little red, who passes for being in the correct age-range for depp’s wolf’s advances.  hittlestone’s Jack is a baby-faced, bieber-haired cockney-accented boy who talks and sings as though he is an english schoolboy with a wad of marshmallows stuck to his uvula. when his mother (Tracey ullman) shakes her head at her son behaving as a “fool,” you want to tell the screen, “of course he’s a fool. he looks like he’s five!” 
beyond any alterations, you have to admire the effort and respect this cast has for sondheim’s beautiful yet challenging score.  The man can make a character ca­sually discuss breakfast and then burst into song about longing for brunch without reason but plenty of rhyme as to the consequences of spoiling dinner. This might as well be the blueprint for any potential performance com­pany confused about establishing the boundaries for a proper expedition into these “woods.” 
The disney “woods” seems to want its audience to leave wishing for a greater impact, not a softer story. 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 

The observer | THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene writer 

during the golden globes on sunday, i noticed a few things: how lupita n’yongo obliterated the theory i formed after my seventh grade valentine’s dance that glasses, a purple flower dress and fashionable will never be used in the same sentence, how george clooney has aged remarkably well throughout his film career and the considerable amount of biopics in the nominations. 
This year, we watched biographical movies take over. stars like reese witherspoon, eddie redmayne and benedict cumberbatch went sans makeup, lost weight and committed themselves to portraying the enlighten­ing, and often overlooked, lives of influential, transfor­mative and inspirational real people. 
benedict cumberbatch stars in “The imitation game” as alan Turing, a british mathematician and logician who, through his work for the allies in world war ii, is re­garded as the father of theoretical computer science and artificial intelligence and is credited with shortening the war in europe anywhere from two to four years. 
The film focuses on Turing’s grapple with social skills, the nazi’s “unbreakable” enigma code and his sexual­ity. he eventually overcomes both his unamiable tactics and the enigma code with help from Joan clark, played by keira knightely, a talented female mathematician bat­tling sexism in a plot that could warrant its own movie. unfortunately, the government steps in to attempt to fight the third battle, his homosexuality, for him. Forced to take government mandated hormone therapy, the film brings to light the horrific effects bigoted tactics had on history. 
cumberbatch wasn’t the only chiseled brit to portray genius on screen this year. eddie redmayne took on the role of stephen hawking in “The Theory of everything.” 
redmayne studied hawking’s life for four months and interviewed more than 30 patients at a neurology clinic in london to understand the effects and stages of als, the motor neuron disease hawking was diagnosed with at 21. 
his work paid off as hawkings, now 71, was so pleased with the film that he allowed the filmmakers to swap the synthetic voice they had been using for him with his own trademarked version. 
reese witherspoon stars in “wild” as cheryl strayed, a woman dealing with sex and drug addiction, a divorce and the death of her mother who decides to hike the en­tire pacific crest Trail. The movie is based on strayed’s autobiographical oprah-approved new york Times best­seller by the same name. 
cheryl strayed spoke to mother Jones magazine on the role she played in filming, saying “i’d give reese tons of advice about the character and backpacking, and teach­ing her how to do this, that and the other thing. The art department looked at pictures of my family and the prop people took my backpack.” 
witherspoon had an opportunity to flip their mentor/ mentee roles, bringing strayed as her guest to the golden globes. 
Tim burton’s “big eyes” stars amy adams as margaret keane, an artist famous for her paintings of people with big eyes. The film focuses on keane’s struggle for recog­nition as her husband walter keane, played by christoph waltz, takes credit for her work as people are more likely to buy art created by a man. 
david oyelowo (“interstellar,” “The butler”) depicts martin luther king Jr. in “selma,” a chronicle of the march from selma to montgomery, alabama, in 1965 for equal voting rights. The film stands as a timely reminder of the work that went into advancing the u.s. past the color barrier, the power of progressive thinking and the consequences of injustice. it has received rave reviews, with Time’s richard corliss naming it the Film of the year and calling it “a reminder that the ‘american problem’ has yet to be solved.” 
“unbroken,” directed by angelina Jolie, stars Jack o’connell — a relatively new face among the stars in this year’s other biopics — as louis Zamperini, childhood delinquent, olympic distance runner and world war ii 
p.o.w. in Japan. 

The film is adapted from laura hillenbrand’s no. 1 new york Times bestseller, which my grandma gave me back in 2011 (shout-out gretchen) but i put off until the subsequent movie release to read in a race against my dad over break. (it ended in a tie, which is normally never an acceptable end to any competition in our house. but neither are reading races so…) 
seeing Zamperini starving on a raft in the middle of the ocean, taken to p.o.w. camps and routinely beaten will have you wondering, as i did throughout the book, how he is still alive — until the next unfortunate turn unfolds. 
clint eastwood’s “american sniper,” released Jan. 7, is based on chris kyle’s autobiography “american sniper: The autobiography of the most lethal sniper in u.s. military history.” The film, starring bradley cooper, delves into kyle’s struggle to balance his duty to his country with his love for his family. vanity Fair’s buzz bissinger called cooper’s performance “one for the ages.” 
This year’s biopic films let us delve into inspiring, real stories. it is eye-opening to see benedict cumberbatch on screen and realize you know the contour of his cheek­bones by heart and read about what he ate for dinner last week in us weekly, but you never knew the name of the man who invented artificial intelligence or the scrutiny he faced. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
WEEKEND AT A GLANCE 
THURSDAY 

What: Student Stand Up/ 
Humor Artists When: 10:00 p.m. Where: Legends How Much: Free 

catch up with the humor artists at their first show of the semester. start off your weekend with something funny and if you’re still looking for laughs, stick around in legends to watch “dumb and dumber To.” 
FRIDAY 

What: “The Tale of the Princess Kaguya” When: 6:30 and 9:30 p.m. Where: DPAC How Much: $7 
part of dpac’s asian Film series, check out studio ghibli co-founder isao Takahata’s retelling of Japan’s most famous folktale. a tiny girl is found inside a stalk of bamboo by a bamboo cutter and quickly grows into a young women who enchants everyone she meets. 
SATURDAY 

What: Drake Bell When: 10:00 p.m. Where: Legends How Much:  Free 
check out what one of your favorite nickelodeon stars has been up to when drake bell comes to campus as part of his college tour. despite rumors he injured himself and couldn’t play music anymore, he’s made his last couple of shows and will be lighting up legends for the first weekend of the semester. 

Weekly Watch is a series in which a scene writer picks a movie or show available on instant streaming ser­vice, then writes a review. 
This british science fiction mini­series examines the perils and problems of modern technology in standalone, Twilight Zone-like epi­sodes. originally released in 2011 with a second season in 2013, all six “black mirror” episodes are avail­able on netflix to stream, so check it out and check in on monday for an analysis of the show. 
KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Media timeouts frustrate fans 

Alex Carson 
sports writer 
The first college Football playoff debuted to a rousing suc­cess earlier this month. a pair of teams that probably wouldn’t have played for the title under the bcs system met in the champi­onship bout and more than 33 million people — a cable Tv re­cord — tuned in to watch oregon and ohio state battle it out for the crown. 
some might say college foot­ball has never been better. There are more opportunities for teams to have a shot at the title, more marquee games during the regu­lar season as a result of better scheduling and television ratings are higher than ever. 
but many athletic directors don’t see it that way; they deal with the constant problem of get­ting students to football games. it’s been a story in the news for a couple of years now, really — a simple google search reveals tons of stories about the subject 
— and be it nick saban com­plaining about students leaving a blowout early or michigan state playing crucial fourth-quarter plays in front of a half-empty student section earlier this year against nebraska, it’s a struggle. 
Just look at that school up in ann arbor, michigan. The uni­versity estimated that fewer than one-third of the school’s more than 40,000 students bought student tickets this year, down from past years. The student-body president at this school with such a “rich” football tradition? he responded to price increases by saying that football isn’t “es­sential to going to college.” 
ouch. 
but i’ve got a plan, athletic directors. one that will return your home-field advantages and see your stands fill up again with students, the lifeblood of college football crowds. 
unfortunately for you, it comes at the expense of where the sport’s doing the best. 
The biggest complaint for many students is length of game. at notre dame, it’s a miracle if a game finishes before 7:00 p.m. — despite starting with a 3:30 p.m. (well, 3:43 p.m.) kickoff — and often games drag on into the cold, indiana autumn nights. 
The culprit? Television timeouts and the way they’re administered. 
you see, i don’t have an is­sue with Tv timeouts. i get that they’re vital to the game; they allow the networks that pay tens and hundreds of millions per year to get back their expendi­tures. espn paid $5.64 billion for the rights to the first 36 playoff games, according to the wall street Journal. That’s ... insane. 
so, yeah, i understand why they exist. and truth be told, when a team scores a touchdown or kicks a field goal, it’s not the worst thing in the world to take a Tv timeout. even at the high school level, it takes a minute or two to get restarted typically and really, what’s another minute or two that the university can take to honor a faculty member or per­haps another sports team that’s done well recently? 
but your issue comes a min­ute after the return from the Tv timeout when — you guessed it — after a touchback or an uneventful kickoff, the network takes yet another three- or four-minute break. 
Think about it. 
we’ll say that we’re at next year’s georgia Tech-notre dame game. Justin Thomas has just found the end zone for the yellow Jackets, and the natives in south bend aren’t thrilled. That’s to be expected. 
so what comes next? after Tech runs around and celebrates, it’s been 30 seconds since the score. when they finally kick the point after, we’re pushing a minute. 
Then the guy with the orange arm sleeve comes out and crosses his arms. we wait around for four more minutes until Tech’s kicker boots it through the end zone for a touchback. The evil arm sleeve guy comes back out, and we’ll stand around some more. 
by the end of the sequence, it’s been nearly 10 minutes without any real, tangible action on the field. in a sport where 15 minutes of real game play is the norm? That’s asinine. 
and it’s similar in basketball. a team takes a full timeout at the 
7:55 mark as we’re ready for the media timeout, but nothing hap­pens. we wait around for a couple of minutes, put the ball back in play, and there’s a foul five sec­onds in. media timeout. 
it’s incredibly frustrating to watch from the stands where there’s really nothing else of val­ue to do other than, well, stand there and complain about what­ever’s transpiring on the field. 
when you look at it in these terms, yeah, it’s easy to see why more and more students opt to stay in their dorms or at their fra­ternities and sororities to watch the games on nice, big-screen televisions in a much more com­fortable environment. 
it’s your call, athletic direc­tors: cut the double Tv timeouts, speed up the pace of the game and see your attendances climb. if you don’t? please stop com­plaining. i’m tired of hearing about it. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NFL 
older players serve as valuable assets for playoffs 
Associated Press 
Julius peppers has his birth­day coming up real soon. 
This is one most nFl play­ers don’t get to celebrate while they’re actually still players. 
The same day the green bay packers take on the seattle seahawks for the nFc cham­pionship, this sunday, peppers will turn 35. not even to the mid­point of the average american lifespan, this is a relatively an­cient milestone in a game where the typical player is, oh, 26. 
peppers, though, has hardly been showing his age. There are a few others who’ll be in action this weekend, too, from kevin williams to reggie wayne to vince wilfork, still mak­ing meaningful contributions to their teams heading into the conference championship games. 
peppers was one of the most dominant players on the field last week in green bay’s win over dallas, matching the team high with six tackles, drawing a holding penalty and forcing two fumbles. 
one came during a sack, which the cowboys recovered. The other might have been the most pivotal play of the game, including the replay reversal of dez bryant’s fourth-down grab near the goal line. 
demarco murray burst through a big hole that peppers was being pushed away from, but the eight-time pro bowl de­fensive end escaped his block and knocked the ball out just as murray approached the second­ary with plenty of room to run. 
The packers fell on the ball near midfield and drove the other way for a field goal to pull within 14-13. until that point early in the third quarter, the cowboys were beginning to pull away. 
“you need all hands on deck right now and everybody mak­ing these plays at crucial times,” peppers said. 
The soft-spoken peppers, who has played the outside lineback­er position this season for the first time in his career, has been just as valuable as an adviser for his younger teammates. 
coach mike mccarthy re­cently mentioned a one-on-one conversation between peppers and teammate david bakhtiari that gave the 23-year-old left tackle some valuable insight about his strengths and weak­nesses after the two faced each the previous season when peppers played for the chicago bears. 
“i know david was thankful for that,” mccarthy said. 
The seahawks have been grateful they took a chance with williams, who considered retirement after minnesota let him become a free agent follow­ing 11 years with the vikings. 
The long-time 3-technique defensive tackle was moved to the nose tackle spot after brandon mebane suffered a season-ending injury, and the 34-year-old has been stel­lar since then. williams, like peppers with the packers, is the oldest player on the team. 
“he’s such a savvy player that it just made sense to him be­cause he’s been around so long,” seahawks coach pete carroll said. 
That’s the great advantage these guys have, of course, that first-hand experience and those tricks of the trade accumulated 

NFL 
Colts backup linebacker faces rape charges 
Associated Press 
indianapolis — prosecutors have filed charges of rape, criminal confinement with bodily injury and bat­tery resulting in bodily injury against indianapolis colts backup linebacker Josh mcnary. 
peg mcleish, a spokeswoman in the city prosecutor’s office, confirmed wednesday that the charges were filed. 
according to the prob­able cause affidavit, two indianapolis police officers said a 29-year-old woman accused an unknown man they later determined to be mcnary of at­tacking her in the early morning hours of dec. 1. police, accord­ing to the report, determined the man was mcnary after investigating a cellphone the woman claimed she took from the man’s apartment. 
in the report, police said the woman also picked mcnary’s image out of a group of photos. 
The police also wrote that when they arrived at mcnary’s apartment to investigate, mcnary said: “i know why you’re here.” The report said mcnary claimed to have preserved evi­dence because he expected the police would be coming. 

mcnary has been with the colts for two seasons after fin­ishing his college career as army’s career leader in sacks and tackles for loss. mcnary spent two years on active mili­tary duty to fulfill his commit­ment before signing with indy in 2013. he had 20 tackles dur­ing the regular season and no tackles in the playoffs, and still serves in the national guard as part of his military obligations. 
indianapolis (13-5) faces new england (13-4) on sunday in the aFc championship game. 
The colts issued a statement saying they’re aware of the allegations. 
“unfortunately that’s the lim­it of our knowledge,” the team said. “at this time we are very concerned and trying to find out what the relevant facts are, but we have insufficient infor­mation to venture any opinion. as we learn more we will make appropriate updates.” 
The woman, whose name was redacted from the document, claimed the two engaged in a “physical fight” and that she scratched his neck, face, back and shoulder before the alleged sexual assault took place. 
The woman, whose name was redacted from the document, claimed the two engaged in a “physical fight” and that she scratched his neck, face, back and shoulder before the al­leged sexual assault took place. according to the report, the woman also said she believed the man slapped her on the left side of her face with his hands before forcing himself on her. 
police reported that a nurse found dried blood behind the woman’s ear after she con­sented to a sexual assault ex­amination, and that a friend of the accuser played a 2-minute voicemail from the women for police. 
“at one point, the female can be heard crying and becoming emotionally distraught,” the re­port said. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


INDYCAR SERIES NBA | rapTors 100, 76ers 84; pelicans 105, pisTons 94 
Hunter-Reay receives trophy for Indy 500 win 
Associated Press 
deTroiT — The indianapolis 500 can turn into almost a year-round event for the winner, thanks to the added media attention and the drawn-out process of honoring the victorious driver. 
ryan hunter-reay is the one going through all that now — and it’s a busy schedule he’d love to have every year. 
“it’s been a wild ride, it’s been fun,” he said. “ready to get back to work to try and make another one a reality.” 
hunter-reay was in detroit to receive his “baby borg” replica trophy for winning last year’s indy 
500. hunter-reay became the first american to take the indy 500 in eight years. he was honored wednesday night at the automotive news world congress. 
The baby borgs are small­er replicas of the indy 500’s borg-warner Trophy, and this presentation was one of many post-victory high­lights for hunter-reay. 
“it just keeps coming,” he said. “you win the race, you go on that media tour, then the next thing you know, the pace car is being deliv­ered, and then the face on the trophy, and now this, and the winner’s ring. it just kind of keeps rolling in.” 

hunter-reay won the indycar title in 2012 and finished sixth in the stand­ings last year. 
The indycar series has a lengthy offseason. last sea­son ended in late august, and the first race of 2015 isn’t until march. That means the series is off the radar for a while, but hunter-reay says there are pros and cons to the long break. 
“it’s kind of a complex question, because on one side i would like to do as many races as possible. i’d like to be adding events to the calendar,” hunter-reay said. “on the other side of it, we needed some time to develop the new aero kits that are coming in too.” 
hunter-reay’s wife is ex­pecting their second child at the beginning of march. They have a 2-year-old son named ryden. 
“not very good tim­ing,” team owner michael 
paid adverTisemenT 

andretti joked. 
The opening race of this year’s indycar schedule is in brazil on march 8. That will be more than six months since last season ended, but hunter-reay says the layoff isn’t a huge deal. 
“with the testing we’ve been doing, you stay sharp, for sure,” he said. “i’m do­ing the daytona 24 and stuff like that. That keeps you in it, so just constantly being behind the wheel is what’s important. That’s re­ally what does it.” 
The 18-inch silver baby borg has a sculpted im­age of hunter-reay on its base. The full-size trophy is over 5 feet tall, weighs 110 pounds and is valued at $3.5 million. it has three-dimensional sculpted like­nesses of all of the indy 500 race winners from 1911 to 2014 on its façade. 
hunter-reay won the indy 500 for the first time — in his seventh attempt. 
“it’s taken everything to another level,” he said. “Just recognition — this indy 500 kind of transcends motors-ports a bit and breaks into the mainstream.” 
Lowry leads Raptors in win 
Associated Press 
ToronTo — kyle lowry had 18 points and 12 as­sists, demar derozan re­turned from a groin injury to score eight of his 20 points in the fourth quarter and the Toronto raptors never trailed in a 100-84 victory over the philadelphia 76ers on wednesday night. 
amir Johnson had 10 points and a season-high 16 rebounds, lou williams added 19 points and Jonas valanciunas had 12 to help Toronto win its sixth straight over philadelphia and im­prove to 7-0 against atlantic division opponents. 
michael carter-williams scored a season-high 29 points and nerlens noel had 12 for philadelphia. The 76ers lost their second straight and fell to 2-7 on the sec­ond night of back-to-backs. philadelphia, which lost at home to atlanta on Tuesday night, has failed to reach the 100 point mark in 15 consecu­tive games. 
guard Tony wroten, philadelphia’s leading scor­er, did not make the trip to Toronto after spraining his right knee Tuesday. 
derozan received a brief standing ovation was he was introduced after missing the previous 21 games. an all-star for the first time last sea­son, he hadn’t played since tearing a tendon in his left groin in the third quarter of a nov. 28 home loss to dallas when he slipped and fell on a drive to the basket. 
derozan was 9 of 14 from the field and had four re­bounds and three assists in 29 minutes. 
Toronto led by 10 to begin the fourth and widened its lead on a four-point play by williams. 
k.J. mcdaniels hit a jump shot and made a pair of free throws to cut it to 79-73 at 7:42, but derozan scored baskets on either side of a 3 by patrick patterson as the raptors pulled away with a 7-0 spurt and weren’t threat­ened again. 
Toronto led 13-0 before philadelphia’s first basket, a dunk by carter-williams at 8:04 of the first. williams had 11 points in the opening quarter, but williams made a 3 at the buzzer as the raptors led 34-19 after one. 
noel scored eight points in the second and carter­williams had seven as the sixers used a 12-1 run and connected on 11 of 22 field goal attempts to cut Toronto’s lead to 50-46 at halftime. 
williams scored sev­en points in the third and philadelphia went scoreless for 4:26 seconds as Toronto regained its foible-digit ad­vantage, taking a 71-61 lead into the fourth. 

Davis records double-double 
Associated Press 
auburn hills, michigan 
— anthony davis had 27 points and 10 rebounds as the new orleans pelicans brought the detroit pistons back to earth with a 105-94 win wednesday night. 
The pistons (14-25) came in having won of nine of 10, but were never competitive with new orleans, which led by 20 with 3:15 to play. 
The pelicans (19-19) were missing Jrue holliday (ankle), but easily picked up their sec­ond win in five games. Tyreke evans added 18 points, nine as­sists and eight rebounds for the pelicans, while ryan anderson came off the bench to score 17. 
brandon Jennings had 19 for the pistons, while greg monroe had 16 points and eight re­bounds and was the only other starter to reach double figures. 
The pelicans dominated the first half, with the exception of detroit’s 6-0 run to end the first quarter. new orleans led 58-36 at the intermission, helped in a great part by a 36-point sec­ond period that saw them out-rebound detroit 14-2. 
The pistons only managed 10 rebounds in the first half to 24 for new orleans, and had just one second-chance opportu­nity despite missing 13 of their 15 jumpers in the opening two quarters. andre drummond struggled for detroit, scoring only two points in 17 minutes and seeing his team outscored by 21 points while he was on the floor. 
new orleans stayed in con­trol in the third quarter, and even when they made mistakes, the pistons couldn’t capitalize. after one turnover, kyle singler led a detroit fast break, only to pass the ball directly to new orleans’ dante cunningham. singler didn’t hustle back on defense, leading to an open 3-pointer for the pelicans. a fu­rious stan van gundy yanked him from the game. 



The observer | THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Notre Dame opens season ranked in top 20 
By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports writer 
notre dame kicks off its 2015 season this weekend when both western michigan and detroit come to south bend. 
The irish open this year’s campaign ranked 20th in the iTa poll after finishing 19th last year. despite start­ing this season against non-conference competition, irish coach Jay louderback said the schedule will heat up when the team faces its acc opponents. 
“we’ll see how it goes,” louderback said. “The acc is loaded again this year. we’ll have the chance to see how we stack up against some good opponents, and it gives us a chance to move up. but i think [20th is] probably where we should be ranked at the be­ginning of the season.” 
as a conference, the acc is among the best in the coun­try, with seven teams appear­ing in the top 20, including no. 2 duke and no. 4 north carolina. 
“The thing that’s gonna be different for us this year is that we have a much more spread out schedule,” louderback said. “we started last year playing the six teams ranked ahead of us in six con­secutive matches. … we play all of those teams at different times throughout [this] year. having it spread out is good for us.” 
initially, the team had only scheduled one match for this weekend against western michigan, but adding a sec­ond against detroit should help the team gauge its posi­tion nationally before enter­ing acc play, louderback said. 
“we should get a number of our healthy players in, get some experience,” he said. “… The big thing is just to see where we are after christmas break. The team did a good job of staying in shape over the break, hitting every day. so it’ll be good for us just to see where we’re at to start the semester.” 
The doubles pairing of ju­nior Quinn gleason and soph­omore monica robinson lead the irish, ranking 16th in the the semifinals in the singles country in doubles. The tan-competition of the meet. dem took second place at the The irish will face their first usTa/iTa midwest regional test of the season when they championships in october, take on western michigan while robinson advanced to and detroit this saturday at 12 


NBA | spurs 98, horneTs 93 NCAA BASKETBALL | wesTern mich. 95, ball sTaTe 93 
Ginobili, Spurs snap Hornets’ winning streak 
Associated Press 
charloTTe, north carolina — manu ginobili said he needed a game like this. 
maybe it’s the game the san antonio spurs needed to get things turned around, too. 
ginobili was the focal point of the spurs’ offense wednesday night, scoring 27 points on 10-of-14 shooting in san antonio’s 98-93 victory over the charlotte hornets. 
when the spurs needed a big play, they didn’t hesitate to turn to the 13-year nba veteran. 
“in the past few games i’ve had the opportunity to have the ball in my hands a lot of times,” ginobili said. “sometimes it is not that easy against very athletic teams. Today i made a couple of shots and made better decisions, so i am happy about it.” 
The spurs, seventh in the western conference stand­ings, played for the second straight night on the road. The defending nba champi­ons will look to make a push when the play eight of their next 10 games at home. 
“we had an opportunity to win some other games and we’ve blown them,” spurs coach gregg popovich said. “Tonight we came through so it feels pretty good.” 

danny green scored 18 points and Tim duncan added 14 points and 10 re­bounds to help the spurs snap the hornets’ five-game win streak. The spurs have won eight straight against the hornets. 
“nothing seems to be easy for us this year,” ginobili said. “we are playing a lot of close games. but we are learning from it.” 
ginobili was the key to this win. 
after the hornets drew to 86-85 with 4 minutes, the left-hander drove the right side of the lane and made a high-banking shot off the glass over two leaping hornets. Then he hit a 3-pointer from the top of the key on the next possession to make it a six-point game. he followed that with a feed to a cutting Tiago splitter for a layup to push the lead to 93-85. 
kemba walker had 28 points on 9-of-24 shooting after averaging 30.2 points during the hornets’ winning streak. 
lance stephenson returned from a 14-game absence due to a pelvic sprain and had eight points in 19 minutes. stephenson said he didn’t feel winded, and said the time off helped give him a new perspective. 
“when i was out, i watched people share the ball and play without negative energy,” stephenson said. “so i don’t want to play with any nega­tive energy and bring every­body down.” 

The spurs appeared on the verge of running away from the hornets late in the first half when green hit back-to­back 3-pointers to push the lead to 16. 
but the hornets climbed within 10 after getting some production from an unlikely source — center bismack biyombo. in a span of 10 seconds, biyombo slid un­derneath matt bonner and tipped in a missed free throw, blocked a shot on defense and then grabbed an offensive rebound and scored while drawing a foul for a 3-point play. 
but ginobili halted any mo­mentum the hornets had by draining a 26-footer from the top of the key at the buzzer to give the spurs a 57-45 lead at the break. 
The hornets has several de­fensive lapses in the second quarter and were outscored 35-27, which charlotte coach steve clifford called the key to the game. 
“every team has a differ­ent level of room for error,” clifford said. “we don’t have room for error. we can’t have that.” 
p.m. and 5 p.m. respectively. both matches will take place at eck Tennis pavilion. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 

Tava tips in winner for WMU 
Associated Press 
kalamaZoo, michigan 
— david brown scored a ca-reer-high 35 and connar Tava tipped in the game-winner as time expired in the sec­ond overtime to lift western michigan over ball state 95-93 on wednesday. 
western michigan’s austin richie was forced to dou­ble-clutch a well-defended 3-point attempt and missed as the shot clock expired, but Tava was left alone and his putback beat the final buzzer. 
brown made a pair of free throws with 23 seconds left in the first overtime to tie the game at 89. he fouled out with 4:09 left in the second overtime. 
brown made seven of his eight 3-point attempts in the second half to help the broncos (11-5, 2-1 mid-american) rally from a 14-point deficit early in the period to a 71-66 lead with 
3:58 left. 
ball state (7-7, 2-1) pulled even at 71, but ritchie hit a 3 and Tucker haymond made a pair of free throws to put the broncos back up by five with 21 seconds left. as Zavier Turner made a 3-pointer for ball state, sean sellers drew a foul on mario matasovic. sellers hit two free throws to finish the five-point play with 4.9 seconds left, tying the game at 76 and forcing the first overtime. 

paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 





TRACK & FIELD 

Irish prep for trip to Ann Arbor 
By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports writer 
coming off a six-week break since their strong first perfor­mance of the indoor season at the blue and gold invitational in early december, the irish will return to the track this saturday for the simmons­harvey invitational in ann arbor, michigan. 
The upcoming invita­tional marks the second of nine meets in which notre dame will compete this in­door season leading up to the acc invitational on Feb. 26-28. in the blue and gold invitational, the irish were dominant, winning 22 of the 30 events. 
“The goal for this first meet back is again to get the athletes acclimated to com­petition,” irish coach alan Turner said. “after being away from coaches [during winter break], … the stu­dent-athletes hope to have good performances, but you might not see eye-popping performances.” 
notre  dame will compete  
against  michigan,  who  is  
hosting  the  event,  Toledo,  
eastern  michigan,  bowling  
green,  western  michigan  

and detroit. michigan is ranked no. 15 nationally on the women’s side, and Turner said Toledo – whose women qualified for the cross coun­try ncaa championships 
– would be another strong competitor, especially in long-distance events. 
“after this break of five to six weeks, we want to see where we’re at as we get into the truly competitive phase of our season,” Turner said. “it’ll just continue to build week after week [throughout the season] in terms of the expectations for the team’s performance, with the acc championships being the pinnacle.” 
Freshman sprinter parker english, who was the gatorade illinois Track and Field athlete of the year as a senior, did not compete in the blue and gold invitational but will be sprinting this weekend. Turner said he is excited to see how she will perform in her first collegiate competition. 
he also said he would keep an eye on senior thrower emily morris, who set the indoor school record for the shot put in the first event of the year, as he looks for her to continue to put up big scores and top her previous mark. 
experimentation is anoth­er goal of this early-season meet, Turner said. 
“This time of the season gives us an opportunity to test [the younger runners] and see what events they’re really best at,” he said. “The reason for this is, first, to challenge them in a competi­tive environment, and sec­ond, we may find that they’re very good in an event that’s not their main event.” 
Freshmen distance runners Jessica harris, samantha murray and alex daugherty, for example, who usually run the half-mile, will be compet­ing in the 600-meter run, a slightly shorter event. Turner said he looks forward to see­ing what they can do. 
last year, notre dame won eight of the of the 28 events, including the 4×400-meter relays on both the men’s and women’s sides. 
“it’s going to be a competi­tive event,” Turner said. “in every event, we have to go out ready to compete in order be successful.” 
The irish will travel to the u-m indoor Track building in ann arbor, michigan, to com­pete in the simmons-harvey invitational, which begins at 
10:30 a.m. saturday. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 



M Tennis 
conTinued From page 20 
defeated california junior wyatt houghton and red-shirt junior hasier pastor. 
in the singles competition, no. 37 monaghan topped san diego junior and no. 53 player uros petronijevic, while no. 82 hagar pulled an upset, defeating no. 45 and Texas a&m junior shane vinsant. irish junior nicolas montoya, senior wyatt mccoy, schnurrenberger and Fredericka also garnered individual victories. 
The irish continued to shine on the second day of competition. standout per­formances included that from hagar, who defeated san diego’s no. 70 vittek in his second major upset for the weekend. hagar went un­defeated for the weekend. 
despite the cancellation of the final day of competi­tion, sachire said he believes the weekend was a positive indicator for the rest of the season. 
“overall, it was a good trip,” he said. “we accom­plished what we wanted to accomplish anyway and got some confidence for the future.” 
on saturday, notre dame will travel to lexington, kentucky, to take on the no. 18 wildcats, a team that has gone neck-and-neck with the irish. in the last four times notre dame faced kentucky, the score came down to the final match on the court. 
“we’re looking forward to getting pushed to our lim­its and coming out on top again,” sachire said. 
Contact Christine Mayuga at cmayuga@nd.edu 

W Basketball 
conTinued From page 20 
hurricanes (13-3, 3-0), and that’s something the irish will have to fix against north carolina, irish coach muffett mcgraw said. 
“i think it’s important to get off to a great start,” mcgraw said. “we’ve strug­gled with that, so that’s go­ing to be important for us.” 
notre dame faces no small challenge in a team mcgraw described as physical, es­pecially in its rebounding game. The Tar heels av­erage 42.6 rebounds per game. Two players, sopho­more guard allisha gray and sophomore forward stephanie mavunga, aver­age more than eight boards per game. mcgraw noted that rebounding and play­ing more physically has been a “point of focus” for the irish. 
“i think they’re really talented, a great team,” mcgraw said. “we’ll have our work cut out for us keep­ing them off the boards.” 
gray represents a partic­ular challenge as a 6-foot guard and north carolina’s leading scorer at 16.8 points per game. mavunga follows with 13.8 points per game. 
irish junior guard Jewell loyd continues to headline notre dame’s offensive at­tack. The junior guard av­erages 21.5 points per game this season and has posted the team-high points total in 10 of the team’s 17 games. loyd scored 27 points in the loss against miami. 
after that tough loss, the irish bounced back with a high-scoring home win, as did north carolina, on Jan. 
11. The irish beat boston college, 104-58, and north carolina defeated georgia Tech, 96-81. 
starting freshman forward brianna Turner led the way with 21 points, but notre dame also received key bench contributions, name­ly 15 points from freshman forward kathryn westbeld and 13 points from fresh­man guard mychal Johnson. 
The bench was impor­tant for the Tar heels as well against georgia Tech. sophomore guard Jessica washington provided 16 points off the bench in that game. 
“i think the bench is im­portant,” mcgraw said. “when we look at bench scoring, i think we’re capa­ble. we did a really great job against bc.” 
against miami and boston college (8-8, 0-2), notre dame played without start­ing sophomore forward Taya reimer, who did not travel miami for personal reasons, although she was back with the team in street clothes against boston college. 
on monday, mcgraw said it had not been decided whether reimer would start against north carolina, but she had returned to prac­tice. reimer will travel with the team and dress, a 

paid adverTisemenT 

team spokesman confirmed wednesday. 
“we’re really happy to have her back at practice,” mcgraw said. 
reimer has started 15 games for the irish this season. she has scored 9.9 points per game and has been one of the team’s lead­ing rebounders with 6.1 per game. 
in the team’s pregame notes, the possible starting lineup is listed as follows: Turner, sophomore guard lindsay allen, senior guard madison cable, junior guard michaela mabrey and loyd. 
The irish and Tar heels met last season on Feb. 27 at purcell pavilion. notre dame won, 100-75, but this will be the first trip to chapel hill for the irish. north carolina went on last season to an elite eight ap­pearance in the ncaa tour­nament, losing to stanford. 
notre dame and north carolina square off at 7 p.m. Thursday at carmichael arena in chapel hill, north carolina. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 



M Basketball 
conTinued From page 20 
team. The coach is “hope­ful” the junior will play again this season. 
“This was a hard one,” brey said. “i don’t know if i’ve ever been prouder of a team be­cause we have the [auguste] situation and they’ve got ev­ery reason to be distracted, but they came down here re­ally focused.” 
with a sudden open spot in the middle of the irish lineup, colson filled the void for his team in a big way, adding four rebounds and an assist to his stat line in 22 minutes of play while helping to limit yellow Jacket senior center demarco cox to 17 points over 29 min­utes. it was the freshman’s first substantial action in acc play, and brey praised colson’s performance after the game. 
“i look at [colson] and may­be i should be fired [for not playing him sooner],” brey said. “he’s been on my mind and i’m just thrilled for him. … his attitude has been so good through this first half of the season even though he’s not playing. he is a great teammate and … we’ve found another weapon on the front line we can use.” 
auguste, second on the team in rebounds (6.4 per game), blocks (15) and points 
(14.3 per game), has averaged just over 24 minutes a game up front for the irish. notre dame felt his absence from the start, as the yellow Jackets (9-7, 0-4 acc) threw the ball inside early and often against colson, fellow freshman for­ward martinas geben and sophomore forward austin Torres. with geben getting the start, it was the first time all season brey was forced to deviate from his standard starting lineup of auguste, senior guards Jerian grant and pat connaughton and sophomore guards demetrius Jackson and steve vasturia. 
georgia Tech shot 15-of-28 
(53.6 percent) from the field in the first half on its way to a 38-30 lead, but beachem prevented the deficit from being even larger, as he con­tinued his strong recent play off the bench. beachem came into the game averaging eight points per game, second off the bench in the acc, and netted another seven points in the first half against the yellow Jackets to keep the game close at half. beachem finished the game with 10 points. 
“The game wasn’t going easy early,” brey said. “They defended us well. They were beating us up inside.” 
yet notre dame tightened down on the defensive end in the second half, specifically by picking up the georgia Tech guards closer to the half-court line. by the end of the game, the yellow Jackets held only a slight edge in points­in-the-paint, 28-24, and the irish more than countered that with a 15-4 advantage in fast-break points. 

“i thought in the second half we dug in and defended,” brey said. “Then we got back into our offensive movement that’s been so good for us this year.” 
The irish started the second half on a 7-0 run to trim the deficit to one, and a 3-pointer from connaughton with 15 minutes remaining gave his team its first lead since the irish were up 4-2 just under two minutes into the game. connaughton finished the game with 10 points, one of five irish players to score in double figures. grant led the team with 12 points, includ­ing a late fadeaway 2-point shot to help notre dame to the win. 
georgia Tech led by as much as 12 in the first half, but the irish pushed their way back into the game. 
“i just love our toughness,” brey said. “we’re not scared. we’re 2-0 on the road, and we’ve won in places we’ve never won before in north carolina and atlanta. 
“but we know we’ve got a heck of a team coming to south bend in miami on saturday.” 
miami went into durham, north carolina, on Tuesday night and routed duke on its home floor, 90-74, and also took virginia to double over­time Jan. 3. The hurricanes (12-4, 2-1 acc) and irish are scheduled to tip saturday at 2 
p.m. at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 


Auguste 
conTinued From page 20 
irish freshman martinas geben earned his first ca­reer start in place of auguste against the yellow Jackets, but he only logged six min­utes and didn’t record a point or rebound. Fellow fresh­man forward bonzie colson played a season-high 22 min­utes and pitched in with 10 points and four rebounds. colson had scored eight total points in the last five com­bined games, including three consecutive games in which he did not play. 
“we’ve found another weapon on the frontline that we can use,” brey said in his post-game radio interview. 
Freshman forward austin Torres tallied one rebound in 12 minutes. 
notre dame’s second se­mester began Tuesday with the first day of classes. 
espn’s andy katz report­ed wednesday afternoon that brey said in a text mes­sage that auguste is not sus­pended “but back at school dealing with an academic matter.” 
notre dame hosts miami on saturday at 2 p.m. at purcell pavilion. brey said he doesn’t know if auguste will play against the hurricanes. 
“i don’t have enough info on it yet,” brey said. “i’ll have a little more info on it [Thursday].” 
brey holds his weekly tele­conference Thursday after­noon in south bend. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

Level: 
1  2  3  4  



Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
© 2012 The Mepham Group. Distributed by Tribune Media Services. All rights reserved. 

10/11/12 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: learn from what you see around you. communicate and delve into situations that are sure to bring you closer to the truth and help you discover what you need to do next. use your intuition to better understand the way you feel, and you will find a solution to any situation you face. go with the flow. your numbers are 6, 9, 20, 29, 31, 39, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): an interesting encounter with someone of influence will open up all sorts of interesting new options. listen, contribute and promote what you have to offer. romance is on the rise, and flirting will be well received. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): do whatever it takes to get along with your peers. offer help, incentives or just listen to whatever complaints are being made. sharing and caring will make a difference to the way people respond to you. excess is the enemy. keep life simple. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): offering help can make a positive difference to someone, but don’t take over or let anyone use you to get ahead. The competition is great, but if you use charm and diplomacy, you will surpass anyone who challenges you. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): do something different and unique that will open your eyes to the options that are available to you. spend time making personal changes that are conducive to self-improvement as well as enhancing relationships that are important to you. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you will thrive if you change your location or take a day trip. interacting with unique individuals who can offer you a different option or opinion will help you make an important decision that will influence your personal life. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): your interest in people who do things differently will lead to questioning the means and methods by which you live. share your thoughts, but don’t be too quick to take on someone else’s beliefs. what’s new isn’t necessarily better. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): keep close tabs on your possessions, cash and your reputation. not everyone will be sincere about the way they feel or think. put more into being your best mentally, physically and emotionally, and you will come out on top.  

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): put your time and energy into creative endeavors. staying out of the way and working on your own will bring the best results. being a minimalist will curb your temptation to overspend on things you don’t need. keep emotions under wraps. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): do your own thing and don’t let what others do or say get in your way. be first to make a move when it comes to what you want and whom you want to be with. make a positive change at home. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): an opportunity you least expect will develop. it’s in your best interest to take a unique approach to what you do for a living. explore ways to use your talents diversely and you will find a new source of income. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): refuse to let emotional matters spin out of control. Think before you respond, and use love, compassion and tolerance when dealing with matters that have the potential to harm an important relationship or your status or position. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): deal with financial, legal and health issues in a positive, unique and caring manner, and you will avoid future problems or setbacks. do what’s best for you with regard to offering assistance, and you’ll avoid being taken advantage of by others. 


Birthday Baby: you are determined, dedicated and driven. you are insightful and quick. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
ROFRU  

 
 
 
 
 

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
NARGT  

 
 
 
 
 

BMASUH  

 
 
 
 
 
 

HIDORA  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

Answer: 


(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: VOUCH PURGE IMPORT ENCOREYesterday’s 
Answer: When asked if she wanted gold or silver, she replied — EITHER “ORE” 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 
form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 62, georgia Tech 59 
Shorthanded Irish win gut-check game 

Auguste does Colson carries 
No. 12 Notre not travel, still 
Dame to road win enrolled at ND 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer senior  sports writer 
no. 12 notre dame faced 

irish junior forward Zach the most adversity it had all 
auguste did not travel to season wednesday night 
georgia Tech and did not against georgia Tech in 
play in notre dame’s 62-59 atlanta, and the team han­
win over the yellow Jackets dled it in a big way. 
on wednesday night due to energized by 10 points off 
an academic matter, accord-the bench from sophomore 
ing to irish head coach mike guard v.J. beachem and a 
brey. career-high 10 points from 
“it’s an academic matter,” freshman forward bonzie 
brey said to reporters after colson, the irish (16-2, 4-1 
the win in atlanta. “he’s han­acc) rose to the occasion to 
dling it. That’s all i’m going notch a conference road win, 
to say about it. ask me about 62-59. 
basketball.” coming off a loss to no. 
auguste is tied for second 2 virginia on saturday and 
on the team in scoring with playing only their second 
14.3 points per game and is true road game of the season, 
second with 6.4 rebounds the irish were dealt another 
per game. after starting 13 blow wednesday morning 
games as a sophomore, the when junior forward Zach 
6-foot-10, 240-pounder had auguste was forced to miss 
started the first 17 games for the trip due to academic is­
notre dame (16-2, 4-1 acc). sues. irish coach mike brey 
brey told reporters after-said after the game that 
ward that auguste is still when auguste will return is 
practicing with the irish and “out of my hands,” but he is 
auguste’s potential return is still practicing with the KEVIN SABITUS | The Observer out of brey’s control. 
The Irish starting lineup gathers for a pregame huddle on the sideline before tip-off of its exhibition see m baskeTball PAGE 18 opener against Minnesota-Duluth on Nov. 1 at Purcell Pavilion. Notre Dame won 88-71. see augusTe PAGE 18 
MEN’S TENNIS | morgan run hidden duals ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
squad impresses in california 
By CHRISTINE MAYUGA 
sports writer 
The no. 14 irish cut their winter break short to fly off to sunny rancho santa Fe, california, to come out strong at the morgan run hidden duals hosted by san diego last weekend. 
irish coach ryan sachire said the extenuating circum­stances of vacation did not hinder the players. 
“The first day of practice was wednesday, and the competition started Friday,” he said. “despite that, the team came out strong.” 
in the field of tough com­petitors, including no. 10 Texas a&m, no. 15 california and no. 32 san diego, notre dame produced the best results of the four compet­ing teams, even topping san diego, who has won the first round of competition the last four years. The irish finished the first day of competition going 7-4 in doubles play and 7-5 in singles competition. 
in the first round, the na­tion’s no. 8 duo of senior billy pecor and junior alex lawson and no. 9 pair of sophomores eddy covalschi and Josh hagar both came out on top, defeating california’s no. 42 duo of senior gregory bayane and redshirt senior chase melton and san diego ju­nior romain kalaydjian and sophomore alex araouzos, respectively. The irish duos of juniors Quentin monaghan and eric schnurrenberger, seniors dougie barnard and michael Fredericka and freshmen drew dawson and brendon kempin also post­ed wins in the no. 3, 5 and 6 doubles slots, respectively. 
in the second round, covalschi and hagar defeat­ed san diego’s kalaydijan and sophomore Filip vittek, while bernard and kempin 
see m Tennis PAGE 17 

ND, ‘Heels take similar roads to conference clash 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
assistant managing editor 
The no. 7 irish and no. 12 Tar heels have taken simi­lar paths to this point in the season. 
both enter Thursday’s 7 
p.m. matchup at carmichael arena in chapel hill, north carolina, with 15-2 records. 
For each team, one of those losses came by a large mar­gin in december against a ranked opponent. notre dame (15-2, 3-1 acc) fell, 76­58, to no. 2 connecticut on dec. 6, and north carolina (15-2, 2-1) lost, 70-55, to no. 9 oregon state on dec. 16. 
The other losses were more surprising. on the same day, Jan. 8, unranked miami up­ended the irish, 78-63, and unranked pittsburgh defeat­ed the Tar heels, 84-59. 
notre dame started slow in that game against the 
see w baskeTball PAGE 17 

WEI LIN | The Observer 

Irish sophomore forward Taya Reimer shields during Notre Dame’s 76-58 loss against Connecticut on Dec. 6 at Purcell Pavilion. 





