The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 101 | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 4, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
‘A great and holy priest’ 
University President Emeritus Fr. Edward Malloy recalls final words with Hesburgh 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news editor 
“come, holy spirit.” 
when university president emeritus fr. edward “monk” malloy stood before a capacity crowd at the basilica of the sacred heart on Tuesday night, he invoked god’s guidance in illuminating the complex, dynamic life of university president emeritus fr. Theodore hesburgh. 
facing a congregation of hesburgh’s family and friends and flanked by dorm presidents, class council executives and student body leadership, malloy recalled the circumstances of his last meet­ing with hesburgh. 
“a couple weeks ago, fr. charlie kohlerman, the superior of holy cross [house], our healthcare and retirement facility where fr. Ted lived for a number of years, called me and a number of other of Ted’s close friends and said, ‘The end is near. if you want to have a last, final conversation with Ted, you’d better do it quickly,’” malloy said. 
malloy eventually found hesburgh outside in the cold, smoking an unlit cigar. 
“i said, ‘Ted, what have you been thinking about?’” malloy said. “he said, ‘eternity.’ 
“he said, ‘The phrase that keeps coming into my mind: no eye has 
see hesburgh PAGE 4 




smc announces sga election results 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
associate saint mary’s editor 
saint mary’s college student government association (sga) announced the incoming student 
election week was exciting and stressful, but kohler felt particu­larly confident during her speech in the dining hall wednesday during dinner, she said. 
“we were always anxious to see how the other candidates were go­ing to campaign,” she said. “but moorhead, to prepare for their term, which officially begins april 1. 

baker said she and kohler will begin the board application pro­cess for student-run organizations students were elected into such po­sitions prior to this year, baker said. 
Though they both have sga experience, kohler said she and baker look forward to working with schuster and moorhead to guide them into their new positions. 




McGlinn senior dies Tuesday 

Observer Staff Report 
senior lisa yang, a resident of mcglinn hall, died Tuesday at memorial hospital in south bend, according to a notre dame press release. 
yang was a student in the mendoza college of business and a native of herndon, virginia, in the washington, d.c. metropoli­tan area. 
yang was also a member of the student international business council (sibc), according to the sibc website. 
“our heartfelt condolences and prayers are with lisa’s family and friends,” said an email sent to stu­dents and staff Tuesday evening from vice president of student affairs erin hoffmann harding, university president fr. John Jenkins and mendoza college of 


kohler said she and her partner 
business dean dr. roger huang. 
intend to add a function to the new 
a memorial service will be held 
bellemobile app that would track 
the week of march 16, according to 
blinky, a nightly shuttle service 
the email. more details will follow. 

wednesday night, when we gave 
our speeches, i was so proud to be 
telling the students what we want 
to do, if elected, and express our 
love for the college.” 
kohler said she and baker plan 
sponsored by saint mary’s security 
“Thank you for keeping lisa, 
to transport students safely around 
her family and all who loved her 
saint mary’s campus, as well as in your prayers during this sig­

back and forth from the grotto. body president and vice president, ow the college’s outgoing student like student diversity board (sdb), “There’s a lot of questions that kaitlyn baker and maddie kohler body president and vice presi-residence hall association (rha) on friday. dent, mckenna schuster and sam and student activities board (sab). see elecTions PAGE 4 
to attend sga meetings and shad­nificant time of remembrance and reflection for our notre dame community,” Jenkins said in a statement. 

Committee begins decennial curriculum review 
By KAYLA MULLEN 
associate news editor 
every 10 years, notre dame reviews its core curriculum. The process for the most recent review began with the appoint­ment of a core curriculum review committee in august 2014 by university president fr. John Jenkins and provost Thomas burish, according to the core curriculum review website. 
The committee consists of 12 faculty members from sev­eral university departments and is co-chaired by gregory crawford, dean of the college of science, and John mcgreevy, dean of the college of arts and letters. The committee was tasked with performing a com­prehensive review of the entire core curriculum, drawing on feedback from faculty, students and alumni. 

“if i were to characterize our [the committee’s] conversa­tions … i think the things we have talked the most about are, ‘what is it that we want students to have when they graduate? what knowledge, dispositions 

see core review PAGE 5 EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
What’s the most important value that Fr. Ted has instilled in you? 

Colleen Crooks 
sophomore 
le mans hall 
“The encouragement of pursuing goals and not letting people change those goals.” 
Colleen Naumovich 
sophomore 
le mans hall 
“The promotion of justice and equality.” 
Kaitie Maierhofer 
freshman 
mccandless hall 
“a desire to impact (or try to) others’ lives the way he did.” 

Ellen Raymond 
sophomore 
regina hall 
“a strive for education and justice.” 
Rachel Rahal 
junior 
le mans hall 
“The notion of faith strengthened through catholic tradition.” 
Seton Brems 
sophomore 
howard hall 
“love for others.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

rebecca o’neil hunter mcdaniel Email news@ndsmcobserver.com margaret hynds manny de Jesus andrea vale alex carson 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
emily danaher maddie daly 
Photo Viewpoint 

Procession to Burial Mindful Meditation Graduate Student Men’s Basketball Basilica Mass 
annmarie soller austin Taliaferro 
Site for Fr. Hesburgh Coleman-Morse Mass Joyce Center Basilica of the Sacred Holy Cross Community Center Basilica of the Sacred 4 p.m. - 6 p.m. Heart Ceremony 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Heart The Irish take on 10 a.m. - 11 a.m. 
Corrections 

3:30p.m. Open to students, 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Clemson. Worship service. 
The observer regards itself as Line the procession faculty and staff. Worship service. a professional publication and 
after funeral mass. 

strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. we do, 
Memorial Tribute for “Romeo and Juliet” Men’s Hockey Film: “Rosewater” Vespers 
however, recognize that we will make 
Fr. Hesburgh Debartolo Performing Compton Ice Arena DeBartolo Performing Basilica of the Sacred 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Joyce Center Arts Center 7:35 p.m. - 9:35 p.m. Arts Center Heart 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m. 7 p.m. - 8:15 p.m. The Irish take on 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 7:15 p.m. - 8:15 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

Speakers pay tribute. Theatre performance. UMass. Journalist is captured. Worship service. 


ND, SMC students receive Orr Fellowships 
By KELLY KONYA and  RACHEL O’GRADY 
saint mary’s editor and news writer 
Two saint mary’s se­niors, bailey shrum and sam moorhead, and one recent belle graduate, clare maher, as well as one notre dame senior, brooke kovanda, were recently named incoming fellows in The governor bob orr indiana entrepreneurial fellowship. 
“The orr fellowship is holistic,” kovanda said. “it gives me even more real-world skills, a chance to hone my business education from all sides and the opportu­nity to create a new network.” 
The orr fellowship was es­tablished in 2001 and offers re­cent graduates the opportunity to work for select indiana-based host companies for two years. The program ultimately allows students to build professional networks, receive mentorship from leading executives and re­fine their skill sets, according to saint mary’s director of media relations gwen o’brien. 
The orr fellowship website de­fines its fellows as students who have demonstrated strong lead­ership skills throughout their undergraduate career and who take interest in business, entre­preneurship or technology. 
“my parents’ greatest wish for me is to ‘love what i do, so it’ll feel like i’ve never worked a day in my life,’” kovanda said. “i think the orr fellowship combines these values of doing what you love and knowing that there is more to your life than just your career.” 
for the incoming class of 2015, 45 new fellows have been select­ed out of a record 724 applicants to work at 32 host companies. 
This is the fourth consecutive year saint mary’s students have been selected as orr fellows. o’brien said four college alum­nae have served as orr fellows since 2012, including current orr fellows nichole clayton ’13 and sara napierkowski ’14. 

“essentially, it’s a two-year, postgraduate opportunity, re­gardless of what your major is 
— we’re just interested in people that are really willing to do re­ally good work,” clayton said. “it does have an entrepreneurial feel to it, and it really builds on future business leaders.” 
maher, who has worked in indianapolis since her gradu­ation in fall 2014, said she first applied for the fellowship due to a visit by clayton and napierkowski to her senior seminar course. she said the women’s positive experiences inspired maher to look into the opportunity. maher said she was grateful for her saint mary’s edu­cation as she went ahead with her application. 
“saint mary’s as a whole gave me the the education and expe­rience i needed to present my­self as an asset to the companies i interviewed with, knowing i had the qualifications to back me up,” maher said. “it’s not a coincidence that saint mary’s produced three orr fellows this year and has had past success with the program; a saint mary’s education absolutely gives you everything you need to succeed, and the orr fellowship is one ex­ample of the outside world recog­nizing that.” 
maher is currently the head of the human resources depart­ment for cloudone, a company that specializes in the “internet of Things,” personalized cloud data analytics and “software as a service.” 
being an orr fellow, maher 

paid adverTisemenT 

said she not only gets to interact with cloudone’s ceo and coo daily, but she gets to be an inte­gral part of the rebuilding of a new and innovative hr system to fit the company’s growing needs. 
“really, you couldn’t ask for a better first job out of school,” maher said. 
both shrum and moorhead said they are looking forward to the many opportunities this fel­lowship will present, along with the occasion to showcase and utilize all they have learned the past four years. 
“The diversified education that a liberal arts curriculum provides will allow me to approach issues from a variety of different per­spectives with knowledge gained from a many fields,” moorhead said. “i am most looking forward to being challenged on a daily ba­sis in my first job and meeting all of the new fellows who will form a great community for the next two years.” 
shrum said she is grateful to be chosen out of a group of so many qualified individuals, and she is going to take the opportunity to both grow as a leader within an unrivaled network of peers and give back to the community. 
according to shrum, it is es­sential for students to recognize these types of opportunities that strengthen and support the way that college can transform stu­dents into leaders. 
“programs like orr are look­ing not only for talent, but driven individuals willing to lead, some­thing saint mary’s is known for helping to foster in its students,” shrum said. 
Contact Kelly Konya at  kkonya01@saintmarys.edu and Rachel O’Grady at  rogrady@nd.edu 
careercenter begins ‘check-up’ program 
By MATTHEW McKENNA 
news writer 
The university career center recently partnered with the economics, history and english departments in the college of arts and letters to launch a pi­lot “sophomore check-up” pro­gram, which aims to provide sophomores with information and resources in order to help them achieve their professional goals. 
bridget kibbe, career engagement manager at the career center, said the center has a wealth of resources for every undergraduate class year, but freshman, juniors and se­niors have “more of a systematic touch point” with the career center. 
“we recognize that the soph­omore year is actually a very important time for making de­cisions, so we wanted to do a special outreach to focus on resource awareness that would meet students where they are during that time, regardless of the paths they are considering,” kibbe said. 
kibbe said the career center began the program with a few departments in order to evalu­ate the potential success of the program. 
“it is our hope that we will be able to figure out a way to scale sophomore checkups so more students can participate while retaining the small group de­sign,” kibbe said. 
sophomore louis bertolotti said the program helped him to become more knowledgeable about the resources the career center has to offer. 
“This recent program spe­cifically helped me utilize the online databases about which many are unaware,” bertolotti said. “furthermore, it provided me with the information on how to secure funding for unpaid summer internships.” 
bertolotti said a liberal arts education is very valuable — it helps to teach students about a variety of topics and disciplines. 
“a liberal arts education cul­minates in a complete edu­cation of the mind, body and spirit,” bertolotti said. “The career center helps one trans­late the knowledge that comes from a liberal arts education into an actual career path.” 
matthew Zyniewicz, the dean’s executive administrator in the college of arts and letters, said the college teaches students to tackle today’s most pressing issues in a demand­ing intellectual environment, which results in the develop­ment of skills that are highly sought after by employers. 
“no matter what course of study you choose in the college, you will acquire skills that are powerful assets in any profes­sion: the ability to think criti­cally and creatively, to analyze complex information, to iden­tify and solve problems, to write well and to speak persuasively,” Zyniewicz said. “These versa­tile skills are increasingly valu­able in today’s rapidly changing global economy.” 
“[The ‘sophomore check-up’ program] will be a great way for our students to learn about and take advantage of all of the opportunities that are open to them during their time here — and also to begin thinking about their post-graduation goals and how to achieve them,” he said. 
Contact Matthew McKenna at mmcken12@nd.edu 

eateries to stay open over break 
plans as it relates to the dining 
By ANDREA VALE 
news writer hall schedule. any student with 
a current meal plan is eligible to 
beginning saturday, notre visit during this time.” dame’s dining halls will stay according to chris open during spring break for abayasinghe, director of food the first time in school history. services, dining halls were pre­in response to complaints from viously closed during school students who stay on campus breaks. The only campus meal during fall and spring breaks options that remained open dur­and are forced to rely on their ing breaks were fast food res­own money to obtain food, notre taurants in lafortune student dame food services has imple-center and various other estab­mented a trial program from lishments on campus, including march 7 to 15 to determine if per-reckers and au bon pain. manent changes should be made “we listened to student for the future. feedback on meal needs,” 
“The university recognizes abayasinghe said, “The feedback that a number of students re-that was shared centered around main on campus for spring the number of students remain-break,” ann hastings, senior ing on campus during the break communications specialist in and if their meal needs would be the office of student affairs, said, better served in a dining hall.” “understanding the potential The open dining halls are es-utilization of the dining hall over pecially convenient to those break can help food services students who stay on campus and the university assess future during spring break to save money that would otherwise be spent on traveling. meal swipes used during spring break will count towards students’ current meal plans at no additional cost to students. 
“usage information will assist my department in evaluating the need, and number of students dining on campus during break periods,” abayasinghe said. “based on this data, we can then evaluate future operations dur­ing break periods.” 
north dining hall will be open saturday for brunch from 11 
a.m.
 to 1 p.m. and dinner from 5 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. from sunday to march 15, south dining hall will be open for brunch from 11 

a.m.
 to 1 p.m. and dinner from 5 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. both dining halls will reopen for dinner and resume normal hours march 15. 


Contact Andrea Vale at  avale@nd.edu 



Hesburgh 
conTinued from page 1 
seen nor ear heard what god has in store for those who love him.’ 
“i was blown away, of course. and i recognized at that point that he knew that he was going to die soon and that he was full of utter gratefulness for his life and all of the gifts that he had enjoyed along the way.” 
malloy and hesburgh fondly remembered the people who had helped and otherwise im­pacted hesburgh throughout his life, starting with ned Joyce, the former university executive vice president hesburgh described as “his best friend in his whole life,” malloy said. 
“you couldn’t have found two people that personality-wise were more different. Their politics, their ecclesiology — all different. but Ted was proud when he said, ‘we never had a fight.’ i think that was influenced by the fact that Ted had the last word.” 
malloy said hesburgh recalled helen hosinski, his secretary and assistant for 47 years, who in 2004 earned a place among only 24 other individuals on notre dame’s wall of honor in the main building. 
“Ted used to say, ‘we’re just fig­ureheads. it’s the women of notre dame like helen who really run the place,’” malloy said. “That, of course, is very true.” 
malloy recalled the early be­ginnings of the kroc institute for international peace studies, a program made possible only through Joan kroc, the inheritor to the mcdonald’s fast food for­tune, after hesburgh presented “his dream of a peace institute” at a conference in san diego. 
“after it was over, a woman came up he had never met before and she said, ‘how much would it cost?’” malloy said. “… we came back [to notre dame] … he said, ‘it’s going to take six or seven mil­lion dollars. we’ll be happy to come out and meet with you.’ she said, ‘That won’t be necessary. i’ll send it to you in the overnight mail.’ he went, ‘what?’” 
hesburgh and malloy talked about hesburgh’s fondness for notre dame’s land o’lakes en­vironmental research center in wisconsin, where he often went after the academic year to fish, read and enjoy nature. 
“when i was having my last meeting with him, i said, ‘did you ever hear the rumor that when you were out fishing, when you couldn’t see anymore, that some­body in a wetsuit would go down below the boat and hook the fish on the line?’” malloy said. “he said, ‘no, that couldn’t possibly be true.’” 
malloy recounted hesburgh’s appointments to the civil rights commission as a member and later as its president. Though inex­perienced in civil rights and policy issues, hesburgh did not shy away from the chance to fight “this great scourge on american life.” 
“he went from somebody with­out much experience in this im­portant issue in our common life to someone who was responsible, in a sense, for the civil rights act of 1964,” malloy said. “hard to ex­plain it, but many times he played a providential kind of role in the events of our time.” 
hesburgh was a “daredevil,” malloy said while laughing about hesburgh’s drive to experience every place he went to the fullest. Through all his travels, hesburgh remained devoted to celebrating mass every day and frequently in­vited non-catholics and atheists alike to join him. 
“he celebrated mass in a sub­marine between california and hawaii and on aircraft carriers. he went to the antarctic, and then he flew in a supersonic transport,” malloy said. “… but his great dream in life was to be the first priest to celebrate mass in outer space as an astronaut. he and walter cronkite were lined up, but then the tragedy of the challenger disaster happened, and he was never able to fulfill that dream. 
“one time on one of his birth­days we celebrated mass right along the sea of galilee in a mo­tel in a room with a christian­arab driver,” he said. “and all i could think of, here was Ted, right next to where Jesus would have been doing the same thing in his ministry.” 
hesburgh was the first priest to say the mass at lambeth palace, the london residence of the archbishop of canterbury, and he always sought new opportuni­ties to explore and inform himself about the world, malloy said. 
“Ted was in 100 countries, i think,” malloy said. “one time, i was able to go to Tibet, and he said, ‘i’m so envious of you. i’ve only been to nepal and afghanistan and china and india and — but i’ve never been to Tibet.’ i said, ‘Too bad, Ted.’” 
malloy closed his reflection with a blessing for hesburgh. 
“when i left him on that last meeting, i asked him to bless me, which he did graciously,” malloy said. “now i want to say on be­half of all of us, fr. Ted hesburgh, c.s.c., you have been a great and holy priest. you have been our pastor here at notre dame, as you have for the country and the world. now, go to god, and may you rest in peace.” 
university executive vice president John affleck-graves said the wake service served as “a won­derful way to send [hesburgh] off.” 
“it was a beautiful service, and monk did such a wonderful job of touching every aspect of fr. Ted’s life and i think, bringing him back to life for all of us,” affleck-graves said. 
lewis hall president, junior katie ferrara, said her experi­ence sitting behind the altar was “humbling.” 
“we were invited to represent the dorm communities,” she said. “i know that fr. hesburgh really encouraged the family aspect of the university and to be here feeling incredibly unworthy to be here — someone told us yes­terday, ‘it’s not you, it’s your posi­tion,’ — being able to represent the dorm family for someone who 
— the notre dame family meant so much to him, was quite the blessing.” 
in the lafortune student center, one of many campus hubs where the wake service was streamed live, viewers crossed themselves whenever the priests made the sign of the cross, partici­pating through the Tv screen with malloy and the congregation. 
student body vice president senior matthew devine said de­spite the campus-wide sadness following hesburgh’s death, the community has an opportunity to celebrate hesburgh’s life and legacy. malloy’s speech “struck the perfect tone,” he said. 
“we’re very glad to see his life re­membered in this way, to bring to­gether so many people over his life who were so meaningful to him and to celebrate his life,” devine said. “we hope that our lives can be a testament to his, to the life that he led. we’re just very grateful to have been a part of this and to be with his friends and family in this important time.” 
“beautiful” became the defin­ing word of the evening service, as both student body president senior lauren vidal, student body president-elect junior bryan ricketts and junior class vice president michael fliotsos also described the wake as such. 
“as students here, we’re all honored, and we look forward to continuing remembering him throughout the days to come,” vidal said. 
News Writer Clare Kossler contributed to this report. 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at  lsteven1@nd.edu 
Elections 
conTinued from page 1 
need to be asked and a lot of re­search to figure out how we could create such a function,” kohler said. “i’ll have to reach out to iT and try to develop that over the summer.” 
baker said they want to begin promptly on some of their larger initiatives, such as the blinky tracker and diversity within sga. 
in addition, baker said they want to talk with security about transporting students during the day. 
“The issue seems to be that girls come home with groceries and luggage, and they need a little help getting from point a to point b, so maybe we can talk with security about being more available during the day,” baker said. 
kohler said she wants students to know she and baker are inter­ested in their concerns. 
“we’ve already had students reaching out with ideas, and stu­dents feel like they can communi­cate their wants and needs to us,” kohler said. “ ireally want students to know we are approachable.” 
baker said she and kohler hope to recruit a diverse group of stu­dents to be in their presidential cabinet. 
“i want to make sure minority groups are represented and reach out to some of the diverse clubs to find out what their needs are,” she said. “i want to make sure their voices are heard.” 
sga added an “international chair” to ensure the needs of all students are met, and baker said she thinks including sga repre­sentatives within that addition may help. 
“we can’t really cater to the needs of diverse students if we don’t have any diversity in sga,” baker said. 
baker said she also wants sga to maintain its transparency while she and her partner are in office. 
“in our platform, we tried to be really honest and highlight ideas we know we could work towards,” she said. “we really want to hear from students and keep senate meetings open to students to voice their concerns.” 
baker and kohler both said they are excited for the “big belle, little belle” program to begin next fall. The program will pair up current sophomores and juniors with in­coming first-year students and give new students a guide for their first year of college and beyond. 
“right now, the program is vol­untary and the office of student affairs is in charge,” baker said. “we hope students will want to share their saint mary’s experi­ence with new students and serve as a mentor and friend.” 
kohler said, overall, the elec­tions were a good example of friendly competition amongst classmates. 
“all of the candidates did a great job campaigning and getting their message out there,” kohler said. “now i’m really excited to meet with [the] administration and communicate our ideas and fig­ure out what plans are already in the making.” 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 




“both with staff and with who encounter and interpret the Core Review students, we have been really world in significantly different 
conTinued from page 1 

trying to pull them into the con-ways.’” 
versation on campus,” she said. The proposal draws on di­and skills?’” mcgreevy said. “we also are reaching out to al-versity requirements from oth­“This can range from particular ums … trying to incorporate ev-er top institutions, citing the courses to writing skills, speak-eryone into our listening tour.” university of pennsylvania’s ing skills — a range of things. at the faculty forums, various current requirement as the 
“Two, [the question is], ‘how staff members and departments most similar to what the best can these be substantiated, have made suggestions, ranging american studies department is incorporating certain require-from the importance of integra-proposing. ments and organizational struc-tion within the core curriculum “our colleagues at the tures, from academic advising to critiques of the appointment university of pennsylvania to the relationship between first system to the committee. agree with us in suggesting year of studies and the colleges that a u.s. focus is needed,” the and schools?’” Sustainability and foreign proposal said. “Their ‘cultural 
The committee is organized language diversity in the u.s.’ require-into three focus groups: the debra Javeline, associate ment ‘aims to develop students’ advanced placement (ap) focus professor of political science, knowledge of the history, dy­group, the academic advising proposed a sustainability re-namic cultural systems and focus group and the catholic quirement for the core curricu-heterogeneous populations that mission focus group. lum at a feb. 3 faculty forum. make up the national culture of 
“one [focus group] is focusing “we are all deeply concerned the united states.’ on ap and to what extent should about the sustainable issues “Their requirement defines options to place up, to take more received faith as such, but is the notre dame accept ap credit of environmental change and ‘diversity’ as courses that focus demanding course? The ‘grade generation of educated faith, and in what areas and try to get whether our students come out on ‘race, ethnicity, gender, sexu-13’ problem is longstanding.” which can not only render a bold a handle on what our peers do,” of notre dame to participate in ality, class, and religion.’” To fix these problems, roche account of witness to revelation, mcgreevy said. the conversation,” Javeline said. The proposal states this proposed implementing new but can comprehend revelation 
“The second is focusing on at the same forum, theology requirement could be dou-ways of looking at the founda-as far as it can be comprehend-advising,” he said. “how can professor gary anderson called ble-counted with other re-tional theology courses. ed and deal with the difficulties we do advising better? is there a for reforms to the structure of quirements, allowing it to be “why not add a course on — interpretative, intellectual way to make the handoff, as they introductory classes so that integrated across the core cur-students’ highest priority: theo-and moral — that faith pres-call it, from first year of studies students do not have to take as riculum. The proposal also sug-logical understanding of the ents throughout history and es-to the colleges more effective? many beginning classes taught gests that the requirement can catholic faith?” roche said. pecially in the modern world,” can we give students better ad-by graduate students. be fulfilled across departments, “why not add some theme op-o’regan said. vising earlier about possible ca-“when i arrived in 2003 allowing a wide range of classes tions, such as the cross and the “i think this is a moment of reers, certain majors, how they and began teaching the intro to fit the requirement. Trinity, which is more likely to common reflection, of what and can figure out their intellectual course, i was told i had to do the create wonder? who we are and of what and who passion? university seminar with 17 stu-The theology requirement “student choice has advan-we are becoming.” 
“The third focus group — the dents because we have to have changes to other require-tages, as we know students learn many students posted on real question there is, how can senior faculty members teach-ments have been proposed as more when they are actively en-various social media outlets, we instantiate a serious com-ing those seminars,” anderson well, most notably the theology gaged and have an existential defending theology in the core mitment to our catholic charac-said. “plus, the university re-requirement. interest in the subject matter. curriculum with the hashtag ter? it has been done historically quires us to fund our fifth-year “The current curricular dis-some level of choice is likely to #loveTheonotredame. through two theology and two graduate students by putting cussion is not driven by the aid the overarching goal of in-philosophy courses and that them in these classes, so we are status quo, but by a vision of spiring further learning in the Next steps might be the best way, but we forced to do this,” he said. what we expect 21st century area. “ at the student senate meet-want to take a look at that and associate professor of clas-graduates of notre dame should while the review itself is a ing on wednesday, students think it through. are there oth-sics elizabeth mazurek, who know,” mark roche, profes-beneficial activity, it also runs voiced concerns, suggestions er ways we can instantiate our also spoke at the feb. 3 forum, sor of german and chair of the the risk of losing sight of what and questions in other areas of catholic character?” stressed the importance of for-catholic mission focus group, the university already does well, the curriculum review, includ-
The current core curriculum, eign language courses. said in a feb. 9 debate about theology professor Jean porter ing the suggestion of a technical which has largely stayed the “i think that if you were to ex-the place of theology in the core said at the feb. 3 faculty forum. literacy requirement and an in-same since 1969, consists of the plore a thematic requirement curriculum. “vision should be “notre dame is an institu-ternational education require-requirements of one writing and of diversity, foreign language the guiding force at a university. tion that prides itself on giving ment. other concerns included rhetoric class, two mathematics would be perfect,” mazurek “Theology and philosophy our undergraduates a first-rate, ap credits, transfer credits and courses, two science courses, said. “you would not be forcing were privileged in our vision humanistic education,” porter the amount of credits required one history course, one social all students to take so many se-and are important in the core, said. “we initiate them into cer-for the core curriculum. science course, two theology mesters of a language require-but they are not the only carri-tain critical thought, we initiate The committee, however, is in courses, two philosophy cours-ment, but it would be an option ers of vision or even of catholic them into the learnings of the the very early stages of the re-es, one fine arts or literature for diversity exploration. vision.” church and i think we do it at a view and focused mostly on dis­course and two courses in phys-“The catholic church is a reforming the theology re-very high level.” cussion of the various directions ical education or roTc, though world church, and if we are to quirement would fix current The idea of possibly changing that the core curriculum can go, a different first-year course will talk about ecological literacy, i problems in the curriculum, the theology requirement has mcgreevy said. replace the traditional physical think we also have to talk about roche said. raised some concerns from both “i would just really stress that education requirement in the world language literacy.” “only 53 percent of students students and staff. we are really just talking and fall 2015 semester. who have taken a first theology “i do believe there is some-even more than talking, we are 
Diversity proposal course agree or strongly agree thing seriously wrong with the listening, trying to figure out Public meetings individual departments also that the course would be worth emerging ethos at notre dame, what our college faculty and 
The review committee has submitted proposals to the taking, even if it were not a re-which i believe is very much our students think every notre held a staff information session, committee, suggesting changes quirement,” roche said. symptom in one regard as the dame student should know,” hosted several open faculty fo-or additions to the core cur-“of course, we should require runaway enthusiasm of our ir-mcgreevy said. rums on the topic and spoken riculum. The american studies students to take some courses responsible invention repre-“our hope is to have a report with the faculty senate, marie department’s proposal rec-that they otherwise would not sented in the core curriculum sometime next fall [fall 2015] blakey, the executive director ommended the addition of take, but we hope that after tak-review,” theology professor cyril with recommendations. That of academic communications, a “united states diversity” ing a course, they recognize the o’regan said in a feb. 9 debate would then lead to another long said. The committee also spoke requirement. intrinsic value of the course that on the place of theology in the round of discussion between with the student senate and re-“one way, we believe, is to take they took. core curriculum. faculty and students and the en-leased a survey to a sampling of seriously our obligation to pre-roche said the university “despite the fact that the first tire campus community. students yesterday. pare our students to be faithful needs to look into offering more universities in the west were “ultimately, we imagine 
in the future, the commit-catholics and effective citizens demanding theology courses. all catholic institutions, since through the normal processes of tee plans to release a survey to by helping undergraduates gain “of all the university’s re-the 19th century, the notion of faculty government, there will alumni, meet with the alumni the knowledge, skills, and habits quired courses, theology has a catholic university has been be votes taken and recommen­board in april, receive recom-required to respectfully engage the lowest scores on intellectual problematized,” he said. dations that we may take and mendations from different de-difference,” the proposal said. challenge,” he said. o’regan argued that while changes implemented.” partments, meet with students “we believe, as our faculty col-“right now, students who other courses may be able to To learn more about the core selected through their dorms leagues at another institution have had multiple years of in-integrate catholic identity, curriculum review, visit www. and through their majors and do, that ‘a critical component tensive theology at premier only theology is able to teach curriculumreview.nd.edu speak with all campus residence of a liberal education is the ca-high schools have to take the revelation. hall rectors on the topic, blakey pacity to see human experience introductory theology course. “The purpose of theology is Contact Kayla Mullen at  said. from the point of view of others shouldn’t we be offering them not strictly the reproduction of kmullen2@nd.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 

The longest month 
Michael Ivey 
sports writer 

according to the calendar, february is the shortest month of the year with only 28 days (29 in a leap year). however, with a combination of bad weather, lack of entertainment and knowing how close we are to warmer weather, february seems like the longest month of the year. 
february is one of the worst weather months of the year. during the second month of the year, folks in the north and midwest regions get bombarded with heavy snowstorms and bone-chilling cold temperatures. record-setting snowfall and bitter temperatures have plagued these two regions for the past two winters. 
but it seems to reach another level dur­ing the month of february. we spend most of our days shoveling snow to make pathways to our houses or cars. we have to layer up every time we go outside so we don’t get frostbite. a huge snowstorm will come and blanket the ground with a fresh coat of snow, and after we’re all done moving the snow, another huge snowstorm will leave even more. it gets so cold that we can’t go outside on even the nicest of days because of the freezing temperature. people hate being confined to their houses, and it seems like they are confined for an entire month. This leads to many people becoming sad and depressed. 
another thing about the month of february is that not much happens. The first sunday of the month is super bowl sunday, but after that, there isn’t much happening. only a bunch of boring regu­lar season nhl and nba games make up the weeknight entertainment. and don’t even mention the nba all-star weekend, which just gets more boring every year. There are some award shows, like the grammys and the oscars. however, those are televised sunday nights and run late, meaning many people get tired and tune out. 
one more reason why february seems longer is all the stuff that starts in the month of march. The weather starts to get nicer and the snow starts to melt. people are finally able to go outside and start do­ing normal activities. mlb spring train­ing and march madness begin. another event that happens in march is spring break. with all of these events happen­ing in march, the anticipation for them begins in february. The heavy workload the week before break combined with the anticipation to go on break is almost too much to handle for some students. when you’re waiting to do something you are really looking forward to, the wait seems even longer. 
The calendar says there are only 28 days in the month of february, but the month itself seems to hint otherwise. 
Contact Michael Ivey at       mivey@hcc-nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
fr. Ted’s lesson in saying ‘yes’ 
The first time i met father Ted, it was by accident — i was in the right place at the right time. i was a freshman, nervously studying for my exams on the first floor of the library, when fr. Ted’s incred­ible assistant came into the room. she asked if anyone would like to read to father hesburgh, because the person who would usually do so was not available that day. 
i hesitated — a common theme in my college years and in my life. i was poised to say no, to let the opportunity slip by out of fear or need to focus on my studies. i waited, expecting someone else to snatch up the opportunity in my slowness to answer. as no one did, i timidly raised my hand and stammered, “i — i’d like to.” i fol­lowed the assistant, melanie, into the elevator and up to his office. we casually chatted; she asked my name, what i studied and the like. when we arrived in father Ted’s office, she brought him in and introduced me. “This is molly, father, and she’s going to read to you today.” 
reading the new york Times to father Ted was an amazing oppor­tunity for many reasons. i remem­ber reading him headlines from which he would decide if we would read the full story (we almost always did). as i read him each story — from notes on oil digging to the situation in iraq — he would stop me and give me his opinion. i sat in awe, listening to him casu­ally spout off words of wisdom. To be honest, i don’t remember much of what he said. i was focused on making sure i read every word correctly and clearly, keeping his interest. i was trying not to think about how dry and scratchy my throat felt after an hour of reading through that cigar smoke. 
what i will always remember from that hour has little to do with the actual readings. in fact, my clearest memory from that day was a story father Ted told me just as i walked in — one that encap­sulates who he is in my mind. he gestured to some beautiful flow­ers sitting on his coffee table and told me they were from a kind older couple. he explained that he had been in the grotto a few weeks before, where he met up with this couple visiting campus. They had both been previously married, their spouses had passed away, and the two had found love together. father Ted explained to me that he told them, “That’s re­ally great — but it would be even greater if the two of you could live together. would you like to be married?” 
i imagine the couple was a bit taken aback by this, but they agreed — and he invited them to come back a week later, where he married the two of them in the basilica of the sacred heart. This story has stuck with me through­out the years as the picture of who father Ted is — a no-nonsense, no-frills man who loved the church and its people. a man who was willing to say “yes” and who inspired that desire in others — a man who helped each of us take a leap in one way or another. 
in some ways, i use that story to remind myself to take leaps of my own sometimes. i still have a tendency to say no to things or to stay in my comfort zone, but this couple and father Ted’s story remind me of how important it is to say “yes” sometimes. after all, if i hadn’t said yes that afternoon in the library, i may not have ever met father Ted, and i would have missed out on one of the most valuable experiences of my time as an undergraduate. Thank you, father Ted, for reminding me to say yes. 
Molly Daily 
class of 2014 march 3 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

An uncertain welcome 
on march 3, israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu addressed a joint session of congress, cautioning lawmakers against a proposed nuclear deal with iran. The prox­imity of the israeli election and the topic of netanyahu’s address have drawn criticism from susan rice, nancy pelosi and John kerry. Their objections did not deter netanyahu from pre­senting his case to congress and the american people. 
many college students consider israel to be an imperialist power, created on the land of dispossessed palestinians. They condemn israel as an apartheid state, accuse its leaders of war crimes and promote the bds (boycott, divestment and sanctions) movement at their universities. This limited narrative serves to further complicate issues such as the israeli presence in the west bank, the recent war in gaza or the political status of Jerusalem. protesters chanting, “from the river to the sea, palestine will be free,” some knowingly and others not, demand that israelis abandon their historical and political homeland. They un­dermine negotiations between israel and the palestinian authority, encouraging the latter to view any agreement as a placeholder. This em­powers anti-semitic factions attempting to cre­ate a new palestine, stretching from the Jordan river to the mediterranean sea. obviously, such plans ultimately preclude the existence of an israeli state. likewise, those who view this conflict in such black and white terms tend to view suicide bombers and missiles from gaza as mere consequences of israeli oppres­sion. a more nuanced view is required for this complex situation. israelis are threatened by internal terrorism while absorbing missiles and raids from the gaza strip. few would argue that the present situation of the palestinians is desirable, but envisioning what concessions one would make in the role of an israeli official is challenging. This is because a significant percentage of the entities seeking the conces­sions have vowed continued violence until israel is no more. 
historical context explains israel’s security concerns and importance to america. The state of israel declared independence in 1948, but it traces its origin back to the time of abraham, isaac and Jacob. as is the case, the Jewish people have a deep historical connection to the land, despite the brutal occupation of roman, arab and crusader armies. many Jews were crucified for defying the roman empire, while their descendants suffered under centuries of foreign occupation. after surviving the ter­ror of the holocaust, the Jewish people finally seized the opportunity to declare indepen­dence for israel. a u.n. mandate partitioned the land between muslims and Jews, restoring a homeland to both the refugees of the holocaust and the present Jewish occupants. as the oc­cupying british armies departed, israel imme­diately faced invading armies from egypt, syria and Jordan. over the radio, arab league lead­ers advised muslims within israel to flee. This enabled indiscriminate bombing, handicapped israeli industry and made every remaining israeli a target. 
by their victory in establishing the state of israel, the israelis created a liberal democracy in a region of brutal dictatorships, defending their small state in several wars. many nations in the region continue to refuse to recognize israel as a state. israelis live under constant threat of terrorism but are subject to world condemnation when they attack the source of violence. it is not in dispute that hamas uses the hospitals and schools in the gaza strip to launch hundreds of missiles into israeli cities, purposefully exploiting the deaths of palestinians it created by luring the israelis into making retaliatory strikes. The terrorist attacks against israel are not limited to local actors, and iran-directed hezbollah in lebanon has also bombed israel in the recent past. 
iran continues to support terrorism against israel through its proxies of hezbollah and hamas. The u.s. department of state has long listed iran as a state sponsor of terrorism. as recently as last november, iran’s supreme leader, the ayatollah khamenei, publicly called for the destruction of the state of israel. he stated, “This barbaric, wolf-like and infanti­cidal regime of israel, which spares no crime, has no cure but to be annihilated.” despite a democratic façade, this man and other hard-line clerics control the government of iran. netanyahu addresses congress this week to en­sure these clerics never control nuclear weap­ons or smuggle them to hezbollah and hamas. 
as america’s primary ally in the middle east, israel gathers intelligence for america, coor­dinates with america’s military and provides a guaranteed base in the middle east. The politi­cal unrest and terrorist movements affiliated with hezbollah in bahrain and Qatar occa­sionally threaten our military bases in those countries. america can depend upon israel for support, regardless of the coalition in power. netanyahu has asked for our support. i hope my fellow students at notre dame will listen to his concerns rather than dismiss his visit as a political gesture. 
Tom Olohan 
junior morrissey manor march 3 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

historic day of man 
dear notre dame community,on behalf of siegfried hall and the south bend center for the homeless, we would like to sin­cerely thank you for another suc­cessful day of man fundraiser. our online donation site closed this weekend, bringing the grand total to $12,772.36 for the south bend center for the homeless. every single dollar and coin counted in helping us surpass our goal and helped us have the best year we have ever had. 
if you would like to still donate or learn about ways in which you can volunteer at the south bend center for the homeless, visit their website at www.cfh.net 
Thank you for your generosity, and god bless 
Thomas Ridella 
senior 

Matthew Miklavik 
senior 

Alex Campbell 
junior 







By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 

To say i wasn’t quite sure what to expect when i walked into “a girl walks home alone at night” would be a bit of an understatement. The debartolo performing arts center billed the movie as the first ever “iranian vampire western,” and after reading about it a bit online, i was in­trigued to say the least. still, i wasn’t sure how exactly this unique movie would manifest itself. 
by the end of the movie, i agreed wholeheartedly with what i originally felt was a rather confusing and cryp­tic description. The film was all those things — iranian, vampire and western — and because it was those things, it was also artsy, cryptic and at times confusing. 
That the film was in arabic was hardly a challenge. in fact, being forced to read the subtitles sometimes seemed to add to the entirely mysterious air the movie had. i couldn’t know on my own what the characters said, but i wouldn’t fully understand their meaning — or most of the film's plot points — until the very end anyway. some scenes will continue to confuse me. 
The aspect of mystery that pervades the film is im­portant. it is what keeps the audience engaged and what drives the plot, up to the film's very end (which presents puzzling mysteries of its own to consider). like typical vampire movies, there are a series of murders, but the mystery is never a question of who is committing these acts of violence. from the beginning, we are all aware it is the unnamed “girl” of the title. 
still, she is a puzzle. it is clear there is some method to her madness, but due to her tendency towards silence and 
By KELLY McGARRY 
scene writer 

The timeless tale of romance and tragedy is coming to dpac, this time in the interesting style of a traveling troupe with the exciting addition of live acoustic mu­sic. notre dame shakespeare festival’s professional on Tour group will perform an abridged, 75-minute version of shakespeare’s classic "romeo and Juliet." 
dan Toot, one of the players in the production who will play the role of mercutio, gave an account of his experi­ence in an interview. when asked what attracts him to shakespeare, Toot pointed to the timelessness of plays. 
“These are stories that resonate to something deeply human, and allow everyone — performers included — to reflect on their condition and their connection to commu­nity,” he said. 
Toot described the ndsf on Tour group as supportive and welcoming, which has benefitted the production, he said. 
“it's easy to undertake such a daunting project in such a 
EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 

her lack of associates, her thoughts are never clear. even by the end of the film, the audience is left to fill in the blanks themselves. 
There are two stylistic choices which make this movie both a success and a bit of a conundrum. by this i mean if the idea of an “iranian vampire western” intrigues you and encourages you to see the movie, you will likely ap­preciate these choices. if you think that idea sounds just plain strange and would like to stay far far away from such ideas, then these choices will only further your frustra­tion with the film. 
The first is that the movie was shot in black and white. sometimes, when not much seemed to be going on, i would attempt to imagine the film were it made in color. i failed. This is a movie that would be complicated by the inclusion of color, and the choice to shoot in black and white is essential to the film. The lack of color makes the entire movie seem as though it is shot during the night and mutes some of the action, forcing the audience to pay attention. 
The second is the use of silence in the script. There were a number of scenes that included absolutely no dialogue. some of these scenes were confusing and didn’t seem to have much of a place in the entire film. others were im­portant, action-filled moments that changed the entire course of the plot. in either case, the use of silence was masterfully done. 
i specifically enjoyed how little the eponymous char­acter spoke. it allowed her to continue to be mysterious, foreboding and sympathetic all at once. The audience was often forced into the position of her love interest. To cre­ate her character, one had to read between the lines and 
short amount of time when you have a crew of supportive and viciously intelligent people,” he said. 
in addition to preparing for its upcoming performances at notre dame, the group has spent some time touring lo­cal schools, where they not only perform but also lead act­ing workshops. Toot said the enthusiasm and interest of the community has been humbling. 
“it really makes the entire exercise worth it to see stu­dent, teacher and townspeople alike all light up a bit when they connect with shakespeare in a new way,” he said. 
This weekend’s performances of "romeo and Juliet" will be unique in several ways. for one, it will include live acoustic music, which poses only the single challenge of logistics, Toot said. otherwise, he said is excited about the addition. 
“if i had all the power, i would require every theatre per­formance to be scored with live music,” he said. “There's a certain breath of life that instruments give, and the texture they provide puts an energy in the room that i find vital.” 
another interesting facet of the production is the style of a traveling troupe, which affords only a small cast with decide for oneself what her actions and intentions were. 
This ambiguity in characterization opens the door for many reactions to the movie. in what was perhaps a mistake, i brought both my father and grandfather to “a girl walks home alone at night.” both of them hated the film. for the rest of the weekend, they teased me about how they were now frightened of any girl with a long black coat. when my grandfather and i discussed the ending, it became clear how starkly different our interpretations were. 
i thought that its ending was left deliberately open, with a distinct possibility for tragedy but also for resolution. The movie closes with its two main characters "making up," but the issues between them are never fully resolved. To me, it was a story with an unresolved ending but also a story without an inevitable conclusion. 
in contrast, my grandfather was sure that the ending implies inevitable tragedy; there is no way around the violence the pair’s affair will bring. 
These two interpretations of the film's conclusion are likely emblematic of our views of the movie as a whole. i liked it because i felt its various ambiguities left open sev­eral worlds and implications; he hated the film because he believed all of its loose ends had inevitable conclu­sions. i’m not sure which interpretation is correct. 
i think, though, one’s enjoyment of "a girl walks home alone at night" can be determined by one’s reaction to the words “iranian vampire western.” if you’re intrigued, then you'll probably find the movie fun. if you just think it sounds just too weird, you may be better off staying away 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu. 
limited props and costumes, allowing the audiences’ imaginations to create the scene. Toot said he sees this as its own element in the storytelling. 
“by condensing the experience to a small company of six actors all onstage for the whole experience, we allow a look into the life of the performance,” he said. 
The audience will see the performers change costumes, and each piece is tied to a specific character, Toot said. 
“as the audience member, you develop a specific rela­tionship to it. it takes no time at all for those watching to jump right into that conceit and take a certain delight in seeing the acrobatics that a simple addition or subtraction of a pair of glasses can display — remember that pair of glasses, that's pretty ... impressive!” 
notre dame shakespeare festival’s abridged produc­tion of "romeo and Juliet" will take place march 5-7 at 7 p.m. in the regis philbin studio Theater at debartolo performing arts center. Tickets are available online or at the door as supplies last. seating is limited. 
Contact Kelly McGarry at kmcgarry@nd.edu 





Caelin Miltko 
scene writer 

a 2014 mTv study found a peculiar paradox amongst millennials: 73 percent of those surveyed believed that “never considering race would improve society,” while 83 percent also believed that “celebrating differences be­tween the races would improve society.” 
The issue of being “color blind,” to borrow a term from the study, is something we see more and more amongst those who preach politically correct speech. we ought not call people out by their race, gender or any other dif­ferentiating factor. To be equal is to be neutral. or is it? 
Though this is a multi-dimensional issue, i’d like to approach it from a gendered point-of-view. i am not a gender studies scholar, and i do not claim to be an expert on every issue that could be raised here. 
in a feb. 12 article i wrote, “fear of revision: harper lee’s ‘go set a watchman,’” i referred to harper lee as “the almighty authoress of ‘To kill a mockingbird.’” 
in a podcast released feb. 23, slate’s “lexicon valley” called me out for my use of the anachronistic, diminutive term “authoress.” They used my article as a jumping off point to discuss the disappearance of gendered terms like this from the english language, with a few excep­tions like “actress” and “goddess.” 
There is a concern that use of terms like “authoress” implies that females who write are invading a male-dominated sphere and that their status as “authors” is in question. “authoress,” they argue, implies something less than “author” because it is a gendered term. 
The use of such terms does not have to be condescend­ing, insulting or even unnecessary. in the case of harper 
By ADAM RAMOS 
scene writer 

starting organically as a way to produce songs for his girlfriend on valentine’s day, michael angelakos’ passion pit has effortlessly evolved into the meticulously pro­duced indie pop group we have today. 
a euphoric smorgasbord of synth beats and falsetto melodies coupled with angelakos’ provoking lyrics has lifted passion pit over the years into a throne of critical and public acclaim. both thematically and musically com­plex, passion pit’s 2012 sophomore album "gossamer" marked a clear transition from a playful indie group to full fledge pop quartet. yet with the announcement of the forthcoming follow-up album, "kindred," and the release of two new singles, it is yet to be seen if passion pit will continue to impress and evolve or simply regress. 
due to drop april 21st via columbia, "kindred" will be comprised of ten songs, two of which — “lifted up (1985)” and “where the sky hangs” — have already been released. 
The announcement of "kindred" comes after angelakos’ release of an interesting collection of songs via soundcloud, produced under the pseudo name eastern shift. whether or not the eastern shift collection lee, i certainly never meant any insult by calling her the “almighty authoress.” in fact, my intention was to empha­size her status in mainstream american literary canon. 
i freely concede to slate that the term “authoress” is anachronistic. in part, my use of the term was to in­tentionally play on the fact it is hardly ever part of our modern-day lexicon. 
“To kill a mockingbird” is a timeless classic, and we don’t expect such books to have living authors who con­tinue to write sequels. To earn the title of “classic,” a book must stand the test of time and prove relevant to mul­tiple generations. “To kill a mockingbird” has done this. harper lee is a giant literary figure of the 20th century, not subject to the tides of modern popular culture. 
as such, though the term “authoress” fell out of use long before harper lee’s “To kill a mockingbird” was first published, the use of an anachronistic term con­joined with “almighty” is intended to set this tone while recognizing her stature. as the “almighty authoress,” lee has unparalleled power to deconstruct and change a story that is now part of our american psyche. 
more troubling, however, is clearly the implication that being an “authoress” is somehow less than being an “au­thor.” i would never deny harper lee’s right to the term “author.” but she is also an “authoress,” and to deny her femininity is to deny part of what is so important about “To kill a mockingbird.” 
one of the reasons for this is that “To kill a mockingbird” is one of the few bildungsromans we have in mainstream canon that tells the story of a female protagonist. scout is not the typical protagonist of a rite­of-passage novel, which is typically the domain of young boys. harper lee wrote a seminal text for young girls. she gave the world a growing female protagonist. now such 
will make an appearance on "kindred" is still up in the air, though doubtful. 
while both recently released singles share a common ethereal and airy nature — likely a theme throughout "kindred" — they also emphasize passion pit’s range. “lifted up (1985)” is a fun, spirited song accented with an infectious chorus. “where the sky hangs” shows how passion pit will not focus on creating a commercial pop album. The track is a simple, relaxed single with swing­ing melodies and graceful verses. 
Though this claim may sound straight out of the 1920s, i can only describe the two new singles' accompanying music videos as living pictures. both videos for “where the sky hangs” and “lifted up (1985)” are surreal images of children peacefully staring out in the distance. There's no speech and little movement, not even a sneeze, just the occasional blink as airy synth pop dances in the air. while this all sounds a bit creepy, it’s more like a dream that pairs nicely with the music, an almost effervescent experience. 
passion pit has also recently released tour dates to accompany the upcoming album. The 23-stop tour will make frequent stops throughout much of the u.s. and canada and also include london, paris and Tokyo. passion pit will be joined with fellow indie poppers coin characters are much more common, but this was not always the case. 
alongside english, i study irish gaelic. among lin­guists, there is a theory that if languages are fossilized 
— not allowed to grow and change with each new gen­eration — then their death sentence has already been written. The natural state of a language is one of constant change and variable. words grow and change as time goes on. 
To limit the term “authoress” to how it has been used in the past is to deny this aspect of language. i would consider lee not only an author but also an authoress. her status as a female sets her apart from her contempo­raries in an important way — it is certainly not the only thing to consider about her writing, but it ought not be erased in some mistaken quest for “equality.” 
when i called harper lee an “authoress,” i meant only to encapsulate her gender as another reason to note the extraordinariness of “To kill a mockingbird.” mainstream literary canon is made up almost entirely of male authors — it is only recently we have truly begun collecting and analyzing a female literary canon that stretches across time and space. 
“authoress” is a useful term here because harper lee’s name is androgynistic. unless noted, it is not clear “To kill a mockingbird” was written by a woman. This may have even contributed to the novel’s initial success but to make her gender-neutral in 2015 is to deny some of her power. she is an authoress amongst authors. and that, i think, is important. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
and holychild and will make appear in several notable festivals including buku, big guava and neon desert. The tour will begin mid-march in new orleans and prog­ress through mid-august. 
although passion pit’s production level has changed tremendously over the years, angelakos has remained steadfast with his impressive array of thought-provok­ing, emotional lyrics. This makes sense, as angelakos has stated that his music is therapy in helping his struggle with bipolar disorder. in a recent psa video about bipolar disorder, angelakos opened up about his experience. 
“once i started really just accepting my mental con­dition, it stung for a little bit and then everything im­proved,” he said in the video. 
The psa is part of a campaign in partnership with or­ganizations “bring change 2 mind” and “project 375,” which focus on lessening the stigma surrounding bipolar disorder. 
with a fifth of the album already a thumbs up, i am hopeful "kindred" will continue passion pit's growth and evolution. you can pre-order the album on iTunes now, which includes both “lifted up (1985)” and “where the sky hangs." 
Contact Adam Ramos at aramos6@nd.edu 
EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY OLYMPICS 
NBA must change one-and-done rule 
Brian Plamondon 
sports writer 
in 1995, kevin garnett an­nounced he would forego college and enter the nba draft. his decision was met with much scrutiny and has turned eligibility issues into some of the most prominent in basketball discussions over the last 20 years. 
garnett paved the way. in the 10 years leading up to 2005, 38 high school players were taken in the nba draft. 
but after a new collective bargaining agreement in July 2005, potential nba draft entrants had to be 19 years old and at least one year removed from high school. with the cba, high schoolers are effectively forced to go to college for a year. 
The longstanding argu­ment has been that these players were mentally and physically unprepared to turn professional right out of high school. but is that really the case? Just look at what kobe, Tracy mcgrady and kg did in their first few years or the rookie of the year tro­phies sitting on amar’e and lebron’s shelves. 
The biggest argument against the rule is that a lot of basketball players just stay the bare minimum time at their respective universities. from 2006 to 2013, 60 bas­ketball players bolted for the nba after their first season. There are the bona-fide stars 
— anthony davis, John wall, kyrie irving and derrick rose come to mind — but there are also the middling prospects whose potential maxes out as rotation players or even bit contributors. These are guys like maurice harkless, ricky ledo or archie goodwin, non-lottery picks who had a much less certain profes­sional future. 
These guys knew they were going to the nba after year one whether they averaged nine points a game in col­lege or 29: think Zach lavine. why not let them test the waters out of high school? if high school basketball play­ers think they are ready right away, so be it. The risk would be their own. with the cba, however, there is no decision to be made. in essence, the nba has made it for them. 
here’s my solution: change the eligibility requirements to mirror major league baseball, where players can be drafted out of high school. however, if they decide to enroll in college, they have to wait until they are 21 or have completed their junior year. 
This puts the decision back into the players’ hands, while also prioritizing the college degree to those who choose not to jump straight to the pros. 
yet this problem cannot be tackled without considering the second glaring deficiency of the nba — its lack of a decent farm system. in order for my scenario to work, the nba would have to devote more resources towards its development league, which falls well short of its nhl and mlb counterparts in prestige and structure. 
The d-league has been on the upswing for the last few years, but the nba still needs to show more of a com­mitment to player develop­ment. allowing players to go straight from high school to the pros again could be the impetus for the nba to fi­nally commit to a legitimate farm system. This would not only benefit the players directly from high school, who had no interest in col­lege and need a year or two of seasoning, but also the col­lege prospects that wouldn’t have a chance to get drafted otherwise. with a larger farm system, the nba expands its talent pool and allows athletes to continue realiz­ing their dreams of playing professionally. 
sure, it might water down college basketball a little. but that’s something i am willing to accept for two reasons; it puts the decision back in the athlete’s hands, while giv­ing the college game only to the kids who truly want to be there. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu
 The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Rio government halts cleaning of sailing venue 
Associated Press 
rio de Janeiro — a pro­gram has been halted to re­trieve floating rubbish from the sailing venue of the 2016 olympics in rio de Janeiro, according to brazilian media. 
a report Tuesday in the newspaper o globo comes just three days after top international olympic committee officials ended week-long meetings in rio, saying they had been “reas­sured” that severely pollut­ed guanabara bay would be suitable for olympic sailing when the games open. 
o globo said 10 rubbish collection boats were out of service because of a lack of funding from rio’s state gov­ernment. it said that some barricades to keep household waste from reaching the bay also lacked funding. 
The paper quoted carlos minc, the former secretary for the environment for the state of rio de Janeiro. 
water quality has become a hot-button issue for rio. several olympic-medal win­ning sailors have said it’s the dirtiest place they have ever competed, citing incidents of dodging floating sofas, dead animals and plastic bags. 
rio governor luiz fernando pezao said recent­ly that 49 percent of the ar­ea’s sewage is being treated, a number repeated last week by ioc officials. 
a year ago the figure was reported to be about 30 per­cent. olympics officials say they believe a goal of treating 80 percent can be reached in 17 months when the games open. 
in december a drug-resis­tant “super bacteria” nor­mally found in hospitals was also discovered in the water around the bay. 
fish die-offs are also common in rio’s rodrigo de freitas lake, where the olympic rowing competi­tions will be held. 
severe water pollution also plagues the lagoon that touches the olympic park 
— 
the heart of rio’s games 

—
 and the new olympic golf course. 


aerial photos taken last week by the environmental group olho verde showed a massive bacterial bloom inside the lagoon that has spilled into the atlantic and a popular nearby beach. 
nawal el moutawakel, head of the ioc inspection team, said last week she was assured by government of­ficials that the problem was being tackled. 
“we want every single ven­ue to be ready for the ath­letes to compete in a secure and safe manner,” she said. “we have been given reassur­ances that all the venues will meet the level ... so athletes can compete.” 
MLB | Tigers 15, orioles 2 
Tigers rout Orioles with slam from Cespedes 
Associated Press 
lakeland, fla. — yoenis cespedes hit a grand slam in his first game for detroit, ian kinsler added a three-run homer and the Tigers routed the baltimore orioles 15-2 Tuesday in a spring training opener. 
cespedes connected in the fourth inning for an 11-0 lead. The Tigers got the slugger from boston in an offseason trade. 
coming off a disappointing year, baltimore starter ubaldo Jimenez allowed six runs in 1 1-3 innings. he walked two, hit two batters and made a throwing error. 
Jimenez said he was work­ing on pitches and wasn’t con­cernedabouthisperformance. 
“all i can say is i did what i wanted to do,” Jimenez said. “i like my fastball and there’s no reason to change anything. i expect more out of my control, but the error is the main thing that bothered me.” 
four detroit batters were hit by pitches. Third baseman nick castellanos was hit in the left hand and exited soon after that, but manager brad ausmus said he might play wednesday. 

kyle lobstein, vying for the final spot in the Tigers’ rota­tion, allowed two hits in two shutout innings. he began last year at Triple-a before go­ing 1-2 with a 4.35 era in six starts for detroit at the end of the season. 
“i am kind of the sixth start­er right now,” lobstein said. “it’s kind of the same situation as last year, but this year i feel more prepared.” 
lobstein went 1-2 with a 
4.35 earned run average in six starts for the Tigers last season. 
sTarTing Time 
orioles: showalter said it is far too early in the spring to be worried about Jimenez. “he just has to throw strikes,” showalter said. 
Tigers: Tigers manager brad ausmus said he liked what he saw from lobstein but it was too early to concede a spot in the rotation. The Tigers have david price, Justin verlander, anibal sanchez and alfredo simon already in place, leav­ing one opening. 
Trainer’s room orioles: showalter said there were no injuries to report. Tigers: ss Jose iglesias skipped this game but plans 
to start on wednesday in sarasota. iglesias all of last season with stress fractures in both legs. ... dh victor martinez was at camp and said he is coming along nicely from a knee injury sustained playing catch with his brother on his front lawn during the offseason. 
“i’m glad to be back and glad to start doing some base­ball activity,” he said. “i’m just getting my strength back. i just started hitting for the first time. we keep moving forward. 
ausmus said that martinez’s return was a “grey area.” 
up neXT 
orioles: kevin gausman will make the start wednesday in sarasota against the Tigers. 
Tigers: sanchez will make his spring debut followed by 
ian  krol,  al  albuquerque,  
blaine  hardy  and  drew  
verhagen.  

Time of The game 
ausmus said he hardly no­ticed a change in the first game under baseball’s new pace of play changes. Tuesday’s game lasted just under three hours despite the high score. he said he thinks the changes will hardly matter. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 



NHL | flames 3, flyers 2; capiTals 5, blue JackeTs 3 
Flames beat Flyers in OT; Capitals defeat Blue Jackets 
Associated Press 
philadelphia — Jiri hudler scored 1:23 into overtime to give the calgary flames a 3-2 win over the philadelphia flyers on Tuesday night. 
The flames won for the second time in six games as they try to make a push in the western conference playoff race. 
it was a successful home­coming for 21-year-old rookie and new Jersey na­tive Johnny gaudreau, who had hundreds of fans in at­tendance. gaudreau assisted on the winning goal, helping the flames rebound after blowing a 2-0 lead. 
sean monahan and mikael backlund scored for the flames. 
sean couturier and mark streit both scored in the third period for philadelphia. 
Trying to get back into the eastern conference playoff race, the flyers gamely ral­lied in the third. couturier scored his 13th goal early in the period to cut it to 2-1. 
The flyers appeared to get the tying goal minutes later as nick schultz crashed into goalie karri ramo. but af­ter the officials huddled for several minutes, the no-goal call stood because schultz made incidental contact in the crease with ramo before the puck crossed the line. 
ramo went down the next time the flyers were near the crease and this time the ty­ing goal counted. streit’s tip-in for his ninth goal evened the score at 2 and sent the net flying. 
monahan scored his 22nd goal of the season 6:30 into the game on a slap shot from the right circle. backlund’s seventh of the season made it 2-0 in the second, and ramo made it stand for a while with 22 saves through two periods. 
The win belonged to calgary. The night belonged to gaudreau. 
gaudreau, out of nearby carney’s point, grew up a huge flyers fan and played last season at the wells fargo center for boston college in the frozen four. he even played in the youth hockey games at the arena staged during flyers intermission 
— when he wasn’t rooting on the orange-and-black from the stands. 
“we went to a ton of games. it’s definitely going to be a little weird,” gaudreau said before the game. 
gaudreau has stamped himself as one of the top rookies in the nhl and en­tered third on the team in points with 44. he had two assists in the nhl all-star game. 
“i’m getting a ton of scor­ing chances,” he said. “we’re playing well. it’s definitely a little bit more of an adjust­ment going from 40 games to an 82-game season. it’s something i need to learn throughout my pro career.” 
he expected several hun­dred fans to attend the game, even some from his old high school. gaudreau 

paid adverTisemenT 

had his no. 3 jersey retired by his gloucester catholic high school team on monday night. 
“it was exciting for me, getting to head back to my old high school and see a ton of teachers that really helped me,” he said. 
gaudreau, just 5-foot-9 and 150 pounds, moved on to boston college where he led the ncaa last season with 36 goals and 80 points. he won the hobey baker award as college hockey’s top player and earned a familiar nick­name — “Johnny hockey.” 
The flames also won their first game without captain mark giordano. The defen­seman tore a biceps muscle near the end of the flames’ 3-1 win in new Jersey last week. he went down awk­wardly after getting twisted off balance while attempting to fire the puck down the ice. The all-star defenseman, who had a team-leading 37 assists, will miss the rest of the season. 
Capitals 5, Blue Jackets 3 
columbus, ohio — alex ovechkin added to his nhl­leading total with two goals Tuesday night, leading the charge in washington’s 5-3 victory over the blue Jackets, columbus’ seventh loss in a row. 
eric fehr and Tom wilson also scored, and marcus Johansson added an empty-net goal. 
nicklas backstrom and Jason chimera each had two assists for the capitals, who solidified their hold on the first wild-card playoff spot in the east before start­ing a five-game homestand. braden holtby had 27 saves. 
ovechkin, who has won the richard Trophy as the league’s goal-scoring leader the last two years and four times overall, now has 43. 
scott hartnell had two goals and an assist — and was stopped on a penalty shot — while david savard also scored for the blue Jackets, 0-6-1 in their last seven. 
sergei bobrovsky started in goal for columbus, mak­ing his first appearance in 18 games since sustaining a groin injury on Jan. 21. he had 27 saves. 
up 3-2 heading into the final period, the capitals expanded the lead on ovechkin’s one-timer from the left dot on the power play. he was wide with an identical shot just seconds before. 
MEN’S GOLF 
ND to bask in West Coast sun 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame will head west next week for the lamkin grips san diego classic, which takes place at san diego country club in chula vista, california, on monday and Tuesday. 
The irish will be hoping to improve upon their per­formance from the Jones invitational, in which they finished 14th with a 43-over-par 907 in the 54­hole competition held in los angeles. 
notre dame will com­pete against teams from all around the country in the tournament hosted by san diego and san diego state. 
The course at san diego country club is a classic course with a par of 72, de­signed by william p. bell. known for its deep bunkers and fast greens, the 6,896 yard-long course has previ­ously hosted the pga san diego open and the usga women’s open. 
currently, it has not been announced if notre dame head coach Jim kubinski will make any changes to the team that competed at the Jones invitational, or stay with the lineup of seniors Tyler wingo and patrick grahek and sopho­mores blake barens, liam cox and matthew rushton. 
a few days later, notre dame will travel from the west coast to the gulf coast, as they arrive at Talis park golf club in naples, florida, for the Talis park challenge starting march 
15. The field for the event will include indiana, Toledo and vanderbilt. 
The Talis park course was designed in 2005 by greg norman and pete dye and measures 7,025 yards long. 
The lamkin grips san diego classic will start monday morning, and con­tinue through Tuesday, while the Talis park challenge will run from march 15-16. 
KEVIN SONG | The Observer 

Senior Patrick Grahek  follows through during the Notre Dame Kickoff Challenge on Aug. 31. 
Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmcobserver 




W Tennis 
conTinued from page 16 
junior whitney kay. 
notre dame is keeping challenge in perspective by treating the matchup as just another in a long list of tough acc opponents. 
“it’ll be a good test for us,” louderback said. “it’ll be a lot like the other tough acc matchups. we just played against [no. 5] virginia with chances to win. we took the doubles point against [virginia], and we had some close matches in sin­gles, even though we lost. north carolina’s much of the same. we’re excited to have a chance to play such a quality opponent, as they’re the top team in the coun­try right now. we’ve played quite a few matches where we were the favorite. it’s dif­ferent against better teams. against virginia we played really loose, and i like to see that from this team.” 
after their matchup with north carolina, the irish must then turn their atten­tion to a familiar opponent in boston college. 
The no. 45 eagles (7-4, 1-0) will be looking for re­venge after losing twice to the irish last spring, once in a regular-season match in chestnut hill, massachusetts, and once in cary, north carolina, at the acc championships. 
one boston college play­er cracks the iTa rankings, with senior Jessica wacnik slotting in at 71st. 
The irish are set to take on east carolina on Tuesday at 9 a.m. and florida gulf coast at 5 p.m. later that day. They will then host north carolina and boston college on friday and sunday re­spectively, with the first serve at 1 p.m. both days. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 




Track 
conTinued from page 16 
400-meter, where she set a notre dame record of 52.10 seconds. 
senior Jade barber, who struggled earlier in the season, rebounded with an 8.20 mark in the 60-me­ter dash in the final meet of the regular season to make the all-acc first team and qualify for the ncaa championships. 
“if she makes some small, minor adjustments, she’s as good as anybody,” Turner said. “she needs to sharpen up her technique … and i’m confident that she will do very well.” 
Junior danielle aragon qualified for the mile run with a time of 4:37.68 at the acc meet. however, since she is also the anchor of the irish distance medley team, which will run friday night, Turner said they de­cided it would be most ben­eficial for her to drop out of the mile and focus on the medley. 
aragon will be joined in that race by two fresh­men, Jessica harris and samantha murray, who will run the 800-meter open­ing leg and the 1,200-me­ter third leg, respectively. bamgbose will run the sec­ond, 400-meter leg of the relay after a three-hour turnaround from the open 400. 
“[Jessica] been running lights-out for us,” Turner said. “her leg is probably the most important leg; if we get out in the top two or three, that will set us up for a great race. 
“we think the race will tighten up for the anchor leg. if that happens, then we have as good a shot as any team in the country. [aragon] is running great right now. last year we were third, and i think we can finish in that range again.” 
Turner said he looks for­ward to seeing the irish athletes compete on such a big stage. 
“it’s extremely elite … once you get there, every­one is fast,” he said. “it’s all about who’s best prepared at that time to perform, and we’ve been able to struc­ture our athletes’ workouts throughout the year to have them peak at this meet. 
“if they execute well, all seven athletes could be top-eight and make first-team all-american.” 
The irish will cap off their indoor season march 13 and 14 when the seven qualify­ing athletes compete for national titles in the ncaa indoor championships at 
the  randal  Tyson  Track  
center  in  fayetteville,  
arkansas.  

Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Notre Dame to travel to Arizona for Clover Cup 
By SEAN KILMER 
sports writer 
as the university heads into its spring break, notre dame will jet off to sunny mesa, arizona, for a week of practice in preparation for the clover cup. 
Two weekends ago, the irish started their spring season on a high note, finishing tied for third at the westbrook spring invitational in peoria, arizona. all five irish golfers factored into the team’s score at some point in the weekend, and the tournament marked the team’s third top-three fin­ish in five tournaments this season. furthermore, their four-over-par 868 (291-289­
288) was the fourth-lowest 54-hole gross score in pro­gram history. 
Tournament champion no. 14 Tennessee finished 13-un­der par, and oregon finished three strokes behind the champion to claim second place. The irish tied with the college of charleston and finished two strokes ahead of ohio state. 
notre dame head coach susan holt said she was hap­py to get back on the course again. 
“we played well, scored well, and we were excited to get out on the course and start playing as a team again,” holt said. “but at the same time there is always room for improvement, and we will look to get better this week in arizona.” 
for the past few months, the team has been prac­ticing at the rolfs family golf facility, located at the warren golf course. The fa­cility, which has six hitting stations that overlook the golf course’s driving range, has been important for the team’s development, holt said. 
“we have a state-of-the­art golf facility at the golf course,” holt said. “it’s a 1,000 [plus]-square-foot fa­cility with heated putting greens and chipping sta­tions. most importantly, the six hitting stations allow us to refine out swings regard­less of the weather.” 
however, during spring break, the team will trav­el back to the valley of the sun for a week of outdoor practice and acclimation to longbow golf club, where they will host the clover cup from march 13 to march 15. 
The tournament should present some steep compe­tition, with no. 26 arizona state headlining the tourna­ment field. while acknowl­edging that the sun devils will be tough to beat, holt declared that the irish have expectations of winning the tournament. 

“every time we compete we try to win,” holt said. “it’s certainly not going to change because it’s winter here. we have a really talent­ed team, and our attitude is to come out and win. asu is the top-ranked team, and we might come in right behind them, but we always try to win.” 
The irish will look toward their depth for success next weekend at the clover cup in mesa, arizona. 
Contact Sean Kilmer at                
WOMEN’S SWIMMING 

Irish divers will compete at NCAA Zone C meet 
By BEN PADANILAM 
sports writer 
notre dame will send its divers to columbus, ohio, at the end of spring break to compete in the ncaa Zone c diving meet from march 12-14. 
The irish will be compet­ing in the Zone c diving meet with the hopes of qualifying as many divers as possible for the ncaa championships, which are set for march 19-21. The zones are separated by region throughout the coun­try, and as a result, the irish will be facing several big Ten programs in the meet. senior allison casareto said she be­lieves this will provide the team with a challenge, as the big Ten has six teams ranked in the top 25. 
“it is a really hard zone,” casareto said. “The big Ten is a really great conference.” 
despite this challenge, re­cent changes in the format of the zone meets do pro­vide greater opportunities for advancing to divers. These changes have increased the number of divers from each event who advance to the ncaa championships. 
“now it’s [the] top eight [divers] on every board [that advance],” casareto said. “it used to be around top three or four on every board. Technically, it looks easier, but it is still a tough zone [to com­pete in].” 
in addition, the new rules change the way in which a diver qualifies to compete in specific events at the ncaa championships. 
“one more thing that they switched was that you don’t automatically qualify to com­pete in all three events [in the championships] if you qualify on one board,” casareto said. “so you have to qualify in each individual event if you want to compete in all three events at the championships.” 
having prepared through­out the season, the irish have begun the process of taper­ing, or reducing the strain of their exercises, with the hope of resting up just prior to the championship stretch, the se­nior from la habra heights, california, said. 
“some divers believe in tapering, and some divers don’t,” casareto said. “here at notre dame, we go a little lighter in the weight room, and we cut down on repetition in the pool. so right now, we’re still working on maintaining a low-repetition workout in the water and just focusing on our technique. That helps get us focused for the meet.” 
while the goal for the team is to qualify as many div­ers as possible for the ncaa championships, the irish also realize it could be the last meet for many of the seniors on the team, casareto said. 
“This meet is crazy because it could be the last meet of my entire diving career, but it also could not be my last meet,” casareto said. “There’s a lot of mixed feelings, lot of mixed emotions, but it’s also really exciting because i get to see all of the people that i’ve always seen the last four years one last time.” 
The irish will continue to practice for the remainder of this week before heading to columbus, ohio, for the meet next week. The three-day event begins march 12 at 1 p.m. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 4, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M BBall 
conTinued from page 16 
for notre dame to practice more against a zone defense, especially after the irish of­fense went dormant against syracuse’s 2-3 zone. notre dame shot 34.7 percent from the floor and 3-for-22 (14 percent) from 3-point range. 
“you just [getting] reps against it i think is a good thing,” brey said. “The days we’ve looked good, we’ve made shots.” 
louisville’s challenging zone defense coupled with cardinals head coach rick pitino’s patented full-court press add up to an elite de­fense, ranked sixth in the 
country  in  defensive  ef­ 
ficiency  by  ken  pomeroy’s  
metrics.  

“That’s sort of a double test of your mental tough­ness,” brey said. 
notre dame has spent the past three to four practices preparing for the pressure, and brey said notre dame planned to pipe in crowd noise during monday’s prac­tice, simulating the rau­cous game environment of the 22,090-seat kfc yum! center. 
“i think between dealing with the press and then the crowd noise, that’s a great test,” brey said. “The crowd noise sometimes makes you play too fast.” 
on the road at florida state this past saturday, louisville forced 21 turn­overs from the seminoles and converted those mis­cues into 32 points en route to an 81-59 victory. 
“i was real impressed after watching the tape of what our team did team-wise — moved the basketball very well, shot a good percent­age, took high-percentage shots and played good de­fense,” pitino said. 
The cardinals have won three in a row, the last two without senior guard chris Jones, who was dismissed from the team feb. 22. in three total games with­out Jones, freshman guard Quentin snider has averaged 10 points and four assists. pitino said Jones needs to improve in the pick and roll and better understand when not to pick up his dribble in the lane. 
cardinals sophomore guard Terry rozier (17.4 points and 5.4 rebounds per game) and junior for­ward montrezl harrel (15.4 points, 9.3 rebounds) pace louisville, which currently holds fourth place in the acc ahead of north carolina. 
notre dame can fin­ish anywhere from second through fourth in the con­ference, while louisville could slot third, fourth or fifth. 
brey said he fully expects drama wednesday. 
“it’s just one of those great rivalries,” pitino said. “every game is exciting and a lot of anxious moments.” 
notre dame and louisville tip off tonight at 7 p.m. at the kfc yum! center in louisville, kentucky. 
Contact Mike Monaco at              jmonaco@nd.edu     


KAT ROBINSON | The Observer 

Freshman forward Bonzie Colson dunks the ball during Notre Dame’s 65-60 loss to Syracuse on Feb. 24 at Purcell Pavilion. 
FENCING 

Notre Dame prepares for NCAA Regional Qualifier 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writer 
fresh off of a series of suc­cessful individual showings at the usfa nationals and a pair of acc titles, notre dame pre­pares for the upcoming ncaa midwest regional Qualifier on saturday in evanston, illinois. 
Two irish fencers medaled in division i competition this past weekend at the u.s. fencing association’s national meet in reno, nevada. senior ashley severson earned a bronze medal in women’s epee, while junior nicole mckee earned bronze in the women’s foil event. freshmen sabres claudia kulmacz and francesca russo finished sixth and seventh place, respectively, on their weapons. 
on the men’s side, stand­out freshman sabre Jonah shainberg earned a seventh place finish overall on his weapon, securing him an au­tomatic spot on the u.s. men’s Junior olympic fencing Team. 
The no. 2 irish women’s squad (20-2) and no. 4 men’s team (17-7) will now turn their focus toward a return to ncaa competition as they will travel to the ncaa midwest regional Qualifier on saturday. 
The irish competed in evanston on Jan. 31, when they made short work of their competition en route to un­defeated afternoons for both the men’s and women’s sides at the northwestern duals. in fact, the irish have been unde­feated in ncaa competition since their last trip to evanston, posting perfect records in the decicco duals at the castellan family fencing center on feb. 7-8 as well as at the acc tourna­ment feb. 21-22, when the team took home its first sweep of acc titles in program history. 
despite notre dame’s recent success, tough competition awaits the irish in the upcoming ncaa championships. despite their performances as of late, the notre dame women’s squad sits second in the polls, one spot behind columbia. columbia re­ceived nine of the 10 first-place votes, with the final vote going to the irish women. The men find themselves in fourth place in the polls behind the likes of rival ohio state, columbia and top-ranked penn state. The first-place votes are more disparate in the men’s poll, though, with penn state receiv­ing only six of the 10 top votes. others receiving votes include columbia, which received two, and notre dame and no. 6 st. John’s, which received both one apiece. 
russo said the team is fo­cused on carrying its momen­tum through to the end of the season. 
“all in all, everyone is taking it fairly seriously, and we know that it is crunch time,” russo said. 
russo spoke highly of irish head coach gia kvaratskhelia, who joined the irish staff in 2007 before being promoted to the head coach position last december following the retire­ment of longtime head coach Janusz bednarski. 
“coach gia is one of the sweetest and most supportive coaches i have ever dealt with,” said russo. “he is a natural leader and is very knowledge­able about what it takes to be a national champion. he will always be on his student’s side and will do anything it takes to make us each individually hap­py and comfortable.” 
This will be kvaratskhelia’s first ncaa championship ap­pearance while at the helm of the irish program. The irish finished sixth place overall in the ncaa championships last march, despite gold medal fin­ishes in both men’s and wom­en’s foil by gerek meinhardt and lee kiefer, respectively. kiefer, now a junior, looks to win her second consecutive gold at this year’s tournament, while meinhardt graduated last spring but remains on the team in a coaching capacity. 
The irish will be training intensively over the upcom­ing break in an attempt to make final improvements and preparations for the ncaa championships, according to russo. 
“This spring break, we will be staying on campus and doing an intense training camp that will consist of two practices a day,” she said. “it is going to be relaxing not having the stresses of schoolwork, but definitely intense thinking about fencing for all of us.” 
behind their recent mo­mentum, the irish travel to evanston, illinois, this saturday for the ncaa midwest regional Qualifier at northwestern university. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at bconne1@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 

DOME NUTS | aleXandria wellman SUDOKU | The mepham group 



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to: 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: keep your emotions in check and avoid overindulgence. sticking to the facts and not taking on too much will be your best bet if you want to accomplish your goals. having unrealistic expectations will be what leads you astray. discipline, determination and hard work will win out in the end and lead to your success. your numbers are 7, 12, 16, 28, 34, 43, 47. 
Birthday Baby: you are a humanitarian and a go-getter. you are passionate, aggressive and intuitive. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): muster a to-do list and don’t stop until it’s been completed. The satisfaction and confidence you get from taking care of your responsibilities will give way to having fun with someone whose company you enjoy.  

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): refrain from bringing up emotional matters until you feel you can handle the consequences. focus more on work and the contributions you can make that will make a difference to your peers, community and future prospects. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): make changes because you want to, not because someone else pushes you. you have a much better handle on what you want to see happen than an onlooker has. a love relationship will improve if you discuss and plan to do more together. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): expect to meet with opposition. you may not like change, but it will bring about a favorable new lifestyle. don’t fight the inevitable. make do with what you are given. accept and move forward and you will get positive results. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): step up and take on a position of leadership. do your own thing, put your plans into motion and leave time for a little romantic fun. short trips will lead to a bargain or a reconnection with an old friend. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): money, health and legal matters will be prominent, so do your best to take care of your responsibilities at home. personal papers are best dealt with sooner rather than later. don’t get angry, get moving. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): size up your situation and your current position. partnerships are bountiful and will help you increase your momentum as well as your reputation and confidence. don’t let someone hold you back. rid yourself of dead weight and move forward. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): explore different ways of doing things. a tweak here and there to the way you’ve been conducting your life will help you appreciate what you have. an offer is heading your way and must be taken seriously. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Tie up loose ends and make plans to travel or get involved in a home improvement project that will help stabilize your future. realistic plans coupled with hands-on work will ensure that you are successful. love is highlighted. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): avoid travel, communication or being around unpredictable people. rely on past experiences and your intuition to help you make good decisions now. an exaggerated joint venture will entice you. you are best to take precautions and rely on facts, not hype. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you’ve got the right mindset and moves to make your dreams come true. a moneymaking opportunity is within reach, along with a partnership that can help you expand. present, promote and enjoy the recognition you receive. romance is encouraged. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): a colleague, superior or peer will have a hidden agenda. Take your time and make sure whatever you get involved in is to everyone’s benefit. Question motives as well as how realistic a project or joint venture is. be smart, not sorry. 

JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff knurek 

The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 
address 
city      state Zip 


MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Notre Dame set to clash with Louisville 
By MIKE MONACO 
senior sports writer 
with a second open week­end in a three-week span, mike brey has found him­self a bit bored of late. 
“you don’t know what to do with yourself,” the head coach quipped. 
if history is any indica­tion, tonight’s clash with no. 16 louisville at the kfc yum! center should be the proper pick-me-up for brey and the no. 12 irish. 
notre dame (24-5, 12-4 acc) and louisville (23­6, 11-5) met 13 times while members of the big east, and seven of those games were decided in overtime. 
“i can’t put my finger on why, but my god have they been good college games,” brey said. 
The irish, who have sewn up a top-four seed and a dou­ble bye in next week’s acc tournament with two regu­lar-season games remain­ing, and the cardinals did not meet last season, with louisville in the american athletic conference and notre dame in the acc. 
“everybody got a break,” brey said. “Their heart and their blood pressure is better.” 

notre dame was able to come to a resting rate last week after a frenetic, late comeback fell short against syracuse on feb. 24. The 

TRACK AND FIELD 

nd readies for ncaa championships 
By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports writer 
as the indoor season draws to a close, seven irish athletes head towards the pinnacle as they prepare to compete in the ncaa indoor championships, held march 13-14 at the randal Tyson center in fayetteville, arkansas. 
four individual competi­tors and one relay team will represent notre dame as part of the elite field; in or­der to qualify for nationals, an individual must finish in the top 16 nationally, and a relay team must be among the top 12. 
for the men’s team, which has been riddled with in­juries this season, senior sprinter chris giesting is the lone irish qualifier. giesting, a two-time all­american and second-place finisher in the acc champi­onships last weekend, will compete in the 400-me­ter dash, in which he has the ninth-best time in the country (45.98 seconds). 
“he’s been a little banged up since arkansas [the razorback invitational], so the two weeks he has go­ing in should help him out a lot,” irish head coach alan Turner said. “he’s proven that when he’s healthy, he can run with the best in the country.” 

The women’s squad, ranked 25th nationally, re­cently finished third overall at the acc championships, where junior distance run­ner molly seidel was the meet mvp. seidel won the 3,000- and 5,000-meter runs on back-to-back days and will compete in the 5,000 at nationals. 
“[molly] has just been in­credible this year,” Turner said. “she’s being nomi­nated for the great lakes region athlete of the year. … i think her fitness level is as good as anybody in the country right now, her confidence is up and she is peaking at the right time.” 
Junior margaret bamgbose will also look to follow up on her acc title in the 
see Track PAGE 12 


MICHAEL YU | The Observer 

Senior Chris Giesting competes during the 600-meter event at the Notre Dame Invitational on Jan. 24 at Loftus Sports Center. 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
irishto playin florida 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
while most students will be on spring break, the irish have yet another busy week ahead of them; no. 25 notre dame heads to florida for a pair of contests Tuesday before returning for two home matches march 13 and march 15. 
in florida, the irish (7­4, 3-1 acc) will start off by meeting east carolina and florida gulf coast, clash­ing with the pirates (8-2) in Tampa on Tuesday morning before heading to fort myers for their matchup with the eagles (2-8) in the evening. 
although notre dame will get a short break from acc play, irish head coach Jay louderback said this spring break trip to florida is im­portant for his squad. 
“The big thing for us is get­ting outdoors,” louderback said. “we’ll get five days of practice and matches out­side, which is something we need because we’ll start transitioning to more out­door matches after spring break. we have those two matches against north carolina and boston college here indoors, but then we go to florida state and georgia Tech the weekend after for two outdoor confer­ence matches. so this trip to florida next week will be good for us.” 
after a week of tennis and sunshine in florida, the irish will return to campus for a friday date with po­tentially their toughest op­ponent of the entire season, north carolina. 
The no. 1 Tar heels (13­0, 3-0) have a stacked ros­ter on both the singles and doubles sides. with six singles players ranked by the intercollegiate Tennis association (iTa), includ­ing no. 8 sophomore Jamie loeb, no. 15 senior caroline price and no. 19 sopho­more hayley carter, north carolina should provide the irish their toughest chal­lenge thus far. even the doubles point will be diffi­cult to come by, as the Tar heels boast tandems of no. 11 loeb and price, no. 20 ju­niors ashley dai and kate 
see w Tennis PAGE 12 

irish sliced to within two of the orange with 39 seconds remaining before losing 65­60 at home. seven days be­tween games afforded the irish the opportunity to rest, brey the chance to recruit and notre dame the abil­ity to log extended practice time heading toward the postseason. 
brey said it was crucial 
see m bball PAGE 14 




