The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 72 | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND community reacts to terror attacks 
Professors critically examine causes and effects of Charlie Hebdo attack 

By JENNIFER FLANAGAN 
news writer 
Four panelists brought the global conversation of free speech rights and extremism and western conflict to the hesburgh center auditorium on Tuesday as part of a panel called “paris 2015.” 
The four panelists, margaret meserve, olivier morel, ebrahim moosa and elliot visconsi, and moderator a. James mcadams, discussed the international signifi­cance of the recent unrest in paris following the murder of more than a dozen French citizens by offering 
see panel PAGE 5 




Students, faculty share thoughts and firsthand experiences 

By MARGARET HYNDS 
associate news editor 
in the wake of the Jan. 9 terror­ist attack on the satirical maga­zine charlie hebdo and the hostage situation at a grocery store in paris, notre dame stu­dents and faculty shared their experiences and thoughts sur­rounding the violence and sub­sequent global response. 
several students — includ­ing juniors sheridan rosner, madeline rogers and annalise burnett — are currently study­ing abroad in paris and were in 
see paris aTTacks PAGE 4 



smc adds two administrators 
panel examines 
to “student involvement and the positive impact of their 
By MACAILA DeMARIO 
multicultural services” is offices to extend to the stu­
news writer 



worker conditions 
now split and led by two new dents and themselves. with the new year under-directors, brittany house and “i enjoy working at smaller, way, saint mary’s college gloria Jenkins. private liberal arts colleges, 

“They provide different ser­vices and opportunities for students,” sophomore lydia heller said. “now that the of­fices are separate, they will be able to cater to more peo­ple on a more detailed level.” 
heller said she believes the combination of offices will 


welcomed administrative have a positive impact on the and i wanted to work for a changes at the start of the college. women’s institution,” house, spring 2015 semester. The saint mary’s newest ad-single office once dedicated ministrators said they expect see direcTors PAGE 5 

Fair to highlight organizations 
By ANDREA VALE 
news writer 
The center for social concerns (csc) will host its annual social concerns Fair tonight from 6 to 8 p.m. in rooms b035 and b036 of geddes hall. representatives from over 40 organizations, all of which offer students op­portunities for outreach in the south bend community, will be in attendance. 
some of the groups at last year’s fair included the Family Justice center of st. Joseph county, the american red cross and hope ministries. 
“[The fair is] an opportu­nity for agencies like ours … to meet students directly in­terested in service, give us the chance to explain what we do and how we serve the poor and the marginalized in our community and give the stu­dents the chance to see how their particular talents and passion might be used in the furtherance of the university’s mission and our mission to break the cycle of homeless­ness,” peter lombardo, direc­tor of community involvement for the center for the homeless in south bend, said. 
The center for the homeless is the largest provider of homelessness service in the community and is home to over 200 men, women, chil­dren and military veterans, 
see csc Fair PAGE 5 



By CLARE KOSSLER 
news writer 
The office of the executive vice president hosted the “worker participation panel discussion” in the mckenna hall auditorium on Tuesday to discuss notre dame’s moral responsibility to support inter­national workers’ rights and freedom of association. 
The panel consisted of five members, including assistant professor of theology margie pfeil, professor of business ethics georges enderle, law professor doug cassel, notre dame law school graduate Xin he, and senior matt caponigro. notre dame alumnus and student body president emeritus alex coccia moderated the panel. 
“i am encouraged that this conversation is being brought to the wider community of notre dame because i think that there’s a lot that notre dame has to offer,” caponigro said. 
The panel’s debate centered around whether notre dame should implement a pilot 
see commiTTee PAGE 5 






ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Online Editor: kevin song Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite winter accessory? 

Beverly Kyalwazi 
sophomore 
lyons hall 
“definitely a beanie.” 

Katie Dinardo 
sophomore 
lyons hall 
“a scarf.” 

Jeff Agar 
junior 
alumni hall 
“This hat.” 


Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Maddy Luteran 
junior 
welsh Family hall 
“Fuzzy socks.” 

Katie Guay 
junior 
welsh Family hall 
“my warm fluffy boots.” 

Mary Kate Whelan 
junior 
welsh Family hall 
“my big american flag infinity scarf.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

rebecca o’neil renee griffin Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: margaret hynes greg hadley andrea vale gabriela malespin 

Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
emily danaher maddie daly 
Photo Viewpoint 

“Journey to Italy” Majors Night Graduate Student Tennis Match “National Gallery” 
michael yu austin Taliaferro 
DeBartolo Performing South Dining Hall/ Mass Eck Tennis Pavillion DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Reckers Basilica of the Sacred 2 p.m. - 4 p.m. Arts Center 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 6 p.m. - 8 p.m. Heart Men’s tennis plays 3 p.m. - 5 p.m. 
Corrections 

Film depicting a Learn about majors 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Oklahoma State. Film about London’s 
The observer regards itself as declining marriage. and academic Worship Service. National Gallery. a professional publication and 
programs. Vigil Mass 
strives for the highest standards 
Reading by Lucy “Ronald K. Brown/ Basilica of the Sacred Rejoice! Mass 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Corin Basketball Game Evidence” Heart Dillon Hall Chapel 
however, recognize that we will make 
Hammes Bookstore 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. DeBartolo Performing 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. 8 p.m. - 9 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Joyce Center Arts Center Worship Service Worship service in 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Reading by prominent Women’s basketball 7 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. the African-American 
we can correct our error. 

novelist. plays Georgia Tech. Dance performance. tradition. 


lecture links business, peace 
Pen pal program 
By JP GSCHWIND 
news writer 
angela rivas, of the think tank Fundación ideas para la paz (Fip), lectured Tuesday at the hesburgh center for international studies on the role of business in colombia’s peace process. 
in the kellogg institute-sponsored lecture titled “when peacebuilding is your business: strategies for peace and peacebuilding in colombia,” rivas examined the peace process in colombia as the conflict between the colombian government and the revolutionary armed Forces of colombia (Farc) continues. 
rivas said the damage caused by ongoing violence in colombia is widespread and rampant. 
“more than 10 percent of the population has been directly af­fected by armed conflict,” rivas said. 
rivas said since peace talks be­tween the government and Farc became public in 2012, and dele­gates from both sides have reached tentative agreements on issues as diverse as rural development, par­ticipation in politics and drug traf­ficking. Talks like this offer some hope of ending the bloodshed and destruction, and business can play a crucial part in this process, rivas said. 
“a very diverse group of people, activities and firms including big multinational corporations and small family ventures can lend support,” she said. 
rivas said firms’ interactions with the conflict range from per­petuating it to lessening its impact and even stopping violence. 
“however, the majority of busi­nesses are in the middle, simplify­ing dealing with the conflict,” she said. 
rivas said that the social costs of colombia’s predicament are far-reaching. 
“There is a large lack of job op­tions,” she said. “unemployment is rampant.” 
businesses can hire those whose livelihoods have been decimated by the violence and even former guerrilla fighters to remedy this, rivas said. other social programs undertaken by businesses in­clude training unskilled work-

expands its reach 
ers and investing in low-income 
communities. 

“what we have found is that there are two primary reasons that companies engage in these initiatives,” rivas said. “The cost of the conflict is quite expen­sive, and there is moral or ethical dimension.” 
business should also address hu­man rights concerns as a priority, especially in the areas of security and risk assessments, she said. 
“if we can’t have basic conditions of human rights, how can we hope to have peace?” rivas said. 
she said the growth of public-private partnerships is an encour­aging prospect, but the efforts of businesses and the govern­ment need to be sustained and comprehensive. 
“There is no development if there no peace, and there is no peace if there is no development,” rivas said. 
Contact JP Gschwind at jgschwin@nd.edu 

By ALLI SANCHEZ 
news writer 
known for connecting saint mary’s students and local Title i schools, the college academy of Tutoring (caT) program is changing lives and expanding locations this semester. 
“This semester, we are start­ing our tutoring program at a new school, harrison primary, for fourth graders,” caT student director christin kloski said. “… we have tutoring programs at harrison and navarre and teacher’s assistants at harrison, coquillard and edison.” 
she said the college will con­tinue its pen pal program with coquillard and added harrison primary students to the list of letter recipients. 
cat was formed in 2006 to provide support for “students in under-resourced schools in the south bend area,” kloski said. The program provides academ­
ic support, including teacher’s assistants, pen pals and after-
University earns spot on 
school resources. kloski said she spearheaded the relationship between caT 
and harrison primary this year 
CNCS 2014 honor roll 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
news writer 
The corporation for national and community service (cncs) awarded notre dame a spot on the 2014 president’s higher education community service honor roll. 
director of community engagement for the office of public affairs Jay caponigro said the honor roll recognizes the university’s commitment to three categories: community service, education and economic development. 
“each year, colleges and uni­versities are invited to share sto­ries about their engagement in the community,” caponigro said. “unique to this year’s application, nd was recognized in all three categories where we applied.” 
according to the cncs, the presidential award is presented to institutions that “support ex­emplary community service programs and raise the visibility of effective practices in campus community partnerships.” 
although notre dame has re­ceived honor distinctions in the community service category in the past, caponigro said this is the first year the university applied and received recognition for the categories of education and eco­nomic development. 
“notre dame has been recog­nized as ‘honor roll’ recipient or ‘honor roll with distinction’ or ‘honor roll Finalist’ for five of the six years this award has been giv­en,” he said. 
due to the university’s interest and subsequent participation in both national and international endeavors, caponigro said notre dame is constantly expanding its education and development programs. 
“i believe notre dame re­ceived this recognition because we demonstrated breadth of stu­dent and faculty involvement, an infrastructure to support community-based activities and the institutional commitment to 

paid adverTisemenT 

engagement that mutually im­pacts community and campus participants,” he said. 
The university’s 2014 applica­tion featured numerous exam­ples of student, faculty and staff engagement in the community, caponigro said. although the majority of students partake in some form of service, the director of community engagement said service is less about the number of people involved and more about the impact and mutual benefits that impact both volunteers and the community at large. 
caponigro said key areas of involvement for the 2014 year in­cluded work in youth theater and entrepreneurship at the robinson community learning center as well as academic support and tu­toring at non-profits. 
local schools were widely supported, and broad volunteer service also occurred as a result of efforts conducted through communiversity day, caponigro said. additionally, community development partnerships were fostered with the northeast neighborhood, a neighborhood association in south bend. 
“our office joins with many departments and staff across campus to invite students to con­tinue to engage the community in meaningful partnerships and service opportunities,” he said. “we welcome innovative student-leaders hoping to create new proj­ects in the community, as well as support long-standing efforts with community partners that demonstrate impact year after year.” 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 
kloski said student partici­pants in caT were able to experi­ence that sense of inclusiveness first hand. 
“later on in the semester, we ended our pen pal program with a literacy night at the school,” she said. “The pen pals from saint mary’s and harrison met one another and were able to get to know one another during the event. The literacy night was a great way for saint mary’s stu­dents to experience a local com­munity setting. 
“harrison primary was a place where saint mary’s stu­dents could see how well the south bend community and the school community were able to work together.” 
sophomore and caT scholar Jade Johnson said meeting her pen pal for the first time at the end of the semester dinner was her favorite part of the program. 
“you get to know all about [your pen pal] throughout the semester,” Johnson said. “without ever seeing their face, they become a part of your life. putting a face to their name was an amazing experience i’ll never forget.” 
The pen pal program is impor­tant because it helps enhance the reading and writing skills of the third and fourth grade stu­dents while giving them a con­sistent and positive role model, Johnson said. 
“i encourage people to give it a try,” Johnson said. “volunteering through the caT program is a rewarding and exciting experience.” 
kloski said all students are welcome to join the caT pro­gram — regardless of major. 
Contact Alli Sanchez at asanch01@saintmarys.edu 

by visiting the school. 
“my first experience with the school was their back-to-school carnival-themed night,” she said. “i volunteered at the school to experience the new school’s environment.” 
kloski said her exploration yielded positive findings about the school’s environment. 
“as the students and parents poured into the cafeteria, i was pleased to see how well the stu­dents, parents, staff and teach­ers communicated with one another,” kloski said. “There was such a great feeling of com­munity at the school.” 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT SPARKNOTES 



Paris Attacks 
conTinued From page 1 
the city on the day of the attack. 
rosner, studying at the université paris diderot, said she was initially unsure of what had happened. 
“i was walking on rue de rivoli parallel to the louvre about two hours after the attack when i noticed a huge police presence at every corner, directing traffic and surveying the area,” rosner said in an email. “several shop-owners were gathered around Tvs, so i checked the news on my phone. i was alarmed and concerned, wanting to know more about what had happened. 
“i was in the middle of ex­ams the week of the attacks and would check the news while studying. The grocery store hos­tage situation was taking place a few stops down the tram line from my university, although the tram was only blocked off two stops beyond where i get off.” 
rogers, also a université diderot student, said she tried to stay as informed as possible about the attacks. 
“my initial reaction was to learn as much about the story as possible, and i kept thinking that i should feel more afraid, but i didn’t. i felt a bizarre sense of security, which i still can’t quite explain,” she said. 
rogers said she was most struck by parisians’ support on the streets in the days following the attacks. 
“more than anything, i was moved by the amount of French citizens eager to show their solidarity,” rogers said. “immediately, ‘Je suis charlie’ signs appeared everywhere, in storefront windows, on banners in front of museums. Thousands of people poured into the streets the night of the attack to partici­pate in demonstrations.” 
The study abroad student was also impressed with the re­sponse in the states. 
“i was also incredibly moved by the amount of people in the united states that were so con­cerned with my safety,” rogers said. “because i never felt a sense of fear or alarm, i didn’t think i merited much concern, but i was very touched by the amount of people who contacted me ‘just to make sure i was ok.’” 
burnett, who is studying at the sciences po in the seventh arrondissement, expressed her frustration that notre dame did not send information regarding safety in the wake of the attacks. 
“i received zero communica­tion from notre dame regarding the attacks, which i was very dis­appointed about,” burnett said in an email. 
“sciences po, my university here, sent out emails that they would be putting new security measures in place in line with vigipirate. vigipirate is France’s national security alert system and essentially their protocol in case of an emergency.” 
Freshman Therese mccarry, who lives approximately 20 minutes outside of paris with her american family, described her experience, as well. 
“i do think our experience was different because we do live outside the city, and ... we aren’t French, but it was just interest­ing because we tried to keep up with the news, but with this, you’re keeping up with the news in a daily, almost hourly, way be­cause it’s happening right next to you, and i think there’s just a different sense of connection to what’s going on,” mccarry said. 
burnett also described the ef­fect of the attacks on her experi­ence abroad as increasing her awareness of global issues. 
“The attacks have impacted my study abroad experience so far in the sense that they have shown me that being in europe means you are not so isolated from the unrest currently going on in the world,” burnett said. “Throughout my time here i have felt this, even before the at­tacks, in terms of the isis attacks and threats. everything is closer, and you can tell that you’re not as far removed from dangerous situations. specifically in paris, there is a very visible tension be­tween the French and the arabs. 

“There is a lot of racism, so­cial divides and complaining about middle eastern and north african immigration.” 
professor alison rice, who teaches in French and Francophone literature, said she thought the attacks would have a lasting effect on cartoonists and writers around paris and France. 
“The outpouring of support for charlie hebdo in France, both for the victims of the attack and for the ongoing activity of the weekly paper, is indicative of a widespread belief in the im­portance of freedom of speech,” rice said in an email. “France is a country with a centuries-old tradition of playful mockery, and the millions who took to the streets of paris stood up for this right to poke fun at a variety of topics. 
“however, i think that in the future, many writers and car­toonists will pause and carefully consider the impact that their depictions might have. i hope that the massacre at charlie hebdo will not result in a para­lyzing fear that serves to repress the freedom of expression in the future. but it will undeni­ably have an effect on those who touch on contentious topics in their writings and drawings. it will necessarily play a role in the decisions all artists make in their work because the memory of these attacks will not quickly fade.” 
rice said the potential cultur­al and political outcomes of the attacks on France were particu­larly interesting. 
“what i hope most fervently is that the attacks will not re­sult in greater prejudice against muslims in France,” rice said. “Those who are quickly categorized as black or arab already face tremendous dif­ficulty in France because of widespread racial stereotyp­ing. it is hard for those who hail from (or whose parents or even grandparents come from) sub-saharan or north africa to find good jobs and live in desir­able locations in France, and it would be tragic if the attacks led to even greater suspicion and less respect for them. 
“... The solidarity that was shown when millions took to the streets to peacefully unite in a march that included muslims, Jews and christians of various backgrounds is a gesture to­ward a future that i truly and desperately hope will be the most significant outcome of the attacks.” 
News writer Jack Rooney contributed to this report. 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



Panel 
conTinued From page 1 
four different perspectives on the attack. 
meserve, an associate professor of history, led the panel by focus­ing on the visual representations of the prophet muhammad that have appeared in historically op­posed cultures. 
“it may surprise people to know that there is a tradition of visual representation of muhammad in islamic culture,” meserve said. 
meserve said this may be un­expected because idolatry is prohibited in islam. The images of muhammad portrayed by muslims compared to western depictions of muhammad differ vastly, as certain depictions can greatly showcase the relationship between a culture and a religion, she said. 
“The particular form that various ages use to present muhammad tends to represent the concurrence of that particular age rather than the muhammad’s actual message or life or preach­ing,” meserve said. 
incorporating pictorial ex­amples on a projector, meserve focused on the evolution of muhammad’s relationship to the western world. 
meserve said the western me­dieval muhammad, as evident in dante’s portrayal, was usually de­picted as a false prophet. 
The religious anxiety associated with the medieval muhammad, however, evolved in the 15th and 16th centuries into political fasci­nation, she said. 
meserve said muhammad’s history as a great military king and creator of divine and human laws interested many scholars, leading to a softening of his portrait in the 17th and 18th centuries as a kind of political phenomenon so that by the time of the enlightenment era, muhammad’s portrait had become tamed. 
“what these portraits reveal as they progress from hostile to neutral to vaguely patronizing 

Committee 
conTinued From page 1 
program aimed at increasing worker participation in several chinese factories. The pilot pro­gram, proposed by the worker participation committee cre­ated by executive vice president John affleck-graves, would allow for the production of notre dame-licensed items in china — a departure from the university’s policy regarding li­censing since 1999. 
in its current form, the university’s licensing code of conduct states that “prod­ucts bearing the name or other trademarks of the university of notre dame shall only be manu­factured in countries where all workers enjoy the legal rights to associate freely, form indepen­dent labor unions and collective­ly bargain with their employers.” 
pfeil said she believes the pi­lot program’s deviation from is a west that has become more confident in the islamic world,” merserve said. “so what do we make of the seemingly anxious portraits now in modern world?” 

morel, an assistant profes­sor of romance languages and literatures and French citizen, answered meserve’s question with a native’s perspective on the tragedy. 
morel called the attack a “po­litical assassination” by “children on brothers” that brought a kind of shame to France because the kouachi brothers, who carried out the attack on the office of charlie hebdo magazine, were born and raised in France. 
he said the attacks call atten­tion to a divided nation at war with itself over immigration and muslim inclusion issues. 
moosa, a professor of islamic studies, said the recent attack could be traced to a global mar­ginalization of muslim youth. 
moosa said that he believes that the recent terror attacks have something to do with the larger global unrest that has surfaced following events such as the 1979 iranian revolution, 9/11 and the united states and european cam­paigns in the war on Terror. 
in particular, moosa said that the war on Terror “not only awoke monsters but resulted in the deaths of thousands and destabi­lized many muslim communities and societies.” 
as a result, moosa said there have been three decades for muslim youth to develop agendas in very complex and fragmented ways that now result in extreme forms of violence that cannot be controlled. 
moosa said he believes this radicalization of muslim youth  is a core reason that terrorist groups, such as the kouachi brothers, are mobilizing, more so than free speech issues regarding the depic­tion of muhammad. 
moosa said that the lampoon­ing of muhammad has evolved into a contested historical doc­trine, as most mainstream muslims do not exhibit a desire to 
current university policy to be preemptive. 
“we have an existing licens­ing code of conduct,” pfeil said. “communal engagement around the appropriateness of our cur­rent code and whether it needs revision ought to come before pursuit of a pilot manufacturing program that involves violation of that code.” 
enderle said he agreed with pfeil that the issue under discus­sion is an ethical one, but sup­ports the implementation of the pilot program in china because of its potential to establish better relations with china on a busi­ness as well as academic level. 
“we should be a source for the good, not only at notre dame on campus but also worldwide,” he said. “That is my deep conviction … we should not shun china, but we should engage china. i can tell you that this is not easy.” 
agreeing with enderle, Xin he said that with the transition to a new government in china, now punish lampooners by the death penalty as is written into classic islamic law. 
most lay muslims living in sec­ular societies do not invoke reli­gious doctrine but do join protests to make known their religious wounds, he said. 
“The globalized world is frag­ile… and we are mistaken if we highlight these woeful acts of ter­ror as singular acts,” moosa said. 
moosa said one possible solu­tion is to update muslim theo­logical doctrines, such as capital punishment, that have explosive sociological consequences. 
To conclude the panel, visconsi, an associate professor of english and concurrent professor of law, provided context for thinking about the freedom of expression laws. 
visconsi first described expres­sion laws in the united states, as defined by the First amendment. 
Free speech in america is cen­tered on the individual, visconsi said. 
“The freedom of expression in the united states is the right of the extreme speaker to say whatever they want in face of the overwhelming disapproval of the majority,” said visconsi. 
visconsi said a highly controver­sial claim in France is that many French muslims feel that speech directed against muhammad is itself personal and results in muslims feeling unwelcome to take a full role in the democratic processes of the state. 
visconsi warned against the creation of “democratic deficits” and said he believes the world should focus on developing a no­tion of value of each person’s dem­ocratic legitimacy. 
“in a world by which global communication is nearly friction­less and speech transmits rap­idly across borders, we may well need a new global framework for thinking of freedom of expression based on more than the individu­al,” visconsi said. 
Contact Jennifer Flanagan at jflanag2@nd.edu 
is the opportune time for notre dame to exert its influence — monetary and otherwise — to bring about an improvement to chinese workers’ rights. 
“it’s a good time to review this policy,” Xin he said. “it’s a good time to engage with the chinese factories.” 
cassel said he recognizes po­tential benefits of the program, but is “concerned that the focus on individual factories may not take adequate account of the broader country context.” 
regardless of whether notre dame adopts the pilot program, enderle said, “we have to be care­ful in making judgments.” 
coccia said a second panel discussion will be held to­night at 7 p.m. in mckenna hall auditorium, followed by a higgins labor café meeting in geddes hall on Friday at 4:30 p.m. 
Contact Clare Kossler at ckossler@nd.edu 

CSC Fair 
conTinued From page 1 
lombardo said. 
“They are striving to return to the community where the rest of us lives, free of the chal­lenges that made them home­less, with a good and safe place to live, a job with dignity and connections to family and friends,” he said. “we are looking for students to help us in all aspects of our work, students who wish to live out their university’s mission and our catholic social tradition.” 
lombardo said that the center for the homeless hopes to welcome a variety of stu­dent talents. volunteer posi­tions needed include tutoring children at the center in or­der to give them a role model and improve their classroom performance, teaching com­puter literacy skills to adults helping adults learn a foreign language or gain their ged, serving meals and helping at the front desk, he said. 
sam centellas, an execu­tive director at la casa de amistad, a community cen­ter in south bend that aims to assist and encourage the 
Directors 
conTinued From page 1 
the new director of student involvement, said. “when i interviewed here, everyone was friendly and genuine. i was impressed — and still am — by the students i met during my interview. Their maturity, dedication, and in­telligence are inspiring.” 
both Jenkins and house were introduced to the college just last week, but both said they found saint mary’s appealing because of its identity as a liberal arts college and the character of its faculty, staff and students. 
“[The campus] made a very good impression,” Jenkins, the new director of multicultural services, said. “The mission and the values, everything that [students] do here.” 
Jenkins said she intends to actively reach out to the women of saint mary’s and cater to their needs. 
“The most important thing is making time for the stu­dents, getting to know them and trying to find out how in my role i can help the stu­dents and meet the mission of the institution as well,” Jenkins said. “i want to find out how our offices can bet­ter serve the students.” 
since Jenkins started her new role, she said she finds fulfillment in realizing her mission. 
“my highlight of my work­day is just meeting all the great students and having the opportunity to sit down and talk with them,”  Jenkins said. “i’m someone that hispanic community, said his organization will also have a table at the fair this year. 
“it is always great to see so many notre dame students that want to be involved in the local community,” centellas said. “we love work­ing with notre dame students. whether in a community-based learning class, getting some career-related experi­ence outside of campus or just spending some time mentor­ing kids, we know notre dame students take their commit­ments seriously and work hard to make an impact. 
“we want students to know they can come just once a se­mester, come once a week all semester or do an internship with us. we work hard to make sure your experience with us at la casa not only ben­efits the community but pro­vides you with a meaningful experience.” 
students who can’t attend the fair are invited to view the csc’s 2014-2015 civic engagement guide, found on the csc’s website, for out­reach opportunities. 
Contact Andrea Vale at  avale@nd.edu 
really believes in serving oth­ers and mentoring women leaders. whatever the needs are, that’s my job to do those needs.” 
both offices, though simi­lar in services offered to stu­dents, have different ways of implementing their ideas through the focus of their re­spective offices, house and Jenkins said. 
“The office of student involvement will work with students and student orga­nizations both,” house said. “in my role as director, i plan to be interacting with stu­dents through the programs and events our office will be hosting.” 
house said she is especial­ly excited to help with the college’s annual spring festi­val, Tostal, this semester. 
Jenkins said she is partic­ularly interested in “work­ing on the belles connect scholars program.” 
both halves of the former office have an open-door policy meant to encourage students to engage in the planning of college events. 
“i’m always open to ideas and suggestions from stu­dents on the types of pro­grams and events they would like to see on campus,” house said. 
“we will be working closely together,” Jenkins said.  “we will be continuing to work and collaborate together. we’re partners in making sure that there’s a good cam­pus life on campus and that we meet the needs of the students.” 
Contact Macaila DeMario at mdemario01@saintmarys.edu 

Artist privilege 

INSIDE COLUMN 

new year’s resolutions 
Allie Tollaksen 
scene editor 

because it’s the start of a new year and semester, i feel obligated to write about new year’s resolutions. 
as i’ve gotten older (and more active on so­cial media), talk about the holiday has taken a bitter turn: people hate new year’s resolutions. 
social media platforms are riddled with an­gry veteran gym-goers and health enthusiasts haranguing about packed fitness centers and long lines at whole Foods. The overarching sentiment is that resolvers take up space and time with their new healthy lifestyles until February, when they’ll finally get out the way. 
i can’t help but be bothered by this re­sponse, so here is my case for new year’s resolutions. 
First, i’ve heard detractors claim that new year’s is an arbitrary time to change or try something new. They insist the day is mean­ingless and that celebrating Jan. 1 with resolu­tions is as bad as buying a hallmark card on valentine’s day. 
of course you can resolve to be a better per­son on any day of the year, but there’s some­thing about the calendar resetting that gives resolutions their excitement and challenge. we tell ourselves this is the year and have the “2015” in every date holding us accountable. yes, gyms and Jenny craig capitalize on the holiday, but that doesn’t mean self-improve­ment is suddenly a sham. 
second, although naysayers rant on social media about how the gym crowd won’t last or balk at a friend hitting the salad bar for lunch, they’re doing more than passively prophesy­ing. breaking a habit or starting a healthier life is hard, but hearing over and over again that these attempts are unwelcome or unconvinc­ing only makes them harder. 
when your friends publicly declare their hopes for self-improvement, why not encour­age them? why not appreciate their willing­ness to self-reflect, at the very least? 
i’m not trying to tell you to make “be nicer” your new year’s resolution. i’m as guilty as anyone for mindlessly rolling my eyes at a “#transformationtuesday”instagram.still, this January, i’m resolving to remind myself every day that other people’s efforts and suc­cesses aren’t an affront to my own. 
There’s no way of knowing whether the newcomer at the gym or teetotaler at the party won’t stick with their changes. There’s no way to know their intentions or whether they made their goals for the “right” reasons, and it’s easy to make snap judgments instead. 
it’s also easy to feel better about yourself when you wait around to watch others fumble or fail. what’s not so easy is giving the benefit of the doubt; it’s difficult to be supportive and empathetic. 
so yes, it may take a bit more effort. it may mean making extra room or taking extra time, but i really believe that scoffing at those trying to self-improve is a collective habit worth breaking. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at Alice.K.Tollaksen.3@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Erin Thomassen 
The examined life 

i am sick of walking around this campus and seeing all this artist privilege. everywhere i go, there’s a flock of artists strutting around in their matching artist gear. 
They think they’re so cool, their artsy nametags swinging from their backpack. “emily wemily: varsity painting!” one brags in sparkles. “Joe schmo: club ceramics” shouts another. 
They make me feel excluded and inartistic, even though i paint for fun. i’m just not good enough to make varsity, or that’s what i tell myself. i never tried out. 
regardless, i don’t have the time for such a commit­ment. i hear they paint for five hours a day in their special art studios that us philistines are not allowed in. how do they have time or energy for class? or the real question: how do they have time to stand around taunting me unconsciously with their gear, nametags and artsy haircuts? 
as annoyed as i am, i can’t help but look to see if i recognize any of the artists. i can’t be obvious; i have to play it cool and pretend i don’t know how famous or talented they are (or are not). They might be one of the masters, or their artwork might not even get displayed. 
what if their sculptures were displayed in the o’shaugnessy hallway? That would make them campus celebrities. 
on saturdays, almost every student has a ticket for the snite art showing. Thousands of alums come to campus to pre-show with wine and cheese. Then, the whole campus pours into the snite sporting “go nd sculpture” T-shirts. we amuse ourselves by attempting to cheer and dance in coordination, and sometimes we actually watch the artists attack the clay. 
we sing a sentimental song when the artist wins. we sing if the clay wins, too. once, the art instructor told us we couldn’t sing if the clay got the best of the artist, but that made the student body mad, so now we’re al­lowed to sing no matter what. 
good thing, because a lot of people (like me) don’t understand sculpture. we just go to the showing be­cause we like singing the song and swaying, even though it’s awkward sometimes. 
after standing for three hours (The sculpting itself doesn’t take a long time, but there are so many com­mercial breaks and smoking breaks because it’s not healthy to ask an artist to sculpt without cigarettes), we all rush to the dining hall for a special candlelit dinner. The dinner is not that special, but the candles are — varsity sculptors sculpted them. The sculptors don’t see their artwork admired for they eat in the var­sity artist lounge. 
sometimes i get annoyed that our school spends so much money on clay and canvases for the varsity art­ists. Then i remember how much money the tickets to the shows make, not to mention how much the book­store makes from its pottery-themed gear; the art de­partment easily pays for itself and probably makes a profit. 
but then i get annoyed again when i remember how heavily admissions recruits artists. you let her in be­cause she can throw a pot, but then you never display her artwork? Then i remember that the artists are prob­ably good at academics. i chastise myself for letting the negative stereotypes get to me when they’re not true most of the time. 
i should probably chill about this whole artist privi­lege thing. it’s only a big deal if i make it one. i am so lucky to go to notre dame. i get to learn about the most random and relevant things at this beautiful school with sparkling snow, steamed veggies and a function­ing heating system. 
so what if i don’t get to eat artist food or wear artist gear? i have normal food in my stomach and normal clothes on my back (and front). 
life is good when i realize my complaints are stupid. actually, life is always good, but i don’t realize it until i stop complaining. 
i may not have artist privilege, but i have life privi­lege, and it’s pretty good to be alive. i’ll remember that as long as i’m kept away from the sparkly nametags and pointed towards the sparkling snow. 
Erin Thomassen is a sophomore studying mechanical engineering. Send her comments or questions about her san­ity at ethomass@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



“The Interview” is the least of our problems 
Christopher Newton 
stepping out of The cave 

Friends tend to gossip about one another — nothing particularly surprising there. people like to have informa­tion about not only their enemies, but also those closer to them. Typically lacking any sort of malicious intent, people often just want to know what’s going on in others’ lives. 
step back to the level of states and the interest in infor­mation remains the same, though hopefully for reasons of greater consequence. states spy on their enemies and their friends, as was made clear by the edward snowden leaks in the spring of 2013. The united states was spying on not only its own citizens and its enemies, but also its supposed allies. german prime minister angela merkel was none too pleased that the government of her alleged friend, president barack obama, had been going through her email and cellphone, a dilemma as old as those tech­nologies themselves. 
espionage of many varieties is tolerated on the interna­tional stage, despite vociferous protest by germany and other victims of the national security agency (nsa) that may indicate otherwise. it is a fact of life, and every coun­try with the means to do so, does so. 
That espionage occurs, and is generally tolerated, is nothing new. The means and methods of data collection, however, are changing rapidly and at times unpredictably. cyber-warfare is a strategic and tactical reality of not only modern espionage, but warfare as well. at once a tool of intelligence-gathering and offensive strikes, the next great war will undoubtedly have a significant cyber component. 
For those unfamiliar with the term, cyber-warfare refers to internet and software-based attacks on the information systems of a target actor, such as a state, business or indi­vidual. in practice, this has a wide range of forms, includ­ing but not limited to penetrating a computer network to steal information, planting viruses and denying access to websites. 
in the past eight years, the world has seen an increas­ing number of ever more advanced cyber-attacks. in 2007, russia attacked and disrupted estonian government websites. in 2010, a combined american and israeli effort implanted the notorious stuxnet malware program into iranian nuclear sites, causing widespread physical dam­age to centrifuges. The year 2014 bore witness to numer­ous alleged major hacks by the chinese and north korean governments on american government agencies and businesses. 
only just recently, the us is believed to have responded to the sony hack by shutting down north korea’s internet for several days. The us was only able to definitively con­clude that north korea was responsible for the sony attack because it had itself hacked north korean systems in 2010 on a large-scale, implanting various programs to collect data and map north korean systems. 
rarely do hacks solely intended to gather information receive widespread attention, as they tend to fall into an acceptable range of expected espionage. attacks that are more offensive in nature, such as attacks intended to crash government websites or, in the rare case of stuxnet, cause physical damage to infrastructure, are met with swift condemnation. 
in some cases, espionage has grown to unacceptable levels and has involved not intelligence operatives, but military personnel, as in the case of the more recent chinese hacks. often times, chinese-american cyber­dueling pits the hackers of the people’s liberation army against those of the nsa, an interesting mix of uniformed members of a foreign military against more traditional intelligence agents. 
This example is emblematic of the blurred lines of cyber-warfare, as not only are many attacks difficult to trace conclusively, but the lines between espionage and offensive strikes are difficult to discern. when a spy gathers documents, he is merely spying. when that spy gathers documents and then plants a bomb, he becomes a saboteur. 
attacks that cause damage are not espionage, but acts of war. Thus stuxnet could, and should, be construed as a hostile attack on one government by two others. yet other cases are not so simply categorized, for many hacks are meant to simply map the networks and defenses of po­tential adversaries in anticipation of later conflict. while mapping, as in the case of the united states and north korea, hackers may leave behind various software pro­grams for data collection, early warning systems of future hacks and future offensive attacks. 
This presents a strategic conundrum: how do states differentiate between espionage and offensive attacks? if states cannot determine what sort of hack has been con­ducted, they cannot respond proportionally. even if the perpetrator can be identified, there is significant risk of misinterpretation and an escalation in hostilities due to a disproportionate response by the victim or a lack of any response, encouraging future attacks. 
The ambiguity of cyber-attacks places these developing capabilities somewhere in between espionage and open warfare. while no massive offensive attack has occurred, the world has also not witnessed large-scale, conventional interstate warfare in decades. states have been mapping and probing each other’s networks, occasionally disrupt­ing them or even damaging physical targets. The united states maintains a list of potential cyber targets in the event of war, as many other countries likely do. when war does break out, the world will likely see what states have been preparing behind closed doors. 
Chris Newton is a senior formerly of Knott Hall. He is a political science major and international  development studies minor. He can be reached at  cnewton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

pro-life is practical 
billy mcmahon’s Jan. 14 viewpoint “practically pro-life” raises several concerns regarding the image of the pro-life movement in american society today. at first glance, being “pro-life” is rigidly synonymous with be­ing against abortion; the word “pro-life” evokes images of fetuses rather than those of pregnant mothers, the hungry and the dispossessed. although i agree with mr. mcmahon that we ought to put the marginalized first as Jesus did, i think he may be surprised to find that pro-life people can — and, i believe, must — oppose abor­tion if they believe in the christian preferential option for the poor. 
The preferential option for the poor is the principle that loving god and neighbor entails making the well­being of those deemed insignificant by the world our top priority. Though the phrase “preferential option for the poor” has been in use for less than a century, the underlying idea has been present in the Judeo­christian tradition from as far back as we can histori­cally trace. since mr. mcmahon implies the teachings of Jesus of nazareth support his position, i think it is appropriate to look at the immediate Jewish basis for those teachings: the commandment to give alms. 
For first-century Jews, giving alms was tantamount to fulfilling every god-given directive. notre dame professor gary anderson provides a digestible overview of this idea in his book “charity.” anderson argues that for Jews of the second Temple period (which includes the life of Jesus), almsgiving was conceived of as a loan to god through the poor — a loan that god promised to repay with blessings and deliverance from future troubles. The idea that one would receive any sort of re­payment for such a loan seemed just as absurd then as it does today. it’s unreasonable enough to expect a beggar to settle a debt of spare change or several dollars, and someone who gives alms with the expectation of repay­ment is clearly committing an act of faith. however, the idea seems even more radical when we consider the implications of the loan metaphor for almsgiving. when we start viewing this act of charity as a financial transaction, we begin to see the poor as actual people rather than worn-out statues holding coffee cups you toss coins into. 
my belief that almsgiving is a loan to god has been reinforced by my experiences with beggars while i was working in dublin, ireland, this past summer. inspired by an irish priest’s homily on homelessness in the city, i decided to put the ideas laid out in “charity” into practice. whenever i came across a beggar, i would walk over to them, give them a warm greeting, give them spare change that i would have ready in my hand and then wish them well. in having the change in my hand, i was prepared to give without hesitation, but i also managed to thwart one man’s attempt to mug me at a bus stop. poised to take my wallet if i pulled it out, the man was dumbfounded when i opened my palm to reveal the gift i had ready for him. up until that point, i was very afraid of this apparently ill-willed man — it was thanks to my faith that i could see him as a good man despite all evidence to the contrary. 
as the summer progressed, my encounters with beg­gars proved to be more fruitful than i could have ever imagined. after buying a meal for one homeless woman during my lunch break, i had a great conversation with her about our favorite foods. several others thanked me and god for the money i gave them, and i was amazed at how some of the people i met conveyed a sense of faith and meaning in life that was more profound yet simpler in tone than what you might hear in a sermon or theology lecture. in the beginning, i would always close a conversation with those i gave to by saying, “have a good day,” like i would to any friend. by the end of the summer, i learned a more meaningful farewell from the people i met on street: “god bless you.” 
The loans i made to my needy brothers and sisters in dublin have been repaid beyond the face value of the coins i placed in their hands. at the same time, i am saddened by the fact that these loans are far less than what my brothers and sisters need. one man who regularly begged outside the church i attended would always request a large sum of money in order to stay at a hostel. simply granting his request would not have been sufficed to ensure his well being; i felt in my conscience that i would have to go out of my way to be present at the hostel and pay in person in order to see to it that he was safe. in other words, this man above all needed people to care for him, to look after him — this man, our brother, needed a loving and supportive family. 
From reason, we know that our brother at one point had family members in the descriptive, biological sense 
—
 there was a man and a woman who made his exis­tence possible. somewhere down the line, our brother fell into poverty, and it wouldn’t surprise us if he inher­ited this situation from his mother or father. it is for this reason that sexual ethics enter the picture: if we truly want to reduce poverty, then we must love responsibly. 

For christians, responsible love is not simply sexual innuendo; it is a way of life, inside and outside the walls of our churches and bedrooms. Jesus taught us to “love one another as [he] has loved us.” Following Jesus, we ought to love each other as brother and sister 

—
 we ought to treat all human beings as actual people rather than insignificant objects. in carrying out this challenging call to love, we must care for all who are deemed insignificant, especially the poor and the unborn. 


Jimmy Kelly 
senior off-campus Jan. 21 




By KELLY McGARRY 
scene writer 

when we think of the trials of those fighting for our country, we might imagine soldiers carrying weapons, braving gunfire and explosions in a distant unfamiliar country, the fear of death mingling with exhaustion. often forgotten is the war that follows veterans home, the battle with reliving the horrors of their experience and trying to return to a normal life. 
“american sniper” retells the trials and triumphs of navy seal chris kyle, as adapted from his autobiogra­phy. as a boy, chris kyle learned from his father to not be a sheep or a wolf, but to be a sheepdog. The protector instinct is so deeply ingrained that hearing of the ter­rorist attacks on sept. 11, 2001, kyle is driven to join the military to protect the country he considers the greatest on earth. 
The film broke box-office records and has received six oscar nominations. its enormous success may be an indication of american patriotism and an attitude of reverence for military heroes. in a time when war is less 
By HANNAH ECKSTEIN 
scene writer 

it was a holy-grail discovery of the musical world: Tucked away in the basement of american singer and songwriter bob dylan’s new york home lay pages of un­recorded song lyrics, written by the legendary folk artist himself. 
For nearly five decades, these pages lay hidden, silently gathering dust. silent, that is, until one fateful discovery by dylan’s producer and two weeks of intensive jam ses­sions brought these lyrical time capsules to life. 
in the mid-1960s, bob dylan and The band were at the peaks of their careers. with incredibly popular songs such as “like a rolling stone,” this american rock-folk band was in high demand and thus constantly on tour. This life, however, was taking its toll on dylan, who reported heavy drug use and exhaustion. 
in what some refer to as a blessing in disguise, dylan’s life took an unexpected turn. in 1966, he was involved in a devastating motorcycle crash and forced to take time off from touring. dylan retreated to his home in upstate new york, disappearing almost altogether from the public eye. 
during this time, fortunately, dylan continued re­cording music. working with The band in the basement of his new york home, dylan privately recorded songs, EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 
relevant for americans, it serves as a reminder that war persists in the memory of veterans. 
Throughout four tours of duty in iraq, kyle proves himself a legendary sniper. The ultimate protector, he watches over his men from above and eliminates threats. he has little trouble hitting his targets; the true challenge he faces is balancing an overwhelming sense of duty both to his family at home and his fellow seals in the war. he returns to iraq not only on tour after tour, but also constantly in his mind. 
This harrowing tale of patriotism pays homage to an american hero. unfortunately, the movie as a memoir takes an overly reverent perspective, calling for a lack of flaws in the main character. his character is portrayed as perfectly patriotic and responds to a perfect sense of duty. his convictions remain steadfast throughout challenges, defending that his only regret from the war was that he could not protect more of his own. with even kyle’s widow involved in the making of the film, his character is portrayed with the level of depth of a fam­ily member’s eulogy. his strength is remembered along with the struggles he overcame, but he is not told as a 
providing major hits for many popular artists. 
luckily for the public, the product of all these secret music sessions began to leak into mainstream music, ap­pearing in several bootlegged recordings. Finally, dylan’s work was brought to light on the "genuine basement Tapes," a set of five cds containing 107 songs created dur­ing these basement sessions. despite the immensity of these tapes, pieces of dylan’s music still remained hidden and unrecorded. 
Forty-seven years later, new lyrics from this basement session were discovered and finally brought to life. while exploring this now-famous basement, dylan's producer discovered pages of never-before-recorded lyrics. 
he handed them down to T bone burnett, who jumped at the opportunity to work with these lyrics. burnett put together a musical “super-group,” calling on marcus mumford of mumford and sons, elvis costello, Jim James, rhiannon giddens of the carolina chocolate drops and Taylor goldsmith of dawes. Their daunting task: to revive these lyrics with new music, while evoking the unique sounds that made dylan so legendary. 
The group took on the task, collaborating for two weeks in a basement, simulating the original basement tape re­cordings that began nearly five decades earlier. 
a documentary called "The long lost basement Tapes," shows just how difficult it was for these writers to recreate complete person with flaws and failures. Though kyle is troubled by his experiences in war, the challenges he overcomes only strengthen his heroic image. one might suspect a darker side to the most lethal man in u.s. mili­tary history. 
leaning far in the direction of a biography, “american sniper” lacks the narrative quality connecting one mo­ment to the next. nevertheless, bradley cooper does a remarkable performance in this important role. Faced with the challenge of honoring kyle’s memory, cooper manages to create an incredibly relatable character who is heroic yet humble and down-to-earth. given little evi­dence of weakness in the script itself, the troubled mind of the protagonist seems to appear in cooper’s eyes, in a performance reminiscent of clint eastwood himself. 
it seems that the construction of the movie is really a collection of moments. intense scenes of war mingle with heartrending personal experiences, creating an inspirational yet heartbreaking account that leaves the audience speechless. 
Contact Kelly McGarry at kmcgarry@nd.edu 
what bob dylan had done with those lyrics so many years ago. 
after two weeks of tediously putting music to these lyr­ics, and a surprise musical appearance by Johnny depp, the band finally finished the album, a project that be­gan 47 years ago. The result, "lost on the river: The new basement Tapes," is an incredible collaboration of past and present musical genius. 
like a time capsule of dylan’s music, the lyrics on the "new basement Tapes" are haunting and timeless, a testa­ment to dylan’s gift for songwriting and story-telling. The musical accompaniment highlights the creative talent of musicians like marcus mumford and rhiannon giddens. 
Tracks like "kansas city," recorded by mumford, sound like they could have come straight off a mumford and sons' album but still reproduce sounds that emulate dylan's Folk legacy. 
other noteworthy songs on the album include "spanish mary," "Florida key" and "The whistle blowing." 
although the album caught some flack for sounding too contemporary, there is no denying that this collaboration is a testament to the artistic creativity and talent of these new artists — and the incredible legacy that dylan left behind. 
Contact Hannah Eckstein at heckste1@nd.edu 


By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
scene writer 

on monday the domain name hipsterrunoff.com was put up for auction on the website marketplace Flippa. it was the final nail in the coffin of hipster runoff, the self-proclaimed "blog worth blogging about." although it went inactive in 2013, the satirical website was practically re­quired reading for indie kids in the latter half of the 2000s. 
run by carles, a pseudonymous character created by the blog's still-mysterious writer, hipster runoff satirized mid-aughts hipster culture with a heavy dose of ironic scare quotes. at the site's core was carles' never-ending desire to be "relevant." The site mocked the performed authenticity of a certain breed of hipster; it parodied the "entry-level alt" who valued the appearance of being in the know about new music trends as much as the actual knowing. 
behind carles' self-knowing voice and use of internet slang, posts from hipster runoff's peak are often quite in­telligent analyses of the hype cycle of online music blog­ging. a 2009 post about the critical acclaim surrounding animal collective's "merriweather post pavilion" ques­tioned the reasons people listen to music and the com-modification of indie music. 
"in the musicsphere, there are a few key tastemakers 
By DANIEL BARABASI 
scene writer 

The fortress of the gym. sweaty bodies everywhere, putting your hands in the air like you do care about your fitness status. presumably the last place to hide from sartorial critique. 
until now. incredulous at the idea of being fashion­able while working out? Then read on, as i take on the "groutfit" culture putting up a final stand in the outskirts of rockne and rolfs with only a keyboard and clothing advice. 
personally, i’d like to start by telling you that i've de­cided to order a pair of compression tights. intimidated yet? keep reading. 
professional athletes tout tights' ability to keep mus­cles activated and facilitate more effective warmups. scientifically, they're shown to wick away sweat and im­prove blood flow, all while allowing for sick splits. plus, shia labeouf totally rocks a purple pair on jogs. 
if you can't take the pressure of compression tights, try joggers, the current all-around solution for men's of different scales," carles wrote, "and most of them have aligned to tell you that animal collective is relevant+pro gressive+transcendent." 
carles incisively described the natural culmination of indie rock: its commodification. in 2012, rob Trump smartly summarized hipster runoff's mission: "reading it was like pulling back the curtain on alternative culture, only to discover that the guy calling all the shots was just as cynical and profit-driven as everyone else. constructing your identity based on your cultural knowledge, the site seemed to say, was stupid and self-defeating." 
what does it mean to have "good taste" in an industry where grizzly bear and st. vincent end up on a "Twilight" soundtrack and coachella sells out two weekends regard­less of who's on the lineup? how "unique" are your tastes when they're dictated by a handful of indie rock blogs? 
once-hipsters have since largely shifted in the opposite direction, for the most part abandoning the pretentious­ness that characterized the stereotype. "selling out," once the ultimate evil an indie rock group could commit, is now the new norm; indie rock was revealed to be just as much a commodity as the Top 40. hipsters experienced a collective existential crisis and moved away from ironic detachment. instead, acknowledging one's tastes sin­cerely and enthusiastically has become de rigueur. 
poptimism — treating pop music as worthy of critical 
fashion. warm and modern, they leave space in just the right locales, while still keeping a trendy sweat feel. even though my mom still scolds if i throw on a pair on our way to boston, they’re the newest urban wear as well, so don’t be afraid to wear them out. 
looking for something shorter? don't regress to out­dated shorts. avoid short shorts, unless you're attend­ing a rollerskating syr, or below the knee basketball “shorts." ball can still be life if you're wearing compres­sion shorts, or if you want to stand, throw on a pair of sweat shorts. 
now a quick hint on where to splurge: your feet. you can get the nicest active gear for your upper and lower body, but all that’s doing is making you less sweaty, and you should be showering at the end of a workout any­ways. on the other hand, a tired pair of kicks brings down your entire game, messing with your stride and bone integrity. updating your shoe game is crucial for maintaining the health perks you would be looking for in a long jog. 
but please, keep away from the five-toed abominations of the past. not only are they hideous, but studies have consideration as rock — is the default mode among most critical-minded music fans. pitchfork, still the most in­fluential tastemaker in whatever can be called "indie music," has taken to regularly covering and praising mainstream pop artists like ariana grande, beyoncé and Taylor swift. 
similarly, normcore, the anti-fashion trend with new balance sneakers and acidwash jeans as its staples, was the epitome of embracing normality. it abandoned trying to be cool and gave in to the pleasure of wearing "nor­mal" clothing. 
it was only a matter of time before hipster runoff came to its inevitable death. The self-serious, impossibly-cool hipster outgrew the characterization years ago. The in­telligent cultural consumer of the 2010s is unabashedly voracious, enjoying art from both the mainstream and the underground without guilt. 
carles’ last post in 2013 was a poem titled "is the scene still alive?" in it, carles muses, "They still seem to take it seriously. it still seems to define them. are they holding on to something that doesn't exist any more?" hipsters let go of an impossibly idealistic vision of indie rock and stopped worrying about being "relevant." it seems like hipster runoff has finally done same. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at mmunhall@nd.edu 
shown that they are in fact harmful to your posture and feet, rather than providing the “natural” gait originally promised. instead, turn to five-fingered socks when out of the gym. Tight-fitting shoes, especially sneakers, do curl your toes and give you flattened, “hammer toes.” Toe socks let your digits take a breather, returning your piggies to a rounded, healthier state. 
The final step in your workout transformation comes with the accessories. your gym bag should not compete with your carry-on in terms of volume. it should neatly contain your change of clothes, perhaps with an extra compartment for shoes. i use a “retro” leather single-shoulder sling bag that has one opening tied off with ropes. although i’m pretty sure they stopped selling these back when my dad pumped iron, a leather duffle does have its place in your locker. 
and if you want to bring your a+ game, throw on a suit over it all to keep you warm while braving the polar vor­tex. Just don’t have a singlet on underneath. i officially ban them. 
Contact Daniel Barabasi at dbaraba1@nd.edu 

EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Scherzer signing hurts Nationals 
Brian Plamondon 
sports writer 
with the inaugural college Football playoff in the books and the super bowl two weeks away, the sports world finds itself in a bit of a lull. 
even major league baseball has been rela­tively quiet since the winter meetings concluded in early december, and spring train­ing is still around a month away. yesterday, however, things changed when the washington nationals inked max scherzer to a seven-year, $210-million mega-deal. 
over the last two seasons, scherzer went 39-8 with a 
3.02 era while striking out 492 batters. he won the cy young in 2013. he is one of the most durable pitchers in the game, having pitched 180 innings five years in a row. he makes the nationals instant favorites to win the 2015 world series. and yet, the nats made a huge mis­take by signing scherzer. 
let’s first look at the his­tory of hurlers getting nine-figure contracts. scherzer’s contract falls just shy of the top pitcher on the list, clayton kershaw and his $215 million. kershaw signed the deal last offseason, so it’s too early to tell if the dodgers made a good deal. 
The Tigers, scherzer’s former club, gave Justin verlander $180 million, and he has returned the favor with a .538 win percent­age and a 3.99 era over two years. if verlander stays on this course, the Tigers are tied to a pitcher that is aver­age at best until he is 37, all the while paying him $20 million per year. 
cc sabathia was given $122 million over five years and over his last 40 starts has posted a 4.87 era. Johan santana, he of the $137.5 million deal, has been non­existent and missed two full seasons due to injury. barry Zito (63-80, 4.62 era) has been nothing short of awful in his seven years with the giants. cliff lee — another bust. and who has even heard of kevin brown? 
sure, there are exceptions to the rule — cole hamels and Felix hernandez come to mind. but the vast ma­jority of $100 million-plus pitchers have crippled their respective teams and their payrolls. i can’t think of one reason why the nationals should have pulled the trig­ger on scherzer. They should be worried about locking up their homegrown stars 
— Jordan Zimmermann, ian desmond and stephen strasburg are all valuable commodities. in this day and age of baseball, it is just not a smart move to let stars hit the open market and try to sign 30-year-olds to mas­sive deals in free agency. 
another mistake the nationals made in the scherzer deal was deferring half of his salary. although he will only play for the team for seven years, the nats will pay him $15 million annu­ally for 14 years. i don’t know about you, but i’d prefer to just pay the guys that are on my team. after seven years, the nationals will be pay­ing scherzer to either suit up for another club or to sit on his couch and count his millions. 
i’m sure the nationals are looking at the deal as a win, as they get to keep a lower payroll in the short-term and still have some flexibility in free agency in the future. but there is another problem with the deferred money — for seven years after the deal has expired, the nationals will be eating $15 million per year that they could be spending elsewhere. That’s a lot of dead money for a team that is already against its spending threshold and can­not come close to competing with the yankees, red sox, dodgers and others when it comes to big salaries. 
what this comes down to is a win-now move for the nationals. scherzer gives them by far the best start­ing rotation in major league baseball, one that includes four all-stars and a no. 5 starter (gio gonzalez) who could be an ace for some teams. They will be scary good. still, scherzer is an unneeded risk for a team that was already widely con­sidered to be world series favorites. what about the next six years of his deal, or the seven after that? 
The nats are all in for 2015, but beyond that, things look a lot less clear — and maybe a little gloomy. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Selection committee faces crowded tournament field 
Associated Press 

indianapolis — ncaa vice president dan gavitt sees a disparity between some of this season’s top college basketball teams and everyone else. 
selection committee chairman scott barnes be­lieves things are a little more balanced. 
it’s an argument that probably won’t go away any time soon — in public or behind closed doors. gavitt and barnes took different sides Tuesday following a news conference to an­nounce plans for this year’s Final Four in indianapolis. selection committee mem­bers met last week in washington. 
“They gave the first committee reports and you know no one is ever eliminated until selection sunday,” said gavitt, who oversees men’s basketball. “in those reports, some of the very elite teams, i would say, if they stay healthy will be very, very high seeds and others who might normally get those high seeds may not this year.” 
of course, perceptions and resumes can change quickly in the college basketball world. 
Just ask wisconsin, whose hopes of returning to the Final Four suffered a blow last week when the badgers said starting point guard Traevon Jackson needed surgery on his right foot. but even with kentucky and virginia still unbeat­en and duke, arizona and wisconsin all ranked among the top seven, barnes was cautious about reading too much what’s happened so far. 
“i’d say there’s been a lot of early upsets on home courts, more than i can re­member in recent years,” the utah state athletic di­rector said. “There are some elite teams this year, but there’s a lot of parity out there as well.” 
whoever earns a trip to indy for the national semi­finals april 4 and the cham­pionship game april 6 will have plenty of options to choose from. 
host committee officials said Fan Fest would open april 3, youth clinics and a 5k walk to help support coaches vs. cancer will be held april 4; 3,200 chil­dren would dribble around town april 5; and the an­nual march madness music Festival will be held april 3-5. performers for the mu­sical shows should be an­nounced by late February. 
in addition, the host committee will hold a re­cycling drive march 28 for “just about anything with a plug,” is asking 10,000 chil­dren to participate in ser­vice-related projects april 3 and will help build or re­build two basketball courts around town. 
gavitt and barnes were joined by two previous indiana mr. basketball winners — former indiana star damon bailey, now an assistant coach with the butler women’s team, and 
former  arizona  star  Jason  
gardner,  now  the  men’s  
coach at iupui.  

“For the Final Four to be in what i think is the best bas­ketball state in the country, is a greater partnership,” bailey said. “hopefully, with a little luck, we will have some representation from teams in our state.” 
Two indiana teams are currently ranked — no. 8 notre dame and no. 23 indiana. butler has been in and out of the rankings this season and contin­ues to draw votes, while valparaiso is 17-3. 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
dominant big 12 teams impact Top 25 rankings 
Associated Press 

with a national-best six ranked teams, the big 12’s conference race is having an every-week impact on the Top 25. 
look no further than no. 11 kansas for proof. The Jayhawks’ reward for split­ting two games against ranked league opponents last week is two more games this week. 
“it’s good and it’s tough for everybody,” coach bill self said. “i don’t know if this is going to play out to be true or not, but four or five losses will be an unbelievable re­cord for the team that wins it, i believe.” 
The league had six games matching two ranked teams last week and has three more this week to headline the na­tional schedule. 
kansas beat no. 19 oklahoma 85-78 on monday night and travels to no. 17 Texas on saturday, while the sooners travel to no. 21 baylor that same day. 
The big Ten has the oth­er two such matchups this week. iowa, which debuted 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FOR RENT  WANTED  
COMMENCEMENT RENTAL ­Prime location on ND Ave and within walking distance of everything. Please email nd-house@sbcglobal.net for photos and additional info.  SALES ASSOCIATE: Snyder’s Men’s Shop, a men’s clothing store is opening in Granger and looking for sales associates. Flexible hours, part-time. Call 574-533-5630  

in this week’s poll at no. 25, travels to sixth-ranked wisconsin on Tuesday night, while no. 13 maryland trav­els to no. 23 indiana two days later. 
sTill 1-2: For the second straight week, kentucky and virginia topped the poll. 
kentucky was no. 1 in 63 of 65 votes cast monday, while virginia stayed at no. 
2. The wildcats (17-0) have been no. 1 in every poll and were the unanimous choice for five straight weeks before two voters switched to the cavaliers (17-0) last week. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
I’ve paid my dues, time after time. I’ve done my sentence. But committed no crime. And bad mistakes, I’ve made a few. I’ve had my share of sand kicked in my face. But I’ve come through. And I need just go on and on, and on, and on. 



FENCING 

Former Irish fencer returns as team director 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writer 
The senior members of the 2011 national championship squad, notre dame’s last title-winner, have all gradu­ated and gone their separate ways, but one member of the team has found his way back to the world of fencing in a new role. 
alex buell, 2011 national champion and 2012 graduate from the mendoza college of business, now works for the fencing team as its director of operations. in the years since his last meet, he has taken on an active role in the team’s administration, and he said he sees the fencing team’s presence on campus and in the national fencing community evolving with each passing day. 
“when i came into [notre dame] i was interested in getting into professional sports,” buell said. “[i] re­ally thought it would be to get through mendoza and work with the nFl. … but it was really my experience on the fencing team all four years, especially that cham­pionship year, that made me reconsider.” 
and while buell did serve as an intern with the nFl’s chicago bears during his senior year, he found the variety unique to collegiate athletics too much to resist. 
“pro sports, on a macro level, you’re just doing that sport,” he said. “in college sports, there are opportu­nities to work with other sports. 

“at the same time, the big deciding factor for me was the higher purpose that college athletics serve. i’m thoroughly convinced that, especially in today’s land­scape where there are on­going discussions about the role of sports in a college ed­ucation. To me, i think it’s a no-brainer. i think athletics are some of the most trans­formational experiences a student can have in college. That’s what really brought me back.” 
buell said that his transi­tion from the strip to the of­fice was actually easier than he expected. 
“it’s probably one of the easiest transitions out there,” he said. “it’s a very unique opportunity to work with the coaching staff that coached me.” 
when buell arrived as director of operations at the beginning of last season, the fencing program stood at a crossroads. a move from the midwest Fencing conference to the acc loomed. working with the other staff to help facilitate that transition has comprised a large body of buell’s work. buell said the move represented a great opportunity to grow the sport both on campus and nationally. 
“in terms of the power five 
paid adverTisemenT 


conferences, there are only eight schools that sponsor fencing,” he said. “Four of them are now in the acc. For us, heading into the acc championship, there is a lot of potential on the horizon to bring fencing to other schools and new audiences who just know acc sports.” 
buell said the team shared a vision spearheaded by now-retired coach Janusz bednarski — to grow the brand of fencing through the notre dame identity. 
“it’s our vision as a pro­gram,” buell said. “it’s some­thing that when i was hired, our previous coach Janusz was big on — finding ways to expand the sport and make it better, potential ways to change the ncaa format and make it more fan-friendly. 
“[our coaching staff] is very willing to try new things. For example, last season we added monogram patches to our uniforms. we have patches on both arms to try and increase visibility. we want people to be able to [say] ‘That fencer is from notre dame.’” 
ultimately, buell said he is excited by the growth of the fencing brand on notre dame’s campus. 
“we had 414 people come out to a meet last year,” he said. “and then that was broken when we had 698. This year, our meet was con­servatively between 500­
600. Those numbers are not heard of in fencing.” 
buell said he knows fenc­ing could be a tough sell for new audiences, but he is confident in the power of notre dame’s identity and its ability to introduce new audiences to a new sport. 
“This is a very difficult sport,” he said. “it has a steep learning curve to watch it. but people understand things like notre dame ver­sus penn state. it is a disser­vice to the sport if we don’t try to leverage that.” 
The irish resume their season saturday when they travel to new york for a meet against st. John’s. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

NBA | Thunder 94, heaT 86 

Oklahoma City takes down Heat 
Associated Press 
miami — russell westbrook scored 19 points and grabbed 10 rebounds, kevin durant added 19 points and the oklahoma city Thunder moved over the .500 mark for the first time this season with a 94-86 win over the miami heat on Tuesday night. 
durant also had eight re­bounds and eight assists for the Thunder, who’ve won 18 of their last 26 games. reggie Jackson scored 16 points and anthony morrow added 12 for oklahoma city. 
dwyane wade scored 18 points and chris bosh added 16 for miami, which fell to 7-13 at home. 
durant was 0 for 8 from 3-point range — matching the second-worst showing of his career — and the Thunder got to the foul line only 10 times, less than half their team aver­age coming into the night. 
it didn’t matter, especial­ly after miami shot only 42 percent in the final three quarters. The Thunder took 92 shots, miami just 68. 
miami had three shots to tie or take the lead in the fourth quarter, all of them missing and the Thunder would even­tually pull away. 
Jackson’s 3-pointer with 
2:54 left put the Thunder up 87-82, then westbrook got the next two baskets — the sec­ond of them an easy one after miami’s 20th turnover of the night — to extend the lead to nine and send most in the crowd heading for the exits. 
The game was the exact midpoint of the regular sea­son for both teams. oklahoma city went 21-20 in its first 41 games, miami went 18-23. 
morrow’s jumper to open the fourth quarter put oklahoma city up 74-67, what was then the Thunder’s big­gest lead of the night. The Thunder were down by nine early and trailed 50-49 at the half, then did what plenty of teams have done to miami this season — clamp down in the third quarter. 

NHL | rangers 3, senaTors 2 
rangers comes from behind to beat senators 
Associated Press 

new york — carl hagelin deflected in derek stepan’s slick backhand pass 2:55 into overtime to give the new york rangers a 3-2 come-from-behind victory over the ottawa senators on Tuesday night. 
ottawa had the better of the chances in the extra ses­sion, but hagelin put the winner behind goalie craig anderson as the rangers won their third straight and 16th in 19 games heading into the nhl all-star break. 
chris kreider tied it for new york in the third period. kevin hayes also scored, and henrik lundqvist made 33 saves. 
erik karlsson and milan michalek had second-period goals for ottawa. anderson stopped 32 shots, but let new york’s only one in overtime get past him. 
kreider tied it 2-all at 2:42 of the third period when he took a perfect feed from defenseman marc staal as he cruised down the slot, deftly shifted the puck to his fore­hand and lifted a shot past anderson for his 10th of the season and fifth in 10 games. 
after falling behind 1-0 on hayes’ goal, the senators scored twice in quick succes­sion to grab a 2-1 lead. 
right after erik condra was stopped by lundqvist, the senators regained con­trol of the puck and worked it around the rangers zone. kyle Turris sent a crisp pass from the left circle to the right circle, and karlsson snapped in his ninth goal at 13:38. 
Then, just 9 seconds after new york’s lee stempniak was called for high-sticking, michalek got to a rebound in front and slid a backhander that slithered its way under lundqvist’s pad for his sixth goal, putting the senators ahead with 5:19 remaining in the second. 
The rangers had broken the scoreless deadlock at 9:29 when hayes corralled the rebound of dan girardi’s hard shot from the right point, calmly shifted left in the slot and scored his sixth goal. 
The rangers finished their second straight period on the power play, this time the remnants of a two-man ad­vantage created when david legwand and eric gryba were whistled for infractions 46 seconds apart. 
The teams slogged through a tight-checking first period that produced one power play for each club and a total of 16 shots — nine for the rangers, including a hard drive by ryan mcdonagh that was stopped at the buzzer. 
noTes: new york’s alain vigneault coached in his 932nd nhl game, tying rangers general manager — and former coach — glen sather for 26th place on the league’s career list. ... Turris has a senators-high 13 as­sists and 19 points on the road this season. 
paid adverTisemenT 




W Swimming 
conTinued From page 16 
trouble getting back into competition. 
“i knew that, first of all, she’s a very strong person and a very tough competi­tor,” welsh said. “There was no doubt in her mind that of course she would compete again.” 
sure enough, she did, making her return against michigan state this year, and she said that she can feel herself returning to form. 
“The michigan­northwestern meet [on Jan. 
9] was the first time i felt like my old self, before i had sur­geries,” galletti said. 
welsh says that he has no­ticed galletti’s improvement this year too, not just in her recovery from injury, but also mentally. 
“what’s been wonder­ful this year is not only her own personal work ethic, but also that she’s become a very strong team player,” he said. “she supports her teammates; she works for the betterment of the group, and i personally have really appreciated that in her.” 
still less than a year re­moved from her surgeries, galletti said she believes she has plenty of time to continue her recovery and improve her performances in the pool. welsh agrees. 
“without any doubt, she’ll be better next year,” welsh said. “she’s still not a year out of surgery. she’s do­ing all of this and she had one surgery right after the other. i don’t think there’s any question that as time passes, her healing will progress; her strength will improve, and her best is still ahead of her.” 


“my hopes are just to con­tinue getting better and stronger and being able to help this team improve at accs and ncaas,” galletti said. “being able to swim 
paid adverTisemenT 
for this university and be­ing able to contribute to the university’s prestige has just been the best experience, and i want to continue that. you’ll have people who ei­ther love notre dame or hate it, and the people who hate it are just crazy.” 
galletti and the irish dive back into the pool Jan. 30 for the shamrock invitational in rolfs aquatic center. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 

Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
hinostroza said he was drawn to notre dame due to a combination of the pro­gram’s new hockey facilities, coach Jeff Jackson’s proven system and the slew of fel­low “chicago-landers” on the irish squad, including senior defenseman robbie russo, junior center Thomas dipauli and sophomore defenseman Justin wade. 
“it was just the right fit for me,” hinostroza said. 
in his freshman cam­paign, hinostroza compiled 32 points for the irish, good enough to rank third on the veteran 2013-14 squad. 
Then-seniors T.J. Tynan and bryan rust, both nhl draft picks, were the only two irish players who scored more than hinostroza. 
of the 51 points hinostroza has scored in an irish uni­form, 40 of them have been assists. he has always strived for this kind of unselfishness, he said. 
“i enjoy getting assists more than goals,” hinostroza said. “growing up, i always have made that a focus of my game, and it’s something i’ve been able to develop the past cou­ple years. 
The irish earned a bid to last year’s ncaa tournament in hinostroza’s freshman year, but this season they are cur­rently 10-11-3. part of that, hinostroza said, is due to the team’s youthfulness. 
“we’ve had some struggles this year,” hinostroza said. “but after each weekend, we continue to come to the rink ready to work even harder than the last week.” 
despite these struggles and the young team’s grow­ing pains, hinstroza said he remains positive and has as­sumed a leadership role for the team, something he said last year’s upperclassmen did to help him mature. 
“even though i’m only a sophomore, i think i would be considered an upperclass­man, just because of how young the team is,” he said. “i’m just trying to take what i learned from our seniors last year and help out our younger guys this year.” 
despite notre dame’s struggle to maintain consis­tency, the irish still sit in fifth place in the hockey east, with a conference record of 5-2-3 and 13 points, within strik­ing distance of conference-leading boston university (18 points). 
“we’re still in good shape in the hockey east, and we only have conference games remaining on the schedule, so that has to be our focus for the remainder of the year,” hinostroza said. 
The irish travel to boston on Friday for a two-game se­ries against conference-foe northeastern. 
Contact Benjamin Horvath at bhorvat1@nd.edu 




The observer | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
dame, as she was the 2014 national high school Female athlete of the year. she also had big shoes to fill, as star forward natalie achonwa graduated just before Turner arrived. 
Turner said the encourage­ment and guidance of her teammates has been cru­cial to her development and success. 
“as a freshman, sometimes i get lost in practice, or in the game, i’m not always run­ning the right play,” Turner said. “my teammates com­municate with me well and tell me where to be when i’m confused and really make it easier for me.” 
sophomore forward Taya reimer particularly helped Turner get her bearings on the college court, Turner said. Turner also named sopho­more guard lindsay allen and loyd as mentors in her early experiences. 
“[lindsay], just being a point guard, she helps me get in the right spots, and she knows where i’m supposed to be,” Turner said. “Then Jewell is such a great player and a vocal leader as well.” 
Turner said acc play has been the most difficult aspect of the college game to adjust to, in addition to the overall higher stakes of games at this level. 
“acc play is so physical, and every single game is a tough match, so it can be hard just going out there and being ready to play,” Turner said. “college basketball is louder and more physical. playing in front of so many people, and with the other players being so strong, there’s a lot more physicality. i just try to go out there and play. once there’s a jump ball, i have to get up there and do my thing.” 
playing with her teammates in a packed purcell pavilion is Turner’s favorite part of irish basketball, she said, an aspect highlighted during monday’s 
88-77  victory  over no.  5  
Tennessee.  
“The  game  against  

Tennessee stands out because we played great as a team against a really tough team, so that was a good win for us,” Turner said. 
Though Turner has come a long way in terms of know­ing the playbook and getting to the right spots, she hopes to continue to improve as the season progresses, she said. 
“i can work on playing better defense, being in the right spot at the right time from a defen­sive standpoint. Just by watch­ing film, i can see the mistakes i’ve made,” Turner said. “now, i’m just trying to finish off the season strong in the acc and get ready for the tournament.” 
The irish take the court at purcell pavilion on Thursday to face georgia Tech at 7 p.m. 
Contact Renee Griffin at     rgriffi6@nd.edu 


KAT ROBINSON | The Observer 

Irish freshman forward Brianna Turner plays defense during an 88­53 victory over Chattanooga on Nov. 21. 


paid adverTisemenT 


CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | rago & paTrick cross 


SUDOKU | The mepham group 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to: 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: Take care of responsibilities and prepare to move forward. living in the past or harboring regrets will hold you back. Forge ahead with optimism and the intent to give your all and reach your goals. don’t let what others do cost you. look at the big picture and take care of what’s most important to you. your numbers are 6, 13, 21, 27, 33, 39, 42. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): participate and give back to your community or someone who has been there for you in the past. you will attract the attention of someone who can and will benefit you in the future. love and commitment are heading in your direction.  


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): when dealing with time or money management, you will be at a loss. put your energy into something that will help you get ahead. Try to learn more and be positive about new developments. choose quality over quantity. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): consider your options and it will become clear what you should do next. Follow your heart and assess what needs to be changed in your life to make things better. study, travel, love or doing your own thing will bring positive results.  


CANCER (June 21-July 22): concentrate on financial deals or adding value to something you already own. don’t be afraid to take a unique journey to reach your destination. changing your attitude or beliefs is likely and will bring interesting results. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t let others annoy you. Time is precious, and you can accomplish plenty if you focus on what’s important to you. Think big and work in conjunction with people who are intent on reaching similar goals.  

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): step up and share your unique plans with others. a change in the way you live may be necessary in order to follow your dreams. get together with people who are heading in the same direction as you.  

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t worry about what others do or say. stand up and be counted and you will make a difference. your participation in various affairs will show others you are not one to push around. love and romance will bring about a positive lifestyle change. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): don’t overlook fine but important details that can affect an important relationship. let your intuition guide you when it comes to matters of a personal nature. communicate from the heart and you will come out on top.  

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take on more if it will allow you to show your finer attributes. a chance to impress someone who may be able to help you reach your goals will present itself. an idea you have will bring in extra cash. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): emotional matters will set you back mentally, physically or financially if you don’t take control and put your plans in motion before it’s too late. you don’t have to follow the crowd, and you shouldn’t pay for others’ mistakes.  


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): keep your intentions a secret until you are sure you can deliver. love is on the rise, and planning something special will bring high returns. expanding your awareness, your family or your expectations is within reach.  

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): keep an eye out for anyone trying to mislead you. Jealousy is likely to take place if someone you compete with gets ahead. use your energy to get ahead, not to find fault in what someone else does. 

Birthday Baby: you are engaging, clever and outgoing. you are trendy and inventive. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 

The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 
address 

city      state Zip 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

HOCKEY 
Small stature 
Turner succeeds quickly in 
helps Hinostroza 
first college season 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 

a mere 19 games into her first collegiate season, brianna Turner has won five acc Freshman of the week honors, two national Freshman of the week awards and one acc player of the week title. 
Three of those awards came this past week after the fresh­man forward led the no. 6 irish (17-2, 4-1 acc) to victories over boston college and no. 12 north carolina. 
“it’s been really awesome [to win these awards]. it’s like my hard work is paying off,” Turner said. “it just tells me that i am get­ting better.” 
Turner missed three games with a right shoulder injury ear­lier in the season, but in the 16 games she started, she posted 254 points for the second-highest total on the team behind junior guard Jewell loyd’s 408. she has also recorded a team-high 49 blocks and 118 rebounds, and her shooting percentage of 67.8 is sec­ond in the country. 
There were high expectations for Turner coming into notre 
see w bball PAGE 14 

MICHAEL YU | The Observer 
Notre Dame freshman forward Brianna Turner drives to the basket in a 104-29 defeat of Holy Cross on Nov. 23. 

By BENJAMIN HORVATH 
sports writer 
at 5-foot-9, sophomore center vince hinostroza of­ten finds himself dwarfed by players much taller than him on the ice. 
but it is precisely this per­ceived disadvantage that hinostroza has been able to use to his advantage throughout his career. 
“all the time i heard stuff growing up like, ‘you’re too small,’ or, ‘you’ll never make it in the next level,’” hinostroza said. “i’ve always used that as motivation.” 
hinostroza said that he has been able to develop a strong set of offensive skills during his career crafted around this seeming disadvantage. 
“i like to think of it as a positive thing,” hinostroza said. “being a smaller guy can definitely help you be­cause you have a lower cen­ter of gravity and bigger guys can’t really get under you.” 
This has allowed the cen­ter to zigzag and finesse his way through the offensive zone as the sophomore has been a catalyst for the irish during his two seasons at notre dame. 
although a three-sport athlete in high school (hock­ey, lacrosse and football), the bartlett, illinois, native said he always knew hockey was his favorite sport. 
The other sports merely served as “something to pass the time during the hockey off-season,” he said. 
during his time in high school, hinostroza played for the ushl waterloo black hawks, racking up 128 points over the course of three sea­sons with the squad. 
in 2012, he was drafted in the sixth round by the nhl’s chicago blackhawks, follow­ing his success at the ushl level. 
hinostroza had to decide whether to enter into the blackhawks minor league system or continue to de­velop his game at the college level before trying to enter into the nhl. 
“college was the best route for me, so i could keep get­ting bigger and stronger,” he said. 
see hockey PAGE 13 
WOMEN’S SWIMMING 

Galletti stages comeback after hip surgeries 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
“They say that for every day you’re out of the water, it takes two days to make up,” catherine galletti says. 
after two hip surgeries kept her out of the pool for five-and-a-half months, galletti certainly under­stands how difficult it can be for a swimmer to recover from injury. but with dedi­cation and hard work, she has managed to make an im­pressive comeback, earning three ncaa ‘b’ cuts and win­ning 10 races this season. 
galletti, currently a junior, had a promising freshman year, competing in three relay events at the ncaa championships for the irish. achieving her goals on the highest stage in her first year was an incredible experi­ence, she said. 
“it was the first year of col­lege, so there were obviously a bunch of new experienc­es — meeting new friends, being on a new team, new coach,” galletti said. “but going to national champion­ships my first year, by what­ever means, was always a goal of mine.” 
after such a strong start, galletti appeared destined for even better things in her second year. That december, however, she discovered she would need surgery on her left hip. 
“i found out on the day of my accounting final actual­ly, so that was fun,” galletti said. “The strategy was just to see how long i could last, 
but  after about a  month  i  
made the decision that  i  
needed the surgery.”  

during rehab, however, galletti began to feel a simi­lar pain in her right hip and discovered that it would need surgery as well. 
irish interim coach Tim welsh, though — who at the time led the men’s team — said he had little doubt that galletti’s strong character meant she would have little 
see w swimming PAGE 13 







