The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 7 | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Committee suggests factory pilot program 
Chinese manufacturers could once again produce Notre Dame-licensed products 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news writer 
for the first time since 2001, products licensed by notre dame may soon bear the label “made in china.” The university’s worker participation committee an­nounced its official recommenda­tion to conduct two one-year pilot programs in chinese manufac­turing factories at a public forum monday. 
university executive vice president John affleck-graves, a member of the worker participation committee, said the committee formulated its set of recommendations after two years of research and deliberation. 
according to the website of the office of the executive vice president, university president emeritus fr. edward “monk” malloy appointed a Task force on anti-sweatshop initiatives in 1999. 
as a result of the task force’s recom­mendations, in 2001 the university released a list of 11 countries, in­cluding china, in which manu­facturers were prohibited from producing notre dame-licensed products. 
in 2013, affleck-graves ap­pointed a committee to review notre dame’s licensing code of conducts due to an increasing fre­quency of interactions between the university and china, according to the website of the office of the executive vice president. 
The committee chose verité, a non-profit organization, as its part­ner during the process of assessing worker participation in chinese factories, affleck-graves said. 
“we chose china because it was a country that we didn’t produce in at the moment, and it was a country where we could get some coopera­tion from some of our manufactur­ers,” he said. “although they were making do in other countries, [our manufacturers] were very eager for us to consider china.” 
he said verité designed a set of criteria with which it would as­sess six chinese factories based upon workers’ rights to freedom of participation. verité then puts the factories into subcategories based upon their levels of worker participation. 
The assessment concluded two of the six factories met the stan­dards that the university would require for it to allow for produc­tion, and some committee mem­bers visited the chinese factories to meet with the workers and manag­ers after receiving verité’s assess­ment, he said. 
“we like the verité process,” he said. “we like the people at verité. but we felt it was important that we also visit the factories so we could 
see forum PAGE 3 



author duo holds reading 
By MARGARET HYNDS and BECKI JEREN 
news editor and news writer 
author alan guebert and his daughter mary grace foxwell, who graduated from saint mary’s in 2007, spoke in rice commons on monday about their recently released memoir, “The land of milk and uncle honey.” 
The book is a collection of mem­ories gathered from guebert’s sto­ries and reflections written for his weekly “farm and food file” col­umn, which has run in the south bend Tribune and 70 other news­papers for more than 20 years, foxwell said in an interview with The observer last week. 
of his daughter, who co-wrote the memoir with him, guebert said, “[The book] wouldn’t have happened without her. … she got the education here [at saint mary’s] that i wish i got.” 
at the event, he recounted stories from his life growing up on his family farm, and also an­swered questions about farming in the u.s. and the trajectory of agriculture. 
in his response to a question about the political demographic of the farming community in the united states today, guebert took the opportunity to share some of his opinions on current policy is­sues affecting agriculture. 


“no socioeconomic group is more defined than farmers,” he said. guebert continued on to say the group overall falls with­in the policy preferences of the republican party. 
citing excessive waste, among other issues, guebert stressed the importance of preserving the environment, in particular farms that produce our food. 
“This is the stuff we eat, this is the stuff we breathe,” he said of farm produce, continuing on to express concern over the increasing use of pesticides in commercial farming as well as the inclusion of genetically-modified organisms (gmos) in american food. 
guebert went on to compare european food culture with 
see reading PAGE 3 


SMC alumna discusses political career 


By MARTHA REILLY 
news writer 
saint mary’s graduate london lamar returned to campus monday, and discussed the ben­efits of her political science degree and encouraged students to make the most of their time in college. 
lamar, who graduated from the college in 2013 and cur­rently serves as president of the Tennessee young democrats, said she recognizes the importance of remaining true to her passions. 
“i’ve always been involved in 
see alumna PAGE 3 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 5 men’s golf PAGE 12 smc soccer PAGE 12 ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2015 | The observer 




Australian rugby team trains at Notre Dame 

ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney alex Jirschele Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 

News  Sports  
catherine owers  Kit loughran  
andrea vale  renee griffin  
nicole caratas  manny de Jesus  
Graphics  Scene  
eric richelsen  miko malabute  
Photo  Viewpoint  
annmarie soller  austin Taliaferro  
Corrections  

The observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. we do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. if we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 

What is your favorite game day tradition? 

Haley Rosenbach 
junior 
cavanaugh hall 
“The romanitc candlelight dinner at south dining hall.” 

Jared Lee 
junior 
Zahm house 
“Trumpets in the dome.” 

Katie Mackin 
sophomore 
breen-phillips hall 
“The bp first game breakfast.” 


Nick Rajewski 
junior Zahm house 
“Tailgating.” 

Sophie Brahos 
sophomore breen-phillips hall 
“The band marching.” 


Ryan O’Leary 
sophomore dillon hall 
“post-game nap and rally.” 



CHRIS COLLINS | The Observer 
As students start their second week of classes, junior Rosie Odhiambo works on homework on a bench outside Old College. She said this spot marks her favorite place to study on campus thanks to its view of St. Mary’s Lake, one of the two lakes on campus. 


Want your event included here? 
Email news@ndsmcobserver.com THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
The Greek Crisis and Conversation with Changing Mindset Heaney, Place and Football vs. Texas the Future of Europe Justice Sotomayor Hesburgh Center for Property Notre Dame Stadium  Hesburgh Center for 7 p.m.-8:15 p.m. International Studies Hesburgh Library 7:30 p.m.-11 p.m. International Studies DeBartolo Performing 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 4 p.m.-5:30 p.m. Irish take on the 5 p.m.-6 p.m. Arts Center Lecture with Guatemalan Memorial lecture by Longhorns in the first A flash panel Public conversation ambassador Christopher Morash game of the season 
Activities Night Workshop with Artist Artful Yoga Men’s Soccer vs. USF Changing American Joyce Athletic and Tom Bartel Snite Museum of Art Alumni Stadium Voter in 2016 Convocation Center Riley Hall of Art and 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Snite Museum of Art   7 p.m.-8:50 p.m. Design Yoga among Transitory Irish take on USF 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Browse different clubs 9 a.m.-4 p.m. Waterscapes in Mike Berticelli Part of Saturday and sign up. Open art workshop exhibition Memorial Tournament Scholars Series 

By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
The australian national rug­by union team, nicknamed the wallabies, arrived in south bend on saturday and will be training on campus through Thursday. The squad, which is currently ranked third in the world, be­hind new Zealand and ireland, will then travel to chicago for a test match at soldier field against the 16th-ranked usa eagles on saturday night. 
members from both the notre dame men and women’s club 




Reading 
conTinued from page 1 
that of the u.s. in europe, he said, food and community are closely intertwined, and meals present more of a family event than they do in the united states. 
“you never hear the word community, you never hear the word family [about food in the u.s.],” he said. 
in addition to the differing cultures surrounding food, guebert also said that in the 
u.s. a disparity exists in the quality of food that members of different socioeconomic classes consume. 
“The rich eat well, the poor eat poorly,” he said. while those with means can afford to shop for organic, 
rugby teams attended monday night’s practice with their coaches. sophomore rachael shey, a mem­ber of the women’s club rugby team, said although the practice was optional for notre dame play­ers, watching with her coach was a beneficial learning experience. 
“our coach is here for the prac­tice. he’s here to network and teach us what they’re doing,” she said. 
senior andy preising, captain and president of the men’s club rugby team, said saturday’s game would be a test for the eagles. 
“They’ve got a game on 
high-quality food at expensive high-end stores such as whole foods, the poor are left with options that are highly pro­cessed and which possess less nutrients, he said. guebert ar­gued that this contributes to the problem of health care in the u.s. 
guebert stressed the im­portance of movements to re­turn agriculture to a culture of small-scale, family-owned farms instead farms owned and operated by large corpo­rations to improve the quality of food in the united states. 
“i remain hopeful. … what works? what we used to do.” 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu and Becki Jeren at  rmjeren01@saintmarys.edu 
saturday, which unfortunately is at the same time as the Texas game,” preising said. “it’s going to be a big test for the u.s., definitely.” 
This will only be the fourth time the wallabies have played in the u.s. and the first time they’ve played the eagles in nearly 40 years. preising says the team will not practice on notre dame’s stinson rugby field but instead on the field near stepan center. 
“They’re not actually going to be playing much on our field because it’s turf and soldier field is grass,” he said. 
director of sports science matt 


Forum 
conTinued from page 1 
get a sense of whether verité’s as­sessment correctly or adequately reflected the views we would have of the conditions in those factories.” 
affleck-graves said the workers participation committee recom­mends conducting a year-long pilot program in the two chinese manu­facturing plants that received good assessments from verité. The com­panies would be reassessed regu­larly over the year. 
“This is to determine whether workers’ rights have improved to the extent that factories meet and, more importantly, can sustain over time and under review a standard of performance acceptable to the university ,” affleck-graves said. 
The committee also offers three additional recommendations 
paid adverTisemenT 
howley is from australia and Kevin ricks, associate athletic trainer, said howley was part of why the wallabies got into contact with notre dame. 
“They were scheduled to play in chicago and were already look­ing for a place nearby to practice and train before the match,” ricks said. 
while notre dame players will probably not have the opportu­nity to interact much with the wallabies, ricks said the irish ath­letic staff are expected to interact with the team’s support staff of therapists, doctors and strength 
based off of feedback from a public forum held in January, he said. 
“people asked how we can com­pare these working conditions in china with other factories … and encouraged us to go to other countries where we commonly do production and use the same as­sessment tool,” affleck-graves said. 
he said the committee will also use the pilot programs to broaden their assessment criteria to in­clude more issues than worker participation. 
The committee’s fourth recom­mendation is to continue to provide regular opportunities to update the community and listen to feedback while the pilot programs are imple­mented, he said. 
The committee is exploring the possibility of assessing all factories producing notre dame-licensed products, affleck-graves said. 
“we’re hoping to take this pilot pro­gram and assist the feasibility of … a factory centric policy,” affleck­graves said. “we have an instru­ment that we can take into any 


Alumna 
conTinued from page 1 
politics,” lamar said. “i decided to expand on my interests when i came to saint mary’s. i wanted to see my personal platform be expanded.” 
according to lamar, students should view college as an oppor­tunity to experiment with different classes and interests. 
“if you’re not sure where you want to go in life, dabble here at saint mary’s so that when you jump out into the world, you have a more clear idea of where you want to go,” lamar said. “Then once you find out what you like, go into it with full force.” 
lamar said she attributes her success to her time at saint mary’s, as well as her semester in washington, d.c., which provided her with the hands-on experience necessary to stand out. 
“i took advantage of a lot of the opportunities i had here at saint mary’s, which has really helped propel my career,” lamar said. “it’s really hard to get a job after college. you have to be able to dis­tinguish yourself from the rest. you have to make yourself be a shining star.” 
she observed firsthand the com­petitive nature of her profession coaches. The australian staff is considered to be one of the most advanced in the world in terms of sports science, and they will be working with irish strength and conditioning coaches, athletic trainers and nutritionists. 

after the wallabies play in chicago, the squad will return to notre dame for more training be­fore going off to london on sept. 13 to compete in the 2015 rugby world cup. Their first game is sept. 23 against fiji. 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 
factory that allows us to do a rigor­ous assessment of that factory and on the basis of that assessment to determine whether its appropriate or not to manufacture notre dame logo material in that factory.” 
The committee hopes to provide a model for other universities and companies to follow, he said. 
“one of notre dame’s missions is to be a source for good in the world,” affleck-graves said. “There’s a huge amount of manufacturing that goes on in china whether we like it or not. so we can stay out of it and we can influence people by not being in it … but it doesn’t make any differ­ence to those people in china.” 
he said university president fr. John Jenkins reviewed the recom­mendations before monday’s fo­rum and said he is comfortable with them. he will likely approve them in the coming weeks, according to affleck-graves, after which the rec­ommendations can be enacted. 

Contact Katie Galioto at  kgalioto@nd.edu 
when she ran for the Tennessee democratic party state executive committee in 2014, lamar said. although she did not win, she said the experience only strengthened her desire to succeed. 
“it was really hard because i had to go out there and convince peo­ple to vote for me against people who are way older,” she said. “in a competitive workforce, you al­ways want to be number one. That experience empowered me. it cre­ated a fire in me.” 
lamar said her achievements would not be possible without the foundation she established while at saint mary’s, so she encouraged students to work hard and become involved. 
“i have crafted my path to lead­ership based on the brand i started at saint mary’s,” she said. “i really want to stress how important tak­ing advantage of experiences is.” 
she said she understands that college is a busy time but encour­aged students to rise to the occa­sion and always extend their best effort. 
“put yourself out there to be better than the rest,” lamar said. “right now, you have a lot of op­portunities to be great. be great.” 


Contact Martha Reilly at  mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


The hot summer is all but over, but the heat from this summer’s album releases doesn’t have to end. here are some of the summer releases that you may have missed. 
By MIKO MALABUTE 
scene editor 
ever since the “straight outta compton” film was announced, peo­ple anxiously awaited the release of 
n.w.a. and west coast legend dr. dre’s latest project “compton” to be re­leased. some people, like myself, even made the switch from spotify to apple music just to hear it (the three-month free trial certainly didn’t hurt). i have to admit, after listening to “chronic 2001” and wondering for years what the mythical “detox” might have sounded like, “compton” was nothing like it. but the project was absolutely a slow-burner — there was an undeniable “new west coast” vibe throughout the project, only further exemplified by Kendrick lamar’s presence on seem­ingly every song. old cohorts ice cube, mc ren, eminem and snoop dogg are there too, and even affiliated west coasters like Xzibit grace the album with a verse or two. Keeping an open mind, it absolutely is worth a listen. 

By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 
hiatus Kaiyote, an australian quar­tet whose unique sound may only be 

By MIKO MALABUTE 
scene editor 
for the vast majority who have missed out, now is the time (especially before classes go into full-swing) to binge-watch your new favorite show, “mr. robot.” premiering on usa network, the show might not have had all the fanfare of an amc show — “better call saul,” “fear the walking dead” — or premium shows on hbo — “ballers” and “True detective.” what “mr. robot” lacked in promotion, it repaid 10-fold in quality. 
The show centers around elliot anderson: computer security engineer by day, hacker-vigilante by night. elliot deals with social anxiety and regularly sees a psychiatrist, but his advanced knowledge of computer exploits and by proclaimed lil dicky fan hannibal buress and self-deprecating lyr­ics delivered in a refreshing way. so go ahead and listen to “classic male pregame” (music video encouraged) while you’re getting ready this friday and watch the lyrics unfold irl. 

By KATHY MINKO 
scene writer 
summer means sunshine. sunshine means boating, beaching and loung­ing. boating, beaching and lounging mean country music. despite a po­tential cringe from those of you read­ing this, people can certainly benefit from one solid, summery country al­bum. on april 28, Zac brown band released “Jekyll + hyde” — their most eclectic album yet — featuring a mix­ture of folk, rock, swing and modern dance beats. The band’s attempt at pushing their own genre’s boundar­ies flew vastly under the radar. while a few singles pushed their way onto the summer’s top hits, so many of the album’s songs do a great job encapsu­lating island vibes and good feels. The album’s vast range of songs appeals to all sorts of tastes. The band’s duet with sara bareilles — my favorite song on the album — sweetly resembles one of Tony bennett’s or frank sinatra’s swing-music hits.  all in all, Zac brown band’s very underrated album allots readers the opportunity to relax and reminisce over summer’s greatest moments. 
many storylines to cover in such a lim­ited amount of time. in “mr. robot,” the characters always seem to intersect and build off of each other, which only makes the central and peripheral plots so much more life-like and exponential­ly more interesting. 
an important note is that the season finale was supposed to take place last wednesday, but in light of the awful and tragic shooting that took place in virginia, usa network demonstrated exemplary sensitivity and decided to push the finale to this wednesday. 
find the time to catch up on the show, and if you can, tune in on usa network at 10 p.m. 


Contact Miko Malabute at                  mmalabut@nd.edu 
ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 
rivaled by their poetically resonant name, dropped their second album, “choose your weapon,” on may 1. released independently, the album may have flown under some poten­tial fans’ radars; however, it managed to reach number 22 on aria charts and 127 on billboard’s hot 200 in the united states within the month. The album’s mystical combination of swanky neo-soul, complex worldly ar­rangements and footwork-referencing production give its 69-minute runtime a very focused sense of variety. atop the album’s genre collage, lead singer and guitarist nai palm’s voice glides like that of her jazz spiritual ancestry. in listening, it’s as if the band travelled through time — carefully picking their favorite sounds from each decade — and coalesced their findings into a fast-moving composition all their own. 
By MATT MUNHALL 
scene writer 
other than carly rae Jepsen’s “emotion,” the album i kept return­ing to over and over again was Kacey musgraves’ “pageant material.” over the past few years, the country singer has established herself not only as a deft chronicler of small-town america, but one who challenges the expecta­tions that come with being “a girl who grows up in the south.” her lyrics turns a consistently smart and incisive lens on the subject, whether she’s reject­ing the constricting standards of what 
uncanny hacking abilities make him naturally predisposed to figure things out for himself. This leads him to self-medicate his social anxiety, which means abusing morphine that he ob­tains illegally from his neighbor. This adds an interesting element to the sto­rytelling: since everything is told from his point of view, it is not always easy to discern and trust what the viewer is watching — some of it may just be drug-induced hallucinations. 
despite these drug-induced hazes, elliot proves himself more than capable of extraordinary feats. in the season pre­miere, he single-handedly saves allsafe security from a potential hack, which was planted by an anonymous hack­ing group, “fsociety.” in a whirlwind of events, elliot joins fsociety in an effort it means to be pageant material or re­fusing membership in the industry’s good ol’ boys club. yet, her criticism is not without empathy, as on standout “dime store cowgirl,” in which she re­assures fans that no matter how suc­cessful she becomes, she’ll always call golden, Texas home. This kind of deft songwriting ensured that “pageant material” was an album that held up as well at the beach on the fourth of July as it did while driving through the desert on a road trip in august. 


By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene writer 
as a fellow intern and i scoured a lunch menu for the cheapest meal on our break, she mentioned a song by lil dicky called “$ave dat money” that “would totally work as our anthem” — i brushed it off as a reference to some snl skit or youTube video. she failed to mention that the song featured fetty wap and rich homie Quan (fire) and that lil dicky released an album on July 31, fittingly titled “professional rapper.” The title track features snoop dogg as dave burd’s (lil dicky’s) gate­way into the rap business. he explains his suburban background, “funny­type rap” and aspirations, improving his flow with each of snoop’s rebut­tals and gaining The dogg’s, as well as my own, ultimate mark of approval. The album features hilarious phone conversations with his “overly con­cerned Jewish parents,” an interlude 
to launch a digital revolution that would essentially free society from all its digi­tal debt. 
however, as one can imagine with elliot’s tendency to self-medicate, things are not always as they seem. The mem­bers of fsociety might conceal alternate identities and motives, and enigmatic characters are (literally) in constant motion — one minute they›re talking to elliot, the next elliot is talking to him­self. it becomes increasingly difficult with every episode to discern if elliot is simply losing his grip with reality or if the entire world is moving around him so fast that he just can’t keep up. 
The characters are excellently devel­oped, which is a breath of fresh air when recalling a disappointing second sea­son of “True detective” that had too 




The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 



INSIDE COLUMN 


Cell phone overload 
Christopher Collins 
photography 
before heading back to campus a couple of weeks ago, my parents decided to take me out to breakfast on a sunday afternoon. after sitting down i couldn’t help but no­tice two others at the table beside mine. a young boy near the age of nine or 10 was enjoying a nice brunch with his ipad while a woman that appeared to be his grand­mother silently sat there as a third wheel. with headphones in and cartoons a go, the child couldn’t be happier to ignore any other form of life within his immediate proximity. 
The look of indignation resting upon the face of that kid’s grandmother pretty much sums up my attitude toward where our generation and future generations are headed. whether you’re on the streets, in class, at a restaurant or out on the town, people have their faces shoved in their phones. 
it seems as if there are no boundaries or sense of rudeness when it comes to cell phone use. i can’t even count the num­ber of teens i’ve seen out on a date where both of them just sit there on their phones scrolling through instagram or facebook. it honestly makes me sick. 
i know i’m a millennial, too, and i often fall short on my preachings, but it appears as if people are losing the art of simple human-to-human interaction and conver­sation. The act of just sitting down with friends for an evening and talking about life or current events or whatever is be­coming more and more rare. people are so self-absorbed about their alternate identi­fication within their cell phones that they don’t take time to focus on their real selves and the real people around them. 
not only are many cell phone habits rude, but our generation is missing out on so many real-life experiences because of this behavior. no one can simply enjoy a night out with friends without sending snapchat videos to all of their other friends to prove they ars having fun. no one can go to a concert without their phones up in the air trying to videotape it the entire time. no one can do anything, it seems, without documenting it in some way. it’s just such a waste. instead of living in the moment and enjoying that moment for what it is, so many people live through their screens out of some necessity to prove to others that they are interesting. 
people tend to think that what’s most im­portant is what others think about your life. i disagree. i say what’s most important is what you think about your life. if you need to prove to yourself that you’re cool and interesting, the best way to do so is to put your phone down and enjoy your life for what it is. 
every moment is a blessing. whether you waste that blessing on your phone or not is up to you. 
Contact Christopher Collins at ccolli13@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



The ISIS crisis 
Magic at the sound of her name 
Stephen Raab 
let’s Talk smart 
isil. The islamic state. isis. daesh. Known by many names, this violent extremist group has rampaged across the middle east for more than a year since its separation from al-Qaeda. They’ve tortured and massacred prison­ers, smashed and looted historical sites and launched campaigns of genocide against religious and ethnic minorities. 
while local governments and militias have done their utmost to weaken isis, their efforts are disjointed and suboptimal. The annihilation of isis will likely require a sustained, external intervention by an organized, profes­sional military. unlike the second iraq war, this opera­tion cannot be a unilateral move by the united states and a handful of our allies; such an intervention would be viewed as a purely political maneuver. instead, support must come from around the world, as isis is fighting a war against civilization itself. 
The ideal vector to give this effort legitimacy is the united nations. it would be impossible to draw the moral contrast more starkly — al-baghdadi and his cohorts on one side, and on the other, the entire population of the world, united to oppose an ideology that has no place on a civilized planet. isis’s defeat would not be at the hands of one nation, but of all nations. 
it’s true that it’s often difficult to marshal the un’s re­sources for such interventions. however, this proposal passes the traditional stumbling block of such resolutions in the past — the five “veto power” members of the un security council. often, one or more of these nations feels threatened by a un resolution, and so scuppers it before it’s even begun. in the case of isis, however, no veto-pow­er country has its interests served through permitting isis to grow. let’s analyze each member’s reasons to support such an action. 
The united states of america: almost a shoo-in. america’s position as the foremost representative of western culture and the primary supplier of aid to the iraqi government means that we have been in this fight since before we realized it. combined with the first wave of direct attacks by isis on american soil, it is clear that we must take stronger action against our adversary. This must be our last iraq war. 
The united Kingdom: The massive displacement of hu­manity caused by the war across the middle east has sent thousands scrambling for the safety of britain. The most important step to resolving this crisis will be the elimina­tion of its source through the stabilization of the countries from which these refugees have emigrated. 
france: isis affiliates have attacked france repeatedly, from the bombing in lyons to the recent attack in the arras subway thwarted by off-duty marines. french cities such as calais are also an important jumping-off point for refugees attempting to reach britain, with hundreds repeatedly attempting to storm the channel Tunnel. for france, intervention is both a humanitarian and a secu­rity necessity. 
russia: The syrian civil war threatens the stability of bashar al-assad’s government, one of russia’s last remain­ing friends in the middle east. in addition, the emergence of an isis caliphate will doubtless embolden domestic terrorists in russian chechnya, who seceded to create a short-lived sharia state around the turn of the century. 
china: The isis expansion into africa, including its merger with boko haram, means that isis now threatens chinese investments across the continent. if china is to establish meaningful trade with africa, it will have to eliminate the threat of terrorism. 
obliterating isis from a military perspective is of course only the first step. winning a war is always gratifying, but it is far more important to prevent the next war. The post-cold war attitude of sending in soldiers and then looking for the first opportunity to remove them (a sin commit­ted by both major parties) will result only in yet another power vacuum to be filled by yet another extremist group. This time, we need to be in for the long haul. it may take decades, but we must build a stable middle east for all time. 
consider by way of analogy post-wwii europe. after rightfully intervening to eliminate the terror of nazi germany, american policymakers realized that quickly drawing down our presence would leave europe to fall into communism. To check this, the marshall plan gave billions in aid to the european nations, including former axis powers. even today, the united states has around 65,000 personnel stationed in europe, and almost 50,000 in Japan. as a result, these states have remained stable and firmly capitalist. 
The threat of isis demands a forceful response from the international community. military intervention by the united nations, followed by a program of extended eco­nomic and security assistance, will stabilize the middle east for good. 
Stephen Raab is a senior studying chemical engineering. He resides in Alumni Hall and welcomes discourse at sraab@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
call for an end to laxity 

Scott Boyle 
The sincere seeker 
i started full-time work at notre dame at the beginning of august. and i have to admit, those first weeks were a bit odd, especially in comparison to the times i spent as a student. 
my time spent as an undergrad and as a graduate student was always filled with visible activity and energy. now, i found the paths (and campus itself) quieter, save for the cacophonous cadence of hammers and drills, a tantalizing foretaste of the expanding campus, what will soon serve as notre dame’s physical foundation for “making god known, loved and served” in the world. 
now, the echoes of construction no longer ring through deserted halls, echoes since muted by the joyful reunion of old friends and the meeting of new ones. sounds of laughter and energy have permeated all ends of campus. and they have 
— i’m willing to bet —caught the attention of some of our smallest friends. surely no one is filled with as much joy and energy during this time as the campus squir­rels. i’m sure even the first sounds of student life were enough to trigger their glee as they anticipated the months of fabulous feasting that lie ahead of them. 
while i may not be able to match the energy level of the squirrels, returning to work here has filled me with joy and energy, too. i am excited i will have the oppor­tunity to continue to share the fruits of my education. This is made even sweeter because i am back in the place where it all began. i do not exaggerate. here at notre dame, i really think i learned how to live. 
in the months that followed my admission as an undergraduate student in the fall of 2007, i remember listening to the song “here come the irish” over and over again. 
There’s just something about that song that always got to me. it’s not just that i found the song catchy. it’s that the music evoked something in me, specifically the lines, “There’s a magic in the sound of her name.” That song, like so many things associated with notre dame, had an ethos, an ability to pull me out of my­self. somehow, when i was listening, i got the sense that i was being invited into a greater story. it was never completely rational; it moved me in a way i couldn’t explain. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
you see, that song is one of the reasons why i am here at notre dame. back when i was making my college decision, i wanted to think notre dame wasn’t for me. i was a hard-nosed kid; i doubted god. i figured i had a pretty good direction for my life and it didn’t involve living in south bend, indiana. in my head, it made too much sense not to come here. 
but i’d listen to that song, and for about five minutes at a time, i’d let the music into my heart. i’d think about this place and all the people who had been formed here. 
most of all, i’d think about my dad, a 1976 graduate. in the way that hesburgh stood for notre dame to some people, my dad was notre dame to me. whenever i heard “here come the irish,” i couldn’t help but think of my dad. 
he’s never known “success,” if we judge success by fancy cars, lots of money or a high-ranking job. but his joy (like my mom’s) has always come through his chil­dren. i realized that what made him truly joyful was building and caring for his family. despite his own ups and downs, it was never too much for him to say “yes” to us, to sacrifice in some way, if it meant our betterment or growth. 
beneath all my stubbornness, i guess i realized that i really wanted all that, too. if notre dame had helped make him the man and the father i saw, it just might be able to do something for me too. 
and now, after close to eight years here, i have to say that my hunch was right. There was (and still is) “magic at the sound of her name.” my dad showed me that to ponder notre dame is to ponder the decision to stand up and place our will at the service of another’s good. 
here at notre dame, we live and work under a tangible reminder of that good — the open hands of mary on top of the golden dome. she is the one who placed not just her hands, but her mind and heart in total surrender to god’s designs for her good. and her openness, allowed christ — love itself — to become incarnate in the world. This year, wherever we are, may our hands be always open to receive god’s great designs of good for us. 
A 2012 and 2015 graduate of Notre Dame, Scott currently serves as the assistant director for Notre Dame Vision in the Institute for Church Life. He can be reached at sboyle2@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The conversation that never stops 

The three sexual assaults on campus this week­end are big news. we need to offer up the lives of the survivors and perpetrators in unceasing prayer for healing. we need a conversation that never stops. but most importantly, we need a conversa­tion that never stops short of real change. 
as prof. Tim o’malley challengingly points out in his facebook posts this weekend, “intervention is great. but to be frank, it’s not enough. There are attitudes that have been cultivated relative to dating culture, sexual activity and partying that make intervention increasingly needed. read ‘premarital sex in america.’” Thorough change, at this point, is not a carefully planned education on consent or even the institution of the nationally-acclaimed green dot program. real and thorough change is a radical revolution in the heart of every student on this campus, a revolution that starts cultivating a culture of love, maturity and self-respect. 
To continue quoting prof. o’malley: “culture needs to change and it needs to change fast. There are lives being ruined. and the culture at notre dame, especially based on sociologically literature surrounding drinking, is fostering this… cultural change begins through creation of sub-cultures, which provide a sense of what is possible. i also think the university may need to seriously study the elimination of campus parties. it would be unpopular. but the time may have come.” 
That would be a revolution. no parties on campus. no alcohol on campus. it would be a revolution, or it might just end up with a revolt. 
my own reaction to prof. o’malley’s challenge is that those sub-cultures are the key: sub-cultures cultivate us as athletes, academics, celebrators and ultimately as mature, loving adults. shouldn’t that include a healthy culture of parties that teaches us to truly celebrate and to respect alcohol as a culi­nary gift from the ancestors of every culture? 
yet my heart stops at my own thoughts. such sub-cultures take time to spread across campus. can i, or any of us, look a survivor in the eyes and say, “let’s change the culture, but not yet.”? 
Kyle McCaffery 
senior aug. 30 
To say i am displeased would be an understatement, sexual vice. it instead consistently lets down its mem­for which, my friends will tell you, i am well known. bers in an attempt to compete on a cultural standard The sexual assault of the daughters of notre dame not properly its own. must end. some have made much of the laxity of the This competition of laxity, which inspires grade 


Typical monday morning story 
enforcement of any sort of meaningful alcohol policy, inflation, bloated admissions and the coverups of and i am in hearty agreement with them; the culture scandals, is rampant among the elite institutions of why am i not surprised to read the headline police cannot go into the dorms, they should be are going if you are not with them on a friday or of alcohol abuse is astonishingly destructive. i know. i the united states. it is time to leave this competition. 

“Two sexual crimes reported on campus” in able to make sure that those who are outside at saturday night. ask them what time they will be 
was an ra for two years. i saw it. call for an end to the laxity which pervades our intel­today’s observer newspaper? every friday and all hours of the night are escorted to their re-back. if they do not return by parietals, inform but i’d like to take this a step further. The laxity with lectual development but most importantly our spiri­saturday night, the students are up and about spective dorms safely, reported to the rector and your ra and make sure she is around until who-

which we treat alcohol abuse as a community is part tual and moral development. where is the strength way beyond midnight because they know that made sure they remain in the dorm all weekend. ever is not present is accounted for. call your and parcel of our laxity toward the development of of fr. Ted hesburgh who, facing a disruptive student they can spend saturday and sunday sleep-secondly, because most of these assaults take friends on their cell phones if they are not in by human character, what fr. moreau might have called protest, offered the students a choice: disperse, or risk ing through the day. i know this because every place in the men’s dorms, is it possible for the parietals and tell them you are coming to get the “education of the heart,” a phrase which is often expulsion. friday and saturday night from my residence rectors and ras of all men’s dorms to be more them. 
as a notre dame family we are failing these 

reduced to merely teaching compassionate living. The we need to stand strong against this violence even if at our lady of fatima house, i am woken up by proactive on the weekends and make sure all 
virtues are much more than that, and notre dame has it means a worse academic reputation, even if it means students walking around the lake talking at the their residents are in their rooms with no visi-students when we let them go out each weekend top of their voices, most often after 2:30 am. tors? where is the accountability of those who vulnerable to being assaulted. it is time to move 
completely failed in teaching and guiding her students we lose grant money, even if it means we do not con-This raises a couple of questions: why would are tasked w ith ensuring rules are followed? beyond prayer after the fact, to greater preven­
into a life of virtue. tinue expanding. even if it means losing our division anyone, young or old, freshman or senior, be where also is the accountability of students to tion, and put an end to the what is becoming perhaps we can blame this on the culture in gen-i status. 

outside at 2:30 am on any day of the week? and themselves and one another? predictable monday morning stories of reported eral. virtue is not in vogue, and yet all around people what are we willing to sacrifice so that our sisters secondly, where are the notre dame security Thirdly, if the “boys” cannot police them-sexual assaults. 
are calling for a stop to the vice of sexual assault. The are no longer threatened? 

police officers? shouldn’t they, knowing the pro-selves because of alcohol, maybe the women 
cognitive dissonance and “dissonance of the heart” Fr. David Kashangaki
clivity for students to be out and about on friday should make greater effort in knowing the is resounding. notre dame is, as an institution which Nathaniel Gotcher and saturday nights, be out trying to help keep whereabouts of their roommates, hall-mates parochial vicar claims a moral imperative and clear teaching, in a class of 2014 people where they are supposed to be? and dorm-mates are on friday and saturday st. patrick’s parish, south bend unique position to be consistent in its approach to aug. 31 a couple of possible suggestions. although the nights. ask your roommates, friends where they aug. 31 


shopped at a store where he blend of power and putting a two-man battle for the next 
i am looking forward to ment to care again. excitement has returned for 
The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2015 | The observer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 
already have three games un-in addition to the excite-are set to play the pilots away season. she has come back

NFL SMC Sports 
der their belt, the belles have ment, nuber also said he from the friendly confines of more confident this year and 

conTinued from page 10 
yet to take the field this sea-expects the belles to be re-angela field. nuber said his i think that will be one of her up to some of our confer-son. belles head coach Ken lentless in their effort. team will be facing a tough biggest assets in reaching her
NFL smothers 
‘deflategate’ ruling to be 

ence schools. olivet, hope, nuber said he is excited to fi-“expectations are that we defense and quick-strike of-goals.” calvin and Kalamazoo will nally have the opportunity to will compete for every ball fense, so they need to play a The overall schedule for all be there. it will be a great see his team in game action. and keep a big work rate for possession-based game in the belles this fall will in-
fans to boredom 
announced this week 

warmup going into our con-“i’m very excited for the 90 minutes,” nuber said. order to come away with a clude up to 10 events if they 
ference play in september.” players to finally get on the ”results will come if we can victory. qualify for ncaa nationals. 

opportunities out there. 

deflate footballs to gain an berman said he’s putting field to compete,” nuber said. be consistent.” “Their strength is their following Tuesday’s event,
Associated PressZach Klonsinski 
i still have the national edge in a 45-7 victory over the final touches on his Soccer “i’m looking forward to see-despite their record, the keeper and their center saint mary’s will race in the 

sports editor 
hockey league, who was 

new yorK — nfl the colts. The nfl players decision. saint mary’s begins its sea-ing how our team battles on pilots should pose a tough backs,” nuber said. “They alumnae race at bertrand with me all the way through 
commissioner roger association has accused the “it won’t be today, but son wednesday evening when game day. i have been very challenge to the belles, nuber will try and get the ball be-park on saturday. it’s not you, national childhood, starting up here 
goodell and new england league of handling the dis-hopefully tomorrow or the it takes on cross-town rival happy with training and the said. saint mary’s has lost to hind our backs quickly so we “we have a phenomenal football league. it’s me. pretty quick. The major 
patriots quarterback Tom cipline unfairly for brady, day after,” he said of a writ-bethel at morey field at 7 p.m. energy they give, but it’s dif-bethel each of the last two need to be organized in the group with a lot of young tal­well, and maybe partly you. league baseball races are 
brady attended last-minute who has denied any role ten ruling. berman said while the pilots (1-2) ferent on game day.” seasons, and now the belles back. we are going to look to ent,” said bauters. “i’m ex-i don’t know. i just need heating up as we turn the 
settlement talks between in the scandal nicknamed previously that he hoped 

possess the ball and play our cited to see what they can some space right now. you’re page to september, too. 
the nfl and its players “deflategate.” to rule by friday, giving 

flanks as much as possible.” do this year. i’m also very smothering me. There’s even some newer 
union monday before a speaking at a hearing the patriots enough time Kickoff between the belles excited to have senior allie i mean, i get it: it’s week sports on the rise here that 
judge announced he would that lasted less than five to prepare for their sept. 10 and pilots is set for 7 p.m. danhof back and healthy, as Three of the preseason, the rest of the world already 
decide the dispute over de-minutes, berman noted season opener against the tomorrow evening at morey she will make a big impact. i the regular season is right knows about, apparently. 
flated footballs with a rul-that senior executives from pittsburgh steelers. field. think it is going to be a really around the corner, so of your younger version and 
ing in a day or two. the league and the players berman had ordered fun season.” course you get to talk about all his college friends still 
everyone involved “tried union who had not attend-goodell and brady to at-Cross Country yourself all the time. get it, at least for the most 
quite hard” to reach a deal ed several previous settle-tend monday’s hearing. saint mary’s opens its 2015 Volleyball The problem is, though, part. even though some of 
in the controversy that has ment talks joined more both arrived 90 minutes cross country slate Tuesday Tuesday is a big day for when don’t you talk about them have begun to turn 
hung over professional foot-than an hour of negotia-early to participate in talks with a Tri-meet against olivet belles head coach denise yourself? or at least have into you too early, many 
ball since new england eas-tions monday morning. in the judge’s robing room. and albion. The belles’ first van de walle, as she will your ever-present friends are still full of the passion, 
ily won the afc title game in giants president and co-neither spoke inside or out-race of the season follows a be coaching in her first talk about you? spirit and excitement you’ve 
January, u.s. district Judge owner John mara took part, side court. 2014 season that culminated match for the belles against during the season, managed to stamp out of 
richard berman said in fed-as did free agent kicker Jay berman has said a settle-in an 18th-place finish at the manchester at 7 p.m. it’s fine — totally get it. me. 
eral court in manhattan. feely, berman said. feely ment would be “rational ncaa great lakes regional. Though she has coached although it’d still be nice i mean, we can still be 
however, berman said: is a member of the union’s and logical” but also cited “Tuesday is going to be a in many debut matches if you’d tone it down some. friends. i’ll check in from 
“we did not reach a settle-executive committee and weaknesses in the way the really low-key race with only throughout her career, which understandably, the play-time to time, especially 
ment. ... in some cases, it mara is chairman of the nfl handling of the con-part of the team competing,” includes stops at bowling offs and super bowl only around Thanksgiving, and 
doesn’t happen and this is nfl’s executive committee troversy. The judge has also said saint mary’s head coach green and usa volleyball, increase the noise, but you’d probably even come to your 
one of those cases.” that oversees labor matters. suggested that the league’s Jackie bauters. “my primary she said her nerves are the think when the end of the super bowl party. i mean 
absent a compromise, “for us it reinforces the finding was too vague, that goal is to get my first years same. season rolls around you all there’s food and more than 
berman will have to ei-desire and the need for an brady was generally aware out racing in their uniforms “i get nervous and excited would need to take a break just your friends there, so 
ther affirm or throw out independent arbitrator in that game balls were being for the first time and staying for every match,” said van from each other. it’ll be fine. and, again, 
goodell’s decision in July these matters of personal deflated. relaxed as we prepare for the de walle. “i have had many, yet alas. once it’s over, there’s food. plus when you 
to uphold a four-game conduct,” feely said outside at a court hearing this competitive portion of our many years of home openers. you don’t wait a second to take a break, people usually 
suspension of brady. The court. “but we understand month, berman told the season. more than anything, since it’s my first match as begin talking about next tell really great stories while 
nfl concluded the quar-Tom’s position and i think nfl there was precedent i hope the team has fun.” the head coach of the belles year. you even moved your eating food, although even 
terback colluded with two the process will work itself for judges to toss out penal-in 2015, the belles return i want to do well ... i want to big party to welcome all those haven’t been as good 
patriots ball handlers to out.” ties issued by arbitrators. junior brittany beeler, who enjoy every minute of it.” the new guys a month later in recent years. did i men-
was voted the team’s most as for the players, the so there’s less time in be-tion the food, too? 
valuable runner last season. belles have fought adversity
PGA | The barclays
tween it and your big annual i’ll admit we had a pretty 

beeler’s sophomore season through the offseason with camping trip. good run. many a fall 
also included a spot on the the coaching change, and i can’t do this constant sunday during my child­
all-miaa second team and van de walle said she is hap­“in my face stuff” anymore. hood was spent glued to the 
all-regional honors at the py for them to settle in and
Day captures his fourth 
you’ve gotten too egotistical television screen watching 

ncaa great lakes regional. play volleyball. and narcissistic, preaching you, or listening to the radio 
“brittany and i have dis-“we are on a journey to-how great you are — about for updates if we happened 
cussed her goals [this sea-gether,” van de walle said.
PGA win at The Barclayshow much everyone loves to be driving that day. 

son] and we’re on the same “we have been learning you, about how much better we’ve run our course for 
page,” said bauters of beeler. about each other the past you are than other leagues now, though. maybe some 
that at the moment. ankle an extra week of rest, “we want one more week-two weeks. it’s been a very
Associated Press 
out there — that i’ve got-day in the future you’ll 

fresh off his first major ti-moved back to no. 1 when end of travel at the end of the short preseason with a lot of ten used to steeling myself have been humbled enough 
edison, n.J. — Jason tle at the pga championship, spieth missed the cut at The change for them and me. against you, and now i just again to where i might enjoy day, so poor as a kid that he day used that frightening barclays. That figured to be 
“with all that being said, can’t muster up the excite-watching you — when the 
stuffed as much used cloth-to bury another world-class month, except that now it’s a watching my team compete. enough is enough. me. 
ing as he could into a bag field at The barclays. he fin-three-man race. i want them to play hard and for the first time i can for now though, i bid thee 
for $5, is trying not to think ished off a sensational week-day could go to no. 1 with a stay aggressive all the way remember, i’m really just adieu. 
about the potential of a $10 end at plainfield country victory at the deutsche bank through the match no mat-apathetic about the next few 
million bonus for winning club with an 8-under 62, the championship at the Tpc ter what the score. i want to months. i no longer look for-Contact Zach Klonsinski at 
the fedex cup. That’s still lowest closing round by a boston, which starts friday. see hustle from start to fin-ward to the time we spend zklonsin@nd.edu 
four weeks away. winner this year on the pga and the 27-year-old ish. i want them to enjoy this together. The views expressed in this 
day, so cocksure as a teen-Tour. australian would figure to be competition and give all they i seek other places for Sports Authority are those of the 
ager that he talked about be-henrik stenson got within the favorite, at least consid-have for the team.” my attention to focus. author and not necessarily those 
ing no. 1 even before he was a two shots after back-to-back ering how the last month has There are plenty of other of The Observer. 

pga Tour rookie, is trying to birdies until he stalled with gone. Contact Michael Ivey 
keep his mind off the possi-four holes to play, and day since leaving the u.s. open at mivey@hcc-nd. 
bility that he could rise above made a pair of long putts with vertigo symptoms, day edu, Ben Padanilam at 
rory mcilroy and Jordan across the green for birdies to has won three of his five bpadanil@nd.edu, Ryan Klaus 
spieth and claim the top spot stretch the lead and give him tournaments and is 73-un-at rklaus1@nd.edu and Sean 
in the world ranking. That a peaceful walk up the 18th der par in 20 rounds. he was Kilmer at skilmer@nd.edu 
could be as little as one week hole. 17 under when he won the 
away. relentless to the end, he hit canadian open by one shot 
his six-shot victory sunday driver to the edge of the green over bubba watson. he set a 
in The barclays opened a and made birdie to complete major championship record 
whole world of possibilities. a 63-62 weekend. to par when he won the pga 
“i can only control what i mcilroy, who didn’t play in championship at 20 under 
can control,” day said. the opening fedex cup play-at whistling straits for a 
and he has a great grip on off event so he could give his three-shot win over spieth. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 




The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2015 | The observer 



M Golf 
conTinued from page 12 
This weekend’s Kickoff challenge marks notre dame’s second consecutive time open­ing its season with the hosted tournament. notre dame’s over­all team score of 579 (+11) was well over par, compared to their last year’s total of 561 (-7) 
despite the higher score this time around, Kubinski said his team showed some promising signs and gained valuable expe­rience for the upcoming season. 
“we’re disappointed in pick­ing up a loss [sunday],” Kubinski said. “igive Toledo credit for post­ing four solid scores each round. we posted three in the morning and two in the afternoon, which wasn’t enough to post a win. 
“at the same time, we accom­plished some things today and identified areas to improve be­fore duke. one loss, over a sched­ule of over 100 head to heads, isn’t something we’ll get caught up in. it’s on to our next opportunity.” 
notre dame now looks ahead to its first acc face off of the sea­son against rival duke at the rod myers invitational against duke on sept. 12-13 at the duke golf club in durham, north carolina. 
This weekend’s Kickoff challenge marks notre dame’s second consecutive time open­ing its season with the hosted tournament. notre dame’s over­all team of 579 (+11) was more over par than last year’s 561 (-7) 
despite the higher score this time around, Kubinski said his team showed some promising signs and gained valuable expe­rience for the upcoming season. 
“we’re disappointed in pick­ing up a loss [sunday],” Kubinski said. 
“i give Toledo credit for post­ing four solid scores each round. we posted three in the morning and two in the afternoon, which wasn’t enough to post a win. 
“at the same time, we accom­plished some things today and identified areas to improve be­fore duke. one loss, over a sched­ule of over 100 head to heads isn’t something we’ll get caught up in. it’s on to our next opportunity.” 
notre dame now looks ahead to its first acc face off of the sea­son against rival duke at the rod myers invitational against duke on sept. 12-13 at the duke golf club in durham, north carolina. 
Contact Sean Kilmer at    skilmer@nd.edu 
SMC Soccer 
conTinued from page 12 
for the legislative assistants and director,” mclaughlin said. “iwas also able to assist the communi­cations director in writing several speeches for the congressman and spent a great deal of time compiling information on vet­erans’ affairs, organizations and bills for h.r. 2490, bertie’s respect for national cemeteries act, which congressman barletta introduced on the floor in may.” 
Just as she builds from her experiences on the field, mclaughlin said her time in washington, d.c., gave her an idea of what she wants to do after she graduates from saint mary’s 
SMC 
next spring. 
“in the three short months i was on the hill, i was able to see our government’s legislative process at work before my very eyes, while rubbing elbows with prominent politicians, some of whom are presidential nominees for the gop,” mclaughlin said. “i was even extended the invitation to help with a project in speaker [John] boehner’s office after meeting his press secretary, who reached out upon my arrival. she is a saint mary’s alumna. all in all, it was a great experience, and helped give me a better idea of what i would like to do with my business and political science degrees after graduation.” 
mclaughlin said she would like to be a part of the election process for politicians at some point in her career. 
“i am interested in exploring the campaign side of politics now that i have gotten a glimpse into the public sector on the hill,” mclaughlin said. “i don’t neces­sarily see myself back on the hill after graduation, but i thorough­ly enjoyed the experience and exposure i gained this summer.” 
while mclaughlin might not see herself back on the hill, she’ll be back on the soccer field wednesday as the belles take on local rival bethel at 7 p.m. in mishawaka. 
Contact Michael Ivey at       mivey@hcc-nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s teams set to begin fall competition 
By MICHAEL IVEY, BEN PADANILAM, RYAN KLAUS and SEAN KILMER 
Golf 
saint mary’s finished sec­ond in their first tourna­ment of the season saturday as the team took on no. 22 bethel and holy cross in the cross Town rivalry. The team improved on a com­bined first-day score of 346 by shooting 326 on the sec­ond day to finish with a fi­nal score of 672. 
bethel finished first at the tournament with a two-day final score of 646, and holy cross shot 715 overall to take third place out of three. 
“i felt my team held their composure, especially on a very soggy round 2,” belles head coach Kim moore said. “i was also very proud of the way they bounced back from a 346 in round 1 to a 326 in round 2, a very im­pressive 20 strokes. i felt the majority of my team limited the big numbers and kept it to mostly pars and bogeys. i’m really looking forward to working on a couple things this coming week that i noticed we weren’t as strong at.” 
on friday, junior ali mahoney, freshman Taylor Kehoe, freshman patty meza, and junior courtney carlson all finished with scores of 86, putting them in a four-way tie for fifth place on the day. however, Kehoe pulled ahead for the team with a day-two score of 79 to finish no. 4 overall in the tournament. on saturday, mahoney and carlson each shot 82 to finish with total scores of 168 in a two-way tie for fifth overall in the standings. 
Junior rachel Kim, sopho­more Kaitlyn cartone, and senior Katie Zielinski all shot 88 to finish in a four-way tie with bethel’s Katie brooks for tenth place on the day. cartone’s saturday performance moved her into eighth overall, but the others fell out of the top-10 individual rankings. 
“i really want our team to use the momentum of to­day’s second round as we prepare and play this com­ing weekend in marshall, michigan,” moore said. “i will be using today’s suc­cess to instill some confi­dence and excitement going into this coming weekend. our next event will be a re­ally good test as to how we 
see smc sporTs PAGE 9 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 
ACROSS 41 Yellow “Sesame 71 Ones without 1 Web site help Street” character permanent
section, for short 43 Driver’s license addresses 4 Doorframe part datum 72 Lab job 8 William Tell, for 44 Hang on to 73 Bit of scheduling
luck at a
one 46 “___ a vacation!” 
tournament
14 Mich. rival in the 
48 Portable sourcesBig Ten of music 
DOWN
15 “Peek-___!” 
50 Big wheel 
1 Adjust the 
16 Historian Will or 
54 Do the crawl, margins of, for
Ariel 
say example
17 Ipanema’s city, 
55 “Now it makes 2 Hard Italian 
for short 
sense!” cheese18 A.T.M. printout 
57 Marat’s 3 One reciting 20 “La Danse” counterpart in a others’ linespainter Henri Peter Weiss title 4 Verbal zingers 22 Some loaves 
58 Word before 5 Make red-faced 23 Golden ___ rack or mitt 
6 Container in an
(senior) 
61 Galvanic cell armored car 24 ___ Park component 7 ___ choy(F.D.R.’s home) 
63 It appeared (Chinese26 Get well before Moses on cabbage) 30 Scroll in the ark Mount Horeb 8 Forever and ___ 32 Joe Six-Pack’s 67 Fell for a 9 Announce a overhang come-on, say decision 35 Persian Gulf 68 Caught sight of 10 Uninvited state partygoer
69 One-half 37 War heroes from base x height, 11 ___ Solo of 
Tuskegee, e.g. for a triangle “Star Wars” 38 Actress 70 Peach State 12 Britannica, for Thurman capital: Abbr. one: Abbr. 
13 Road map abbr. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 19 “DesperateHousewives” role


21 One side in a 1980s war 
25 Headgear forLaurel and Hardy
27 O’Neill title trees 28 Sheltered, at sea 29 Wildcat with 
tufted ears 31 Diplomat Philip 33 “Still mooing,” as
burgers go34 Ex-senator known as “Amtrak Joe” 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  27  28  29  
30  31  32  33  34  
35  36  37  
38  39  40  41  42  43  
44  45  46  47  
48  49  50  51  52  53  
54  55  56  57  
58  59  60  61  62  
63  64  65  66  67  
68  69  70  
71  72  73  

Puzzle by Andrew Marc Greene 
36 Ex-Yankee 47 Imprecise recipe 59 Went head to Martinez amount head 
38 Cities, informally 49 Ped ___ 60 Means justifier, for some
39 Feline’s “feed 51 Thick-trunked me” African tree 62 “Not ___!” 
40 Yours, in Ypres 52 Item fit for 63 Stiller of film 42 Lacking “Ripley’s Believe 64 G.I. entertainers It or Not!”
confidence 65 Letters after 33 53 Classic VW or 45
45 Strong-smellingcleaning 56 Makes more 66 Echolocation-ingredient bearable using mammal 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: Keep everything you do simple, precise and within your budget and ability. Keeping a realistic approach will be the key to your success. listen carefully, but make your decisions based on what you can see. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): plan to have some fun with someone you love spending time with. Take the initiative to look your best or to set time aside for pampering. an idea you have will spark interest with someone who shares your vision. romance is highlighted. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): follow the path that best suits what you like to do. don’t let anyone put a damper on your day by dictating what you can and cannot do. attend an event that will allow you to explore and expand your interest and knowledge. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): look for solutions. a practical approach to whatever you do will help keep you from overdoing it. it’s important to stay true to what you want, but try to find a successful route that stays within your budget. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): let your imagination wander and your emotions take over. sign up for an event or course that will broaden your awareness and set you on an unusual and interesting journey. reconnecting with people from your past will help you move forward. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): make sure you are careful not to be misleading. discuss your plans and don’t put pressure on anyone to do things your way. if you have to go it alone, do so without hesitation. a positive personal change is achievable. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): stick close to home and nurture the relationships that are meaningful to you. be honest about the way you feel and what your intentions are. you can make progress if you are realistic and are careful not to be excessive. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): use your experience to guide you through the changes you face. don’t trust anyone to take care of your responsibilities. plan out your strategy and work your way through each step to ensure things are done to your specifications. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): your creativity will help you find new ideas and solutions, as well as ensure that you can handle whatever challenges you face. stick close to home and develop the plans that will help change your life. help will come from an unusual source. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you can wheel and deal your way to victory, but your moment in the spotlight will be short-lived if you have stretched the truth or made unrealistic promises. put more emphasis on self-improvement instead of trying to change others. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Think less, do more and head in an unusual direction. consider a unique challenge that has the potential to make you extra cash. money will come to you in a most peculiar fashion. be open to trying something new. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): attending or planning a reunion with old friends will be enlightening. however, your focus should be on your current relationships. learn from the past in order to avoid making similar mistakes in the future. honesty should take top priority. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): you will be drawn to people who tend to be unusual or practice different beliefs than your own. attending community events will be eye-opening and could improve your current lifestyle. explore and enjoy. 

Birthday Baby: you are steadfast, eclectic and expressive. you are disciplined and intense. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 


Print your answer here: 

(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: SHIFT EXACT GENTLY FORGOTYesterday’s 
Answer: The male retriever thought that the femaleretriever was — FETCHING 


paid adverTisemenT 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer  
p.o. box 779  
notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year  
enclosed is $75 for one semester  



The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S GOLF 
Rushton earns first collegiate tournament win 
By SEAN KILMER 
sports writer 
playing at a breakneck pace sunday, notre dame junior matt rushton claimed the individual title in the irish Kickoff classic, while the team as a whole finished second behind Toledo. 
The irish (287-292-579) hosted Toledo (282-285-567) and iupui (286-293-579) at the warren golf course in the second annual, two-round tournament. rushton scored two consecutive 68’s to finish six-under par (136) to claim the title. it was rushton’s first collegiate victory, and he is immedi­ately seeing the results of his hard work over the sum­mer, irish head coach James Kubinski said. 
“it’s great to see a player re­warded for a lot of hard work and dedication,” Kubinski said. “matt is committed to chasing lofty goals. 
“he has grown a great deal these last couple of years, and it’s not by acci­dent. i anticipate continued improvement and want his teammates to follow his lead in this way.” 
although no other irish golfer finished in the top 10, all of notre dame’s start­ing lineup placed within the top 20. in their irish debut, freshmen ben albin (72-76­
148) and miguel delgado (71­77-148) tied for 11th, along with junior blake barens. 
albin and delgado opened the day strong with scores of 72 and 71, respectively, but encountered a few tough holes in the second round that landed them five- (76) and six-over par (77), re­spectively. barens shot a six­over-par 77 in the opening round, but rebounded in the afternoon for even-par 71. 
senior corey scuipider (76-77-153) posted an overall 153 for 19th place 
five irish golfers also com­peted as individuals, led by freshmen Kevin connors (74-75-149) in his debut tournament. sophomore Jens verhey (73-77-150) fol­lowed at 16th place. Junior 
liam  cox  (81-74-155)  and  
sophomore  Thomas  steve  
(79-76-155)  tied  for  20th.  

senior Zach Toste (78-78­156) snagged 22nd. 
see m golf PAGE 10 

WEI LIN | The Observer 
Senior Zach Toste finishes his backswing at the Notre Dame Kickoff Challenge on Aug. 31, 2014 at Warren Golf Course. Toste finished 22nd in this year’s Notre Dame Kickoff Challenge with a score of 156. 
SMC SOCCER 
mclaughlin uses capitol hill lessons on field 

By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 
not usually the spectator, senior midfielder maggie mclaughlin had a front row seat this summer for some of the nation’s most historic events. 
mclaughlin spent her summer interning with united states congressman lou barletta in washington, 
d.c. while she learned a thing or two about pass­ing a bill on capitol hill, mclaughlin sees how she can apply her political ex­perience to the pitch this season. 
“This summer [during my internship], i learned a great deal about taking the ini­tiative to get things done,” mclaughlin said. “hopefully that is something i will be able to apply to helping the team this year. 
“it was also stressed to me this summer that the small details do count. That is def­initely something that i can bring to the soccer field.” 
mclaughlin paid close at­tention to the little details while serving as co-captain last season, alongside mary Kate hussey, a 2015 graduate of the college. now under the leadership of new belles head coach Ken nuber, mclaughlin said captains have not been chosen, but she’s ready to once again take on the responsibility of being a team leader. 
“i will gladly take on any role i am given by our new coach,” mclaughlin said. “being a captain includes a great deal of responsibil­ity, and i was lucky to have a great co-captain to teach me the ropes last year.” 
no stranger to taking charge, mclaughlin kicked off her college career with 17 starts her freshman year, posting three goals and five assists. The next season she started in 19 games, scored two goals and tallied two assists. mclaughlin grew her on-the-field presence as captain with three goals, one assist and seven points to help the belles reach six wins. 
and it’s these accom­plishments on the field that mclaughlin said have helped open doors to opportunities like her in­ternship on capitol hill and study abroad experience in rome her sophomore year. 
“i think that being a col­legiate athlete definite­ly appeals to employers,” mclaughlin said. “so in that way, i am sure it has helped to open some doors for me. as far as studying abroad, i would not have been able to do so if i was not a division iii athlete. 
“it provides the perfect balance for academics and 
extracurriculars  while  al­ 
lowing  me  to  still  play  
soccer.”  
The  business  and  po­ 

litical science double-ma­jor from mechanicsburg, pennsylvania, found a similar balance with her busy schedule this sum­mer, juggling her wide-range of assignments for the congressman. 
“my daily duties includ­ed drafting legislative cor­respondence, researching previous bills, attending briefings, markups and judi­cial hearings to create memos 
see smc soccer PAGE 10 






