The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 52 | thursday, november 12, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
students organize rally 
By CLARE KOSSLER 
associate news editor 
Following weeks of stu­dent protests against ra­cial discrimination at the university of missouri, a group of at least 75 notre dame students and faculty gathered outside of main building on wednesday to demonstrate their support for students of color at the university of missouri. 
standing on the front steps of main building, stu­dent leaders from various multicultural groups said the events of the past week at missouri — culminat­ing in the missouri foot­ball team’s announcement that they would boycott 
see miZZou PaGe 7 



Junior Jake Scanlan dies 
Observer Staff Report 
a 20-year-old notre dame student was found unrespon­sive in his bed in siegfried hall on wednesday morning, and was pronounced dead shortly thereafter, the university an­nounced in a press release wednesday afternoon. 
Junior Jake scanlan was a mechanical engineering major from north potomac, maryland. according to the press release, fellow students and then emergency respond­ers tried to resuscitate scanlan after his roommate found him around 7:30 a.m., but were not able to revive him. There were no signs of trauma or foul play, and st. Joseph county coroner michael o’connell, who re­sponded this morning, will determine cause of death, ac­cording to the release. 
“on behalf of the entire university, i extend my deep­est condolences and heartfelt prayers to Jake’s family and friends, and to his parents es­pecially,” university president Fr. John Jenkins said in the re­lease. “i pray that they may find some solace in god’s grace, and support through Jake’s ex­tended notre dame family. we mourn with them on this tragic occasion.” 
in an email to students wednesday afternoon, university vice president 
see scanlan PaGe 6 



ROTC units honor veterans 

By JENNA WILSON 
news writer 
god. country. notre dame. 
on nov. 11, this tradition­al notre dame motto took on an even deeper signifi­cance as veteran’s day was observed on north Quad by notre dame’s army, navy and air Force roTc units. 
The celebration of veteran’s day began at 5 
p.m. on nov. 10, when a 24-hour vigil at the clarke memorial Fountain, known by students as “stonehenge,” began. according to a university press release, ca­dets and midshipmen from all three roTc units stood guard at the four corners of the fountain during the 
see vigil PaGe 6 


smc launches active minds 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 

active minds, a nation-wide organization that seeks to create conversations about mental health and provide a supportive community for col­lege students, started a chap­ter on saint mary’s campus, senior bridget dedelow said. 
according to the active minds website, the club was started by a college student who lost her brother to suicide. The website states that the club works to “combat the stig­ma of mental illness, encour­age students who need help to seek it early and prevent future tragedies.” 
dedelow, who brought the club to saint mary’s with the help of associate profes­sor of psychology catherine pittman, said she hopes the club will help better inform students about mental health issues. 
“[we] want to make bet­ter the state of mental health and the state of people think­ing about their own and oth­ers’ mental health as well,” dedelow said. 
dedelow said interest in the club was high, especially because it offered resources that students weren’t finding otherwise. 
see minds PaGe 6 


Talk reviews vatican reforms 
By EDDIE DAMSTRA 
news writer 
while many are aware of pope Francis’ devotion to solving global problems, especially in regards to poverty, Joseph Zahra highlighted the pope’s sometimes overlooked commitment to amending the administrative and financial structure of the vatican. 
Zahra, the vice coordi­nator of the council for the economy for the holy 
see Finance PaGe 5 

ROSIE LoVOI | The Observer 
Joseph Zahra, the vice coordinator of the Council for the Economy for the Holy See, lectures on financial environment at the Vatican. 





Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                 Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 

News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

If you had to pick a new major, what would you choose? 

Sophie Buono 
sophomore 
lyons hall 
“Joint education program with saint mary’s.” 
Julia Suarez 
sophomore 
walsh hall 
“history.” 
Reilly Kohn 
sophomore 
pangborn hall 
“history or philosophy.” 

Carolyn Ebner 
sophomore 
lyons hall 
“Theology or philosophy.” 
Chris Marco 
junior 
Keenan hall 
“program of liberal studies.” 
Taylor Seeman 
junior 
Farley hall 
“neuroscience.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Katie galioto Zach Klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
rachel o’grady alex carson 

Kathryn marshall hunter mcdaniel maureen schweninger 
Graphics 

Scene Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
susan Zhu miko malabute 

Photo 

Zac llorens Viewpoint Mass of Hot Apple Cider and Football vs. Wake ND Women’s “Migration to scott olehnik 
chris collins 

Remembrance Donuts Forest Basketball game Europe” 
Basilica of the Sacred Fieldhouse Mall Notre Dame Stadium Purcell Pavilion Geddes Hall Heart 1 p.m.-3 p.m. 3:30 pm 1 p.m. 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 
Corrections 

9 p.m. Part of StaND Against Notre Dame takes on The Irish take on the Panel discussion on 
The observer regards itself as a Fr. Jenkins will preside. Hate Week. the Demon Deacons. Bucknell Bison. the migration crisis. professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at 
Iron Sharpens Iron Trumpets under the “Disabusing Diwali Celebration “The Courage of 
all times. we do, however, recognize 
Coleman-Morse Dome Disability” LaFortune Student Conviction” 
that we will make mistakes. if we have 
Center Main Building Jordan Hall of Science Center Hesburgh Center 
made a mistake, please contact us at 
10 p.m.-11:30 p.m. 4:10 p.m. 11 a.m. 7 p.m.-10 p.m. 12 p.m.-1 p.m. 
(574) 631-4541 so we can correct our 
Weekly praise and A home game weekend Part of the Dooley Celebrate the Hindu Lecture on sustainable 
error. 

worship service. tradition. Society Lecture Series. New Year.  development abroad. 


student senate 

group hears presentation on study abroad changes 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
student senators received a presentation from Tom guinan, associate vice presi­dent for administrative op­erations for notre dame international, and junior Frank wamsley regarding the policy change on over­seas flights for students in study abroad programs this wednesday. 
previously, airfare was covered by the university; starting with the 2016-2017 school year, students who are studying abroad will be responsible for the costs of their flights. 
“we had a change in study abroad policy, mainly the financial aspect of it, that was announced over the summer and will go into ef­fect next academic year,” guinan said. “people have been surprised in the past that they didn’t have to pay for their airfare, but notre dame has had a long-stand­ing policy that airfare would be covered.” 
guinan said that by hav­ing students pay for their tickets, the university will be able to send up to 50 more students abroad each year. he also said this is just the first effort by notre dame international to in­crease participation in study abroad programs. 
“we’ve seen a disturb­ing declining trend in our ability to send students abroad, mainly due to rising costs for overseas institu­tions,” guinan said. “about 10 years ago, we’d send 800, 850 students abroad. last year, we only sent 690, and the numbers are just going down by 15 to 20 students a year.” 
according to guinan, notre dame international decided it was “unacceptable and appalling” that so many students were being turned down for study abroad. 
“every student who applies is qualified to go, we just didn’t have the resources to send all the students abroad that we wanted to,” guinan said. “our goal is to send be­tween 85 and 90 percent of students who apply abroad.” 
pangborn hall senator Taylor still said in an email that despite concerns about the new costs, she is pleased notre dame international is working to expand the program. 
“while the immediate cost incurred by students is inconvenient and unwar­ranted, the decision is com­ing from a well-intentioned place,” she said. “especially as notre dame international expansion efforts proceed, i am more excited that a great­er number of students will have this opportunity.” 
students who are receiving financial aid will be given help in purchasing the tick­ets. according to guinan, the same percentage of tu­ition that is covered by the university will also be given to buy a plane ticket. 
“That was the key con­sideration before we imple­mented this policy,” guinan said. “we didn’t want to exclude students who oth­erwise wouldn’t be able to af­ford the airfare, and those on financial aid will have access to the programs in the same way they had before.” 
student senate meets ev­ery wednesday at 6 p.m. in the notre dame room of laFortune student center. all meetings are open to the public. 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 

Professors examine spirituality of conservation 
By MARTHA REILLY 
news writer 
Taking a bike ride or turn­ing off the lights can be transformative experienc­es, according to wednesday 

night’s interfaith discussion panel at saint mary’s about the spirituality of energy conservation. 
associate professor of english and environmental studies christopher cobb said he makes an effort to see the value of basic actions, which helps him relate energy conservation to his Quaker faith. 
“what we call energy con­servation often, usually even, comes down to simple every­day activities: i ride a bike, i put on a sweater, i eat a meal without meat,” cobb said. “These are not glamorous activities, and these are the sort of activities i might do, or might not do, without think­ing much about it.” 
cobb said his choice not to obtain a driver’s license has strengthened his Quaker faith. 
“riding my bike to get where i need to go day-by-day has deepened my spirituality,” cobb said. “it’s very easy not to drive. you just never learn.” 

paid adverTisemenT 

he said that riding his bike instead of driving also con­tributes to his understand­ing of the right use of energy, which he sees as a spiritual practice. 
“my awareness of the spiri­tual aspect of riding my bike helps me to do it everyday,” he said. “i see that i am not doing so with the intent to conserve fossil fuel energy for someone else to use. my hope is that no one else will use it. rather, i have the intent of improving the right use of energy in my life.” 
cobb said recognizing a spiritual presence in activi­ties such as biking or walk­ing helps him engage with nature. 
“i feel connected to my surroundings,” cobb said. “i am aware of the weather, the light, the direction of the breeze, the presence of ani­mals. i am able to speak to people, to encourage geese to get off the path. when i bike, i adjust my approach to be in harmony with the conditions around me.” 
according to cobb, his Quaker faith aligns with his practices of energy conservation. 
“what comes to us in prayer and worship from god, we seek to understand and follow in our lives,” he said. 
rachel novick, assistant professor of biological scienc­es at notre dame, said north americans use significantly 
“I feel connected to my surroundings. I am aware of the weather, the light, the direction of the breeze, the presence of animals.” 
Christopher Cobb 
associate professor of English 
and environmental studies 
more energy than those on other continents. she said this is one main reason she prac­tices energy conservation. 
“as much as we want to care about nature and protect it, we still think we own it,” novick said. 
she said that principles of the Jewish tradition encour­age people to think more simply and to eliminate un­necessary energy usage from their lives. novick said the sabbath, the most central as­pect of Jewish life, prohibits activities such as driving, cell phone usage and shopping for 24 hours. 
“while the sabbath only comes once a week, it defines our lives in ways that influ­ence our choices more broad­ly,” novick said. “For instance, we choose to live in walking distance of other people so that we have people to social­ize with on saturdays.” 
according to novick, it is not uncommon for people to take two-hour walks or to visit parks on the sabbath be­cause people enjoy activities at slower paces. 
“The sabbath is a powerful anecdote to the way we be­come so accustomed to tech­nology that we can’t imagine life without it,” novick said. “it can be really nice to take things slowly. if you ask peo­ple who keep the sabbath if it’s a sacrifice every week, they’re actually really excited about it.” 
novick said everyone has this opportunity to build community with others through a shared prioritiza­tion of energy conservation. 
“we live in a country to­day that grows enough corn to feed every hungry person on this planet,” novick said. “The choices we make about how to use energy, and its im­pacts, all come back to us.” 
Contact Martha Reilly at mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 



The observer | thursday, november 12, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Professor named Editor-in-Chief of journal 
By ANDREA VALE 
news writer 
professor wolfgang porod has been named the found­ing editor-in-chief of the open access ieee (institute of electrical and electronics engineers) nanotechnology express, a new online journal. 
in addition to serv­
ing as Frank m. Freimann 
professor of electrical 
engineering at notre dame, 
porod also holds the po­
sition of director of the 
university’s center for nano 
science and Technology, known as ndnano. 
according to porod, ndnano is one of the largest research centers on notre dame’s campus, with about 60 participating faculty in the colleges of science and engineering. 
“it fosters interdisci­plinary research on the nanoscale, ranging from ad­vanced transistor concepts to nano particles for cancer diagnostics and treatment,” porod said. “as director, i represent the center and set strategic directions and try to capitalize on opportunities.”according to a university press release, porod has been a faculty member since 1986 and has produced more than 300 

scholarly papers in that time. his research focuses “on solid-state physics and its application to electron­ics, quantum devices, and architectures for nanoelec­tronics, reliability, degra­dation and breakdown, and the limits imposed by the laws of physics on computa­tion,” according to the press release. 
porod has also been named a Fellow of the american association for the advancement of science and the institute of electrical and electronics engineers. he has lent him­self as a lecturer for multiple ieee societies, in addition to serving as an associate editor for other scientific publications, according to launching the new journal required a “lengthy process” of more than a year. The larg­est step to publication was obtaining the approval of oversight committees with­
“I hope that ENANO will be successful by attracting high-
The ieee, according to porod, is “the largest en­gineering professional society.” 
porod said the publication works to disseminate infor­mation quickly about new resarch. 
“[enano] aims to provide quick turn-around publica­tion of important research that requires priority treat­ment,” porod said. 
according to porod, 
research in nano­technology.” 
Wolfgang Porod Editor-in-Chief Open Access IEEE Nanotechnology Express 
in the ieee nanotechnology council. 
“i had been involved in the past with the ieee nan­otechnology council, and when they decided to start a new journal, they invited me to be the [editor-in­chief],” he said, “i saw it as a nice recognition and distinction.” 
as editor-in-chief, porod will manage staff and production. 
“[my duties include] over­seeing the creation of the 
all-electronic manuscript 
the press release. 
quality papers and 
processing system, and i did 
The open access ieee 
appoint associate editors 
that it will become 
nanotechnology 
is known as enano 
for [publishing] 
a publication of the ieee express 
with expertise in the vari­
a premier journal 
 and is 
ous topics of the broad field 
of nanotechnology,” he said. 
nanotechnology council. 
the very best 
“From now on, i will oversee 
the handling and process­ing of manuscripts, making decisions about acceptance, revision or rejection. 
“i hope that enano will be successful by attracting high-quality papers, and that it will become a premier journal for [publishing] the very best research in nano­technology,” porod said. 
Contact Andrea Vale at  avale@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 




Local boutique supports SMC fundraiser 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
associate saint mary’s editor 
saint mary’s nsslha club is partnering with Flourish boutique and gallery to raise money for sertoma, a national service organization focused on hearing health, this Friday. 
The fundraiser is part of the annual nationwide “nsslha loves” campaign, club president and senior Taylor ellerbrock said. 
“nsslha stands for ‘national student speech language hearing association’ and is a club for anyone interested in the professional world of speech pathology and audiology.” ellerbrock said. “saint mary’s is just one chapter of the na­tional organization contrib­uting to the nsslha loves campaign.” 
according to the american speech-language-hearing association website, nsslha 
Finance 
conTinued From page 1 
see, gave his lecture, titled “inside the Financial and administrative changes in the vatican: what pope Francis is doing and why,” at the eck visitors center auditorium on wednesday. The talk was sponsored by mendoza college of business and was open to the public. cardinal Theodore mccarrick, archbishop emeritus of washington d.c. and capp-usa national ecclesiastical counselor, in­troduced Zahra to kick off the event. 
Zahra began his lecture by clarifying the economic posi­tions of pope Francis. he said while many assume the pope has approximately 13,000 members and 300 student-managed campus chapters in the united states and abroad. 
“every year [nsslha loves] picks a foundation to 
“Five percent of purchases at Flourish from the whole day [on Nov. 13] is going to Sertoma alone. Our club is not taking any of it.” 
Taylor Ellerbock 
president 
Saint Mary’s NSSLHA 
raise awareness and funds for, and this year they picked sertoma,” ellerbrock said. “sertoma is a hearing loss-hearing health foundation. ... They advocate for healthy 
promotes certain economic systems, the public’s specula­tions are not always true. 
“pope Francis’ words are either misinterpreted or else misunderstood by many, par­ticularly in the business com­munity,” Zahra said. 
Zahra said the 1991 en­cyclical of pope John paul ii, “centesimus annus,” empha­sized the benefits of a free en­terprise economy. 
“The business economy has many positive aspects. it is based on human freedom, hu­man freedom that is exercised in the economic field,” Zahra said. “Free culture, free mar­kets and free policies create a free society.” 
according to Zahra, the problem with the economy is the corrupt nature of mankind. 

paid adverTisemenT 

hearing.” 
according to the sertoma website, the organization has a mission to improve the qual­ity of life through education and support for those impact­ed by hearing loss. 
in order to achieve ‘gold level’ honors within nsslha, the saint mary’s club must do­nate at least $500 to sertoma, ellerbrock said. The upcoming event with Flourish boutique and gallery is one of the main fundraisers for their contribu­tion, she said. 
“Five percent of purchases at Flourish from the whole day [on nov. 13] is going to sertoma alone. our club is not taking any of it,” ellerbrock said. 
The event will run from 10 
a.m. to 7 p.m., and shoppers are encouraged to look for hidden gift cards in the store ranging from $10 to $100, ellerbrock said. nsslha of­ficers will be at Flourish from 
“The problem really is peo­ple and culture rather than the economic system,” he said. “The monstrosity of social de­cay, poverty and marginaliza­tion is the result of the human abuse of the market economy. 
“pope Francis says that this time of crisis is a human cri­sis. it is the human person that is in crisis. man himself is in danger of being destroyed,” Zahra said. 
according to Zahra, solu­tions can be found in reformed behavior. 
“us, as catholics, are holis­tic beings. our values should be reflected in our attitudes and our behaviors, wherever we are,” he said. “our duty is to continue to insist that the hu­man person and human dig­nity are not simply catch words but pillars of creating shared values and structures.” 
Zahra said the significance of pope Francis’ reform in the vatican is deeper than the structures put in place. 
“it is the spirit with which these structures come to life. These shared values, this atti­tude, is an essential element in making this change,” he said. 
Zahra then proceeded to explain the specifics behind the new structures instilled in the vatican. he said the three new structures are all based on “two underlying principles”: universality and technical expertise. 
universality, Zahra said, is important because it “reflects the global reach of the church.” 
“There are cardinals from hong Kong to south africa in­volved,” he said. 
additionally, Zahra said the vatican is so vastly complex that technical expertise is ab­solutely vital. 
“we need to introduce ex­perts into these structures,” he said. 
1 p.m. to 4 p.m. handing out ‘swag bags,’ and if people bring the event flyer, they will get 50 percent off their purchase and free pair of earrings, she said. 
“even if you don’t bring 
“Not only can you get a great deal, but this also helps NSSLHA raise awareness about hearing health in general.” 
Taylor Ellerbock 
president 
Saint Mary’s NSSLHA 
that flyer and you’re a ran­dom shopper from, say, granger, five percent of your purchase money still goes to nsslha, which in turn goes to sertoma,” ellerbrock said. 
The structures that contain these underlying principles are separate but unified in working towards the same goal 
—
 higher levels of efficiency. 

The council of the economy, which consists of 15 members 

—
 eight cardinals and bishops and seven lay experts — “has oversight over all the admin­


“All of this is being done with the improvement of programs and higher levels of efficiency to ensure better support for the poor and marginalized.” 
Joseph Zarah 
vice coordinator 
Council for the Economy for the 
Holy See 
istrative financial structures and activities of the various industries of the holy see, as well as the vatican city,” Zahra said. 
“it is not simply a talking shop, but rather a decision making and policy making en­tity,” he said. 
The second structure cre­ated by pope Francis is the secretariat for the economy, a finance and accounting de­partment responsible for the implementation of policies set by the council of the economy, Zahra said. 
“it is like the executive arm to the council of the economy,” he said. 
The third structure put in place by pope Francis is the the office of the auditor general, a structure with investigative capabilities. This structure is “the most controversial in the 
This is the first time the club has worked with Flourish, ellerbrock said. planning for the event began after fall break, when the club decided to do a fundraiser that was different than the eddy street give back nights. They also wanted to reach people be­yond the saint mary’s-notre dame community, she said. 
ellerbrock said everyone they worked with at Flourish was helpful and supportive. The club enjoys working with a company that promotes pos­itive self-image and self-confi­dence, she said 
“not only can you get a great deal, but this also helps nsslha raise awareness about hearing health in gen­eral,” ellerbrock said. “we’re really passionate our major and about hearing health. it’s going to be a fun time.” 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 
eyes of administrative and lay people who work in the vatican,” Zahra said, because it is the first time the office of an auditor general has been giv­en investigative powers. The office of the auditor general is led by a senior lay expert. 
To summarize his lecture, Zahra ran through the benefits of pope Francis’ reforms in the vatican. 
“all three structures are operating effectively and ef­ficiently,” he said. “There is professionalism, transparency and universal standards of accounting. control mecha­nisms have been put in place.” 
The motivation behind the reforms within the vatican has always been the desire to conserve as much money and resources as possible for the impoverished, Zahra said. 
“all this is being done with the improvement of programs and higher levels of efficiency to ensure better support for the poor and marginalized,” he said. 
Zahra concluded the talk 
by  addressing  the  leaking  
of  confidential  documents  
by  emiliano  Fittipaldi  and  

gianluigi nuzzi, both of whom are publishing books contain­ing classified information re­garding the process of pope Francis’ vatican reforms. 
Zahra noted that pope Francis has since expressed that there will be no delay in the instillation of his vatican reforms. 
“even if these books created confusion and chaos rather than transparency, i would also say that they showed, with firmness and commitment on the part of the holy Father, that these reforms must go on,” Zahra said. 
Contact Eddie Damstra at edamstra@nd.edu 


The observer | thursday, november 12, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

vigil 
conTinued From page 1 
vigil. This 24-hour vigil is a traditional event that notre dame roTc units hold each year, according to the release. 
The vigil concluded with a ceremony on the quad on nov. 11, exactly 24-hours after the guarding of the memorial be­gan. cadets and midshipmen filled the quad, standing in rank to show respect for all the living and deceased men and women who served before them. 
The ceremony began with the introduction of the of­ficial party, which included Fr. pete mccormick, director of campus ministry; James wagenbach, former u.s. sol­ider and vietnam veteran; lt. col. christopher pratt, commanding officer of notre dame army roTc and profes­sor of military science; cmrd. Frederick landau, executive officer of notre dame naval roTc and professor of na­val science; and col. Frank rossi, commanding officer of notre dame air Force roTc and professor of aerospace studies. 
The introduction was fol­lowed by a playing of the na­tional anthem, a prayer led by mccormick and a brief his­tory of veteran’s day. 
“by guarding the memorial, we are showing reverence and respect for the veterans and the fallen heroes,” cadet maj. robert szabo said. “we are re­membering what those men did in those wars.” 
all cadets and midship­man who guarded the memo­rial were honored during the ceremony. 
“The 24-hour vigil they just completed is not only a tribute to veterans, but a tes­tament to [the cadets’ and midshipmen’s] commitment, strength and character,” col. pratt said in a speech dur­ing the ceremony. “although most have yet to serve, they represent the best and the brightest of our country. They chose a path of service to this great nation that less than one half of 1 percent choose these days.” 
pratt then introduced wagenbach, the keynote speaker. in his introduction, pratt noted that wagenbach was both a notre dame alum and veteran. according to pratt, wagenbach served as a recon platoon leader and armored cavalry troop com­mander in vietnam. he was medically discharged for wounds received in combat and decorated with a silver star medal, the third highest military decoration for valor, awarded for gallantry and ac­tion against the enemy. 
wagenbach spoke about a utmost importance,” szabo said. “holding a 24-hour vigil for veteran’s day, culminating in the ceremony on the quad, is a great way to show the im­portance of veteran’s day on campus.” 


Contact Jenna Wilson at  jwilso35@nd.edu 
notre dame very different than the one students know to­day. in his speech, wagenbach said during his time at notre dame in the 1960s, there were 6,000 total undergraduate stu­dents, 4,000 of which partici­pated in roTc. 
“James wagenbach is both an american treasure and 


scanlan 
conTinued From page 1 
for student affairs erin hoffmann harding said both the university counseling center (ucc) and campus ministry re­sources are available to all members of the notre dame community affected by scanlan’s death. 
“we realize that many of you may have been impacted by Jake’s death,” the email states. “The university counseling center and campus ministry are both available to offer their support to you and other members of our community. 

“a campus memorial ser­vice is planned for tomor­row evening, Thursday, november 12, at 9 p.m. in the basilica of the sacred heart. all are welcome and encouraged to attend. 
minds 
conTinued From page 1 
“basically, we … hope to cre­ate awareness around saint mary’s campus,” dedlow said. “we’re aiming to advocate for more resources at saint mary’s and to bring people together and say, ‘you’re not alone in this — if you’re strug­gling with a mental illness at college, you’re not alone.’” 
dedelow said the club meets once a month to dis­cuss fundraising and relevant topics, all the while providing a supportive environment for students. 
“This club is very open and very accepting of all kinds of people,” dedelow said. “we also tell people that even if they don’t deal with mental illness, they can still be in this club and make new friends and meet new people. we ac­cept all kinds of people. 
“we all get a space to talk about issues. we don’t talk over each other. it’s not as structured as raising your hand to talk, but you can talk openly without fear of judgement.” 
dedelow said the saint mary’s community can great­ly benefit from the presence of an active minds chapter on campus. 
“even if you don’t join the club, it has a positive impact on the students,” dedelow said. “you’ll hear about things that are going on, and hero, and we are honored to have him with us,” pratt said. 
The ceremony concluded as veterans in attendance were asked to stand and be recog­nized. Finally, taps was played to honor those veterans who passed. 
“To honor the men and wom­en who have served is of the 
everything we try to do in the club is positive.” 
“obviously, if the students are having a better time dealing with their mental health, the community will be strengthened,” she said. “even if you’re not directly affected by it, you’re affected by it in some sort of way. by having the club on campus, we hope there will be an over­all understanding that this is a safe place and it will make saint mary’s a safer place to be for some people.” 
The club plans to bring in guest speakers to discuss their experiences with mental illnesses and to host informa­tional panels next semester, dedelow said. she said the club also plans to host calm­ing events for stress less week around finals week. 
Contact Nicole Caratas at  ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




mizzou 
conTinued From page 1 
this weekend’s game and the resignation of missouri’s president — affect not only students of the university of missouri, but notre dame students as well. 
senior ray’von Jones, one of the organizers for the event, called on members of the notre dame community “to stand up and speak out” against the racial threats and unrest at missouri. 
“Far too often we are silent. … part of standing in solidar­ity is also getting our voices heard as well,” Jones said. 
Following a reading of quotes about the experiences of students of color, event or­ganizer and senior geraldine mukumbi invited her fellow organizers as well as those in attendance to share their rea­sons for participating in the demonstration. 
“why are you all here?” mukumbi asked the crowd. “what made you decide to come?” 
passing around a mega­phone, students named a variety of reasons for attend­ing, from feeling exasperated with discrimination at notre dame to having personal connections with missouri students affected by the dis­turbances on campus. 
“i’m here because i had friends at mizzou who were afraid to leave their homes today, and that pains me greatly,” senior rachel wallace, another organizer of the event, said. 
The last to speak about her motivation for attending, Jones said she wanted to par­ticipate because she thinks that while there are current efforts at notre dame to ad­dress issues of racial discrim­ination, there is still more that needs to be done in order to make notre dame an in­clusive campus. 
“i’m here because i know that there are people on this campus that care about these things. you all being here to­day is a really strong confir­mation of that,” Jones said. “i know that there’s been a lot of work done on many levels to make this place safe for us. 
“but with that said we can’t be complicit; we can’t be si­lent, and we have to speak up about these things.” 
The demonstration con­cluded with a procession to the great hall of o’shaughnessy, where students continued the discussion about race rela­tions in smaller, more infor­mal groups. 
in an interview following the demonstration, wallace said her personal connec­tion to students on missouri’s campus made the problem of racial discrimination more immediate to her. 
“we hear about a lot of ra­cial tension on college cam­puses all the time,” wallace said. “it’s always very real, but it’s solidified when some­one you know is in the mix.” 
paid adverTisemenT 


The events at missouri re­veal that outbreaks of racial discrimination and violence are an ongoing problem on college campuses, wallace said, and that racial tensions are not confined to any one locale. 
“This could happen here, this could happen every­where,” wallace said. “when you read back on the mizzou story, there’re a lot of things that have happened on that campus that are really crazy in terms of racial relations. but things on our campus happen that are similar. 
“we have a lot of microag­gressions rather than macro-aggressions, but i still think they’re a huge problem.” 
Freshman bi’unca redmon, who was also involved in organizing the event, said notre dame is not alone in demonstrating to express concern over what is happen­ing at missouri. around the country students are taking to social media to voice sup­port for students of color at missouri, she said. 
“There are hashtags go­ing around in solidarity with mizzou, #nd4mizzou or who­ever for mizzou,” redmon said. “no matter what hap­pens we’re behind them, and to the best of our abilities, we won’t let anything happen to them.” 
redmon also said she hopes the demonstration will act as a “catalyst for change” and will prompt discussions about race relations both at 
missouri and here at notre  
dame.  
echoing  redmon’s  sen­ 

timents, assistant profes­sor of engineering melissa berke said events such as the one wednesday evening of­fer students and faculty the opportunity to unite behind a common cause and confront discrimination on campus head-on. 
“movements like this on campus are super crucial in having the ability to have a voice, to be able to get to­gether, assemble and have a conversation together about important things going on on campus,” berke said. 
she said these types of movements have the effect of bringing people from a vari­ety of backgrounds together who might not otherwise have any interaction. 
“otherwise we kind of all live in our own worlds,” berke said. “i don’t actually even recognize any of the students here, which i think is great. it’s an intersection between people that you don’t know but who share a common be­lief and common support. 
“if you don’t bring people together from across campus, then what hope do we have across the country?” 
Contact Clare Kossler at  ckossler@nd.edu 




The observer | thursday, november 12, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
be a sichuan pepper 
April Feng 
story Time 

“what kind of base would you like?” 
“can i have the sichuan base?” 
“sriracha?” 
“um, no. sichuan.” 
“what is that?” 

helplessly, i pointed out my choice of stir-fry base on the menu: “This one, sì-chuan.” i pronounced the word with perfect tones: fourth, first. 
“oh! you mean szechuan!” The cook exclaimed in english, her native language, “now i get it!” 
well, maybe you did not get it. i said, “sichuan.” and i meant it. 
For the first four weeks of school, i insisted on using the correct pronunciation whenever i had stir-fry in din­ing halls, and my pronunciation would cause confusion every single time. my friend once asked me, “why don’t you just say szechuan? it will save you so much time.” 
i did not know how to articulate to him the magical power of the word “sichuan.” as an international stu­dent, there is a special pride in seeing my own language in a foreign country and being able to pronounce it aloud in my native tone. it almost creates a power dynamic in which i am finally on the upper level. more importantly, the word reminds me of beautiful memories, of my past, of china: The time when pork dumplings, dipped in the capsicol made by the sichuan chili pepper, set my mouth on fire and kept me warm on the coldest winter day. The time when a boiling hot pot called back all my family members drifting in far away places and gath­ered us around the dinner table on the evening of spring Festival. The time when my dad said to me with a very se­rious face that a person who did not have the courage to take a sichuan chili pepper could never accomplish great things. it is from those memories that i seek my strength, my root and myself. it is by looking back to my past that i understand why i am here and where i am going. i can­not stand that i have to “correct” my pronunciation of “sichuan” — a word in my native language, a word that means so much to me — in order to be understood here. 
“i want to transform the way people on this campus say ‘sichuan,’” i told my friend, “we need to celebrate the spirit of diversity by using the correct pronuncia­tion.” i had a plan already. i promised myself that i would never succumb to the americanized pronunciation “szechuan.” i need to reassert the identity of that stir-fry base. 
but transforming others was much more difficult than i thought. day after day, i would show up at the stir-fry section and pronounce the word as clearly as possible, only to find a very confused face staring back. i started to feel less confident, not only in my ability to transform others, but also in my past, in those beautiful memories and in my own culture. perhaps they were just not worth that much i thought to myself. i started to lower my voice and stare at my tray when pronouncing the word. my proud fourth-tone “si” started to blur toward a toneless “sze.” and then, one day, a miracle happened. 
“hi, what can i get for you?” 
“hi, can i have the sichuan base?” 
“sure.” 

i looked up from my tray and stared at the cook in sur­prise. a middle age man, wide forehead, black hair and black eyes. 
“are you chinese?” 
“yes, i am.” 
we had a long conversation later that evening. i told him about my aspiration of transforming how people say “sichuan” on notre dame campus and how i had failed. i also complained to him that it pained me to see people not understand or appreciate my culture, the value of which i was beginning to doubt. after quietly listening to my rant, my awesome chef friend told me a story of the sichuan chili pepper. 
The sichuan chili pepper is one of the spiciest peppers in the world. it will take the amount of water 500,000 times the pepper’s weight to fully remove the spice of one single pepper. it is renowned for its quality, and yet, nobody will appreciate eating only the pepper itself. it is simply too spicy to be approached. in chinese cuisine, the most authentic way to savor sichuan chili peppers is through making a hot pot. To make the soup base for hot pot, people throw sichuan chili peppers into boiling water with a large variety of other spices. after an entire night of frying, boiling and stirring, the sichuan chili pepper would lose much of its spiciness, which is moder­ated and balanced by varied flavors of other spices, but the pepper still maintains its unique taste in the hot pot. hot pot is loved by people from all over the world and is considered the best way to appreciate the value of the sichuan chili pepper. 
“To realize its full value, the sichuan chili pepper has to first make itself approachable by diners. what about you?” 
“i guess to help others understand my culture, i have to first make my culture understandable.” 
he looked at me and smiled: “you got it. be a sichuan chili pepper.” 
“hi, can i have the sichuan base?” 
“The what base?” 
“szechuan. it is pronounced ‘sichuan’ in chinese.” 
“how interesting! it is originally from china, isn’t it?” 
“yeah, it is one of the eight major chinese cuisines.” 
“really? i never knew that! how do you pronounce it again?” 
“sì-chuan.” i proudly pronounced the word with per­fect tones: fourth, first. 
“sì-chuan.” The cook repeated after me. 
as notre dame students, we are encouraged every day to foster understanding, to bridge the gap, to reveal the beautiful, to change the world into a better place, but we cannot transform the lives of others until we first let our­selves be transformed. 
be a sichuan chili pepper, and go transform the world. oh, by the way, don’t forget: it is “sì-chuan,” not “szechuan.” 
Dan (April) Feng is a junior Political Science and Economics double major. She is from Beijing, China and lives in Lyons Hall. April welcomes all comments (or complaints) and can be reached at dfeng@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The ‘Hamilton’ revolution 
Jennifer Vosters 
belleview 

don’t punch me, but i got to see “hamilton” on broadway over fall break. 
my head is still spinning over my luck. as we watched history come to life onstage, the audience knew we too were a part of history, part of a seismic shift in the way we approach musical theatre and our own founding story. it was transformative, and i’m not hyperbolizing. 
For those of you who don’t know what i’m talking about, you probably will soon: “hamilton,” the new hip-hop musical biography of alexander hamilton, has been taking over national airwaves and social media for the last several weeks. This past weekend alone, writer, creator and star lin-manuel miranda was fea­tured on both “The Tonight show with Jimmy Fallon” and “60 minutes.” The musical been the buzz of new york city since before it opened at the public Theatre in February, exploding to new heights when it transitioned to broadway last summer. even the most famous have become fans: beyoncé and Jay-Z raved about it, and president obama has seen it twice. 
it’s the story of the orphaned immigrant genius who wrote himself out of poverty and obscurity to become one of the most influential men in american history, a story that today can only be told with the wit and grit of hip-hop, according to miranda. and whether you like rap or not, the soundtrack is spectacular: brilliant lyrics, a story so compelling you can’t believe it’s true (it is) and a beat that’s downright dope. 
but what struck me most about “hamilton” is how it has made the past progressive. it has brought revolutionary america into contemporary america by portraying the people who created the country then with the people who create the country today. 
alexander hamilton is played by miranda, the son of puerto rican immigrants. The roles of Thomas Jefferson, aaron burr and James madison — among others — are performed by black actors. women and men are cast as continental and british soldiers. and the stories of the women behind the revolution — notably the schuyler sisters, played by african and asian american ac­tors — are front and center, driving many of the show’s most dramatic moments, beautiful songs and blazing wordplay. 
Today’s minorities, today’s immigrants and children of today’s hamiltons are all reclaiming the founding story of america, a story from which they were excluded as it was written. The radical inclusivity of “hamilton” is twofold. From a production standpoint, it brings in white actors and actors of color, male actors and female actors, to play the revolutionaries who established america – most of whom were white, many of whom were slave-owners and all of whom were male. From a story standpoint, it highlights the roles and the lives of women – elizabeth hamilton, angelica schuyler and maria reynolds – to bring back into the narrative voices that have faded from history books. it also foregrounds issues of slavery and immigration, bringing modern at­tention to questions that began at the nation’s founding and continue today. 
i wrote in august about the need for more inclusion of women and people of color in theatre and film. There is still a pressing need. but shows like “hamilton” — not that there are any others quite like it — are success sto­ries that need to be celebrated. lin-manuel miranda didn’t have to write a show about a group of people from vastly different cultural backgrounds to address this need. all he did was tell the story he wanted to tell – the life of alexander hamilton and the founding of america 
– without landlocking himself by seeking a particular “look,” drawing from a much wider talent pool by con­sidering actors of all races, ethnicities and genders. in fact, the “look” of “hamilton” is the absence of one: everyone is invited and included. everyone’s story is told. 
“hamilton” is crucially important because it is shat­tering our expectations not just of what broadway musi­cals sound like, but of what they look like – and it works. it defies the fears of theatre and film creators who are afraid that casting actors of color won’t sell tickets; it’s leaving box office records in the dust, gathering an army of obsessed fans and spreading its message of unity and possibility to a country that needs it. and the produc­ers of “hamilton” know it; they’ve begun an initiative, supported by the rockefeller Foundation, that will al­low 20,000 high-schoolers from new york city to attend student-only workshops and productions of “hamilton” for just $10 – the note with hamilton’s face on it – to bring this new phase of the american stage to the next generation. 
so jump on spotify or iTunes and give the “hamilton” soundtrack a listen. celebrate the bright, brilliant future of an american theatre production that speaks to and about all americans. Join the revolution. 
Jennifer Vosters is a senior living in Le Mans Hall. She is an English major with minors in theatre and Italian. She can be reached at jvoste01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | thursday, november 12, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Catholic identity, Planned Parenthood and the “Gospel of Life” 
This past week, i was contacted by numerous people who expressed serious concern about a recent public display by some students and faculty at saint mary’s that positively portrayed the ser­vices of planned parenthood. i was very saddened to learn this show of support for an organization that is the largest abortion provider in our coun­try occurred at a catholic college in our diocese. at the same time, i have been heartened by those students, faculty and alumnae of the college who are committed to the cause of life and the authen­tic good of women and have expressed their op­position to planned parenthood and any positive portrayal of this organization. 
The actions taken by the students and faculty in support of planned parenthood illustrate that even at a catholic college, there are those who cling to the conviction that planned parenthood is an or­ganization dedicated to the well-being of women. while i do not doubt the sincerity of those who hold this view, i do challenge them to seriously re­examine what this organization stands for in light of our common humanity and our catholic faith. 
From its very beginning, planned parenthood came into existence as a means to promote the eugenicist vision of its founder, margaret sanger. consider the astonishing words with which she expounded this worldview in her book, “The pivot of civilization,” published in 1922: 
“The lack of balance between the birth rate of the ‘unfit’ and the ‘fit,’ admittedly the great­est present menace to civilization, can never be rectified by the inauguration of a cradle compe­tition between these two classes. The example of the inferior classes, the fertility of the feeble-minded, the mentally defective, the poverty-stricken, should not be held up for emulation to the mentally and physically fit, and therefore less fertile, parents of the educated and well-to-do classes.  on the contrary, the most urgent problem today is how to limit and discourage the over-fertility of the mentally and physically defec­tive. possibly drastic and spartan methods may be forced upon american society if it continues complacently to encourage the chance and chaotic breeding that has resulted from our stupid, cruel sentimentalism.” 
The fact that planned parenthood continues to operate clinics primarily in poor, minority neighborhoods raises the question whether this original vision still largely informs its strategy and its mission today. planned parenthood’s own website states that 80 percent of its clients receive “services” to prevent unintended pregnancy, and that the provision of contraception constitutes over a third of all the organization’s activity. From a catholic point of view, contraception does not constitute true health care because it neither pre­serves nor restores the proper functioning of the body, but rather damages one of its natural func­tions. in fact, there is increasing evidence that when a woman’s fertility is suppressed through the use of synthetic hormones, she is exposed to serious health risks. especially in light of pope Francis’ call in “laudato si’” for a greater respect for human nature and an integral ecology, can’t this be seen as a lack of stewardship and care for the ecology of our human bodies? even more problematic is the fact that the most effective con­traceptives available today can also function as abortifacients. is it any wonder that the first femi­nists condemned both abortion and contraception as offensive and injurious to women? instead, they called both men and women to mutual respect and self-restraint in marriage as a way to live re­sponsible parenthood. To the extent that planned parenthood does provide any legitimate health services for women — such as cancer screenings or testing for sexually transmitted diseases — those services are already widely provided by others. community health centers, for example, provide free or low-cost services to 22 million patients in urban and rural areas and outnumber planned parenthood clinics 13 to 1. 
many people have come to believe contraception is part of the solution to the problem of abortion. what is becoming increasingly clear, however, is just how closely abortion and contraception are connected. contraception is not part of the solu­tion to the culture of death — it is part of the prob­lem. This is because contraception attempts to sever the link between sex and procreation, which, if unsuccessful, can be definitively accomplished through an abortion. in his 1995 encyclical, “The gospel of life,” then-pope John paul ii empha­sized this connection: 
“despite their differences of nature and moral gravity, contraception and abortion are often closely connected, as fruits of the same tree. it is true that in many cases contraception and even abortion are practiced under the pressure of real-life difficulties, which nonetheless can never ex­onerate from striving to observe god’s law fully. still, in very many other instances such practices are rooted in a hedonistic mentality unwilling to accept responsibility in matters of sexuality, and they imply a self-centered concept of free­dom, which regards procreation as an obstacle to personal fulfillment. The life which could result from a sexual encounter thus becomes an enemy to be avoided at all costs, and abortion becomes the only possible decisive response to failed contraception.” 
one in three abortions in our nation is cur­rently performed at a facility operated by planned parenthood, up from one in five abortions in 2005. in a strategy designed to increase their market share, planned parenthood Federation of america (ppFa) in 2010 stipulated that, by 2013, every af­filiate must have one or more clinics that perform abortions on site. a few affiliates left ppFa rather than comply with this requirement, but most did not. That this strategy was successful is evidenced by the fact that in 2013 alone — the last year for which complete data is available — planned parenthood affiliates performed 327,653 abor­tions. in fact, 94 percent of the “services” planned parenthood provides for pregnant women are abortions, either surgical or medical (by means of the abortion drug ru-486), outnumbering other options 16 to 1. in fact, since 1970, planned parenthood facilities have aborted over 5 million unborn children, and abortions currently account for a great deal of the organization’s income. 
pope Francis has called abortion the product of a “widespread mentality of profit, the throwaway culture, which has today enslaved the hearts and minds of so many.” when he addressed the bish­ops of the united states during his historic visit to our country in september, pope Francis urged us not to look the other way or remain silent in the face of such evils: 
“The innocent victims of abortion, children who die of hunger or from bombings, immigrants who drown in the search for a better tomorrow, the elderly or the sick who are considered a burden, the victims of terrorism, wars, violence and drug trafficking, the environment devastated by man’s predatory relationship with nature — at stake in all of this is the gift of god, of which we are noble stewards but not masters. it is wrong, then, to look the other way or to remain silent.” 
The “gospel of life” is a seamless garment cov­ering many issues involving human life and dig­nity. respect for human life from the moment of conception is an integral part of the message of salvation and the mission of the church and the first principle of its social teaching upon which every other human right is founded. catholic in­stitutions, including catholic colleges and univer­sities, must not look the other way or remain silent in the face of attacks against the most vulnerable human beings among us, those as yet unborn. according to the apostolic constitution “ex corde ecclesiae,” “catholic ideals, attitudes and prin­ciples penetrate and inform university activities” in all aspects of campus life at a catholic college or university. 
catholic identity is not only about what we stand for; it is also about what we will not stand for. Just as we would be rightly scandalized to see a public display portraying a racist organization like the Ku Klux Klan in a positive light, so too, we expect catholic colleges to refuse to lend any kind of respectability to organizations like planned parenthood that play such a significant role in the culture of death. authentic freedom, academic or otherwise, is always linked to the service of truth and love. it is also ordered to the formation of the human person in truth and love, formation in which catholic colleges and universities play a critical role. 
saint John paul ii urged us to do better by the young adults with whose formation we have been entrusted in this beautiful but difficult area of life: “it is an illusion to think that we can build a true culture of human life if we do not help the young to accept and experience sexuality and love and the whole of life according to their true mean­ing and in their close interconnection. ... only a true love is able to protect life.” 
Bishop Kevin C. Rhoades 
bishop of Fort wayne-south bend nov. 10 


The observer | thursday, november 12, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

“i’m a man of many interests, but my true passion might be pasta,” says aziz ansari’s character dev shah, describing himself to his girlfriend’s grandmother. “master of none,” ansari and writing partner alan yang’s new netflix series, showcases the comedian at the inter­section of these two passions: his per­sonal interests and the people in his life. 
ansari plays the semi-autobiographi­cal role of dev shah, a small-time actor living in new york city. dev bounces off a number of friends at differing stages in their lives but most often hangs out with the similarly single brian, denise and arnold, played by the equally great Kelvin yu, lena waithe and eric wareheim, respectively. in his thor­ough encounters and interactions, dev explores an array of 21st century cul­tural phenomena and social concepts, both new and old. 
“master of none” features everything describing today’s young adult renais­sance man: curiosity in food, sex, mu­sic, casual philosophy and a good sense of humor. Through ansari’s translation of his own personal interests onto the screen, the show documents the still-new life stage between teenhood and adulthood that the ubiquity of college and delayed marriage have helped cre­ate in the modern age. 

Kathy Minko 
scene writer 

Thirteen-year-old Kathy would be ecstatic to write about a thriving youTube sensation as lovable, inno­cent and — dare i say — cute as Justin bieber. sixteen-year-old Kathy, on the other hand, would be shaking her head right about now. as a 19-year-old on the brink of my roaring 20s, i’m not too sure what to think while writing about such a back-and-forth pop star. i do, however, recognize one thing as certain: Justin bieber’s style and youth may have fluctuated, but his fan base has remained steadfast. 
bieber’s many “beliebers” under the influence of the infectious “bieber Fever” have persisted since 2010 — timely to his peak as an adolescent youTube prodigy. a fan base as strong as bieber’s upped these video hits to over two billion, making him the first person to do so on the site and helping 
with this young adulthood comes aimless soul-searching and a lot of question asking. as a result, “master of none” covers everything from first-generation americans’ relationships with their parents to institutionalized sexism and racism to murky sexual re­lationships and their morality. From ansari’s place, a successful first-gener­ation indian american actor, he is able to inject very truthful experiences and viewpoints that give the show’s already engaging storylines even more of a fresh flavor. 
his portrayal of dev as an honest, kind-hearted guy, yet still human, makes him likable in each of his small victories and mistakes, alike. whether he’s succeeding in the fickle culture of smartphone dating, working to connect with his parents — enjoyably played by ansari’s own parents — or putting his foot in his mouth, it’s hard not to root for dev. This is especially true of the show’s nonlinear relationship and the palpable chemistry between dev and the charming, confident rachel, portrayed by noël wells in a breakout performance. 
with “master of none,” ansari and company explore a wide range of in­triguing topics, loosely bouncing from idea to idea on an episodal basis. at times the show was reminiscent of fellow nyc comedian louis c. K.’s “louie,” amazon studios’ audacious 
to kick off his notable singing career. 
The consistency of beliebers, de­spite the celebrity’s rocky transition into adulthood, is strong, which cer­tainly reflects his fans’ loyalty. many of his fan base members, comprised mostly of teenage females, have remained staunch in their love for bieber, despite frequent scandals and an arrest after “believe” debuted in 2012. between labeling anne Frank as a belieber — a comical bit of shaden­freude — and charges of resisting arrest in 2014, bieber’s fan base has remained tender, strong and true. 
if the beliebers had a line graph, their loyalty to the pop star would positively correlate to their obsession 
— specifically to mend their broken hearts with regard to bieber’s love life. passive aggressive tweets and not-so-subtle death threats to the ce­lebrity’s numerous lady friends have been recorded throughout the years. Their staunch fixation on bieber’s smooth beats, rhythmic dance moves “Transparent” or the revolutionary “you’re The worst,” three contemporary genre-blurring shows in a burgeoning trend of excellent, cinematic half-hour television programming. modern ro­mance, social equality and parenting are all given significant discourse. 
elsewhere, ansari gives his truncated take on richard linklater’s extremely romantic “before sunrise,” shows flash­es of the unconventional development of the central relationship in last year’s subversive rom-com “obvious child” or provides a companion piece to the heartbreakingly real “woman seeking man” episode of this year’s “man seeking woman.” nevertheless, with such a defined personality as ansari’s in the lead, everything remains grounded around him as the show is littered with charismatic, personal touches. 
The show exists in a very carefully defined, hip — but not overly hip — universe that ansari cultivates through his clearly defined likes, often the sub­ject of his stand-up and interviews. he and his friends can be seen at a differ­ent trendy restaurant every week, the house and apartment designs are dis­tinctly unique yet feel believably lived-in, he eats at the old-school brooklyn italian restaurant bamonte’s and at­tends a secret Father John misty con­cert at the very cool williamsburg bar and concert venue baby’s all right. 
ansari’s idiosyncrasies 
and handsome looks have permeated through every aspect of his life — an obsessive characteristic to extreme beliebers everywhere. 
This, of course, marked a point in my life where i stopped believing in bieber. if his questionable decision-making was not enough of a turnoff, his intense fan base certainly did the trick. 
so, the question remains: why, if bieber has fluctuated morally and physically throughout the years, has his fan base remained loyal? while i had trouble deciphering the answer, some beliebers have admitted to feeling a sense of loyalty to their pre-teen selves and thus find it diffi­cult to renounce their fandom. 
bieber, who made his claim to fame after posting several youTube videos and eventual working under usher›s tutelage, certainly has made a name for himself. in spite of his flaws, fans have remained steadfast in their love, support and defense for bieber — a flourish often at an even more granu­lar level: martinelli’s apple juice, “tasty shwarma,” a new gelato place or ramen shop, choosing between gnocchi and bucatini, the last “King Kong banana split,” the best taco in the city, a bowl of homemade spaghetti carbonara; all these foods are integrated in some way into the story. meanwhile, ansari also lends his viewers a peak at his favor­ite music, featuring a diverse array of worldly songs that score the Quentin Tarantino-esque title sequence, as well as name-dropping everything from the buzzcocks to the “beauty and the beast” soundtrack to a hilarious de­bate about the lyrical implications of eminem’s “lose yourself.” 
across the show’s first 10 episodes, “master of none” could refer to ansari’s potpourri of tastes, spread among so many interests which cement him as a merely competent jack of his trades. however, at its core, the show is really about his many relationships, with his interests providing a realistic, stimu­lating backdrop in front of which to explore them. and as the young adult that dev is — like many of the viewers of this show — he has no way of being a master of any of his relationships when he doesn’t even know what feeling in control of his own life entails. 
Contact Matt McMahon at                         mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
key trait in a successful fan base and, more importantly, successful pop star. 
This success hasn’t gone unnoticed. bieber’s recent comeback song “what do you mean?” has ranked among the billboard›s hot 100 top 10 singles in 2015 for 10 weeks and counting. That song and his newest single “sorry” have pervaded listeners’ ears ev­erywhere. They’ve even instilled a newfound interest in bieber’s musical progression within previous bieber fans, myself included. 
it’ll be interesting to see how bieber’s career develops, what with his newfound tropical vibes. one thing, though, will undoubtedly re­main: the beliebers’ characteristically strong love for their favorite pop star. 
Contact Kathy Minko at                kminko@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.  


SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 

The observer | thursday, november 12, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By ERIN McAULIFFE and MATT MUNHALL 
scene writers 

Matthew Munhall: First off, i just want to say how much i love “master of none.” aziz ansari has developed such a strong, specific voice as a comedian and i think that’s a huge part of why this show can cover such a wide range of topics — dat­ing in the 21st century, being the child of immigrants, connecting with your (grand)parents — without it ever feeling jumbled. 
Erin McAuliffe: yeah, i agree and i love how the variety is set up by a different title sequence each episode. 
MM: it makes each episode feel like its own short film! 
EM: can we talk about the montages? i love the montages! The montage of all the indian stereotypes in hollywood cast­ing was eye-opening because they were real-life things — like ashton Kutcher in brownface for a popchips commercial. 
MM: i didn’t even know that existed. 
EM: it got pulled because it was racist. MM: rightly so. i think the issues the show raises with that episode and the one about harassment were interesting. i was somewhat uncomfortable watch­ing “ladies and gentlemen” because i thought it was going to do too much to 
congratulate dev for being a feminist. when his female co-workers give him a cake, i thought, “are dudes really sup­posed to be congratulated for doing the bare minimum effort for equality?” but then at the end there’s that really great scene where rachel calls him out. 
EM: That was great. i love her! 
MM: The show does such a great job having complex dialogue on these issues. 
EM: The juxtaposition between dev and arnold walking home to “don’t worry, be happy” and rachel walking home to the “halloween” theme. it’s so true! when i walk home, i’m freaked out any time it’s dark and i’m alone. my mom set up her credit card to my uber because she’s scared i will get abducted. … it’s such a contrast between two guys walk­ing at night. The one-liners were so good as well. 
MM: so many of them were written by harris wittels, who passed away in February. The turtle in the briefcase! 
EM: when the girl at the bar was like, “i hate it when men ask me to smile more!” and dev goes, “why should you smile more? because women get paid 23 cents less on the dollar than men do? because the government’s trying to regulate your body?” That addressed two issues in a quippy one-liner. 
MM: i also wanted to talk about the use of technology in the show. it really cap­tures how young people use technology constantly. 
EM: The two-minute scene where dev tries to find the best taco place on yelp. it’s integrated into the show so well. 
MM: The one thing that bothers me, al­though it’s accurate of really hip places, is how much exposed brick there is! every bar, coffee shop and restaurant they go to is exposed brick and edison lightbulbs. 
EM: next door to the venue where we saw speedy ortiz in chicago was a store that exclusively sold wiring for naked bulbs. 
MM: all i have to say about the post-artisan cafe vibe is: give it a rest! 
EM: There’s exposed brick in dev’s apartment, which is so nice, and he wears a lot of nice suits, but he keeps get­ting fired and not getting roles. 
MM: That bothered me too. he has this huge apartment in williamsburg and flies to nashville on a first date, even though he’s a commercial actor. 
EM: it’s not real life! 
MM: i know, but for a show that’s real­istic in so many others ways, you would expect dev’s financial situation to be as well. i also thought that for a show that has an episode explicitly about feminism, rachel is somewhat underde­veloped as a character, especially when dev and his friends are all such compli­cated characters. 
EM: in one episode, rachel’s grandma asks dev, “do you even know what rachel does?” and he’s like, “no, i don’t.” how have you not discussed her job? it’s just kind of thrown to the wayside because she gets free concert tickets. 
MM: noel wells is so good in that role 
— i just wish she had been in the show more! we haven’t talked about dev’s parents, who are played by aziz ansari’s real-life parents. 
EM: They’re so good! both were hi­larious. in the last episode, his dad refer­ences sylvia plath’s “The bell Jar.” after convincing dev that he “ticktickticks on the youTube too much” and should read a book, there is a “The brady bunch”­esque montage to the fig tree passage about choosing what to reach for on the metaphorical branching tree of life. it is a great reflection on what dev is choosing to pursue at this transition point in his life, as well as a summation of the season as a whole. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at                         emcaulif@nd.edu and Matt Munhall at mmunhall@nd.edu 


SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 



Crossword | will shorTZ 


Just add water | eric carlson & John roddy 
sudoku | The mepham group 

FlinG by sPrinG | riley mccurrie horosCoPe | eugenia lasT 

Happy Birthday: make unique changes to the way you live. stop dreaming about making a difference and start doing it. progressive action will lead to a higher profile and the opportunity to go from being a passive observer to an active participant. make your voice heard. a passionate approach to life will bring you high rewards and draw the respect of your friends and family. your numbers are 7, 18, 21, 23, 32, 45, 49. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): enough is enough. whatever isn’t working for you should be reconsidered and changed. it’s time to work on achieving better results. your generosity has created more of a hindrance than a benefit, and you must get back to doing what counts.  

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): offering assistance will lead to a profitable union. attend networking functions or check out the job market to see if something interests you. interviews, negotiations and business trips are favored. expand your professional interests. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): stay on top of whatever situation you face when networking or socializing. not everyone will be honest with you. a disciplined approach to your responsibilities will bring the best results and show others how capable you are. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): you may not get along with everyone today, but if you are willing to look at both sides of a situation, you will come up with solutions that will make you look like a genius. don’t fret -- take on new challenges optimistically. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t fold under pressure. everything will be oK if you remain calm and offer reasonable suggestions and answers. don’t lose sight of the changes you want to make to improve your state of mind, future opportunities and your personal life. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Talks will lead to new opportunities. your ability to persuade others to see your point of view or to collaborate with you on a project will ensure success. a changing relationship could offer a unique lifestyle change.            

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): re-evaluate your skills and qualifications and upgrade wherever necessary. your knowledge will have a lot to do with your success. don’t hide your talents or think everyone else can do things better. express your interest to a potential employer. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): situations will move too quickly or not fast enough. patience and preparation will be the key to how far you will get. offering help to someone in need will spark enthusiasm to try something new and unusual. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): secrets are best kept until you are certain the information you have isn’t going to hurt you or someone else. a responsible attitude will be necessary to maintain your reputation or position. concentrate on making positive changes at home. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): when it comes to work projects, source out reliable people and delegate matters to those you trust. put your plans into motion and consider ways to turn something you do well into a moneymaking venture. stay on top of nutrition and physical wellness. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t step into the spotlight unless you are ready to be criticized. put more into self-improvement and working behind the scenes to ensure that you are fully prepared to take on whatever challenges await you. romance is encouraged.  

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): you will be hard to resist, no matter what you do. whether it’s business or personal matters, your persuasive tactics will help you achieve your goals. an opportunity to get involved in a lucrative joint venture looks promising.. 

Birthday Baby: you are passionate, respectful and open-minded. you are imaginative and persistent. 
Jumble | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 





The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

To
 receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable to and mail to: The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 
address 
city     state Zip 


sPorts authority 

Officials continue to drop the ball 

Michael Ivey 
sports writer 
college football is beautiful for a number of reasons. There are the time-honored traditions of every program, the pageantry and the fact that college football players aren’t playing for money but for school pride. 
This time of year is always the best time of the season, too. The weather turns and there are mac teams playing Tuesday and wednesday nights in the al­ways beautiful maction, which means every day of november 
— excluding the day before Thanksgiving — has some type of football on Tv. as the confer­ence championships start to loom, every game starts to mean more and more. college football isn’t the highest quality of foot­ball by a long shot, but that only adds to the attractiveness of the sport. crazy things happen all the time. you never know what it will be. Just look at the end of the michigan state-michigan game back in october or the end of the arkansas-ole miss game just last week. 
There’s something else that adds to the excitement of college football games: the officiating. 
college football officiating has been putting teams and their fans on a roller-coaster ride for years now: two similar plays that were called differently, ques­tionable holding calls, etc. it’s expected every now and again. it comes with the territory. 
however, it might finally be becoming an actual problem. 
in the past two weeks, we’ve seen two college football games decided by two grossly blown calls. each time, the officiat­ing crew had multiple chances to rectify their mistakes but still botched it. even worse, the teams that ended up on the los­ing side of these blown calls were teams in the hunt for a confer­ence championship or — even more important — the hunt for a college Football playoff spot. now their chances at history might be ruined for good by the mistakes of two officiating crews. 
The first instance happened oct. 31 at the end of the miami­duke game. duke was ranked 24th in the country at the time and in the hunt for the acc coastal division title. The blue devils scored with only six sec­onds left to take a 27-24 lead. all they needed to do was pre­vent miami from scoring in six seconds. 
a kickoff, 49 seconds of real time and eight laterals later, however, miami was celebrating in the end zone. it was an incred­ible finish. people will remember it for years to come. 
but for all the wrong reasons. multiple replays show that before throwing one of the later­als, a miami player’s knee was clearly on the ground while he had possession of the ball. The officials should have ruled he was down, nullified the play and given duke a well-deserved win. however, after a nine-minute review, the officials upheld the ruling and gave the hurricanes a touchdown and the win. 
miami had committed high­way robbery, and the officiating crew provided the getaway car. 
many people were rightfully outraged. The loss severely dam­aged duke’s hopes of competing for a conference championship. The officiating crew that upheld the play was suspended by the acc for two games for a total of four errors committed on the final play of the game. The first error was not ruling the runner was down. The second error was not calling an illegal block in the back penalty on a miami player during the play. The third error was calling an illegal block in the back on a different miami player during the play but picking that flag up. The fourth error was not calling a penalty on a miami player that left the bench and ran onto the field while the play was still going on. Four errors on one play. The most important play of the game. 
That’s outrageous. 
The second instance hap­pened this past saturday at the end of the michigan state­nebraska game. Trailing 38-33 with 17 seconds left in the game, nebraska quarterback Tommy armstrong threw a 30-yard touchdown pass to receiver brandon reilly. The touchdown gave nebraska a 39-38 lead with only seconds to go. but the offi­cials reviewed the play. multiple camera angles showed reilly ran out of bounds and back into the field of play before catching the ball. if he had been forced out of bounds, the touchdown would stand, but he clearly wasn’t forced out and the correct call should’ve been an incomplete pass. but, shockingly, the offi­cials upheld the ruling, and that was it for the spartans. 
michigan state had an un­defeated record going into the game and was ranked seventh in the country. now the spartans are no. 13, and the loss could destroy any chances they have of making it to the playoff. 
This happened two weeks in a row. is it crazy to think it can happen again sometime this month? or in January? 
and if it does, what will be done about it? 
Contact Michael Ivey at mivey@hcc-nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Fantasy sPorts 

Fantasy sports industry faces trouble in court 
Associated Press 

seaTTle — The new york attorney general’s decision that daily fantasy sports betting sites Fanduel and draftKings are illegal gam­bling operations in his state is a blow to the companies, but the multibillion-dollar in­dustry could have more legal headaches yet to come. 
while the sites have opt­ed not to do business in a handful of states, including washington, where regula­tors have made clear they’re not welcome, they have been up and running in a number of others — like new york — where they’re legally dubious. several states in which the companies are operating have laws similar to new york and washington, while a few, such as Tennessee, arkansas and vermont, have even stricter prohibitions. 
That could pose more risk than the companies or their backers — big media compa­nies and professional sports leagues — have let on. Federal law criminalizes gambling businesses that operate in violation of state law, with penalties that can include prison time, fines and seizure of assets. 
“This creates a real vulner­ability for the industry,” said daniel wallach, a sports and gaming lawyer in Florida. “That statute gives the gov­ernment the power to take it all away. They can shut you down.” 
by his count, daily fantasy sports sites have been operat­ing on shaky legal ground in about a dozen states. 
new york attorney general eric schneiderman on Tuesday ordered draftKings and Fanduel to stop accept­ing bets in the state. he said the companies were offering contests of chance — illegal gambling under state law — and he accused the compa­nies of misleading customers about their chances of win­ning in a barrage of advertise­ments. The companies said wednesday they intend to fight to remain in new york, in court if necessary. 
while supporters have pointed to an exemption congress carved out for fantasy sports in the 2006 unlawful internet gambling enforcement act, that legislation did not override state gambling prohibitions or other federal statutes, in­cluding the illegal gambling business act. That law makes it federally illegal to run a gambling business that oper­ates in violation of state law. whoever conducts, finances, manages, owns or partly owns such a business can be fined or imprisoned for up to five years. 
most states have no laws that specifically address fan­tasy sports but do have gam­bling laws that might dictate whether they’re legal. many permit betting on contests that depend more on skill than chance. others, like new york and washington, ban betting on games materially affected by chance, and still others prohibit betting if chance is a factor at all, no matter how minor. in Florida and arizona, it’s illegal to wager on contests of chance or skill. 
The laws often allow for state-run lotteries, with pro­ceeds feeding budgets, and have exceptions for nonprofit groups that want to run bingo or other games as fundrais­ers, or for taverns trying to drum up business with low-level games such as pull-tabs. in montana, the state lottery runs its own fantasy football contest, with customers at participating taverns allowed to bet up to $100, but the daily sites are banned. 
several states say they are reviewing the legality of dai­ly fantasy sports or whether to regulate them, given their popularity and the vast sums at stake, and the industry says it would welcome what Fanduel’s chief executive called “sensible regulation.” Two states, maryland and Kansas, have expressly per­mitted fantasy sports betting. 
The companies have insist­ed that their contests aren’t “gambling” because their customers engage in games that require more skill than chance, and they reiterated that argument in response to schneiderman’s decision. draftKings said in an emailed statement that the attorney general “did not take any time to understand our business or why daily fantasy sports are clearly a game of skill.” 
“Federal law and 45 of the 50 us states allow skill based gaming,” draftKings’ website says. “daily fantasy sports is a skill game and is not consid­ered gambling.” 
but in a number of states where the sites are operat­ing that distinction is argu­ably incorrect or irrelevant. Tennessee, for example, bars “risking anything of value for profit” when the outcome is “to any degree contingent on chance.” Florida bans wa­gering on games of skill or chance, and a 1991 attorney general’s opinion concluded that fantasy sports betting was prohibited. 
chance is obviously a sig­nificant factor in sports, de­termining whether a player gets injured or has a bad day, whether referees miss an im­portant call that affects play­ers’ stats or simply how the ball bounces. Thus, many ar­gue, it’s also a factor in fantasy sports — especially daily fan­tasy sports, where outcomes are determined over the course of a single day rather than allowing a contestant to strategize over the course of a season. 
draftKings and Fanduel are not operating in arizona, iowa, louisiana, montana, nevada or washington. in washington, the gambling commission specifically con­cluded that fantasy sports wa­gering — whether as a casual, season-long endeavor among friends or as a daily, high-stakes bet placed online — is illegal because the outcome is materially affected by chance. 
a spokeswoman, susan newer, said that was so obvi­ous that the commission nev­er even had to meet to discuss it. “we all just sort of knew,” she said. 
lawmakers around the country expect the fantasy sports industry to make a push for clear legalization. in Florida two state lawmakers said this week they had filed legislation to exempt fantasy sports from the state’s gam­bling laws. but in washington, sen. pam roach said it’s prob­ably going to be years before any such effort might have a chance. roach has proposed legalizing casual, season-long fantasy leagues, not daily on-line betting. 
“we need to put some side­boards around this,” she said. “my bill is to keep the little guy from doing something illegal.” 




nd Cross Country 

Irish to compete at Great Lakes regionals 
By RYAN KLAUS 
sports writer 
notre dame returns to action this weekend at the ncaa great lakes regional. 
The ncaa regional follows the acc championships in Tallahassee, Florida, at the end of october, where the irish women placed third and the men took sixth. 
in notre dame’s last out­ing, the irish women were led once again by senior molly seidel, who picked up her second career acc title with a time of 19:36.2 in the six-kilometer race. Freshman star anna rohrer finished right behind seidel for sec­ond place overall with a time of 20:08.3. 
senior Karen lesiewicz finished 16th in 20:38.7 and freshman rachel dadamio placed 21st, running a time of 20:45.4, to continue notre dame’s strong start to the race, but the irish were harmed by their fifth fin­isher — freshman annie heffernan didn’t cross the line for another minute, fin­ishing 58th. 
on the men’s side, notre dame was led by senior michael clevenger, who fin­ished in 13th place with an eight-kilometer time of 23:58.5. Fellow senior Timothy ball was the next highest finisher for the irish, finishing in 26th with a final time of 24:26.7. Junior Jacob dumford placed 32nd with a time of 24:35.1, while junior chris marco and sophomore Kevin pulliam also came in under the 25-minute mark to round out notre dame’s scoring runners. 
The ncaa regional races will be held at the Thomas Zimmer cross country course in madison, wisconsin. 
irish associate head coach matthew sparks said the women’s squad has high ex­pectations for the weekend. 
“The women’s team is ex­pecting to qualify for the ncaa championships,” sparks said. “in order for the men to qualify, they are go­ing to have to run the race of their season.” 
This will be the second time that the irish have raced at this course in the season. in october, notre dame competed in the wisconsin invitational, which was held on the same course. The irish women took 12th and the men took 27th in the wisconsin invitational, which featured several of the top cross coun­try teams in the nation. 
sparks said running there last month gives the irish an advantage Friday. 
“it certainly helps that we ran there earlier this sea­son,” said sparks. “some of the men have ran the course six or eight times throughout their careers. The women’s team is a younger team, so there isn’t quite as much ex­perience, but it still helps that we had a race there ear­lier this season.” 
The ncaa great lakes regional will be the penul­timate event of the season for the irish, with the ncaa championship scheduled for next weekend in louisville, Kentucky. while the race will be a 6K for the women, just like the acc championship, the men will run in their first 10-kilometer race of the season. 
“you can look at it two ways,” said sparks of Friday’s stage. “you can look at it as added pressure and shell up and become timid as a result, or you can look at it as an opportunity.” 
The ncaa great lakes re­gional is scheduled to begin Friday at noon in madison, wisconsin. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu 




paid adverTisemenT 



men’s tennis 

monaghan, lawson head to indoor championships 


EMILY McCONVILLE | The Observer 

Senior Alex Lawson returns a volley during a 4-3 victory over North Carolina State on April 18 at Eck Tennis Center. Lawson and his partner Quentin Monaghan will compete for a national doubles championship this weekend in Flushing, New York, after qualifying by winning the regional championship at Notre Dame in October. 
in the 32-person singles “The national indoors is other than notre dame good competition, both in 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 

sports writer portion of the tournament, a qualifying tournament and host georgia, the three-georgia and at nationals. 
monaghan is the lone irish based on the regional cham-day bulldog scramble will “we want to represent 
notre dame heads into competitor, and is not among pionships,” sachire said. include representatives from notre dame as best we can its final weekend of the fall the eight seeded players — “Quentin monaghan quali-georgia Tech, harvard and and compete as best we can schedule with two tourna-though he is ranked fifth fied for singles. it’s a really oklahoma. as well.” ments on the docket. a pair nationally in the oracle/ competitive tournament, as regardless of where each The team will close the of irish players, seniors iTa division i singles rank-only 32 of the best players member of the irish will com-first half of its season this Quentin monaghan and alex ings heading into the spring will be competing, and then pete this weekend, however, coming weekend. monaghan lawson, will head to the season. Quentin and alex lawson sachire made it clear that ex-and lawson begin their run usTa/iTa national indoor on the doubles side, will be in the doubles por-pectations do not change. at a pair of national cham­championships, while the monaghan and lawson will tion of the tournament as “The guys need to play pionships on Thursday at rest of the team will travel be taking part in the 20-team well because they won re-their best and compete their the usTa billie Jean King to georgia for the bulldog doubles draw at nationals gionals here.” best,” sachire said. “it’s been national Tennis center in scramble. as a result of their win at Though the rest of the team a pretty darn good week of Flushing meadows-corona 
The usTa/iTa champion-the iTa midwest regional did not qualify to partici-training after a good showing park in new york, while the ship is the biggest tourna-doubles championships, pate at nationals, they will in regionals. we’ve worked rest of the irish will head ment on the fall slate for hosted by notre dame at the get one last tune-up before hard over the two weeks fol-down to georgia for the notre dame every year, as eck Tennis pavilion late last heading into the much more lowing regionals to put our-bulldog scramble starting it draws the top players in month. rigorous spring portion of selves in a good position to Friday. both tournaments the country. since players irish head coach ryan their season as they head to win. we’re just looking at will conclude sunday. need to qualify for it, only a sachire explained how the the bulldog scramble at the this as another opportunity couple irish players will be two players were selected for dan magill Tennis complex for us to improve and to show Contact Hunter McDaniel at competing. the tournament. in athens, georgia. that we belong with the some hmcdani1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



baraka bouts 
conTinued From page 19 
throughout the third round in a back and forth contest. with a bit of blood, rezende took the win on a split decision. 
Jackie  “Jack  attack”  
brebeck  def.  mary  
“swervin” irving  
in  a  split  decision,  

cavanaugh freshman Jackie “Jack attack” brebeck de­feated pangborn senior mary “swervin” irving. 
The fight began with brebeck on the attack in the first round, as she tried to get around irving’s tight blocking and counterattacks to land punches. 
in round two, irving went out on the offensive and man­aged to find the mark on blows to both the head and body of brebeck, although she also took a few punches herself. 
as fatigue began to set in for both fighters, irving kept af­ter brebeck, chasing her with punches while also protecting her own face. however, it was not enough, as brebeck took the win in a split decision. 
lauren “mad dog” mathias def. erin bradford 
a battle of the pasquerillas featured pasquerilla west junior lauren “mad dog” mathias against pasquerilla east sophomore erin bradford. 
although both boxers ini­tially came out punching quickly, they soon slowed, which allowed for a more de­liberate matchup. at the end of the first round and into the second, “mad dog” was finally able to break through bradford’s defense and pum­mel her with blows to the head and body. 
an injury to bradford’s hand paused the second round, but she was patched up and was able to land some hits on mathias at the very end of the second and beginning of the third rounds. 
mathias regained control in the third round and finished with a victory by unanimous decision. 
kaley “let’s Go” Cohen def. ashley “big berd” berding 
breen-phillips junior Kaley “let’s go” cohen fought off-campus law student ashley “big berd” berding. 
cohen started the first round fiercely, racking berding with punches that quickly put her on the defen­sive, and things stayed that way for the rest of the match. although berding was able to land a few sporadic jabs, cohen relentlessly came after her with powerful punches to the head and body. 
before the beginning of the third round, berding was checked multiple times by medical personnel before be­ing cleared to keep fighting. although cohen controlled all three rounds and came away with the unanimous win, berding had a boisterous cheering section backing her. 
Jenna martin def. kathryn “the kicker” thompson 
Kathryn “The Kicker” Thompson, a junior from lewis, went glove to glove with Jenna martin, a sopho­more from breen-phillips, and won the bout via unani­mous decision. 
The fighting started quick­ly and in close proximity, as martin used her height and longer arms to her advan­
tage  to  land  punches  to  
Thompson’s head.  
The  fight  continued  in  

round two with more defense, as the fighters made efforts to evade and block punches. Thompson gained some con­trol toward the end of the round to keep martin out of the middle, and in round three she kept on the offen­sive and even gave martin a bloody nose. 
after first aid officials cleaned the blood up, the box­ers powered through their ex­haustion to push each other up and down the ring, but martin walked away with the victory by unanimous decision. 
maeve “maeverick” donovan def. Joy “no mercy” Choe 
in what turned out to be one of the fiercest and most-anticipated battles of the night, lyons junior maeve “maeverick” donovan best­ed ryan sophomore Joy “no mercy” choe in a display of form and execution. 
The fighters started off round one with strong jabs and blocks on both sides. donovan gained the upper hand, as she pursued choe around the ring and delivered direct punches that found their mark at times. 
as round two started, choe came out looking to turn the bout around and gain the upper hand, but donovan quickly forced her back on the defensive. after several sequences and combinations, choe needed to get cleaned for her bloody nose before the fighting could resume. with just a little bit of time left in the second round, choe re­taliated and landed some key punches on donovan. 
both fighters proceeded into the third round still on the balls of their feet and keeping their form tight. donovan fought more con­servatively by evading and blocking more in the third round rather than maintain­ing her previous chase around the ring. after pausing to wipe blood off faces and gloves, the fighters got in a few more hits each before the end of the match. donovan took the vic­tory in a unanimous decision. 
katelyn “wailin” whelan def.  Catherine levy 
in a unanimous decision, off-campus senior Katelyn “wailin” whelan defeated welsh Family junior catherine levy. 
The fighters fought a delib­erate and strategic first round and landed few but powerful hits. 
in the second round, levy pressured whelan into a cor­ner, but whelan was quickly able to recover and do the same to her opponent. 
The third continued much the same with both fighters waiting for the other to slip up before they made a move. late into the round, whelan took a chance and delivered a series of punches to levy’s body and head to seal the unanimous victory. 
rachel Ganson def. maria “mad dog” noel 
pasquerilla west junior maria “mad dog” noel and pasquerilla east junior rachel ganson took the ring, with ganson taking the split-deci­sion victory. 
ganson started the first round quickly and forced noel to the outside of the ring with powerful punches to the head and body, but she also took some strikes to the head from noel. 
ganson again closed in on noel in the second round, and although she often came close to cornering her opponent, “mad dog” always wormed her way out of danger. 
The boxers fought closely in the third round with noel landing punches to ganson’s face, forcing ganson to grab noel so the referee would pull them apart. ganson came back with a series of power­ful late punches to pull out a split-decision victory. 
imani “Parks and wreck” Parker def. kaitlin abrams 
in the last fight of the night in ring b, lyons senior imani “parks and wreck” parker bested off-campus law stu­dent Kaitlin abrams. 
both girls started on the of­fensive, looking to land hits early on, and abrams man­aged to push parker off to the edge multiple times until the end of the round, when parker gained control of the ring. 
in the second round, abrams landed punches to parker’s head as the under­graduate delivered some to her body. parker soon earned the upper hand and pursued abrams around the ring, landing powerful blows to her opponent’s head. 
in the third round parker continued to follow abrams and did not give her time to recover, delivering punch after punch while abrams attempted to keep space be­tween them. The match con­cluded with a unanimous victory for parker. 
Contact Brenna Moxley at bmoxley01@saintmarys.edu and Victoria Llorens at  vllorens@nd.edu 
m soccer 
conTinued From page 20 
cross from junior forward mark gormley found grad­uate student defender max lachowecki unmarked with only the goalkeeper to beat, but his diving header went just over the crossbar. 
after a slow start to the second half, in which a shot from harrison wide of the post was the strongest goal­scoring opportunity, notre dame scored what proved to be the winning goal. after a shot from senior midfielder patrick hodan deflected off a defender, notre dame benefited from a shaky clearance from sophomore defender Kris reaves, a lucky bounce and the goalscoring instincts of Thomas ueland to finally put something between the sides. clark said ueland has made a habit of com­ing up with goals when the irish need them in his first year. 
“it was really just a scramble in the box,” clark said. “patrick hodan hit a shot and it ricocheted to Thomas ueland and he just did a great job, as he’s done all year, and got a vital goal. he started off the first weekend scoring the over­time goal against indiana, and then he chipped in when we needed him to­day again, just a nice little finish.” 
The demon deacons had chances to equalize, as harrison struck a shot from an angle over the bar, and junior midfielder ian harkes shot just wide from a free kick 30 yards from goal, but the irish held on for the victory. clark said he was impressed by his team’s accomplishment in beating such a talented opponent. 
“They’re a very good team, they were no. 1 in all the polls,” clark said. “so to be able to go into their house, in front of 5,000 peo­ple — a full house — and win was a tremendous feat by this group of players.” 
clark said making it to the acc championship game for the first time is a great accomplishment for the irish, especially after coming close twice before. 
“we’ve been eliminat­ed on penalty kicks in the semifinals the last two years, so this is really nice this year to actually make it to the final,” clark said. “we’ve actually made it as the higher seed, so we’ll play the final in south bend. i really hope we can get a lot of people to come out for that. 
“it’s always nice to win trophies, and this is the one trophy that our seniors haven’t won.” 
clark also said he was im­pressed by the crowd at the game and believed his team played to the occasion. 
“it was a fantastic atmo­sphere: There were 5,000 people at the game,” clark said. “Five thousand peo­ple for a wednesday night game, i think shows the at­traction that notre dame soccer has across the coun­try. There was a wonderful atmosphere, and i think the players enjoyed that. i hope we can repeat the at­mosphere or get something similar on sunday for the final. This team deserves a crowd.” 
The irish will take on seventh-seeded syracuse for the acc championship sunday at 1 p.m. at alumni stadium. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 





hockey 
conTinued From page 20 
big thing for him is just learning how to use it consistently in his game, because he was a different player Friday night to saturday. i thought he was our best player Friday night. he needs to learn how to bring it every night. i keep telling him, [his perfor­mance on faceoffs] has a lot to do with additional ice time, be­cause now he’s killing penalties pretty consistently. he’s a smart player, but he’s also got a little snot to him, he’s got a little grit to him. he’s not the biggest guy, but he’s gritty, and, especially when you’re trying to win a faceoff, it’s almost like a center in football. 
“you gotta have a little grit – you’re not just hiking the ball, you’re also blocking. it’s the same thing for a faceoff.” 
evans also said he thinks his performance on faceoffs this season so far is one of the main reasons he’s been getting more ice time, but he gave credit to his wingers for making his job easier. 
“i think it’s going really well so far with two freshmen [on my line],” evans said. “i think [fresh­man left wing dylan malmquist] has a really unique touch, and he can score from a lot of areas. i think [freshman center andrew] oglevie has a lot of speed. and i think all of us work well togeth­er. They both in juniors scored a lot of goals, so it’s not very hard setting those guys up because it seems like they can finish from anywhere.” 
This weekend will present a unique challenge for the team, despite the fact that the huskies have gotten off to a slow start, according to Jackson. 
“They have a little tradition over the last several years of starting slow, and then they go on a big roll,” he said. “we just have to hope the roll starts later. They have a very talented group of forwards, in my opin­ion. They’re very good in the offensive zone. They’re good on transition. They’ve got a lot of offensive weapons — we haven’t had the greatest track record against them.” 
evans said it is important the team continues its strong start in conference play in order to achieve the squad’s overall goals. 
“To get a big start early in the season is gonna be huge for us,” evans said. “The schedule only gets harder from here, and i think our goal is obviously to get top four [in the hockey east] and to get a bye in the first round. last year, playing that five-overtime game in the first round really took a lot out of us. every point counts in this league, ev­ery team here has a chance to win every night. so i think it’s good that we get every point we can get.” 
The irish will have the chance to grab points from a struggling northeastern team with a pair of games this week. The puck drops at 7:35 p.m. both Thursday and Friday night at compton Family ice arena. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 





baraka bouts 
conTinued From page 20 
and controlled the remainder of the fight. 
maggie long def. shannon “the Glommer” bugos 
by split decision, senior maggie long defeated class­mate shannon “The glommer” bugos. 
The match was fairly even throughout the entirety of the first round, but long, wearing blue, was dominant with her cross in the second round. she landed punch after punch to control the round. 
round three opened up with both girls landing several strong blows. both were vis­ibly exhausted but continued to push themselves until the end. 
Throughout the match, bugos threw many uppercuts and hooks. long was strong with her jab and right, howev­er, and ultimately came away with the victory. 
mary kate “happy Feet” vicenzi def. maria “bringin’ in the” do 
senior mary Kate “happy Feet” vicenzi emerged victo­rious by split decision against senior maria “bringin’ in the” do. 
in the first round, vicenzi landed several strong punch­es, including shots between do’s gloves, while do spent her time chasing vicenzi around the ring. 
vicenzi displayed great footwork in the second round and put herself into favorable positions to land punches, but do responded with one strong flurry and a few shots to vicenzi’s body to end the round. 
in the last round, do held her position strong in the center of the ring. however, vicenzi maintained her energy and circled do while landing sev­eral strong blows to finish the match. 
shannon “the asian shannon” hennessey def. madalyn “mo Chuisle” schulte 
in the battle of fresh­men, shannon “The asian shannon” hennessey of breen phillips defeated madalyn “mo chuisle” schulte of mcglinn by a split decision. 
hennessey, wearing blue, came out strong with a mix of head and body shots. she backed shulte into a corner, but schulte recovered with a strong combination. 
it appeared schulte could not break the defense set up by hennessey in the second round though, as hennessey came out with a strong flurry, but when she let her hands down she received a hard hook from schulte. 
hennessey opened the third round by getting schulte up against the ropes. hennessey landed body shots which eventually pushed to the victory. 
serena Chan def. melanie Justice 
in a split decision, senior serena chan of cavanaugh defeated freshman melanie Justice of welsh Family. 
with an up-tempo start, the two had many exchanges in the center of the ring. chan opened with a nice combi­nation, but Justice had a few counter jabs to end the first round. 
The second round saw a lot of back and forth action be­tween the two as chan contin­ued the pressure, but Justice responded with hooks to the jaw. 
Justice was the aggressor to start off round three, but chan responded by hitting Justice with the hook and a few combinations. 
There was a small exchange to end a slower-paced final round, and chan emerged victorious. 
bernie “Feel the bern” Jordan def. anna schierl 
senior bernie “Feel the bern” Jordan overpowered sophomore anna schierl of mcglinn by split decision. 
Jordan, wearing gold, opened the match by land­ing several hooks to schierl’s body. schierl used the jab to defend herself, but Jordan ended the round with multiple power shots. 
The second round started with schierl backing Jordan up against the ropes. schierl landed a strong combination of punches, but Jordan re­sponded with hooks to the jaw and a combination of her own to back schierl into a corner to end the round. 
schierl backed Jordan into a corner to start off the final round while exchanging quick jabs. Jordan connected a few more times, but a winner was not clear at the end of the round until the referee raised Jordan’s hand in triumph. 
shannon martin def. sophia hooper 
by unanimous decision, se­nior shannon martin bested junior sophia hooper of breen phillips. 
martin opened the match with ten consecutive quick jabs. hooper spent the round defending herself and trying to find a way inside, but was unsuccessful. 
in a slow second round, hooper landed several body shots on martin. The round ended with martin landing a jab and a cross to hooper’s head. 
To start the third round, martin landed a flurry of blows to push hooper back. martin controlled the ring in the third round, landing jabs from the outside and hooks on the inside, and was rewarded with the win. 
maria aranguren def. 
mackenzie o’brien 
sophomore maria aranguran of welsh Family was winner by a referee stop­page against junior mackenzie o’brien of mcglinn. 
both boxers were entangled and bouncing around the ring from the start of the match. aranguran, wearing blue, backed o’brien into a cor­ner and followed it up by two strong rights. 
o’brien came out with a strong combination but was knocked down by a strong right hook to the jaw from aranguran. o’brien recovered by backing arangulan into the ropes. 
both boxers landed vicious combinations, but o’brien dropped her hands so the ref­erees stopped the round. 
after an eight second count, the referee decided to end the match in favor of aranguran. 
emily laurent def. mari “make them sorry” tumminello 
by split decision, senior emily laurent of badin over­powered junior mari “make Them sorry” Tumminello of welsh Family. 
with a very defensive open­ing, both boxers looked to size up the other to start the bout. laurent broke the stalemate with a stiff right to Tumminello’s head. Tumminello answered back with several combinations of punches to both the body and the head. 
Tumminello controlled the ring for most of the second round. she pushed laurent around the ring, but, by the end of the round, laurent managed to launch a series of close-range exchanges. 
laurent dominated to open the third round, keeping Tumminello at bay with a se­ries of jabs and hooks. laurent used her height advantage, and Tuminello was unable to land her punches, resulting in laurent winning the match. 
leana Jonassaint def. kerstin “t rex” strom 
senior leana Jonassaint of ryan defeated graduate stu­dent Kerstin “T rex” strom by split decision. 
strom started off with a set of vicious uppercuts to the body of Jonassaint to get her against the ropes and then pinned her in the corner with a set of hard hooks. Jonassaint responded with a strong com­bination, and the round ended with both fighters entangled in the middle of the ring. 
in round two, neither fighter managed to gain the upper-hand. Jonassaint stood her ground and did not back down to strom in the third round, resulting in the split decision in her favor. 
kathryn “trodaire” kehoe def. mary “little Patriot” haley 
in a split decision, sopho­more Kathryn “Trodaire” Kehoe of lewis toppled senior mary “little patriot” haley. 
Kehoe threw uppercuts to the head while haley depend­ed on quick jabs to the body. The first round ended with Kehoe in control. 
in a tight second round, Kehoe continued with jabs to the head, while martin used hooks to the body. 
martin defended herself by keeping her hands up for the start of round three, but Kehoe landed a strong punch to martin’s face at the end of the match. This led to Kehoe being named as the winner. 
Jessica “the wrapper” wilson def. renee “rage Cage” Griffin 
The bouts in ring b com­menced when Farley junior renee “rage cage” griffin fought ryan sophomore Jessica “The wrapper” wilson. 
The round started quickly as griffin used her height to her advantage and pressured wilson into a corner. wilson began aiming for griffin’s body to great effect, especial­ly in the second round when “The wrapper” began to pum­mel griffin’s body, forcing her onto the defensive. griffin came back reinvigorated in the third round and racked wilson with blows to the head, but she soon tired and wilson jumped on the opportunity to pummel griffin with multiple final punches to secure the victory by split decision. 
Editor’s Note: Griffin is a Sports Writer for The Observer. 
Casey “burn the boats” Gelchion def. marissa kivi 
badin junior casey “burn the boats” gelchion defeated lewis freshman marissa Kivi in a split decision. 
The match began with Kivi creeping close and pursuing gelchion across the ring step by step. rounds one and two were similar with Kivi initi­ating attacks and gelchion defending and countering in response. 
in round three, Kivi land­ed some blows to the head. gelchion pushed Kivi back as she delivered punches to Kivi’s body. Towards the end of the round, gelchion delivered a blow to Kivi’s face, drawing blood from Kivi’s nose. The round earned gelchion the victory in a split decision. 
Jenna “navi” ivan def. melissa “tko” ricker 
in a split decision, ryan se­nior Jenna “navi” ivan defeat­ed off-campus senior melissa “TKo” ricker. 
From the start, both boxers exchanged blows and fought in close quarters with the ref­eree having to separate them on multiple occasions. 
in the second round, ricker used her height and renewed energy to pressure ivan into a corner, but ivan was able to limit the damage. 
The third round provided a tightly-contested, high-en­ergy finish to the fight. ivan went for body shots, while ricker attempted to land punches to ivan’s head. in the end, ivan won the match by split decision. 
“C’mon” eileen mctigue def. heather “light as a Feather” schloss 
badin junior eileen mcTigue bested welsh Family sopho­more heather schloss by unanimous decision. mcTigue jumped right into the first round to put schloss on the defensive, but schloss quick­ly recovered and was able to land punches to mcTigue’s head and body. 
The two fighters danced across the ring in round two, both taking and giving a beat­ing with strong jabs. 
immediately after the start of the third round, schloss racked her opponent, but she soon tired and mcTigue came back with a vigor that sealed her unanimous victory. 
Caroline skulski def. kiley Cox 
lewis junior caroline skulski went head to head with badin senior Kiley cox and emerged victorious by split decision. 
cox entered the ring in the first round steady and focused with a quick series of one-two punches that kept skulski on her toes. 
The second round proved challenging for cox, as she had headgear trouble skulski was able to take advantage of, landing shots to cox’s head. in the third round, both fight­ers went all in and let down their defense to get in as many punches as they could. 
skulski went for the body and cox the head to end the match with a split decision in skulski’s favor. 
marcela abud bertini de rezende def. marissa Campili 
breen-phillips freshman marcela abud bertini de rezende pulled out a split de­cision win over pasquerilla east sophomore marissa campili. 
on her toes, campili started quickly and managed to land a few shots on her opponent, but abud bertini de rezende was ready and ducked and blocked away from most of the swings. campili controlled round one and only allowed rezende to get in a few counterattacks. 
however, the freshman stepped up on the offensive in the second round. she forced campili into a corner and applied enough pres­sure to knock her opponent down. not to let that slow her, campili popped back up and renewed her offensive efforts at the end of the round. 
with energy that matched the first round in inten­sity, both boxers battled 
see baraKa bouTs PaGe 16 


The observer | thursday, november 12, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
men’s soCCer | nd 1, waKe ForesT 0 
Football 

Fuller says he will return 
irish advance to 

for senior season 
acc championship 
Observer Staff Report 
a group of irish players will run out of the tunnel at notre dame stadium just once more for saturday’s home finale, but will Fuller said it won’t be the last time for him. 
The junior receiver said wednesday he plans on returning to play his senior season at notre dame next year. 
“yes. yes,” Fuller said to report­ers when asked if he will definitely be back in 2016. 
“i need to graduate. That is what i came here for,” he said. 
he also added that he had not told teammates or coaches of his plan. 
“i haven’t talked about it at all,” he said. 
per nFl rules, underclassmen who have not used up their col­lege eligibility but are three years out of high school may enter the league’s draft in april, with the nFl’s approval. 
The receiver, who was named to the 2015 biletnikoff award watch list, had been projected as a high 2016 draft pick on several mock boards as a result of his past two standout seasons. 

if Fuller does change his mind, he has until Jan. 15 to do so, the 

hoCkey 

nd to face hockey east foe 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
after a weekend split with minnesota, no. 18 notre dame returns to the ice Thursday when it hosts northeastern. 
notre dame (4-2-2, 2-0-0 hockey east) will resume con­ference play this weekend with a two-game homestand against the huskies (1-7-1, 0-3-1), whose only win up to this point in the season came at home against colgate in their season opener oct. 10. 
with a Thursday game this week, the irish are in the midst of a four-game stretch in just eight days, something irish head coach Jeff Jackson said makes this week particularly challeng­ing for his team. 
“it’s tough when you get short work weeks, because obviously you have to consider the de­mands of school,” Jackson said. “i worry not so much about the physical fatigue, because these guys are young, they’re athletes, so it’s not so much physical as it is mental. This weekend we worry a little bit about the guys not being all-engaged just because they’re a little spent when they come to the rink, and now we’ve got two school days of hockey instead of just one.” 
in order to keep his team en­gaged when the puck drops, Jackson said he is open to trying a number of things. 
“we try different things, as far as our warmup approach, in discussions with the leadership group,” he said. “The older guys usually have a better idea of how to manage their time, but it’s about making sure the younger guys can handle it.” 
sophomore Jake evans, com­ing off a game against minnesota last Friday in which he matched his career high with three as­sists, has recently made the tran­sition from right wing to center full time, something Jackson said he has been following close­ly and will continue to monitor this weekend. 
“we recruited him because of that ability,” Jackson said. “The 
see hocKey PaGe 18 

deadline by which all underclass players must declare their inten­tions to enter the upcoming draft. 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
after falling in semifinal penalty shootouts the past two years, no. 9 notre dame reached the acc champi­onship game for the first time, beating no. 1 wake Forest on wednesday night, 1-0, thanks to a second-half goal from freshman forward Thomas ueland. 
irish head coach bobby clark said his team’s cohe­sion allowed notre dame (11-3-5, 4-2-2 acc) to come through on such an im­portant stage, when teams typically play tight games, against a highly-rated opposition. 
“you always know that there’s never a lot in big games,” clark said. “it’s al­ways difficult to know if you can do it. it’s often just lit­tle things — a special goal, a special save. i think to­night it was just a very good team performance. people who watched would have to agree, i think.” 
after a scrappy start to the game with some early fouls, wake Forest (15-2-2, 6-0-2) twice came close to an early breakthrough, but notre dame junior goal­keeper chris hubbard, with the help of the wood­work, kept the sides level. Freshman midfielder and acc offensive player of the year Jack harrison whipped in a free kick from the cor­ner of the box, which was met by the head of sopho­more midfielder Jon bakero. bakero, however, couldn’t keep his header down and it cannoned back off the crossbar. Fewer than five minutes later, bakero slid a pass through the entire notre dame defense and di­rectly into the path of junior midfielder Jacori hayes, but hubbard extended an arm to tip the ball onto the crossbar again. 
The best irish chance of the first half came with only 20 seconds left in the period. a 
see m soccer PaGe 16 
baraka bouts 

Final round of Baraka Bouts crowns champions 
By BRENNA MOXLEY and VICTORIA LLORENS 
sports writers 
Grace Choe def. kelly “i don’t think you’re ready for this Jelly” smith 
senior grace choe of ryan overpowered junior Kelly “i don’t think you’re ready for this Jelly” smith of lyons by unanimous decision. 
in the first round, the match was fairly even, as both competitors matched each other blow for blow. 
choe, wearing blue, came out ready to fight in the second round, though. she mixed jabs and hooks to land a shot on smith’s head. however, smith remained valiant, despite being no­ticeably exhausted by the end of the round. 
smith threw the first jab of the third round, but eventually choe once again backed her into the corners 
see baraKa bouTs PaGe 19 





