tHe inDepenDent to UncoveR newspapeR seRvinG tHe tRUtH notRe Dame anD anD RepoRt saint maRY’s it accURatelY 

volUme 48, issUe 108 | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, 2015 | nDsmcobseRveR.com 
University holds memorial 
Fr. Pete McCormick presides over Lisa Yang’s Mass, family in attendance 
By KAYLA MULLEN and EMILY McCONVILLE 
associate news editors 
notre Dame students and staff filled the basilica of the sacred Heart on tuesday evening to hon­or senior lisa Yang with a memori­al mass. Yang’s parents and priests from the congregation of Holy cross were also in attendance. 
Yang, a native of Herndon, virginia, died march 3 at memorial Hospital in south bend, after a sui­cide attempt the previous week. 
Readings were done by erin Hoffmann Harding, vice president of student affairs, and Hannah knochelmann, a resident assistant in mcGlinn Hall, where Yang had been a resident. william kennedy delivered the petitions. 
Fr. pete mccormick, director of campus ministry, gave the hom­ily. Yang’s death has been difficult 

see memoRial PAGE 5 



sexual assault on campus 

Observer Staff Report 
notre Dame security police (nDsp) alerted students via email tuesday to a report of sex­ual assault that took place in the early morning hours Friday in a men’s residence hall on north Quad. 
the report was made to a 

University  official,  the  email  
said.  
Quoting  from  “du  lac:  a  

Guide to student life,” the email defined consent as a clearly communicated agreement, which cannot be inferred from 
see assaUlt PAGE 5 




smc celebrates  New program announced 
job internships and practice cachey said the semester-
By KATIE GALIOTO 

annunciation 
news writer service learning while studying long program will normally be abroad. comprised of five courses, in-
the Rome Global Gateway, “the goal of the program is to cluding an elective at one of the 
a sector of notre Dame offer to highly motivated notre universities working with the 
international, will launch the Dame undergraduate schol-Rome Global Gateway, a foreign 
Rome international scholars ars the opportunity for a life-language course and the re­
program in the spring of 2016. transforming education abroad quired on-site, “all Roads lead 
this program will facilitate a experience in the eternal city,” to Rome” course. the inter-
select group of undergraduate theodore cachey, inaugural national scholars’ remaining 
students to conduct indepen-academic director of the Rome 
dent research, participate in Global Gateway, said. see Rome PAGE 5 


By MARTHA REILLY 
news writer 
a 24-hour adoration for the Feast of the annunciation be­gan last night in Holy spirit chapel of le mans Hall at saint mary’s and will contin­ue until 6 p.m. this evening. 
Freshman Julie weilbaker engendered this event and said  students from notre Dame and Holy cross are wel­come to join in prayer to com­memorate the annunciation. 
“God truly is so good to us and gives mary to each of us to be the mother of us all,” 
see aDoRation PAGE 5 


couple endows rector position in residence hall 
Observer Staff Report 

alumnus James corgel and his wife, christine, gifted $1 million to endow the rec­tor position in Dillon Hall on tuesday, a University press release said. this gift represents the first en­dowed rector position in a new initiative launched by the University to endow all rector positions in the 29 residence halls, the press re­lease said. 
the endowment will pro­vide for a portion of the rec­tor’s salary, which will allow the University to provide more funds to each hall for events and programs, the press release said. 
“the residence hall com­munity has always been central to a notre Dame un­dergraduate education, and the rector is a crucial figure in building that communi­ty,” University president Fr. John Jenkins said. 
“through their gift, Jim and chris support the con­tinuation of an educational ideal at notre Dame that 
see Dillon PAGE 5 


news PAGE 3 viewpoint PAGE 6 scene PAGE 9 Football PAGE 16 women’s basketball PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre Dame, in 46556 024 south Dining Hall, notre Dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Greg Hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                  Jack Rooney                            alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary Green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin Asst. Managing Editor: lesley stevenson 
News Editor: margaret Hynds Viewpoint Editor: tabitha Ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 

Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: Haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin Rice Multimedia Editor: brian lach Online Editor: michael Yu Advertising Manager: elaine Yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina Gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu wlin4@nd.edu, lsteven1@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

If you could meet any woman in history, who would it be? 

Rachel Wallace 
junior 
Farley Hall 
“michelle obama.” 
Rachel Ruddick 
senior 
walsh Hall 
“Rosa parks.” 
Daphne Reynolds 
junior 
pangborn Hall 
“benazir bhutto.” 


Brendan Perry 
senior 
off-campus 
“eleanor Roosevelt.” 
Brian Mukhaya 
sophomore 
Duncan Hall 
“Queen victoria.” 
Amanda Ball 
freshman 
walsh Hall 
“mother theresa.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

the observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the University of notre 
Dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. the observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
the news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of the observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 

the observer (Usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
the observer is published at: 
024 south Dining Hall 
notre Dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre Dame and additional mailing offices 
postmasteR 
send address corrections to: 
the observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south Dining hall 
notre Dame, in 46556-077 
the observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Rebecca o’neil Hunter mcDaniel 
Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

andrea vale Renee Griffin selena ponio Zach klonsinski ben padanilam 
Graphics emily Danaher Scene Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday caelin miltko 
Photo 

michael Yu Viewpoint “Is Immigration Art Battle LGBT Retreat Holy Half Marathon Solemn Mass austin taliaferro 
Reform Dead?” LaFortune Student Off campus Campus-wide Basilica of the Sacred LaFortune Ballroom Center All day 9 a.m. - 12 p.m. Heart 7 p.m. - 8 p.m. All day PRISM ND student-Benefits the South 10 a.m. - 11 a.m. 
Corrections 

Participate in dialogue. Student competition. organized retreat. Bend community. Worship service. 
the observer regards itself as a professional publication and 

“Two Priests and a “The BIble, Narrative Baseball Film: Inherent Vice Women’s Tennis 
strives for the highest standards 
Nun Walk into a Bar” and Modernity” Eck Baseball Stadium DeBartolo Performing Courtney Tennis 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Legends of Notre McKenna Hall 6:05 p.m. - 8:05 p.m. Arts Center Center 
however, recognize that we will make 
Dame All day The Irish take on 6:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. 12 p.m. - 2 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7 p.m.- 8 p.m. Interdisciplinary Virginia. Open to the public. Free admission and 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Panel discussion. conference. open to the public. 
we can correct our error. 



Details of smc commencement released 
By KELLY KONYA 
senior news writer 
saint mary’s 168th com­mencement ceremony will take place on le mans Green in front of the iconic le mans Hall on saturday, may 16, to celebrate the graduation of approximately 350 students who constitute the class of 2015. this year’s gradu­ates herald from 30 states, one United states territory and five countries besides the United states — including canada, china, mexico, Rwanda and singapore. 
at the ceremony, sr. Rosemary connelly, will deliver the com­mencement speech. connelly and terri kosik will receive hon­orary degrees from the college. the 2015 valedictorian, music major sarah miller, will also ad­dress her graduating class. 
according to a college press release, president carol ann mooney said both recipients of the honorary degrees are wom­en who have devoted over 40 years of service to their respec­tive ministries, offering educa­tion and support to children and adults. 
“at saint mary’s we challenge our students to promote human dignity throughout their lives,” mooney said. “we are delight­ed to honor these exceptional women for dedicating their lives to some of our most vulnerable citizens.” 
connelly, who is a member of the Religious sisters of mercy, was named administrator of misericordia Home in chicago in 1969 and is now executive director, as stated in the press release. misericordia Home provides programs, service and residential care to more than 600 children and adults with is to ensure that each person is encouraged to achieve his or her greatest potential through edu­cational, spiritual, vocational or recreational outlets. according to the press release, the college wishes to recognize connelly for playing an integral role in misericordia Home’s develop­ment into a loving, challenging and dignified environment to its residents. 
developmental  and  physical  
disabilities.  
the  organization’s  mission  

connelly has received nu­merous awards and honors throughout the years, including seven honorary doctorate de­grees from notre Dame, loyola University, Depaul University, lewis University, marquette University, Dominican University and lewis University. 
kosik also provides dedicated service to a ministry ensuring educational opportunities to children at both notre Dame and saint mary’s — the early childhood Development center (ecDc). 
the ecDc program serves children ages two through kin­dergarten during the school year and children through age 10 in their summer day camp program, according to the press release. 
During her 41 years with the ecDc, kosik dedicated herself to promoting quality programs for children, their parents and teachers throughout indiana. kosik said the ecDc fits per­fectly within the saint mary’s mission, particularly in terms of religious sensibility and social responsibility. 
“[at the ecDc,] we provide unconditional love and ac­ceptance. our classrooms are positive and full of joyful 

paiD aDveRtisement 

interactions and support,” kosik said. “ages 0-5 are the forma­tive years in brain development, social/emotional development and cognitive skills. so it is im­portant for children of all races, ethnicities and faiths to to have high-quality experiences with dedicated and skilled profes­sionals. and that’s what we de­liver at the ecDc and have been doing for 40-plus years.” 
kosik also teaches a course at saint mary’s each fall semester that pertains to the early child­hood minor, as well as, graduate and undergraduate courses at other institutions. 
“what i love most about my job is supporting the develop­ment and learning of young children, but almost equally, i love supporting the learning and development of pre-service teachers as they cherish young children and learn the impor­tant non-cognitive skills in chil­dren’s lives — confidence, love of learning, enthusiasm, empa­thy,” she said. 
kosik said she especially en­joys the opportunity to provide future educators with hands on experience. 
“we offer for all the saint mary’s students from various majors … the real-life experi­ence that takes what they are reading and hearing from their faculty members in class,” kosik said. “they have a chance to come into the environment and observe children learning and communicating.” 
kosik said she was overjoyed upon learning she would receive an honorary degree from the college this may. 
“i must say that i was utterly surprised and speechless, and so honored that i would be con­sidered yet alone selected for such a prestigious award from saint mary’s, where i’ve spent 41 years on the campus,” kosik said. “i started at [age] 21 when the ecDc was tiny, and i had these wonderful people men­toring, coaching and support­ing me. carol ann mooney’s children came to ecDc and so did my children and then my granddaughter. 
senior audrey kiefer said she is all the more excited for the commencement ceremony now that these two women will be honored. 
“as seniors, we’re all readying to go out and use all that saint mary’s had taught us in order to change the world,” kiefer said. “Here are two prime examples of women who have dedicated their lives to servicing oth­ers and providing aid where its needed. 
“i couldn’t think of two bet­ter people to be honored at our commencement, and i’m really looking forward to it.” 
Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya@saintmarys.edu 

alumnus recalls selma march 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
associate news editor 

in march of 1965, to protest the lack of voting rights for african american citizens and violence against civil rights activists, the southern christian leadership conference (sclc) planned a 54-mile march from selma to montgomery to talk to alabama Governor George wallace. wallace promised he would pre­vent the demonstrators from marching, but despite his warn­ings, they set off from selma on march 7, 1965. 
they made it to the edmund pettus bridge before they met state troopers equipped with nightsticks and tear gas. the en­suing violence, which became known as bloody sunday, was broadcast on national television and prompted a condemnation of the brutality from then president lyndon b. Johnson. 
two days later, another march began, this time led by martin luther king, Jr. the sclc had asked for a court order prevent­ing the the police from stopping the march, but since it had not yet gone through, the marchers turned back at the bridge. that night, a Unitarian Universalist minister by the name of James Reeb was beaten by members of the ku klux klan. He died two days later. 
over the next two weeks, dem­onstrations took place across the country, and Johnson presented a voting rights bill to congress. soon after, a judge ruled that the marchers had a First amendment right to demonstrate. Johnson federalized the national Guard and sent troops to alabama to oversee a final march. 
on march 21, 300 people set off from selma, protected by the national Guard and media atten­tion. over the next four days, their numbers grew, and by the time they reached montgomery on march 25 — 50 years ago today — they were 25,000 strong. 
among them was Jim muller, class of 1965, a senior pre-med student at notre Dame. 
muller, an indianapolis na­tive, had not been involved in the civil Rights movement, but vot­ing rights for african americans was a prominent issue at notre Dame. Few black students attend­ed the University, but University president emeritus Fr. theodore Hesburgh was on the U.s. civil Rights commission, and he had imparted his vision of equality on many of his students. 
muller said Reeb’s murder spurred him to action. 
“we were all horrified that a minister would be beaten to death just because he was helping a mi­nority group get voting rights,” muller said. “so a call went out from the march for people to join them, and that’s what i heard.” 
muller took a bus from south bend to indianapolis, where he, his brother John, class of 1969, and his sister Joanne, a student at maryville catholic college, headed to the Greyhound bus station. there, they received a crash course on nonviolent civil disobedience. 
the bus traveled through the night, arriving at the city of st. Jude on the outskirts of montgomery on march 25. 
thousands of people filled the city of st. Jude’s athletic field, preparing for the final march to the governor’s mansion. national guardsmen ringed the edges. muller said in spite of the national Guard’s protective presence and the media’s close coverage, he did not feel entirely safe. 
“i felt there was some risk in­volved, but people do many things with risk when there’s a benefit to doing it,” he said. “so i accepted that risk, but i was a little afraid.” 
it helped, muller said, to see king a ways away, conferring with the other march leaders. He also saw a group of young african american girls, unafraid, singing “ain’t scared of Your Jails.” 
“i thought, if those girls are doing this, then i shouldn’t be afraid,” he said. “that helped me as we walked down the street that day with lines of guardsmen with guns.” 
the crowd marched from the field to the state capitol build­ing, where king gave his “How long, not long” speech. they then marched to the governor’s mansion to deliver a petition to alabama Governor George wallace. 
after that, the muller siblings boarded a bus, and Jim muller was back at notre Dame by the morning of march 26. 
muller had no further in­volvement in the civil Rights movement after that last leg of the final selma march. even so, muller said the same concern for social justice that led him to board the bus to selma motivat­ed him years later to campaign against nuclear war — and win a nobel peace prize. 
muller had studied Russian at notre Dame, and at John Hopkins medical school, he became more aware of the possibility of nuclear war between the United states and the soviet Union. in 1980, he and several other soviet and american doctors formed the international physicians for the prevention of nuclear war, which worked to educate governments and the public about the impact of a nuclear war. 
“if one side loses 10 million people and the other side loses 20 million, then the side that loses 10 million is the winner,” muller said. “that was policy, that if nec­essary, we would fight a nuclear war and win it. the way the medi­cal story came into play was, we tried to help people by helping the 
see selma PAGE 5 paiD aDveRtisement 




Assault 
continUeD FRom paGe 1 
“silence,passivity or lack of ac­tive resistance” or given if a per­son is intoxicated. 
“anyone initiating any kind of sexual contact with another per­son must seek consent and not engage in sexual contact unless consent is given,” the email said. 
Further quoting du lac, the 
Memorial 
continUeD FRom paGe 1 
to grasp, mccormick said. 
“we ponder this event, the death of someone with such love and compassion for others, who suffered so greatly on the inside,” mccormick said. “we are anxious, too, by the fact that lisa is not the only one to feel this way. we ask ourselves how is it that we can deal with this in the future.” 
mccormick thanked the Yangs for their openness with the notre Dame community. 
“the notre Dame family owes the Yangs a great debt, because if it were not for you, for your will­ingness to allow us to be so hon­est about what it is, we would not be able to help those who feel the same way, who feel that they are alone …  who feel that it is impos­sible for anyone else to experience this type of pain,” mccormick 
Selma 
continUeD FRom paGe 3 
public and the pentagon plan­ners understand just what 10 mil­lion deaths would look like.” 
the organization, and muller through it, won the 1985 peace prize. over the next several de­cades, muller also started voices of 
Rome 
continUeD FRom paGe 1 
two courses will consist of an independent research project supervised by a notre Dame faculty member and an expe­riential learning activity, usu­ally involving service or an internship. 
according to notre Dame international’s website, the Rome Global Gateway is lo­cated one block away from the colosseum and serves as an ac­ademic and cultural center for the University in italy. although notre Dame faculty will teach a majority of classes, elective courses can be taken at several of the universities in Rome, in­cluding Roma tre University, John cabot University, pontifical Gregorial University and sapenzia University of Rome. 
students in the international scholars program will spend the spring semester of their ju­nior year in Rome and receive funding to stay for up to six weeks in the summer. 
“i’m excited by the prospect that some of notre Dame’s most email said sexual miscon­duct is inconsistent with the University’s values, and every­one in the community is re­sponsible for maintaining a safe environment. 

“on college campuses, per­petrators are more likely to as­sault an acquaintance than a stranger,” the email read. “being aware of your own safety and watching out for your friends are 
said. 
“Her courage, her beauty and the way in which she lived her life now serve as a reminder to us to be on the look out for people who struggle with such pain,” he said. “we know that lisa was unwilling to share that pain that she felt with her friends, her family and those closest to her because she didn’t want to be seen as a burden.” 
mccormick encouraged stu­dents to reach out to one another. 
“our great sorrow on this night is that we came to know her strug­gle too late,” he said. “while we cannot redo the past, we can move forward with greater wisdom, un­derstanding and hope. 
“we hope that lisa’s death might be an opportunity to help others understand that those deal­ing with depression should not be completely alone, but instead, for students to reach out to others.” 
one candle in the darkness only allows one to see the rough 
Faith, a catholic discussion group born from outrage over priest sex­ual abuse scandals. a cardiologist, muller also started a company, infraredx, which manufacturers spectrometry systems to identify plaques that might cause heart attacks. 
“i have chosen to help with other large social problems,” he said. “the way i’ve put it, i’ve had 
capable students will be direct­ly engaging the incredible intel­lectual, cultural and spiritual opportunities that Rome offers according to their individual academic aims and ambitions,” cachey said. “i’m anxious to see what they come up with.” 
cachey said the application process for next year’s Rome international scholars program is in progress from now until april 17. anywhere from eight to ten applicants will be chosen to participate in the program’s pilot year. 
“students in the new inter­national scholars program will be selected from across the disciplines and departments,” cachey said. “i would stress that this is a special program that is specifically designed for self-motivated students who would value the opportunity to under­take independent research dur­ing the spring semester of their junior year that would ideally lead to senior thesis projects or the development of post-gradu­ate research.” 
according to cachey, the pro­gram was made possible by a do­nation from the Ravarino Family endowment for excellence in important steps you can take to reduce the risk of sexual assault. 
“the perpetrator, not the survivor, is responsible for any instance of sexual assault. nothing a survivor does or does not do is an excuse for sexual assault.” 
information about sexual as­sault and resources for survivors can be found at ndsp.nd.edu and csap.nd.edu 
image, mccormick said, but many candles together — such as the Grotto candles students arranged in Yang’s name the night she died 
— radiate brightly enough to illu­minate the whole. 
“the community that looks out for one another, motivated by compassion, will provide hope and clarity in even the darkest places,” mccormick said. 
“my brothers and sisters, let not lisa’s passing simply be a moment of sadness, or a celebration of life,” he said. 
“that would be too one-dimen­sional. but instead, let it be a mo­ment … a moment in time where we see life as the precious gift it is. a moment in time where we com­mit to doing what we can to let people know that they are loved.” 
Contact Kayla Mullen at  
kmullen2@nd.edu and  
Emily McConville at  
emcconv1@nd.edu 
the privilege of working against nuclear war, child abuse by priests and heart attacks. those targets are things that are good to work against, and they’re motivating, and i’ve had the privilege of work­ing with a lot of good people on those projects.” 
Contact Emily McConville at  
emcconv1@nd.edu 
italian studies. over the past 
year, a steering committee co-
chaired by elizabeth mazurek, 
associate professor of classics, 
and christian moevs, associate 
professor of italian, designed 
this new opportunity for notre 
Dame undergraduate students. 
cachey said the Rome 
international scholars program 
advances the University’s mis­
sion by providing leadership 
opportunities to undergraduate 
students and advancing notre 
Dame’s global reputation. 
“the program advances the 
University’s mission by pur­
suing its catholic mission,” 
cachey said. “through the ser­
vice and engagement opportu­
nities offered by the program 
in Rome, home of the Holy see, 
students will be exposed to the 
challenges of contemporary so­
cial and political life in Rome, 
including immigration, pov­
erty, ecological and urban cul­
tural crises.” 
to learn more about the Rome 
international scholars program 
or to apply visit international. 
nd.edu 
Contact Katie Galioto at 
kgalioto@nd.edu 
Adoration 
continUeD FRom paGe 1 
weilbaker said. “this is a chance for us to reciprocate that gift and invite the other campuses to come to Jesus here at saint mary’s. i always love to be able to celebrate the feast with as many people as possible.” 
weilbaker said annunciation is the highest marian feast day, for it cel­ebrates mary’s acceptance of God’s plan to give her a son. 
“Human history centers around this moment when God became man, out of pure love for us,” weilbaker said. “our only response can be to adore Him and love Him as best we can. Jesus is con­stantly calling to us, waiting for us to give Him even the slightest glance and return the love that He gives to us every moment of our lives.” 
the adoration itself will al­low students to do just that, as weilbaker said it involves a variety of prayers and songs in honor of mary. according to weilbaker, each hour will begin with a different prayer, including the four mysteries of the rosary, litanies to mary and meditations. 
“we wanted to incorporate some of our Holy cross tradi­tions by including one of the meditations written by Fr. basil moreau and a few poems to the blessed virgin writ­ten by sr. madeleva [wolff],” weilbaker said. “when we celebrate the annunciation and honor mary, she gives that glory to God, and it is magnified.” 
weilbaker said her past 
Dillon 
continUeD FRom paGe 1 
joins moral and spiritual growth with intellectual learning in the residence hall and the classroom.” 
the current rector of Dillon Hall is Fr. paul Doyle, who has served in this position since 1997, according to the press release. 
“the rector role at notre Dame is unique within high­er education,” erin Hoffmann Harding, vice president of student affairs, said. “while they have other important responsibilities, rectors serve first and foremost as pastors of our cherished residential communities ... 
“this wonderfully gener­ous gift from Jim and chris is a powerful affirmation of the importance of this role to notre Dame’s undergraduate education.” 
James corgel ‘73 earned his b.a. and mba from notre Dame and participated in the irish Guard while he was an undergraduate, the press release said. corgel retired from ibm in 2013, where he was a member of the se­nior management group, the participation in 24-hour adorations at her home par­ish, along with the guidance of the Holy spirit, led her to suggest this idea to campus ministry. she encourages peers who wish to set up sim­ilar events to pray for mary’s intercession and to remain persistent. 

“the idea just kind of came to me as i was walking out of the chapel,” weilbaker said. “it seemed like such a simple but profound way to honor our lady, the patroness of our school. i just went to our chaplain Fr. John pearson and mentioned the idea to him, and he was very will­ing to help me as much as possible to make sure that it happened.” 
pearson said he encour­ages students to become in­volved with campus ministry so they can share their ideas with faith. 
“campus ministry is open to proposals that are appro­priate and that we have the resources to meet,” pearson said. “students proposed this opportunity and worked hard to make it happen.” 
He said students should at­tend the 24-hour adoration to celebrate mary’s commit­ment to God and to relate to her on a spiritual level. 
“it took the assent of a woman even younger than our students to make possi­ble the incarnation,” pearson said. “that makes it a feast especially attractive to young women growing in their faith.” 
Contact Martha Reilly at  mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 
press release said. He cur­rently serves as chair of the University’s Undergraduate advisory council and has previously served on the Graduate studies and Research advisory council, the press release said. He also received the 2006 Distinguished alumnus award, according to the press release. 
His wife, christine corgel, earned her b.a. from michigan state University and served in a variety of ex­ecutive positions at ibm, the press release said. she now serves on the board of the mercy learning center and is a mentor for at-risk high school students, the press re­lease said. 
“as a Dillon hall resident, i experienced great coach­ing and camaraderie that helped me prosper and grow at notre Dame,” James corgel said. “this environment was created and nurtured by my rectors, Frs. Jim Flanigan and Dave schlaver. 
“today’s role models like Fr. paul Doyle will ensure that residential life at nD re­mains relevant, leading-edge and inclusive. to me, this is a smart investment.” 
Money madness 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Golden weather 
Brian Lach 
multimedia editor 

i stepped outside early this past monday morning, clad in sperry’s and sans socks with only a light jacket. sure, it was a little brisk out, but it wasn’t bad at all — i headed to class no worse for wear. i’d been en­joying the span of pleasant weather the weekend had brought to campus. Flash forward to the conclusion of my biweekly hour and fifteen min­utes of strategic it. stepping outside Debartolo Hall, i felt as though the seasons had shifted: six inches of snow blanketed the ground, and a veritable blizzard swirled around me. it were as if some spiteful child, no longer satisfied with his snow globe once the flakes had settled, had de­cided to shake it up once more when everyone was least expecting it. 
i think that notre Dame should embrace the climate with its mar­keting campaigns. i can see it now: Father Jenkins, standing on the steps of the main building, gestur­ing around at God Quad on a clear spring day. “people often ask me about diversity here at notre Dame. i just tell them, ‘look at our weather!’ our mendoza college of business is at the top of its class.” cue snowfall, out of nowhere. “but more impor­tantly, we lead the nation in average snowfall after December.” Rain be­gins pouring down on him. “we also hold the record for the world’s largest cold water challenge.” Gale-force winds buffet him from all sides, and he raises his voice to be heard. “and now that we’ve conveniently re-cen­tered campus with our crossroads project, admitted students get to experience even more of nature with longer walks to class.” sun begins to peek through the clouds and the rain fades, as Father Jenkins dabs at his dripping forehead with his pocket square. “this is the notre Dame difference.” 
oh, south bend, how i love your weather. nowhere but notre Dame do aerospace engineers have the privilege of walking through a wind tunnel on their way to class. nowhere else does the swim team get extra practice swimming across the lakes formed by uneven sidewalks. one thing is certain, however. no matter how much the temperature falls be­low zero, and in spite of the fact that winter jackets are still being worn in march, campus still manages to look absolutely beautiful every day — and that is what keeps me going every morning as i look out the window, sigh, and start layering. 
Contact Brian Lach at blach@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Tim Scanlan 
pardon the prose 

brackets! basketball! sports! the ncaa basketball play­offs are in full swing right now, and the first weekend has surely contributed to the moniker of madness. Fan bases from spokane, washington, to south bend, indiana, have something to cheer for as teams large and small deliver both elation and agony in equal portions. the excitement of march madness came first, but since the tournament ex­panded to 64 teams in 1985, money followed closely behind. today, billions of dollars are tied to the basketball abilities of 18- to 22-year-olds. so much money is involved that the real madness happens behind the scenes in how the ncaa, broadcasters and the colleges themselves profit off the tournament. 
march madness is inherently inclined to capture our short attention span as we consume the latest dunk, buzzer-beater and upset. inspired by this and my inability to select a single topic to write about, i’ve decided to highlight the most in­teresting — and concerning — aspects of what makes your bracket really come together. 
without princeton, there may never have been the march madness we know today. in 1989, the power conferences were pushing to exclude the mid-majors from the tourna­ment, citing blowout losses and a lack of competitive bal­ance. when no. 16 princeton was selected to face no. 1 Georgetown, another blowout could have been the final nail in the coffin for the non-power conference schools. espn broadcasted the game in primetime because cbs (who still owns the rights today) didn’t begin full coverage until the sweet 16. instead of the blowout that everyone — including Dick vitale — predicted, princeton went into halftime up nine points and only lost on the last possession of the game on two successive alonzo mourning blocks. the president of cbs was inspired by the excitement and asked if cbs could manage to broadcast the whole tournament. eight months later, they signed a broadcasting rights deal worth $1 billion. 
today, that same deal is worth $10.8 billion over 14 years. to put that in perspective, the broadcast rights for the entire nba season are worth $2.66 billion per year. with some quick math, that payout equals $1.15 million per march madness game and $1.055 million per nba game. and remember; the nba players are getting paid for their efforts. 
the distribution of all that money is part of the deal. nearly three-fourths of the revenue is earmarked by the ncaa for various programs such as financial aid and academic pro­grams. the remaining $194 million is distributed based on performance in the tournament. each game participated in counts as a “unit.” each “unit” is worth $255,379, paid to the school’s conference each year for six years. altogether, win­ning a game in the tournament will earn a school’s confer­ence roughly $1.6 million when it’s all said and done. within the conference, the money is typically split evenly, so even though only six teams from the acc made the tournament this year, all 15 members will receive a cut. on the first day of the tournament this year, a single point decided five games. Roughly $8 million changed hands based on five possessions of basketball. 
outside of tv contracts, still more big money changes hands because of march madness. a recent survey estimated $9 billion would be bet on the men’s tournament this year. about $2 billion of that will be placed in bracket pools. and it’s important to note that companies, such as Quicken loans last year, often create free pools with cash prizes in the hopes of gaining new customers. in las vegas, betting on march basketball outpaces the revenues for the super bowl. march madness commands the attention of the nation, and it also commands the nation’s wallets. 
the pride and passion on display during march madness have few equals in sports. the unpredictable nature of the tournament draws fans of all levels of engagement to watch, fill out brackets and bet. while the players and coaches are the stars of the show, it is the vast amount of money behind the scenes that makes it all possible. the ncaa, college con­ferences, las vegas and television broadcasters all have a vested interest in creating and increasing the emotional con­nection and excitement you feel every march. so cheer and scream and pray for your favorite team to go all the way — i certainly will. but in the midst of the madness, try to remem­ber that there are dozens of organizations depending on your passion to cash in on college basketball 
Tim Scanlan is a senior finance major with a minor in public service. He is a former resident of Morrissey Manor. He encourages debate on his columns and can be reached with any comments or questions at tscanlan@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



Dominion and peril in U.S. politics 
William McMahon 
blue collar blues 

on monday, senator ted cruz of texas an­nounced his candidacy for the 2016 Republican presidential nomination. He is the first major can­didate to officially enter next year’s race. this col­umn isn’t about 2016, though. it’s hardly about ted cruz. it’s almost about where senator cruz made his announcement — liberty University, founded by pastor Jerry “the gays caused 9/11” Falwell — but not quite. Really, it’s about religion in politics. 
this also isn’t a column about ted cruz’s chanc­es for the nomination. He may not be the party favorite, but he’s a high-profile senator with an ac­tive base in the “religious right.” He’s certainly rel­evant enough for us to be alarmed by his rhetoric and his popularity. i’m not going to tell you not to vote for him, since that would imply my asking you to vote for someone else — and i certainly won’t be supporting scott walker, Jeb bush, Hillary clinton or anyone else thrown into the ring by the eco­nomic elite. i just want to tell you why you should be alarmed. 
ted cruz is a dominionist, and he’s far from alone. Dominionism holds that christians should work towards a country where the government is run according to the principles of their religion. it’s effectively sharia law for christians. this doctrine rears its ugly head every time someone makes a political argument that invokes religion, however seemingly harmless. 
the dominionist point of view generally comes with two arguments. the first is that the United states is a christian nation that has lost its way; the second is that moving towards christian gov­ernance is the right thing to do. the first is wholly ahistorical. the first amendment to the U.s. constitution prevents an establishment of religion, with the courts upholding that it was intended as a separation of church and state. the 1796 treaty of tripoli, ratified unanimously by the senate and signed by president John adams in 1797, explic­itly stated, “the Government of the United states of america is not, in any sense, founded on the christian religion.” i’m hardly one to make an ar­gument of authority from the Founding Fathers, but the dominionist history is all wrong. 
every time someone invokes religion in a po­litical argument, however, they vindicate the dominionists little by little. the fact is, it’s re­ally unnecessary. if God tells you not to kill, you can still make an argument against murder that doesn’t require someone to share your religion. if you can’t make an argument for a policy without religious appeals, then maybe the policy belongs in your church, not in public governance. 
no one is actually arguing for rule by the bible. in no uncertain terms, the bible condemns gay men to death. in no uncertain terms, the bible says that rich men will not go to heaven. opponents of this like to point to the following claim that all things are possible through God, but that’s hardly an argument unless you apply it to everything. best to just ignore the rules for all sins, big and small, and still hope to get into heaven, because all things are possible through God. it’s straight denial. 
so, what happens is that a religious group will take their holy text, pick around for their preferred morality and declare that they have “the truth” and that their country must heed “the truth” or be struck down by God. that’s what caused 9/11 and katrina, apparently. almost invariably, true belief is reserved for the followers, while leaders manip­ulate the movement for personal gain. the most extreme may not be the majority, but they have so ingratiated themselves into the public sphere for so long that every major candidate of every major party must claim at some point to be guided by their faith, preferably their christian faith, in their decisions. where the constitution bans a legal test of religion for office, religious groups have made one in the court of public opinion. so you either get only those of certain religious beliefs, or you get those willing to lie to get into power. what could go wrong? 
History shows that when reactionary groups motivated by religion take power, those who hold different beliefs suffer. every time you think about bringing faith into politics, think about what would happen to you if a different religious sect won out. next time you almost draw on religious principles rather than secular values or basic hu­man empathy for a political decision, ask yourself if a theocracy is truly in your favor. even if you’re comfortably in the christian majority, ask yourself if you value making up your own mind. if so, do not think that they wouldn’t come for people like you once they got rid of people like me. if so, don’t think they won’t come for you someday. 
William McMahon is a senior studying Latin American history and is active in the labor movement. He welcomes all comments at wmcmahon@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

student leadership at the GRc 
Do you have a lot to say about what’s going on around campus, but nowhere constructive to say it? Do you want to make a positive impact on is­sues like interpersonal relationships, gender identity, sexual identity, embodiment and sexual assault or relationship violence? these topics are important to the notre Dame community, but of­ten times, students don’t know where to go to get involved in the conversation. we wanted to change this, and that’s why we applied to be student lead­ers with the Gender Relations center (GRc); most GRc student leaders echo these sentiments: 
•	 
“i became a FiRestarter student leader for the GRc because it gave me the voice i needed to try to help change the gender relations issues that i had noticed at notre Dame. i realized in my first year here that it is very important to have ongoing discussion about gender issues such as sexual violence, relationships, friendships, sexual identity, gender identity and body image. i learned that the GRc was the best route i could take to attack these issues head-on.” — michael nolan, senior 

•	 
“i really wanted to learn more about gender issues on campus and the intersections with gender and race. i also wanted to become an advocate for better gender relations on cam­pus.” — chizo ekechukwu, junior 

•	 
“i decided to join the GRc as a student leader because i wanted to be directly involved in facilitating campus dialogue concerning 


gender relations, interpersonal relation­ships and other pertinent topics. prior to my experience in the GRc, i had a shallow un­derstanding of the important issues at hand, and i really wanted to have a better gauge of the campus climate.” — michael mcFadden, junior 
if you’re thinking, “Having conversations with my friends, or even thinking about these topics myself, is hard enough. How am i supposed to feel comfortable talking about these things with the student body at large?” You’re not alone. many of us were nervous going into the process of being GRc student leaders, but you really are in a posi­tion to make a difference. 
•	 
“i realized as students, despite all our grip­ing about gender relations at [notre Dame], we tend to perpetuate these norms because we don’t want to risk rejection. being a FiRestarter with the GRc is not about giv­ing permission to break norms but about creating spaces where students feel safe to do so of their own volition.” — Jenn cha, sophomore 

•	 
“with issues of gender, sexuality and sexual assault, institutional policy is only part of the solution. it’s just as important to have a community that engages with these issues. i joined the FiRestarters because i wanted to help spark that kind of community. i am grateful for the training and professional development that i have been able to take 


part in but even more so for the opportu­nity to talk to students, especially first year students, about how we can make campus a better, safer notre Dame family.” — bryan Ricketts, junior 
•	 “being a GRc student leader has definitely introduced me to people who i have come to call good friends through our efforts to spread awareness of certain issues on our campus. i have seen my peers gain a better understanding of these issues, even those who were not as quick to be open-minded. i think our campus is moving in the right di­rection for positive reform!” — Justin Jones, junior 
we have valued being GRc student leaders dur­ing our time here at nD, and we need new leaders like you to join us in the future. take a risk, spark some dialogue and apply for a leadership position with the Gender Relations center for the 2015-2016 academic year. 
applications are available at grc.nd.edu and will be accepted through Friday, march 27 at 11:59 p.m. if you have any questions, please do not hesitate to reach out to current student leaders and/or the GRc 
Rachel Wallace 
junior 
Deirdre Harrington 
senior march 24 



Daniel Barabasi 
scene writer 

it’s official. we’ve heard about them flirting for a while. they’ve gone on a few dates through the 3Ds and wiiU app store. but just last week, they came out with the big news: nintendo and mobile are truly together. 
the story isn’t exactly the next nicholas sparks novel. Rather, it plays out like that of high school sweethearts. nintendo, the haughty jock with a reputation to keep, had spoken out against its alleged interest in mobile gaming for a long time. over the past two years, com­pany president saturo iwata repeatedly told journalists nintendo would not go mobile under any circumstances and dismissed any analysis of nintendo actions that would point toward mobile as a misunderstanding of offhand remarks. 
then nintendo made a joint announcement with the mobile gaming company Dena detailing the upcoming modifications to nintendo’s core platform. nintendo announced it will be making the mobile games itself, implying that Dena will be mainly involved as an expert on the business and institutional front. Furthermore, nintendo has pulled back on its membership program, club nintendo, with the intent to develop a more united solution through Dena. the deal was solidified with a 22 billion yen capital exchange ($184 million), which corresponds to nintendo giving Dena 1.24 percent of 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
scene writer 

George lewis Jr., better known as twin shadow, keeps his album titles short, never using more than a simple two-syllable word to make his statement for the album clear. 
2010’s “Forget” was an intimate piece of bedroom synth-pop. its deliberately limited production and thoughtful lyrics ensured it remains his most personal album. there’s a sense of nervousness to the album, like lewis would rather forget some of what he sings about. with “confess,” lewis made a bigger statement, with choruses that grab you like he needs to tell you every­thing he’s been feeling, and the result was one of the best albums of 2012. 
“eclipse,” then, was a word likely chosen with a pur­pose. lewis might have hoped to evoke images of some­thing beautiful, something you would simply have to stop and listen to, letting you notice the wonders all around you. the album certainly sounds like the most ambitious twin shadow record to date, one that he might have hoped would be a masterpiece. 
but if this is what lewis hoped to make, he did not fully deliver. there are some brilliant points in the album that could compare to the best of “Forget” and “confess,” but too many songs are awkward, go nowhere and add noth­ing, while lewis’ lyrics and vocals — not as clearly at the its stock and receiving 10 percent of total Dena stock in return. 
so other than a giant bump in the two companies’ trading values, what can we can we hope from the digi­tal kimye of 2015? Unfortunately, the details of what nintendo mobile will look like have been more ambigu­ous than the castle princess peach was last seen in. what has been made clear is that nintendo mobile will not be a professionally-developed snes or Gba emula­tor. satoru iwata firmly believes games developed for nintendo consoles are not compatible with the mobile interface. personally i agree, as doing so would not offer a concrete vision for the direction of nintendo mobile. 
what are the other options? on the one hand, nintendo mobile could become a “demo” version of console games. think age of empires and sid meier’s civilization, both of which released simplified, mobile renditions of their widely popular desktop franchise. on nintendo’s end, however, these would not be full games but rather a form of marketing that would drive users to acquire the console rendition. 
alternatively, nintendo could create completely free­standing experiences, either using previous charac­ters or developing new dimensions that would simply develop the trademark as a whole. nintendo has been pushing for a “successful” online game initiative, which may mean such full-bodied mobile games would be their choice. However, the main drawback is Japan has a strong free-to-play culture for mobile, one Dena has 
front of “eclipse” as they were on lewis’ earlier albums 
— sound less personal and more bland than in the rest of his work. the result is a scattered album, where lewis’ brilliant songwriting is sometimes there but not enough to make the whole album memorable. 
the good songs on “eclipse” are still definitely some great work. the second track of the album, “when the lights turn out” drags you in towards its memorable chorus like lewis did time and again on “confess” and builds itself up as it goes on, with the chorus of “jealousy and ecstasy slowly taking over me” becoming more and more addictive. 
but “when the lights turn out” is found among some decidedly average tracks. the album opener “Flatliners” never really drags you in; if lewis was hoping to make an album bigger than anything he’s done before, he’s lost any kind of personal touch in doing so. too many tracks on the album feature loud, buzzing synths lewis might have hoped would add some extra power to his words. instead, they just get in the way. many songs lurch back and forth, briefly finding what seems to be something great and then moving back to the blandness and over­done synthesizers. 
“old love / new love” — released in 2013 for the soundtrack to Grand theft auto v — remains the high­light of the album and a reminder of what it could have been. noticeably different from the rest of lewis’s work, it’s a full-blown dance track with a pounding drum, adhered to. 
in order to turn a profit, it seems like nintendo is turning towards the second option and incorporating a freemium gaming dynamic. on the 3Ds, various “apps” have been released that allow for purchase of new minigames or “energy” to keep playing. initiatives like these make me miss the days where the wii reminded users once an hour to go outside or read a book for once. 
as a die-hard nintendo fan, i worry for the future of my pokémon and villagers. pay-to-win games bastard­ize the base nintendo experience. Remember the first mario games? where you actually had to have skill to beat the game? Freemium kills that. when the going gets hard, just buy a Deku nut. or if you’re not a fan of the new techniques of zero suit samus, chuck your cash towards getting her suit back. 
all in all, nintendo is still a company. if mobile games overshadow console revenue, then guess where the capi­tal will be reinvested. 
i have a wii for the social gaming it provides, be it mario kart, brawl or Jeopardy. i have a nintendo hand­held for commutes but honestly mostly to play pokémon. i love the time i spend on either, and i don’t want either Falcon punch’d out of the spotlight to make room for Donkey kong’s mobile beat. 
Contact Daniel Barabasi at dbaraba1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
unforgettable piano hook and screams of “drill me to the floor.” if lewis was done with personal albums, more work like this could have been somewhere for him to go, but instead it feels a little out of place and although it quickly improves, it starts off rough before thankfully lurching into a more pleasant gear. 
“eclipse” was released only days after northern europe experienced a solar eclipse, which served as a useful re­minder of the realities of an eclipse: they’re often ob­scured by cloud and not quite the sight that they could have been. if this was the kind of image lewis hoped to convey with this album, he achieved his goal. if not, “eclipse” is a hit-or-miss affair with some brilliance but too much obscuring it. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at  doboyle1@nd.edu 
“Eclipse” 

George Lewis Jr. 
Label: Warner Bros. 
Tracks: “Old Love / New Love,” “When the Lights Turn Out,” “Alone” If you like: Blood Orange, Wild Nothing, Future Islands 


EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 


By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene editor 

a collision of media, history and discussion will take place in the Debartolo performing arts center tonight. 
“wwi in the Graphic novels: a Drawing cabaret,” hosted by the nanovic institute for european studies and the Film, television and theater (Ftt) Department, will combine acting, drawing and an audience-centered dis­cussion in memorial of the First world war. 
Four artists chose texts that served as inspiration for their works, and four actors from the Ftt department will perform each text. there will be an ongoing discus­sion with the graphic novelists, while one of the artists performs a live drawing of the text he or she chose. a camera will project the drawing process for the audience. 
the event has been a work-in-progress since Jim mcadams, the Director of the nanovic institute, and anthony monta, the associate Director, approached olivier morel for an innovative event to mark the 100th anniversary of the First world war (1914-1918). 
morel, a native of France with three ancestors who fought in the Great war, took on the project. 
“we tend to forget that it was not just a ‘world’ war in the sense that many nations and people were involved,” 
By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 

it’s 6:19 p.m., and i’m in my dark, cramped, single dorm room with clothes all over the floor; i’m out of nutter butters. i got two hours of sleep last night. i have a six-page paper i haven’t started due tomorrow. i have to find a date for saturday’s dance. my bracket is destroyed. i have this music review to write. someone’s knocking at my door again. “come in, i guess,” i say. 
“are you okay, man?” asks a voice. 
“i’ve had a migraine for four straight days now, if that’s what you’re asking, and i have to write a Death Grips review.” 
“oh lord,” says Dan as he peeks his head around the corner of my desk. He’s a fashionable, tall fellow whose only shortcoming as a hipster is his lack of Death Grips fanaticism. 
“Yeah, i mean their new record is actually pretty good, but i don’t want to write about it that much, and i sure as hell don’t want to go through the whole history of Death Grips again.” 
Dan says, “weren’t they the band that got picked up by a major label and then leaked their own album for free with one of the band member’s ****s on the cover?” 
i laugh. “Yeah, this is actually the first album they haven’t released for free and the first one that they’re ac­tually asking people to pay for.” 
Dan looks interested. “what does it sound like exactly?” 
“a lot of it is actually really guitar-driven. whereas a lot of their past records really built up the ‘beats’ vocal­ist mc Ride (real name stefan burnett) who raps or yells over on catchy synth lines and massive, twisted samples ranging from bollywood to pink Floyd. the new record 
— well, actually, the way i’m phrasing it is kind of confus­ing. the new record, half of it was released last year. like the whole album — it’s a double album — is called ‘the powers that b’ and it comes in two parts, one of which was released last year and one of which was just released he said. “it is also about the scale: with this war, the world, the ancient world, was upside down.” 
at the time, nearly everyone in France, belgium, the U.k., italy, the balkans, central europe and Germany felt the war’s consequences. the stories remain prevalent to­day, and morel has a few of his own. 
“one of my great-grandfather’s ships sunk in the strait 
— he survived after spending 48 hours on a small piece of wood. the other one, who was a very poor illiterate peas­ant, got a severe head injury that kept him from working. He died eight years after the war due to the consequences of his injury.” 
morel has approached the First world war in creative and insightful ways before. 
“at a personal level, i have worked extensively on this conflict: from 1995 until 2004, i traveled around the world, and i interviewed and filmed many wwi veterans 
— they were all 99 years old and older. i wrote two books on the subject, put together an exhibit that was displayed in several venues including the Gare de l’est train station (where many soldiers left from), and i am currently com­pleting a web documentary with the international televi­sion channel tv5.” 
tonight’s event will focus on the graphic novel as a medium for “writing and storytelling with a strong 
last week. so i guess i have to talk about both parts.” 
“the first part is called n***** on the moon, often ab­breviated as notm, which is an odd title, because mc Ride, as the only black member of the group, has used every profane word in the book except for the one in the title i just told you. and he doesn’t really address race in his lyrics. 
“but anyway, that record was basically built on the drumming work of Zach Hill, who’s been a core mem­ber of the band since day one. He’s always been bringing the fire with his beats, both acoustic and electronic. so for notm, he basically put a bunch of samples — drum samples, synth samples and samples of björk singing — on an electronic drum set and hammered out the beats all by himself. they’re lightning fast, erratic and really percussive. 
“mc Ride’s rapping is as crazy and ferocious as ever. His words sprint from insane violence to technology-in­duced paranoia to psychological terror and even symbol­ic social commentary over Hill’s relentless beats. i don’t know how much work Flatlander — the last core member of the band, the producer — put into the record, but there are some amazing moments on it. 
“For example, the record’s first track, titled ‘Up my sleeves,’ is about death and using your own destruction like some tool against your enemies — very kamikaze, a tactic which the group has referenced before. but any­way, there’s a moment on the track where everything cuts out, and mc Ride just describes this cemetery scene and contemplates the point of an ultimately transient exis­tence and wonders if he even wants to know if anything matters. and all you hear is this nightly haze, this sur­rounding group of still crickets, unable to answer him, and capturing the environment perfectly. Death Grips are almost never quiet; the juxtaposition of their normal style with this moment of relative peace, and yet ultimate doubt, is stunning. 
“there are moments like that all over the record. mc Ride raps, ‘i don’t talk to the help,’ clearly a reference to relationship to artistic and literary traditions, as well as photography, sociology and cinema,” morel said. 
the event will feature four graphic novelists who em­body these ideals. maël & kris are currently turning their four-volume graphic novel, “notre mère la Guerre,” into a feature film, chloé cruchaudet’s graphic novel “mauvais Genre” was inspired by a true story, and ivan petrus, who published “the nieuport Gathering,” has a personal family history that links him to the subject. 
“one of the most interesting developments in the sec­tor of graphic novels that i have experimented and taught is ‘documentary graphic novels’ or ‘comics journalism,’” morel said. “interestingly, the four artists that i invited are very active in this sector.” 
the inclusion of “comics journalism” in the event will lend itself to topical discussions of the charlie Hebdo at­tacks in paris in January, morel said. 
“several of the artists knew some of the people who were killed or targeted at charlie Hebdo, so the audience will hear from firsthand connections,” morel said. 
the event will be held at philbin studio theatre in Dpac tonight at 7 p.m. tickets are free and can be re­served online. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaucif@nd.edu 
the past ‘unofficial’ slavery of black servants post-civil war, before shrieking ‘help!’ repeatedly after that state­ment — contradicting himself immediately if we assume he’s calling for the people he just claimed to be indepen­dent from or higher than. 
“and then this new record, this second half of ‘the powers that b’ that’s called ‘Jenny Death,” is instrumen­tally drenched in roaring guitars courtesy of tera melos’ nick Reinhart and all in all is a far more acoustic endeav­or. Zach Hill’s back on the acoustic drum, hammering out sick beats, and mc Ride’s yelling out these absurd lines. what’s a better way to end your last record than by meeting Death on your front porch and having him say, ‘it’s been a pleasure, stefan?’ Did i already tell you that mc Ride’s real name is stefan burnett?” 
Dan smiles and laughs. “Yeah, you did.” 
i laugh. “alright, well i’m gonna have to write this re­view now. it’s probably gonna be really unfocused and mediocre. sorry to kick you out.” 
the door closes. i look at the blank page on my comput­er screen. i realize that by some miracle, i haven’t been talking to Dan, but rather i’ve been writing this review the entire time. 
thank goodness it’s over. 
sort of. 

Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 
“The Powers That B” 
Death Grips 

Label: Harvest Records 
Tracks: “Voila,” “Big Dipper,” “Inanimate Sensation,” “On GP” If you like: Clipping, Tyler the Creator, EI-P 


EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

ACC proves itself best conference 
By Brian Plamondon 
sports writer 
bracket busted? Yup, mine too. 
but we’re not alone. out of 
11.57 million brackets filled out on espn’s bracket challenge, not one was perfect after the first weekend of play in this year’s ncaa men’s tournament. in fact, only 14 people picked all the sweet 16 teams correctly. 
i could write about how this team will shock everyone and make the Final Four or how that team is a lock to win it all. but after more than 20 hours of basketball frying my brain last weekend, i still don’t know what’s going to happen — and that’s the beauty of it. 
so i won’t waste my time on what amounts to a guessing game. i’d rather write about something i’m certain of: the atlantic coast conference is the premier men’s basketball con­ference in the country, and it’s not even close. 
after a season in which pun­dits across the country praised the likes of the big ten and big 12, it’s the acc once again prov­ing otherwise. 
the acc boasts a Duke team that is as good as ever this year with three of its four losses coming to fellow sweet 16 teams — not to mention it has a player of the Year candidate in freshman forward Jahlil okafor. oh, and they just so happened to dismantle their first two op­ponents by an average of 24 points. not bad. 
notre Dame and louisville both are relative newcomers from the big east but have wast­ed no time asserting themselves in the acc. notre Dame seems to do more with less every sin­gle year, this time showing their penchant for winning close games isn’t limited to just the regular season. louisville went toe-to-toe with kentucky in December, eventually losing 58­
50: a lot more respectable than big 12 champ kansas’s 32-point loss to the undefeated wildcats. they also moved on to the sweet 16 even though chris Jones, one of the cardinals’ best playmakers, was dismissed from the team in February. 
north carolina only had one loss to a team not in the tourna­ment, falling to pittsburgh. on their way to the sweet 16, the tar Heels handled an arkansas team that was supposed to be second-best in the sec. 
north carolina state boasts one of the best backcourts in the country, a group which powered the wolfpack past no. 1 seed villanova, the best the big east had to offer. 
this is all without men­tioning virginia, the acc regular-season champion that inexplicably fell in the round of 32. 
Just look at the numbers — the acc is 11-1 in the tourna­ment through the first weekend, an unprecedented feat that will result in the ncaa distribut­ing more than $28 million to the conference over the next six years. if the success continues, the acc would be the first con­ference to earn more than $30 million off of one tournament. but sure, the acc had a down year. 
when you look at the com­petition, the gap is wide. the big ten fielded seven tour­nament teams, led by no. 1 seed wisconsin. the badgers, however, looked lackluster in a 14-point victory over coastal carolina. they followed that up by eking out a seven-point win over an oregon team that suf­fered back-to-back losses to two dreadful teams, washington and washington state, in January. 
the only other big ten team to make the sweet 16 is michigan state, a squad that was vastly underseeded at no. 
7. the conference’s other seven seed, iowa, was dismantled by Gonzaga 87-68. in short, it’s hard to make a case for the big ten. 
How about the big 12? the conference was praised as hav­ing the highest number of qual­ity teams, with depth across the board. seven teams made the big Dance, but only two remain. 
two of their strongest teams, no. 3 seeds baylor and iowa state, lost to Georgia state and Uab, respectively. that doesn’t need much of an explanation. 
two other teams had no busi­ness being in the tournament at all: texas and oklahoma state, which both finished with 14 losses and sporting sub-.500 records in conference play. 
and then there’s the crown jewel, kansas, who went down without a fight against wichita state. 
the big 12, and the big ten for that matter, have depth. but to be the best conference in basketball, it takes more than a bunch of quality teams beating up on one another. You need more than one elite team, teams that manhandle inferior opponents. You need teams that lurk in the periphery all season but have the ability to shock a top-10 team. the acc has those teams — don’t be surprised if more than one ends up in indianapolis. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

Sharper pleads guilty in sexual assault case 
Associated Press 

las veGas — Former nFl star Darren sharper pleaded guilty tuesday in las vegas to a reduced felony attempted sex assault charge, in the third part of a four-state plea deal that prosecutors say will put him in federal prison for about nine years. 
appearing by internet hookup from a courtroom in los angeles, sharper entered his plea before clark county District court Judge Douglas Herndon, who scheduled sen­tencing for June 25. 
a plea agreement calls for sharper to serve 38 months to eight years in prison for the nevada conviction, but at the same time as sentences from california, arizona and louisiana. 
on monday, the 39-year-old sharper pleaded guilty to sexual assault in arizona — again us­ing an internet hookup — and no contest in los angeles to raping two women he drugged after meeting them in a west Hollywood bar. 
He was sentenced to nine years in the arizona case and will face 20 years in the california case when he’s sentenced July 15. the california no-contest pleas have the same effect as a conviction, and state sentencing rules will have him serve about nine years. 
sharper is due in federal court april 6 in new orleans, the city where he won a super bowl as a member of the nFl saints franchise. He’s due in louisiana state court 10 days later. 
sharper wore an orange jail uniform with “la county” stamped over his chest pocket as he sat tuesday in los angeles flanked by attorneys blair berk and lisa wayne. 
one of his las vegas lawyers, Richard schonfeld, appeared on his behalf — first before a las vegas justice of the peace and then before Herndon. 
the former all-pro safety cleared his throat and said, “Guilty,” when asked to enter his plea. 
sharper’s other lawyer, David chesnoff, issued a statement noting that sharper took respon­sibility in the las vegas case. 
sharper could have faced 20 years to life in nevada state pris­on on two sexual assault charges filed against him last week in las vegas. 
those charges were dropped as part of the plea agreement. prosecutor craig Hendricks said he spoke with the two vic­tims, both in their mid-20s, be­fore terms of sharper’s plea deal were made public. 
sharper was accused of club-hopping with the women in January 2014 before taking them to his room at a las vegas strip hotel, drugging them and raping them while they were unconscious. 
police and prosecutors char­acterized the las vegas case as weaker than in california, arizona and louisiana because the women didn’t report the at­tack until after they returned home and heard about similar allegations against sharper. 
District attorney steve wolfson said tuesday he was satisfied that sharper was ac­cepting responsibility for his crimes in las vegas and the oth­er states. 
sharper retired in 2011 after a 14-year nFl career as with the Green bay packers, minnesota vikings and the saints. He won a super bowl in new orleans. 
He was working as an nFl network analyst when women began telling police in several cities similar stories of blacking out while drinking with him and waking up groggy to find they had been sexually abused. 
GOLF 

Jack nicklaus awarded congressional gold medal 
Associated Press  
wasHinGtonGolden bear got medal. congress on  — the a gold tuesday  

awarded its highest civilian honor to golfing great Jack nicklaus, who accepted the medal with a few tears, hu­mility and humor. 
in a ceremony in the capitol Rotunda, the House and senate leadership bestowed the award on nicklaus, winner of 18 ma­jor championships, includ­ing six masters titles, five pGa championships and four U.s. opens. 
“Few transcend their sport to achieve that kind of moment, or this kind of honor,” said House speaker John boehner, an avid 

WANTED 

TRIPLE DOMER NEEDS 
golfer who grew emotional at times during the ceremo­ny. “with arnie (palmer), it was how he brought an audience to the game - an army. with Jack, it’s how he gave the game a gold stan­dard - a ladder to climb.” 
the 75-year-old nicklaus, dubbed the Golden bear, re­called the hard work of his parents, praised his family and paid tribute to his wife, barbara. He recalled that when his son Jack was six, he was asked what his father did for a living. the younger nicklaus said, “nothing, he just plays golf.” 
an emotional nicklaus told his family that his whole life he wanted to make them proud of him, and “hopefully i have.” 
the speakers, from congressional leaders to nicklaus’ son, recalled the drama of the golfer’s 1986 win at the masters. they praised nicklaus’ chari­table work, including the nicklaus children’s Health care Foundation, which re­cently pledged $60 million to the miami children’s Health system. 
senate majority leader mitch mcconnell, R-ky., said nicklaus had a brush with polio as a teenager. mcconnell said that as a 
fellow  sur v ivor  of  polio  
he  appreciated  nick laus’  
perseverance.  
attending  the  ceremony  

for nicklaus was golfing legend arnold palmer. the ohio state marching band performed for the ohio­born nicklaus. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NANNY--SUMMER ONLY, P/T, or F/T: Jackson Hole WY from end of May/ ND family needs an energetic, outdoor-early June to early August as our live-in loving, reliable gal to travel to beautiful nanny. Email: info@greymattersintl.com 


SMC LACROSSE NBA | maveRicks 101, spURs 94 
SMC falls to Elmhurst, prepares for IIT, JCU 
Observer Staff Report 
Despite establishing an ear­ly 2-0 lead, saint mary’s fell victim to an 8-0 scoring run en route to their 14-5 loss to elmhurst on saturday. 
sophomore goalkeeper shannon weyer established herself as a presence in the saint mary’s net early, saving the first four shots that she faced and giving the belles de­fense a fair bit of early game momentum. efficient ball movement in the defensive zone eventually resulted in an opportunity for freshman midfielder clare theisen, who drove toward the goal and scored to earn a 1-0 lead for the belles. 
theisen’s offensive produc­tion would continue a few minutes later, as she scored her second goal of the afternoon to give the belles a 2-0 lead with about twenty minutes remain­ing in the first half. 
Unfortunately for the belles, the elmhurst offense respond­ed in kind soon after. though offensive possessions were fairly even throughout the re­mainder of the first half, and the belles saw a few more op­portunities within the 8-meter fan, the blue Jays were able to capitalize on their chances and earn an 8-2 lead moving into halftime. this despite the continued efforts of weyer, who had two strong saves in the closing moments of the half to prevent elmhurst from expanding their lead before moving into the break. 

the second frame allowed for an opportunity for saint mary’s to reclaim some of­fensive momentum early, as sophomore attack emilie vanneste managed to convert on a free position shot, mak­ing the score 8-3 with 24:38 re­maining. the blue Jays did not take long to respond, however, responding with a goal of their own four minutes later. this sparked the elmhurst offense to score three more consecu­tive goals before the belles managed to respond again. 
the belles’ fourth goal on the afternoon came with 11 minutes remaining in regu­lation time, when theisen caught a pass from freshman attack Hanna makowski and converted on the ensuing shot to complete her hat trick. still not done, theisen would convert her fourth goal of the game in the closing moments 
paiD aDveRtisement 
of the match, bringing the fi­nal score to 14-5 in favor of elmhurst. 
the belles now look to con­tinue their out-of-conference schedule in the early stages of the season, with their next two matches pitting saint mary’s against two other pro­grams that have only recently entered the competitive col­legiate field: illinois tech and John carroll. this is the first year that illinois tech (1-3) is a member of a formal confer­ence. as an independent pro­gram in the spring of 2014, the scarlet Hawks posted a record of 0-11, scoring an average of 
3.56 goals a game. 
John carroll’s program is one of the newest in the country 
—
 this season marks the first that the university has fielded a varsity women’s lacrosse team. the ohio-based univer­sity has seen a fair amount of success in the early stages of their squad’s inaugural season 

—
 they currently hold a 4-2 re­cord following a 21-1 victory over waynesburg on tuesday. 


the belles travel to face illinois tech on thursday at 6 p.m. before returning home for their match against John carroll on saturday. 

ellis scores 38 in win over spurs 
Associated Press 
Dallas — monta ellis pro­vided an emphatic rebuttal tuesday night to a dismal per­formance 48 hours earlier. 
ellis matched his season high with 38 points and the Dallas mavericks rallied in the second half to defeat the san antonio spurs 101-94. 
ellis hit 16 of 27 shots, bounc­ing back from his 4-for-22 showing sunday in a loss at phoenix. in that game, he went 0-for-8 in the fourth quarter as Dallas’ six-point lead vanished down the stretch. 
“too much monta tonight, don’t you think?” mavericks coach Rick carlisle said. “the fact that we got in transition got him some easy buckets early and got him rolling.” 
ellis said his shooting was simply taking what the defense gave him. 
“everybody was juiced up,” he said. “we came out very ag­gressive. they made their run, and we made our run.” 
Dirk nowitzki collected 15 points and 13 rebounds and chandler parsons added 15 for the mavericks. 
kawhi leonard led the spurs with 19 points and Danny Green added 17. 

the victory pulled Dallas within percentage points of sixth-place san antonio in the western conference. 
“i think we started out well,” spurs coach Gregg popovich said. “after that, it was the mr. ellis show. we just couldn’t contain him.” 
that’s nothing new this sea­son. ellis is averaging 34 points in three games against the spurs. 
He wasted little time putting sunday’s outing behind him, scoring seven points in the opening 3:05. 
ellis was assessed a technical foul midway through the third quarter, thinking he was fouled on an unsuccessful drive, the spurs leading 54-53. He then hit a 3-pointer that sparked a 23-12 mavericks run for the rest of the period and a 76-66 advantage. 
“we changed defenses (on ellis),” said the spurs’ tim Duncan, who had just six points and rebounds and sat out the fourth period. “we went back and forth. but he had a night, and those are situations where we can do what we can do. but if we’re making shots, we can kind of counter that a little bit.” 

NBA | tHUnDeR 127, lakeRs 117 
westbrook carries thunder in win 
Associated Press 
oklaHoma citY — it would have been under­standable for the oklahoma city thunder to overlook the struggling los angeles lakers tuesday night with a road game looming against defending nba champs san antonio 
nba scoring leader Russell westbrook refused to let that happen, scoring 27 points and adding 11 as­sists as the thunder beat the lakers 127-117 for their fourth straight victory. 
westbrook took over the game after the lakers had closed to 70-61 three less than three minutes into the second half, getting a steal and dunk and draining a 3-pointer seconds later on his way to a 14-point third quarter. 
“we did a good job of just staying in attack mode and finishing well in the paint,” said westbrook, who fin­ished just shy of his league-leading 27.5 scoring average. 

enes kanter contributed 25 points and 16 rebounds, and for the second straight game, got off to a fast start, recording a double-double in the first quarter with 15 points and 10 rebounds as oklahoma city raced out to a 37-27 lead. 
kanter has scored 52 points and grabbed 28 re­bounds in his last two games. many of his points have come after offensive rebounds, especially when defenses try to gang up on westbrook when he drives to the basket. 
“He did a good job of being aggressive,” westbrook said. “enes has good touch, espe­cially around the paint and you are seeing that early.” 
the thunder, the nba’s best rebounding team, crushed the lakers 49-28 on the boards. steven adams joined kanter in the dou­ble-double category with 16 points and 10 rebounds. Dion waiters added 23 points and anthony morrow had 12 off the bench. 

ND SOFTBALL 

Irish ready for matchup with Mastodons 
By BENJAMIN PADANILAM 
sports writer 
notre Dame will carry its five-game winning streak into its non-conference matchup with purdue-Fort 
wayne  (ipFw)  today  at  
melissa  cook  stadium  at  5  
p.m.  
the  irish  (19-11,  4-5  

acc) enter their game with the mastodons (0-23, 0-3 summit) having won five straight games, including four straight conference vic­tories, to rebound from their 0-5 start in the acc. 
Despite the fact that the mastodons are winless on the year, senior third base­man katey Haus says that the team will treat this game as they would any other. 
“i don’t think there’s any concern about overlook­ing ipFw,” Haus said. “we’re looking to take this season one game at a time and play our a-game regardless of the opponent.” 
the irish will likely send either sophomore Rachel nasland or junior allie Rhodes to the mound against the mastodons. nasland cur­rently leads the team with 10 wins and a 2.42 eRa in 18 starts. in the series sweep of Georgia tech this past weekend, she pitched two complete games and allowed just one run, including a one-hitter with 10 strikeouts in the series finale this past sunday. this performance led to her being named acc pitcher of the week for the second straight week and third time in total this season. Rhodes, on the other hand, pitched three shutout innings in the team’s 13-0 win on saturday. she has started 10 games for the irish, and she currently holds a 3.68 eRa and a 7-4 re­cord on the year. 
the irish bats have recently woken up as well, outscoring their opponents 44-5 dur­ing their five game winning streak. as a result, the team is now ranked in the top five in the conference in batting av­erage, hits, stolen bases, slug­ging percentage and runs per game. they have been led on offense by the trio of Haus, junior first base micaela arizmendi and sophomore left fielder karley wester. Haus leads the team with eight home runs and is sec­ond in Rbis with 24 and bat­ting average at .404. wester leads the team with a .438 batting average and 15 steals, while arizmendi has a team high 25 Rbis and trails only Haus with six home runs. 
the mastodons’ poor re­cord is in large part due to their struggles both on the mound and at the plate. as a team, they hit just .186 and have 25 Rbis total through 23 games. their pitching staff, consisting of junior sarah lazarowich, sophomore kaitlyn biere, and fresh­man kaitlin kowalski, have a combined eRa of 10.27 and an opponents have hit for a .389 average against them as a staff. 

over the next few weeks, notre Dame’s schedule con­sists of one or two non-con­ference games in the middle of the week followed by a weekend series versus an acc opponent. Haus believes that the formatting of the sched­ule in this way is beneficial for the team. 
“these midweek non-conference games give us more opportunities to work in game situations to better prepare us for the weekend,” Haus said. “we’re focused on making sure we’re playing the way we can for a full sev­en innings every game. if we do that everything else will fall into place.” 
notre Dame will take the field later today against ipFw at melissa cook stadium at 5 p.m. 
Contact Benjamin Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 


SMC SOFTBALL 

belles set to take on thunder 
Observer Staff Report 

after a strong start to their season, the belles look to stay hot as they travel to play wheaton on thursday. 
saint mary’s (8-2) has not taken the field since a spring trip game in Florida on march 12 after their scheduled dou­ble-header against Dominican this past sunday was post­poned. wheaton is not a fa­miliar foe for saint mary’s, as the scheduled matchups between the belles and the thunder (6-7) were cancelled in both 2014 and 2013. 
the belles’ early season suc­cess has been in large part due to the team’s performance at the plate. Freshman outfielder cassie Young currently leads the team in batting average at .452, registering 14 hits in 31 at-bats. Junior outfielder sarah callis is not far behind Young, however, registering a .424 average thus far. 
the belles have also re­ceived a significant amount of production from junior catcher/first baseman Jillian busfield. busfield, who was named first team all-miaa and first team all-region in 2014, has been tearing the cover off the ball up to this point in the season. through 10 games, busfield has hit four home runs and has registered 16 Rbis, leading the team in both categories. Her slugging percentage of .735 far out­paces the player with the next highest percentage on the team, which is Young at .581. 
the thunder are led by ju­nior pitcher/first baseman katie thornton. through just 13 regular season games, thornton has already pitched six complete games, pitching a total of 50.1 innings thus far. Despite her heavy workload, thornton has been very effi­cient, only giving up 16 earned runs while her opponents are hitting a mere .175 against her. 
During the belles’ spring trip to clermont, Florida from march 7 to march 15, they out­scored their opponents 61-28. on the contrary, the thunder will be looking to get out of a slump and register their first home win of the season after starting 0-4 at home. 
the belles look to make their case as a legitimate miaa title contender at wheaton this thursday at 3 p.m. 

paiD aDveRtisement 



Baseball 
continUeD FRom paGe 16 
open midweek slot by adding western michigan (8-11, 1-2 mac). 
sophomore right-hander Ryan smoyer will get the start tonight for notre Dame, mak­ing his third midweek start of the season. smoyer earned the first win of his college career last wednesday, giving up seven hits and one run in 4 1/3 innings against central michigan. 
the irish will face broncos sophomore left-hander keegan akin, who has a 1-1 record and 
4.50 eRa in six starts this sea­son. akin started sunday for western michigan, only last­ing 2/3 of an inning and sur­rendering four runs, three of them earned, on four hits. 
Despite akin’s struggles sunday, western michigan avoided the sweep in its con­ference-opener series against miami (ohio) with a 9-5 vic­tory. Junior infielder Hunter prince paced the broncos with two doubles and three Rbis, and junior infielder kurt Hoekstra added two hits and two Rbis in sunday’s win. 
Hoekstra currently leads western michigan with a .416 batting average, .489 on-base percentage, 16 runs scored, 32 hits, four triples and 21 Rbis. the next-highest batting av­erage on the broncos belongs to junior catcher brett sunde, who sports a .299 mark. 
aoki said it will be key for the irish to play with a renewed what we are, and the wins and losses will take care of them­selves. we just have to worry about us trying to be as good as we can, both individually and collectively, and keep­ing that one-pitch-at-a-time mentality.” 
notre Dame and western michigan will meet tonight at Frank eck stadium. First pitch is scheduled for 6:30 p.m. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 


energy and focus, something he admitted they lacked at dif­ferent points against louisville. 
“i think the big thing is for the first half of [sunday’s] game, i wasn’t all that enthused with where our energy level was,” he said. “i think the im­portant thing for us is that we show back up on [wednesday], and our engagement and com­pete level are back to where it’s been. i thought in the latter half of the game we did that. 
“we will get back to who and 
paiD aDveRtisement 
ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish look to  keep rolling 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports editor 
after riding a special source of inspiration to a second-half trouncing of no. 14 ohio state on saturday at arlotta stadium, no. 18 notre Dame looks to keep the momentum going tonight on the road against marquette. 
the irish (5-4, 1-2 acc) re­turned to their locker room af­ter practice Friday night to find new green jerseys hanging in their lockers. the next day, don­ning green for the first time in program history, notre Dame tallied the first six goals of the second half to pull away from the buckeyes (8-2, 0-0 big ten) by a final score of 13-5. 
after a three-game los­ing streak to begin the month of march, the win was notre Dame’s second consecutive vic­tory after a 15-8 victory over virginia tech on march 14. with lots of youth seeing time on the field and a number of key players returning after missing extend­ed stretches last year, irish head coach christine Halfpenny said she witnessed a transformation in her team over spring break. 
“i think it’s just been [play­ing with] a lot more conviction,” Halfpenny said. “i think kids have really settled into their ‘role.’ … i think that they’re re­ally getting comfortable in their contribution to the team. 
“i think they’ve put expecta­tions on themselves a little bit higher. You don’t hear them anymore being like ‘oh, that’s ok,’ when a ball drops. they’re saying ‘i’ve got the next one.’ a switch has been flipped for the team, and it’s all been a natural process.” 
Halfpenny said she noticed players like senior defender and co-captain leah Gallagher, who has been a mainstay in the irish starting lineup since her sopho­more season, assume control of the drive and mentality of this year’s team, causing a change in mindset among the younger players. 
“[Gallagher] feels like she’s playing the best ball she’s ever played,” Halfpenny said. “so when you have that first older kid that says ‘i’m playing out of my mind,’ and a little pep in her step comes and a little edge comes, and that just starts to become — there’s electricity with that, and it’s starting to spread.” 

this in turn has let the irish settle into an offensive rhythm that was missing at the begin­ning of the month, Halfpenny said. 
“we’ve also been very patient with the ball, very deliberate on offense, and because of the skill sets our kids have and all of their training … they’re being able to be thrown into — yes, a delib­erate offense — but once that ball’s in play, it’s a read offense,” Halfpenny said. “that’s really fun for us, and that’s where we’re generating more offense in the last few games.” 
after a slow first half in both its victories, notre Dame ex­ploded for a combined 18 goals in the second 30-minute peri­ods. Halfpenny gave credit to her training staff for making sure the irish still had legs in the sec­ond half, but she said the irish can’t afford to get off to a slow start against the streaky Golden eagles (4-5, 0-0 big east). 
“the reality is at the first whis­tle, the game is tied no matter where you’re ranked,” Halfpenny said. 
“we’ve got great speed and dodging ability … so we’re really going to look to fast-break on this team. … we’re really going to fo­cus on us and go together.” 
marquette coach meredith black is a 2004 notre Dame graduate who was part of the team that reached the program’s first two ncaa tournament ap­pearances in 2002 and 2004. she also earned the team’s first-ever first team all-american honors in 2004. she was an assistant with the irish program from 2008-2010. 
“Her dream is going to be to knock us off,” Halfpenny said. “ … our players, they get that, and they can put that on the shelf and focus on each other. 
“no matter if it’s a first-half team or a hot-second-half team, we’re able to take it in stride now and continue to focus on us. if we can just be our best and execute to our best ability, we should be able to limit that streaky, high-low game that marquette plays.” 
the irish and Golden eagles are scheduled to meet at 4 
p.m. today at valley Fields in milwaukee. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 



Westbeld 
continUeD FRom paGe 16 
bad performance can make the offseason a few days too long. 
even though she’s in the middle of her first postseason go-round, westbeld said she has figured out how to chan­nel any butterflies before the opening tip. 
“You want to focus on the next game, and i just kind of take that excitement and bring as much energy as i can when i come in the game, and that’s really what my main goal and one of the roles i play is,” she said. 
westbeld proved she knew how to play that role in notre Dame’s 77-43 first-round win over no. 16 seed montana last Friday at purcell pavilion. checking in three minutes into the game, she pulled down eight rebounds in the first half and notched 10 to­tal boards, leading all players, along with eight points and four steals. 
“we were definitely happy for her,” irish junior guard Jewell loyd said. “she’s a big-time player. she comes from a history of basketball where all she knows is success, so it was nothing new for us.” 
the kettering, ohio, native wracked up major accolades during her time at Fairmont High school, including mcDonald’s all-american honors and four ohio all-state selections. 
However, westbeld earned those honors while playing a different role for Fairmont than she currently does for notre Dame. 
“she was recruited as a shooter, not really a post player, so when she got here, she kind of had to transform her game a little bit,” loyd said. “ … but her confidence is very high right now. she’s very smart, so she understands the game, so just for her, figuring out where she could score and how she can help us has really grown.” 
though her transition to the college game looks solid based on the stat sheet — she has played in all 35 games this year, averaging 7.3 points and 
4.6 rebounds in 18.1 minutes on the floor — westbeld said she has learned by making those adjustments in her first season in an irish uniform. 
“You come from being one of the best in high school and you get to college, it’s a com­pletely different experience and game out here,” she said. “it’s a lot faster, so you’ve real­ly just got to take it from what you’ve done in practice is how you’re going to play in a game. so if you don’t go hard in prac­tice, it’s not going to translate over into the game.” 
she said she has also no­ticed a new vibe on the team during these crucial days in mid-march. 
“after we came back from the acc tournament after our break, you could just tell it was a different atmosphere,” she said. “it was a different feeling to our practices. it just feels a lot more intense, and you can tell, so i think that just had a lot to do with it.” 
westbeld continues her first ncaa tournament with the irish on Friday, when notre Dame takes on stanford in a sweet 16 matchup in oklahoma city. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 


Receivers 
continUeD FRom paGe 16 

new offensive coordinator, it was considered by some to be an unexpected hire. Unlike its other coaching hires of the offseason, notre Dame already had an offensive coordinator in mike Denbrock, who is now the associate head coach. 
sanford comes from boise state, where he was a quarter­back from 2000 through 2004, and Robinson said he is look­ing forward to working with the new offensive coordinator. 
“it’s gonna be awesome,” Robinson said. “i’m really ex­cited about him, excited about what he’s gonna do with the quarterbacks and offense in general. … i think we’re gonna make some big plays.” 
as for the role of spring prac­tice, Robinson said he feels like things really started to make sense for him at this time last year. 
“i think towards the end of spring, right before the spring game last year, was one of the times it started to click for me,” Robinson said. “ … You go out there, and you know ev­erything, and you know what you’ve got to do. … You just re­lax and … be a leader.” 
though the irish have not yet named a starting quarterback for the 2015 season — and like­ly will not in the immediate fu­ture — Robinson said his unit is unfazed and has confidence in both options at quarter­back, graduate student everett Golson and junior malik Zaire. 

“i trust both of those guys, and i know they’re both in­credible,” he said. “it’s one of those things where we’re just kind of sharing reps and see­ing what happens with it. … we’re just trying to get it down as an offense.” 
Robinson said the receiv­ing corps knows their poten­tial but has to stay focused on putting in their best shift each day. 
paiD aDveRtisement 
“we all know how good we can be, but you can’t be talk­ing about the future like that,” Robinson said. “so one of the things that just drives is just trying — i mean, literally every day in practice or in the weight room — to keep each other to a certain standard, like, ‘look, guys. we’ve got to be great today.’” 
Contact Alex Carson at        acarson1@nd.edu 




CROSSWORD | will sHoRtZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | cHRistopHeR bRUckeR 

DOME NUTS | alexanDRia wellman 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | tHe mepHam GRoUp 


HOROSCOPE | eUGenia last 
Happy Birthday: take a serious look at your work situation and consider how you can use your attributes to bring in more cash. sticking to a budget while you put your plans in motion will be the best way to ensure your success. Use your ingenuity and persuasive tactics and someone with clout will offer assistance. Your numbers are 3, 10, 18, 24, 29, 37, 43. 
Birthday Baby: You are unique, inventive and dedicated. You are sensitive and empathetic. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): look over your financial situation and you’ll find a way to cut corners or earn more. contracts can be negotiated and deals put into place if you are persistent. business functions will help you connect with someone who can influence your future.  


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): make love, not war. Use your intuition, charm and compassion to find the right way to deal with anyone or any situation you face. keep your response simple and mindful. once you establish a solution, take action. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will be determined to complete what you start, but be realistic or you’ll face disappointment. You can make changes, but don’t sacrifice when it comes to hard work and precision. emotions will be hard to control. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don’t make an impulsive offer that you will end up regretting. spend your time doing things that make you happy or that will enhance your skills and lead to greater earning power. Romance can improve your day and your personal life.  

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Get involved in activities that will allow you to show off your talents and leadership ability. make professional changes that will encourage you to use your social skills. learn from experience and be persistent, and you will reach your goal.  


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): take time to do something you enjoy. shopping for something that will make you feel or look good will encourage you to be more social. Romance is in the stars and will lead to personal improvements with someone you think is special.  

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You’ll have lots of options to choose from. partnerships will take a turn, but if handled properly, will put you in a much better position. size up whatever situation you face at home and make adjustments that will bring you peace of mind.  


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don’t be tempted by a deal someone offers. Joint ventures will be costly and will require insight, but if you choose to proceed alone, you will find the road to victory. love is in the stars. put time aside for romance.  


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your ability to get things done will put you in a good position. Don’t let anyone slow you down or mislead you. a lack of honesty can be expected when dealing with others. Don’t share personal information.  


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): take one step at a time. Refuse to let anyone push you into something that makes you feel uncertain. stick close to home and nurture your relationships with the people in your life who count. make special plans for two.  


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): consider what brings you the most happiness. Focus on reviving an old skill or looking for a position that allows you the freedom to do what you enjoy most. Don’t let anyone discourage you from following your dreams.  


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Get together with someone you haven’t seen in a long time. the more you get to share your thoughts with someone with whom you have a history, the closer you will come to finding the perfect solution to help you advance.  


JUMBLE | DaviD HoYt anD JeFF knURek 

make checks payable to and mail to:  the observer p.o. box 779 notre Dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 

city      state Zip 

FOOTBALL 

Robinson, receivers ready for big year 
Wideout group is determined and looking to get better every day 
By ALEX CARSON 
associate sports editor 
notre Dame started spring practice a week ago with a new offensive coordinator (mike sanford), a receiver cross-train­ing at running back (junior c.J. prosise) and without a clear view as to who will be under center when the season opens in september. 
but despite all the noise, the irish receiving corps carries on. 
“this is a big spring for us as a receiving corps, for everyone coming back,” junior receiver corey Robinson said march 18. “we want to be a great receiving corps, so [spring practice] is the first step in that.” 
Junior will Fuller — whose 15 touchdown receptions ranked tied for third nationally last season — leads a receiving corps into 2015 that returns a full complement of players from last year, as senior chris brown, graduate student amir carlisle and junior torii Hunter Jr. are all back, joining Fuller, Robinson and prosise as the core of the group. 
but despite everyone who returns, the irish could get contributions from a pair of sophomores that did not see the field last year in Justin brent and corey Holmes. 
“i think i see a lot of hunger in both those guys,” Robinson said. “they’ve been working hard … and i’m really excited to see what they do this year.” 
Robinson also said he and the rest of the corps have faith in the youngsters. 
“we’re in a group where we’re encouraging and building each other up,” he said. “when we put those guys in the situation, we’ve seen them practice, and we’ve seen them make those plays, so when they get nervous or anxious, we calm them down and say, ‘look, guys, we do this all the time in practice, so just get out there and do it.’” 
when irish head coach brian kelly brought in sanford as his 
see ReceiveRs PAGE 14 


KEVIN SONG | The Observer 

Irish junior receiver Corey Robinson catches a touchdown pass in Notre Dame’s 31-15 win over Syracuse on Sept. 27 at MetLife Stadium. Robinson had eight receptions for 91 yards in the game. 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Westbeld calm and confident for Irish 
By MARY GREEN 
assistant managing editor 
as unpredictable as the ncaa tournament can be, there are a few certainties for no. 1 seed notre Dame in its game against no. 4 seed stanford on Friday. 
it’ll definitely be warm in oklahoma city, or at least warmer than south bend. 
irish players, coaches and staff will all sport their tradi­tional postseason green nail polish. 
and freshman forward kathryn westbeld will be set for the 10 p.m. tipoff at chesapeake energy arena. 
“i think it’s more exciting because this is what you re­ally play for all year long,” westbeld said about the dif­ference between the regular season and the ncaa tourna­ment. “it’s finally here, so i’m just really excited and ready to play.” 
pregame jitters and antici­pation are common in any locker room before a game in the tournament, when one 
see westbelD PAGE 14 

BASEBALL 

nD looks to get back on track 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
senior sports writer 
after three close losses at the hands of no. 16 louisville over the weekend at Frank eck stadium, notre Dame will try to get back on track when it hosts western michigan tonight. 
the irish (15-7, 3-6 acc) man­aged only four runs in 36 in­nings of play against louisville (18-6, 8-1). notre Dame didn’t score runs in shutout losses Friday and sunday, and the irish fell 6-4 in 18 innings saturday. 
notre Dame head coach mik aoki said the weekend’s series showed how difficult it is to win in the acc. notre Dame is cur­rently 1-2 in its conference se­ries this season — the irish won two of three games at clemson and lost two of three games at Georgia tech, both earlier this month. 
“You’ve got really good teams in this conference, really good arms in this conference,” aoki said. “it’s a difficult league, it’s a challenging league, that’s for sure. it doesn’t get any easier next week with [no. 9] virginia.” 
aoki cited the recent absences of senior outfielder Ryan bull and freshman outfielder Jake Johnson as part of the reason for the irish offensive struggles. bull, who sports a .386 batting average and .481 on-base per­centage, has missed the team’s last four games due to injury, and Johnson, who reached base in the first 19 games of the sea­son, did not play in the last two games of the louisville series due to an oblique strain. 

nonetheless, the team has enough talent to successfully compensate for injuries in the lineup, aoki said. 
“You certainly don’t want to make excuses, but it doesn’t help that two of your better of­fensive players are out, one with Ryan [for] the entire weekend and Jake Johnson in two out of the three games,” he said. “we’ve got to be good enough to overcome that. everyone’s go­ing to overcome a little injury adversity.” 
notre Dame was scheduled to play at illinois-chicago on tuesday, but the game was can-celled due to snowy weather in the chicago area. the irish decided to fill in their newly 
see baseball PAGE 13 




