The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 86 | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
‘Day of Man’ returns to campus 
Siegfried Hall tradition fundraises for South Bend Center for the Homeless 
By KAYLA MULLEN 
associate news editor 
Today, the siegfried ramblers will brave the south bend cold in only t-shirts, shorts and flip-flops in soli­darity with the homeless as they celebrate “day of man.” 
This annual fundraiser raises money for the south bend center for the homeless, day of man co-commis­sioner Thomas ridella said. residents collect money from students, staff and faculty on the day itself but also encour­age donations from family and friends who wish to sup­port the cause as well, ridella said. 
“in previous years we have raised between $6,000 to $8,000, and last year we hit a record $10,000. we are aim­ing for $12,000 this year, and we’re hoping the addition of an online donation page will help with our efforts,” co-commissioner alexander campbell said. “The center’s need grows each year, and we are hoping our support can grow to meet that demand.” 
The fundraiser began nine years ago, ridella said. 
“a sophomore in siegfried was walking home from off 
see day oF man PAGE 4 



investigation of kim’s death continues 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI and MARGARET HYNDS 
editor-in-chief and associate news editor 
investigation into the death of sophomore stu­dent daniel kim is ongoing, and authorities are not yet able to provide information on the cause of his death, roseland police chief aaron catanzarite said Tuesday. 
a preliminary report from st. Joseph county deputy coroner dr. mike o’connell ruled out homicide and suicide, but cause of death cannot be determined until there are results from a toxi­cology report, catanzarite said. results could take sev­eral weeks to come back. 

catanzarite said the clay Township Fire department responded first to a call from kim’s apartment in roseland on Friday, and he was called in to assist them shortly after, around 12 p.m. 
catanzarite and o’connell ruled out foul play Friday afternoon. 
“conferring with [o’connell] at that time, it was apparent to us at the initial investigation that there was no foul play and no suicide,” catanzarite said. 
a south bend Tribune re­port this weekend stated that notre dame security police (ndsp) had taken over the investigation into kim’s death, but ndsp di­rector phil Johnson de­scribed that information as “inaccurate” in an email. 
“The roseland police and the st. Joseph county coro­ner’s office handled the case,” Johnson said. 
kim, a business major from upper saddle river, new Jersey, was formerly a member of the notre dame fencing team. a memorial 
see kim PAGE 5 


smc junior donates stem cells 
By MEGAN UEKERT 
news writer 
This year, junior and co-president of saint mary’s college dance marathon allison lukomski went a step beyond her group’s mis­sion to raise awareness and money for the riley hospital for children in indianapolis 
— she donated her own stem cells in the form of blood over the summer. 
dance marathon advocates for be the match, an organi­zation that offers the largest and most diverse marrow registry through 600 centers worldwide. according to the riley children’s Foundation website, lukomski received an email from be the match asking her to donate her stem cells to help save the life of a 60-year-old female with myelodysplastic syndromes (mds) in July.  mds is a bone marrow disorder in which the bone marrow does not 
see donor PAGE 5 



university plans tuition increase of 3.7 percent 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame announced in a press release Tuesday that undergraduate tuition and fees for the 2015 -2016 aca­demic year will increase by 
3.7 percent, the lowest percent increase at notre dame in 55 years. 
The increase will bring tu­ition and fees to $47,929, with average student room and board rates of $13,846 bring­ing total student charges for the academic year to $61,775, the press release said. 
university president Fr. John Jenkins thanked parents and guardians of students for 



news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 men’s baskeTball PAGE 16 waking The echoes PAGE 16 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 





QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite app? 

Bryan Kennedy 
freshman 
knott hall 
“Twitter.” 

Colleen O’Mahoney 
sophomore badin hall 
“yik yak.” 

Kyle Casey 
freshman pangborn hall 
“snapchat.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Michael McRoskey 
freshman 
dillon hall 
“dark sky.” 

Richard Kessler 
senior 
off-campus 
“google maps.” 


Spicer Emge 
freshman 
dillon hall 
“madden mobile.” 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
rebecca o’neil gabriela malespin Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
margaret hynds renee griffin andrea vale greg hadley 

Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
emily danaher maddie daly 
Photo Viewpoint 

Reading: Lynne Staff Mass Graduate Student Men’s Lacrosse Mass in Spanish 
michael yu austin Taliaferro 
Tillman Log Chapel Mass Arlotta Stadium Dillon Hall Chapel Eck Visitors Center 10 a.m. - 11 a.m. Basilica of the Sacred 12 p.m. - 2 p.m. 1:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. 
7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Rev. Jim Bracke will Heart The Irish take on Worship service. 
Corrections 

Novelist and cultural preside. 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Georgetown. in a Feb. 10 article about daniel kim’s critic. Worship Service. memorial mass, the congregation of holy cross was misidentified as the 
“Macbeth” Mindful Meditation Men’s Hockey Vigil Mass Men’s Boxing 
congregation of the holy cross in 
Washington Hall Coleman-Morse Compton Family Ice Basilica of the Sacred Joyce Center 
the first sentence of the article. The 
7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Center Arena Heart 3 p.m. - 6 p.m. 
observer regrets this error. 

Performance by 5:15 p.m. - 6:25 p.m. 7:35 p.m. - 10 p.m. 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. 85th Annual Bengal Actors from the Open to students, The Irish take on Worship Service. Bouts Preliminaries. London Stage. faculty and staff. Providence. 


Jeopardy champ talks sexism, gaming 
By JEREMY CAPPELLO-LEE 
news writer 
arthur chu, 12-day Jeopardy champion and writer for The daily beast spoke Tuesday eve­ning on the unhealthy views of women found in “nerd culture,” in a lecture titled “your princess is in another castle,” the second in the men in masculinity series spon­sored by the gender relations center. 
chu said the increasing portray­al of “nerds” in films and television as awkward but benign characters belies the fact that there are im­plicit misogynistic attitudes pro­moted by groups within the nerd subculture. 
“one of the threads is the con­cept of sexual market value,” chu said. “it’s the idea that sex is a transaction between man and woman, much like when you’re in­teracting with a vendor.” 
chu said this transactional view is not only found within certain online communities of men who blame their frustrations on wom­en but is also present in popular entertainment. 
“it sounds crazy. but it’s not that weird. it’s what you see in the bat­tle of the sexes in sitcoms, where the husband and the wife hate each other,” chu said. “it’s a trope so obvious that even the simplest video games for children use it, that you have to save the princess.” 
chu said the frequent use of this trope in entertainment reflects a deeper societal tendency to view women as a prize. 
“it’s an old narrative; it’s a very powerful narrative of how things should be between men and wom­en,” he said. “it’s built into every story that has the beginning end with the promise of the daughter’s hand in marriage for accomplish­ing this quest.” 
chu said this view of relation­ships not only harms women but also dissolves the value of relationships. 
“at the end of the day a trans­actional view of relationships is a bad relationship,” he said. “The very nature of saying you deserve to be with someone for accom­plishing some task means that the person that you want to be with is interchangeable with anyone.” 
in some cases, this “toxic” per­ception of relating with women leads to extreme violence, seen in the virginia Tech and university of california santa barbara shoot­ings, chu said. 
“it’s often the least successful men — the guys who we think of as nerdy, rejected and pitiful 
— who are most resentful in this context, and therefore the most dangerous,” chu said. 
chu said the danger in dis­missing “lone-wolf” spree kill­ings as anomalies undermines the awareness that these acts are one part of a much larger problem by which women are negatively affected. 
“The problematic behavior lies on a spectrum,” chu said. “but the behavior that we’re talking about is built into the assumptions of our society. The spectrum of antago­nistic behavior based on a trans­actional view of sex and marriage is the idea that women owe you something. 

“no matter how much an in­dividual woman might look for a man who doesn’t buy into this chu said countering this narrative, she’s going to be ex-transactional view of women posed to men who are on the toxic and relationships first requires a side of the spectrum.” willingness to address the issue 
head on. 



paid adverTisemenT 
“Just talking about it is a big deal,” chu said. “when it’s the in the background, when it’s the assumed state of how things are, if you don’t put a name to it, it’s 


STUDENT GOVERNMENT SPARKNOTES 
very hard to oppose it. 
“it is a big deal to recognize when these tropes come up, and recognize that they are tropes, that they are a specific way of looking at things that doesn’t have to be true.” 
Contact Jeremy Cappello-Lee at jcappell@nd.edu 
series examines gender, theology 
By CECILIA GREUBEL 
news writer 
saint mary’s Theology on Fire series examined gender’s role in christian theology with a discussion on “american women and the permanent diaconate” facilitated by katherine harmon, a theol­ogy professor from marian university. 
harmon began the conversa­tion by recalling a project given to her by a former professor at notre dame called “on the archives.” she said the assign­ment was fairly open-ended and meant to delve into a par­ticular subject of the student’s choice. 
harmon said she researched the word “women” and soon came across “woman diaconates.” 
harmon asked the event’s at­tendees if they could recall the role of a deacon. The audience said deacon’s responsibilities include teaching, reading and assisting with baptism. 
“The role of the deacon has to do with service,” harmon said. 
harmon listed statistics pertaining to the average american deacon, including level of education, age and marital status. 
“one-hundred percent of contemporary deacons are male,” she said. 
harmon said the historically, this hegemony was not always the case. harmon said vari­ous sources, like unclear pas­sages from books in the bible like Timothy and romans, as well as letters from church au­thority recognized the role of deaconesses. 
given this public informa­tion, harmon said she pon­dered why the idea of a woman in the role of deacon seem so foreign to catholics today. 
“The issue, it seems, is deal­ing with the word ordination,” harmon said. “if you took the present definition and tried to apply it to the past, these wom­en were not ordained.” 
harmon said although she was unaware of a specific mod-ern-day movement to return women to the role of deaconess, she was personally motivated to share this information be­cause it is the unknown truth. 
“To me, it is crucial to see that women were there and to see where they were. it is impor­tant to recognize the presence of women in history, especially in the liturgy,” harmon said. 
Contact Cecilia Greuber at cgreuber01@saintmarys.edu 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Beyond Conflict chair explains mission 
By ALEX CAO 
news writer 
Tim phillips, chair and co-founder of the global initia­tive beyond conflict, spoke about his experience work-

ing with leaders around the world for over two de­cades in the eck hall of law Tuesday evening. 
beyond conflict began in 1992 to facilitate discourse between societies divided in conflict, focusing on the human element of conflict and the experiences of oth­er leaders transitioning to peace. phillips said his net­work includes 75 initiatives in more than 22 countries in regions like the middle east, latin america, the balkans, eastern europe, south africa and northern ireland. 
“what we do is find the relevant experiences around the world to bring and share with leaders at all levels,” phillips said. “we describe leaders as not just political elites. civil society, grass­roots, anybody that exer­cises leadership in a society 
— we engage them. 
“we assist leaders in divid­ed societies struggling with conflict, reconciliation and societal change by facilitat­ing direct contact with lead­ers who have successfully addressed similar challeng­es in other settings.” 
phillips said beyond conflict’s method of resolv­ing conflict in those soci­change; and seeing that oth­ers can change is empower­ing. phillips said these three principles are powerful, even on a natural, biological level. 
“people don’t respond to the legacy of repression, vio­lence and trauma with their national identity card. They respond as humans” phillips said. “of course, every country will have their own unique experience, but when people respond to trauma and loss of agency, these are human experiences.” 
phillips said despite na­tional, cultural or religious differences, his global net­

“People don’t respond to the legacy of repression, violence and trauma with their national identity card. They respond as humans.” 
Tim Phillips 

chair, co-founder Beyond Conflict  
eties is grounded in three rather basic, but perhaps un­dervalued principles: people can learn from the experi­ences of others; people can  work focuses on serving the universal experience of tragedy. “The dna of our organi­zation is this recognition of  

shared human experience. That doesn’t say that every situation is analogous and alike. but again, people re­spond as humans. culture, ethnicity, race and ideol­ogy center of this operating system called the human brain.” 
phillips said beyond conflict’s work has taught him valuable lessons for ap­proaching future projects in the same vein. he said since the initiative’s birth, important themes within peace building include con­fronting dictatorship and victimhood, recognizing the need for change, chang­ing paradigms and mindsets and building trust among enemies. 
“inclusion is the basis of sustainable change,” phillips said. “The flip side of that is exclusion is the main driver conflict, in my view. people need to be ac­knowledge as how they see themselves and understand­ing is more important than trust.” 
Contact Alex Cao at  acao@nd.edu 
Tuition 
conTinued From page 1 
dame education. 
“but perhaps the truest measure of the value and im­pact of a notre dame educa­tion can be seen in the lives of our graduates,” Jenkins said. “in my travels across this great nation and in oth­er parts of the world, it is a source of joy to encounter notre dame alumni making a difference in every imag­inable field of endeavor. as women and men of faith committed to turning their gifts to the service of oth­ers, they give generously of themselves to their families, their communities and the church. 
“it is humbling and grati­fying how often our gradu­ates credit the education they received at notre dame and the people they came to know here with shaping them in profound and im­portant ways for a lifetime. it is this sense of gratitude and connection that accounts for what is perhaps the most active, loyal and passionate alumni network in the world. 
“we are grateful to you for the giving us the opportunity to learn and live with them.” 
Day of Man 
conTinued From page 1 
campus with only shorts and a t-shirt and actually noticed just how cold it can get in south bend,” he said. “This realization turned into an event that year to help one of the greatest organizations in our community that helps the homeless all year, and particularly in these cold winter months.” 
generally, more than 200 of the siegfried residents participate, campbell said. 
“we take pride in the strength of our community and the willingness of our residents to bear a burden so that others’ may be less­ened,” he said. “siegfried gets stereotyped as an ath­letic, masculine dorm. on day of man, we live up to that ideal.” 
The event also proves why siegfried is called the “hall of champions,” junior James bowyer said. 
“[a] champion … means ‘a person who fights or ar­gues for a cause or on behalf of someone else.’ siegfried’s day of man is a chance for us all to be champions in an­other, much more important, sense,” bowyer said. “we, the entire campus, get the op­portunity to come together as a family and be champi­ons for a cause that desper­ately needs help. 
“… what i am trying to say is that i participate because, at the end of the day, i know that whatever sickness i get will fade (along with the numbness that comes from walking to [debartolo hall]), but the people who are strug­gling with homelessness don’t know when or if they will be able to bounce back and that is not fair.” 
day of man allows the par­ticipants to give back to the community while also rais­ing awareness of the difficul­ties the homeless face every day, junior brian davis said. 
“it helps put a little bit into perspective what the home­less have to deal with every, and if, in the process, we are able to raise a lot of money for them … well, then, that’s just something special that gets everyone interested,” davis said. 
sophomore eric salter said the camaraderie of day of man makes it an experience not to be missed. 
“i would not mistake walk­ing to class in freezing tem­peratures in summer wear as enjoyable, but, when doing so with 200 of your best friends and neighbors, it becomes an act of unity,” salter said. “close sense of community is one the greatest aspects of notre dame life, and this event is a quintessential ex­ample of it.” 
The annual event provides a way to bond with fellow ramblers as well as help­ing a great cause, junior Jack szigety said. 
“every time you walk by another rambler in a bright t-shirt and shorts, you can’t help but feel a bond, even if you’ve never spoken,” szigety said. “The real beauty of the day is that it does all this while supporting the incred­ible cause of helping the homeless during the harsh winter months in south bend.” 
Temperatures are predict­ed to be just above freezing wednesday, with a chance of snow, but when asked how the event’s participants will deal with the cold, the organizers 




paid adverTisemenT 

simply said, “what cold?” 
To donate to day of man, go to studentshop.nd.edu, select “residence halls” and select “siegfried hall.” checks pay­able to south bend center for the homeless, with “day of man” as the memo, can be delivered to Fr. John conley in 100 siegfried hall or di­rectly to the center: center for the homeless, 813 s. michigan st., south bend, in 46601. 
Contact Kayla Mullen at  kmullen2@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



Donor 
conTinued From page 1 
produce enough healthy blood cells, and stems cells are not produced at all. 
according to riley children’s Foundation web­site, lukomski gave a sample during a drive on campus sponsored by stand up To cancer club. lukomski said once a person registers her swabbed cheek sample through be The match, she remains on the registry for life. some prospective do­nors many never be called, and every donor is always given a choice to opt out. 
“everything is up to you,” lumoski said. “if i wanted to stop [the process] the morn­ing of my donation, they would have to respect that, which i think makes the or­ganization better.” 
lukomski said she was given two options when con­tacted to donate. 
“The first option is to do­nate your stem cells, which is the most common,” she said. 
“I left the hospital and realized that I will forever be a part of someone else. A stranger had turned into my biggest inspiration.” 
Allison Lukomski 
co-president 
SMC Dance Marathon 
“The second option is more invasive, in which they actu­ally go into your hipbone and extract bone marrow.” 
lukomski said she was asked to donate stem cells in the form of blood. The ex­traction process took a total of six hours, she said. 
“after [winter] break i was notified that my recipient is out of the hospital and is doing well,” lukomski said. “That is all i know for now unless she decides to reach out to me.” 
lukomski did not actually lose any blood because the medical technicians extract­ed the stem cells out of her blood and then pumped the blood back through her body. lukomski said the only side affect of her donation experi­ence was mild tiredness from the shots the doctors gave her — a small price to pay for a worthwhile cause. 
“if i’m going to have to be a little tired in order to save a life, why not?” lukomski said. 
in a riley blog post, lumoski attributes her inspi­ration to donate to her family and friends. 
“... without them i would not have had the mindset to donate,” she said. “They were the people who taught me so much about the world and giving.” 
“The other support system i had was my dance marathon executive board,” lukomski said. “i left the hospital and realized that i will forever be a part of someone else. a stranger had turned into my biggest inspiration.” 
Joining the be The match registry is very simple and can be done online at bet­hematch.org. The organiza­tion also comes to campus to collect samples for students interested in becoming po­tential donors. 
Contact Megan Uekert at muekert01@saintmarys.edu 
Kim 
conTinued From page 1 
mass  was  held  monday  
night  in  the  basilica  
of  the  sacred  heart.  

university president Fr. John Jenkins presided over the mass, and director of campus ministry Fr. pete mccormick delivered the homily. 
according to catanzarite, ndsp is as­sisting with the investiga­tion, which is consistent with the department’s normal protocol. 
Associate News Editor Kayla Mullen contributed to this report. 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at  ajakubo1@nd.edu  and Margaret Hynds at  mhynds@nd.edu 

Jon Stewart announces retirement after 16 years 
Associated Press 
Jon stewart, who turned his biting and free-wheeling humor into an unlikely source of news and analysis for viewers of “The daily show,” will leave as host this year, comedy central said Tuesday. 
his departure was announced by comedy central president michele ganeless after stewart, host of the show since 1999, broke the news to the audience at Tuesday’s taping in new york. 
“Through his unique voice and vision, ‘The daily show’ has become a cultural touch­stone for millions of fans and an unparalleled platform for politi­cal comedy that will endure for years to come,” ganeless said in a statement. 
she called stewart, 52, a “comic genius.” he will remain as host until later this year, she said, but did not specify his exit date or what led to his decision. 
he influence is seen in the work of stephen colbert, John oliver and larry wilmore, who went on to earn shows of their own. other “daily show” alumni include steve carell, ed helms, Josh gad and new “saturday night live” anchor michael che. 
reaction was swift from stewart’s admirers and, in some cases, likely past targets. 
“Just had the honor of being the great Jon stewart’s guest (on ‘The daily show’), where he an­nounced he’s leaving. emotional night,” david axelrod, former adviser to president barack obama, posted on Twitter. 
stewart’s departure repre­sents a second big blow for comedy central: another star, stephen colbert, left “The colbert report” last year to take over from cbs late-night host david letterman when he re­tires in may. 
larry wilmore and the new “The nightly show” replaced “The colbert report.” 
The stewart and colbert shows created templates for a comedic form that offered laughs along with trenchant po­litical and social satire. authors and politicians were as com­mon as hollywood celebrities on the self-described “fake news” programs. 
stewart took a several months-long hiatus in 2013 to direct “rosewater,” a well-reviewed film about an iranian-born journalist who was imprisoned for 118 days in Tehran and accused of being a spy. The comedy central state­ment did not indicate what his plans were after leaving. 
last november, in an inter­view with The associated press for “rosewater,” stewart was asked about his future with the comedy central show. he re­plied that the format he works in doesn’t matter. 
“it’s a journey. it’s a conversa­tion,” he said. “one thing i won’t do is write music or sing.” 
mindy kaling blamed the lure of filmdom. 
“i knew when Jon stewart left to direct that movie he was gonna try something like this,” kaling posted on Twitter. 
when he returned from his filmmaking break, stewart played a tape of president barack obama urging military action against syria because of last month’s poison gas attack. 
“america taking military ac­tion against a middle east re­gime,” stewart said. “it’s like i never left.” 
in 2010, stewart and colbert drew a crowd to the washington mall for their rally to restore sanity and/or Fear. They tack­led familiar topics — the par­tisan gridlock in the nation’s capital and the political talk show culture that encouraged it. 
stewart was credited with effectively killing one cable program — cnn’s “crossfire” 
— when his withering criticism of its partisan squabbling hit a nerve and cnn soon cancelled it. 
he poked fun at politicians but spent even more time on the media establishment covering them. The most recent example was monday night, when he tut-tutted nbc’s brian williams for being caught exaggerating about the danger he faced cov­ering the iraq war. 
on Tuesday, nbc announced that williams was being sus­pended as “nightly news” an­chor and managing editor for six months without pay. 
stewart, however, had more withering criticism for the re­porters covering williams, jok­ing that finally the media was criticizing someone for mis­leading the public during the iraq war. 
kevin convey, chair of jour­nalismatQuinnipiac university, called the announcement a milestone. 
stewart’s departure is “the end of an era that saw an entire generation turn to a comedian for news and views for the first time — a reign that presaged Twitter and other forms of so­cial media” that provide “equal parts information and attitude to millions,” convey said. 


God save the television 

INSIDE COLUMN 

hoosier and proud 
Alex Carson 
sports writer 

i’m an indiana kid. it’s the only state i consciously remember living in and since i started at notre dame, it’s been something of which i’ve felt proud. 
above all else, it’s probably the nature of notre dame’s student population that makes me feel that extra pride in my home state — after all, there aren’t too many hoosiers here. and in an odd way, i like that. be it knowing and ac­cepting our state’s super weird liquor laws or just understanding how beauti­ful indiana sunsets can be. i feel like there’s a part of me that wouldn’t want to be anywhere else. 
i’m a hoosier and more often than not, i try to make it known. 
but until i got here, i didn’t think of myself that way. 
i was born in youngstown, ohio, not indianapolis. my parents and i moved when i was 17 months old, but that doesn’t mean that everything about us changed. 
rather than adopting the hometown indiana teams, i stuck with my dad’s allegiances as a cleveland sports fan. and since just about our entire fam­ily still lives in ohio, seemingly every memorial day, Thanksgiving and christmas, we got in the car and made the drive back. 
it’s surely a big part of the reason why growing up, i considered ohio “home.” it’s where i came from, where my fam­ily was, where my favorite pizza places were and where i spent many christmas eves anxiously awaiting what santa was going to bring me overnight. 
looking back on it, though, i think i’ve figured something out. i looked at what made me different rather than what made me the same. instead of looking at myself as a hoosier grow­ing up, i focused on my ohio roots and considered myself a buckeye. it was something that i could take pride in, something that made me unique. 
and then fast forward to the first day i set foot on this campus as a student. instead of just accepting that we were all students here, i started thinking of myself as a hoosier. what once made me like everyone else had suddenly made me unique. 
but does it really matter? sure, we come from all over and our origins and identities shape who we are, but doesn’t it matter more who we are, rather than where we come from? 
so  maybe next time you’re meeting someone new, try focusing on what you share, rather than establishing some­thing you don’t have in common. 
because, i mean, they’re probably from chicago anyways. 
Contact Alex Carson at            acarson1@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Tim Scanlan 
pardon the prose 

This is a love letter to good television. it is also par­tially my rationalization for the amount of “Friends” my friends and i have watched in the last four weeks, but mostly it’s a love letter to good television. more specifically, i think we sometimes overlook the televi­sion we consume as mere distraction and forget that those three-hour binge watching sessions have an impact on our lives. comedies, dramas, miniseries and adaptions all have a place on the small screen and because of the power of technology today, they are easily accessible to college students at a moment’s notice. some shows bring us together, others suck us in, but good television can transform the way we look at the world around us. 
it seems that sitcoms always bring people together, both during the actual watching of them and the con­stant recycling of their jokes in a group of friends. i swear the only reason i started watching “brooklyn nine-nine” was so that i could catch the references people around me were making. as everyone relieves the late 1990s by watching “Friends” on netflix (as i write this, two faculty members at a nearby table are discussing how they just reached season four), i’m sure my once-dated “how you doin’?” will receive more traction now. part of the fun is also the instant judgment when we viewers disagree with something the show’s creators do. when the “how i met your mother” series finale aired, there was legitimate com­munity building over the outrage spurred by our un­met expectations. 
sometimes though, great television can pull us in with artistry and a great story more than it operates as a communal affair. although some dramas like “house of cards” and “breaking bad” manage to gen­erate buzz both in popular culture and in spaces that consider themselves more refined, some shows get us thinking more than they get us talking. shows like “black mirror” and “a young doctor’s notebook” on bbc are intense, thought-provoking series that might not reach a widespread audience, but have certainly left me speechless on more than one occasion (harry potter and don draper collectively play one early 1900s russian doctor. seriously.). in the united states, “mad men” — for all its misogyny and painstaking detail — has a cult following like few other shows do. 
These programs do more than fill a few empty hours of our lives. They teach lessons, expose us to new ideas and force us to confront our biases and preju­dices in the same way that literature does. 
while some of the shows i have mentioned are al­ready adaptations or rooted in pretty familiar televi­sion tropes, other series take adaptation to a new level and expose an entirely new audience to something magical. sherlock holmes may be the most portrayed fictional character of all time, but the bbc series “sherlock” has helped create two hollywood super­stars and definitively reimagine the detective in the modern age. also on the bbc (as you may have noted, i watch a lot of bbc), are several classic portrayals of the works of shakespeare, featuring premiere actors in incredible settings. shakespeare’s cultural weight can almost not be overstated, and these performanc­es add vigor to texts that can often feel lifeless to a student. 
an american adaptation that stands out in particu­lar is “band of brothers,” taken from a nonfiction book by stephen e. ambrose. This miniseries follows the men in easy company during wwii and tackles ques­tions of valor, leadership and victory during the dead­liest war of all time (coincidentally the title comes from shakespeare). when one type of entertainment is transformed into television, there is the potential for error and flops. but when done right, television can open up an entire world to people who may have never heard the works of sir doyle or shakespeare, or known the bravery of the men in easy company. good television not only gives these stories a wider audi­ence, but also adds to them in its own unique way. 
so next time you sit down to binge watch the new season of “doctor who” or “game of Thrones,” re­member that your time is not wasted. you could be learning about the past, connecting with friends or exposing yourself to new ways of thought. no matter what your particular brand of distraction is, just keep in mind that you are what you eat. Television will shape you and add to you. Think wisely before you binge. 
Tim Scanlan is a senior finance major with a minor in public service. He is a former resident of Morrissey Manor. He encourages debate on his columns and can be reached with any comments or questions at tscanlan@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


Reaction and revolution in the Middle East 
Billy McMahon 
blue collar blues 

kayla mueller, an american aid worker taken hostage by the islamic state, was confirmed dead yesterday. it is unclear whether she was killed in Jordan’s airstrikes on the islamic state last week or if she had died prior to that. Those Jordan airstrikes occurred following the execution of a Jordanian pilot by islamic state militants. 
Frequently abbreviated isis for one of its previ­ous names — the islamic state of iraq and syria 
— the islamic state has torn a bloody swath across syria, iraq and kurdistan. The united nations and a number of international organizations have decried isis for its strict religious laws, repression of women, war crimes, slaughter of ethnic and religious minorities and execution of foreign aid workers and journalists. There is a broad interna­tional consensus that the islamic state must be opposed and destroyed. To do that, we must un­derstand how movements like this come to be. 
when people feel disadvantaged by certain social and economic structures, they tend to act against those systems. There are two broad impulses that manifest themselves in extreme cases — the revolutionary/progressive impulse and the reactionary/regressive impulse. whatever the truth of their claims, these two camps are re­spectively characterized by either endeavoring to move forward to a new social structure thought to be better or endeavoring to move back to an old social structure thought to be better. reacting to feelings of alienation produced by global inequal­ity and to the perceived humiliation of the arab world at the hands of imperialist and neo-imperi­alist powers, thousands of disaffected young men in the region have turned to religious fundamen­talism and the real and imagined glories of past empires. 
This reactionary impulse is most familiar to the western world in the examples of european fas­cism. european fascism sought to “fix” collapsing capitalism by incorporating elements of classi­cal conservatism, including a corporatist social structure, class collaboration, traditional family values and religious conservatism. a militaristic state presided over the glorification of the nation, giving the ideology a stronger foothold in nations that had suffered real and perceived humilia­tions. class divisions and inequality persisted, and private ownership of production was retained in much of the economy, but all was subject to the “nation” and fascism saw itself as a “third way” distinct from capitalism and socialism. 
born out of dissatisfaction with the inequality and exploitation of european capitalism, fas­cism committed grave crimes on the continent. The first major war against fascism was fought by spanish republicans and anarchists that op­posed the military coup led by general Francisco Franco. backed by adolf hitler’s germany, benito mussolini’s italy, the catholic church and major american businesses, Franco eventually pre­vailed, but not until after years of bloody war that kept spain out of world war ii. The battle for madrid, a long destructive siege surrounding the republic’s capital, was burned into the continent’s memory. it was another long destructive siege that marked the turning point against fascism years later — the battle of stalingrad. 
Today, those doing the fiercest fighting against the reactionary islamic state are the stateless kurds. in rojava — syrian kurdistan — the siege of kobanî was recently won by kurdish forces fol­lowing the deaths of thousands and the displace­ment of hundreds of thousands. The kurdistan workers’ party (pkk), based out of Turkey, and its syrian affiliates, the democratic union party (pyd) and the people’s protection units (ypg), have been most intimately involved in kurdish resistance around the city of kobanî. 
Formerly a marxist-leninist party, the pkk was until recently best known for its conflict with the Turkish government. Following an ideologi­cal shift, the pkk and its affiliates now adhere to a quasi-anarchist, libertarian socialist program termed “democratic confederalism” and focused on community autonomy and a collective, mu­tual aid economy. 35 percent of ypg soldiers are women, who equal within their secular militias. not only are the kurds fighting the islamic state physically, they are also seeking to reorganize society to eliminate the problems that led to reli­gious fundamentalism and social reaction in the first place. 
last month, a conference was held in london on how to best counter isis. 21 countries were in­vited, but the kurds were ignored. while some of these countries, including the united states, have aided kurds through airstrikes, leaving kurdish groups out of the conference betrayed the trust of the stateless people. The leftist revolution that has taken hold in rojava threatens surrounding coun­tries that repress kurds (Turkey), women (saudi arabia) and workers (all of them), so these coun­tries want to leave the kurds behind. 
kurdish groups are leading the fight against the islamic state, fighting reaction with progress — the only way victory can be permanent. if the in­ternational community ignores this, these groups threaten to botch the operation and create more reactionaries in the process. kobanî could be the middle east’s stalingrad, marking the turning of the tide and the rolling back of murderous reac­tion, or it could just be another destroyed city. 
Billy McMahon is a senior studying Latin American history and is active in the labor movement. He welcomes all comments at wmcmahon@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

making a case for theology 
it would be a great shame if notre dame were to drop its theology requirement. 
Theology should be a requirement for students because education is about much more than get­ting the particular skills a student needs for his or her career path. all students are required to take math and science classes, not because these courses will be advantageous for their careers (god knows most of us do not remember Taylor series in calculus or electron orbitals from chem­istry, nor do most of us use them), but because they help the student have a more developed un­derstanding of the world. most departments also require foreign language skills for the same rea­son. it is the same with theology — of the seven billion people in the world, nearly two billion are christian (and nearly half of that number are catholic), over one billion are muslim and hun­dreds of millions are hindu or buddhist (to say nothing of the millions of people of smaller-sized religious traditions). with religion still playing such a prominent role in our global world (and the celebrity of our current pope is good evidence of that), the university would be doing a disservice to its students by graduating them without any knowledge of their own faith or the faith of others. 
i understand many parents believe that theology is a waste of time and unimportant in their chil­dren’s education. For that matter, so is football (and god knows notre dame students spend far more time watching/tailgating/celebrating football games than they do studying theology), but the notre dame experience would not be the same without it. college is not a wholly utilitarian experience — the point is not to get only what is needed and no further. This is, essentially, the dif­ference between being an active student at notre dame versus participating in a correspondence degree program. Theology, like football, dorm life, freshman orientation, trips to the grotto and mid­night drummers’ circle, is not essential for career training, but it is a unique and important element of the notre dame experience. 
a good theology course (or two) also helps students to better understand their own beliefs (theistic or non). whether a student is catholic, atheist, lutheran, buddhist, agnostic, Jewish, hindu or any other faith tradition, he or she gains a deeper insight into the traditions and beliefs that are at the center of the catholic church (it may be noted as well that not every theology class is a catholic theology class either). The student who is doubtful regarding her faith, just as much as the student who is a firm believer, is better for having a deeper appreciation of just what it is that she doubts. many of my own friends from notre dame have told me that theology courses made them very interested in attending to their own spirituality, whether or not they concluded any­thing definite. 
Finally, it should be noted that the university of notre dame, if it can be said to be the catholic flagship university of the united states, needs to fully support its own theology department. The catholic identity of the university, so proudly called upon in defaming the university’s in­vitation to president obama in 2009, is at risk. Theology is how the church deepens its under­standing of the human relationship with god, and catholic theology is the particular way of express­ing what catholic identity, an identity rooted in an understanding of our divine createdness, really is. if catholic identity is really of concern for the university, then it is vital to keep that identity in the curriculum. 
Levi Checketts class of 2010 Feb. 10 





By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

“all hail macbeth, thou shalt be king hereafter! Thou shalt get kings, though thou be none: so all hail, macbeth and banquo!” 
if you have ever seen shakespeare performed on a live stage, you know the language comes to life in a truly unique way as opposed to reading the text on dead, dried ink on the pages of a book (or in this case, a newspaper). Quotes such as the one above can stir strong feelings in text, but nothing can replace the chills that run down your spine when the witches declare their most insidious prophecy right before your eyes. whatever your experi­ence with shakespeare may be, theatergoers can look forward to an imaginative and poignant approach to the showing of the world’s most well-known playwright’s “macbeth” at washington hall tonight, Thursday and Friday. 
notre dame serves as the american base and one of the first destinations for the program actors from the london stage (aFTls), which sends a cast of five pro­fessional actors from well-known and well-respect­ed theatres all over the united kingdom, including shakespeare’s globe, the national Theatre of great britain and the royal shakespeare company, to perform and teach workshops at colleges across this side of the pond. 
This year is also the 40th anniversary of continu­ous touring for the program. This week, actors michael palmer, charles armstrong, annie aldington, Joanna bending and ben warwick will teach shakespeare to classes at notre dame during the day and act out his tales at night. 
This touring season delivers “macbeth,” quite pos­sibly shakespeare’s darkest tragedy, a tale brimming with mystery, magic and madness. in “macbeth,” shakespeare’s famous witches plant an idea in the mind of a scottish general and his psychopathic, power-hun­gry wife. Through blood and betrayal, the corrupted couple destroy the foundations that hold a nation to­gether and threaten anyone who stands in their way. 
“macbeth” already stands prominently in shakespeare’s works as the source of his perhaps most unfortunate and most complex central character, lord macbeth himself. michael palmer, who plays macbeth, as well as an english doctor and a murderer, is thrilled about the opportunities the character presents him. 
“it’s an extremely complex part, but there’s two main aspects to it," palmer said. "The main two are grappling with his changes of thought and the changes of what he does. some of it is absolutely perplexing, and deep, for lack of a better term. and the other is you have to go deep to understand why he is doing a particular thing. you have directors who can help you, but hopefully it comes down to you. and then you have to get the measure of it. even now, i’m just starting to get the measure of it. you could almost spend a lifetime playing this part and nev­er get to the heart of it. 
with a role as complex and tragic as macbeth, palmer also said that part of the struggle lies in dealing with go­ing crazy yourself. 
“a method actor actually advised me to be careful because this part might send you a bit crackers (that’s english for nuts),” palmer explained. “he said macbeth is going to take you into some very dark places. and so i’m kind of still waiting to go crazy. i haven’t yet, but i could see how you could. you have to go through some odd places, otherwise it wouldn’t be very satisfying.” 
yet there is something else about aFTls which sug­gests this particular performance will stand out on stage. perhaps it is the opportunity to see such a dark tale on Friday the 13th, or perhaps it is the unique circum­stances surrounding these shows in particular. not only are the five actors doing all the roles by themselves, the play is also self-directed. palmer explained that the cast is very supportive of each other and has been working together through over a month of rehearsals to get the nuances of such a unique show down. 
as dark and tragic as “macbeth” could potentially be, palmer said it wouldn’t be all bad. 
“we have worked extremely hard trying to make this clear and as entertaining as we possibly can," palmer said. "i know it’s a dark piece. people can down in it's about blood, it's about witches. yes, it is all about those things, but hopefully it is also clear and amazing. The story is wonderful, and it’s entertaining and it’s not very long." 
The three performances will run at 7:30 p.m. tonight, Thursday and Friday. individual tickets are $22, student tickets are $12 and children under 18 are free with a paid adult. Tickets may be purchased at the debartolo performing arts center ticket office, by phone at (574) 631-2800 or online at shakespeare.nd.edu. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 


By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 

valentine’s day is saturday and that means netflix is recommending all sorts of romantic comedies. but before you spend your Thursday and Friday curled up watching netflix, consider heading out to see the student players’ most recent production, “almost maine.” 
“almost maine” is a play by John cariani based around a series of nine vignettes. each scene, which is about five minutes long, takes place in the no man’s land, not-quite­a-town place of almost, maine (don’t worry, they’ll ex­plain what that means), in the moments leading up to the appearance of the northern lights. 
if you’ve seen “valentine’s day,” “new year’s eve” or “he's Just not That into you,” the play runs on a similar concept. 
sophomore Tommy Favorite, who is playing east, steve and daniel, gave some insight into the genre. 
“i refer it to as an all-encompassing romantic comedy because when you see romantic comedies, they all end different ways," Favorite said. "you have ones that end re­ally happy and everything works out; you have ones really bad; you have ones that are really sad the whole time, and you have a little glimmer at the end." 
The play is the first full production of the year for the student players, who put on “rage for the stage” in the fall and produced “inherit the wind” last spring. 
director paul kuczynski, a senior, chose to do the play after he was introduced to it last spring by one of his friends. she proposed that they could work as a pair to produce and have it finished in two weeks; however, it didn’t quite turn out that way. 
By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

if we don’t study history, it is doomed to repeat itself. such may be the case with abc’s short-lived, little-watched 2012-2013 Tuesday night programming. 
during the fall television season of 2012, abc origi­nally aired the critical darlings, cult sitcoms “happy endings” and “don’t Trust The b---- in apt. 23” back-to-back, starting at 9 p.m. each week. eventually, the shows were relegated to being burned off by abc in a nonsensical strategy from march through may of 2013. lackluster marketing and poor ratings, dipping under 
3.0 million u.s. viewers per episode, ultimately forced abc to cancel both programs: “happy endings” in its self-assured third season, “don’t Trust The b--- in apt. 23” in its promising second. now, possibly paradoxi­cally, low viewership and a perceived lack of attention to — or remembrance of — abc’s 2012 Tuesday night hour block of scheduling may prove to be its constitu­ents’ salvation. 
recently, hints towards a “happy endings” televi­sion return and wild allegations based on these small clues have begun to crop up. last Thursday, the show’s writers’ official Twitter account (@happywrites), which had been inactive since oct. 28, 2014, began publishing a series of cryptic tweets linking to a countdown web­site and coyly playing on themes of anticipation. The 
auditions for the play were in october, and rehearsals have been running since then. still, kuczynski said his ac­tors continue to surprise him. 
“sometimes you go through these scenes dozens upon dozens of times, and all of a sudden there’s a moment in there and it just completely surprises me," kuczynski said. "it’s so fresh." 
kuczynski’s enthusiasm for the production is clear from his directing style, which has him watching the actors re­hearse, running around the lab Theater excitedly to en­sure that the best view is available from every angle. 
The key challenge to this play is that almost every actor is playing two to three parts, and each character is only on stage for a couple of minutes. That’s not a lot of time for character development, and it means each character needs to be distinct and fully developed in the actor’s mind. 
playing characters sandrine and hope, senior elizabeth leader described what it feels like to nail a scene. 
“within a scene, when running through it, sometimes there will be this moment where everything just clicks, where the fact that you’re in a scene, and you’re acting just falls away, and you’re just there," leader said. "you act without acting. coming to the end of the scene and sud­denly realizing that that happened is just so incredibly exhilarating." 
it was clear that this was still the goal kuczynski had for his actors as they rehearsed monday night. when junior emma Fleming, playing gayle and glory, reached that clicking point in the scene “getting it back,” he exclaimed excitedly at the end of her speech, “you went there!” and asked her to channel that moment for the rest of the scene. 
The play itself is peculiarly appropriate for this time of 
website, sporting only the phrase “it’s almost a new day” and a simple timer, is currently counting down to mar. 31, 2015, at 11:59 p.m. psT. obviously, the quick thinker will notice that the date being counted down to is a second before april Fools’ day, and will also note the “happy endings” writers particularly fancy pranks. 
however, based on recent developments, there is rea­son to think — reasonably or conspiratorially — that this countdown could be more than a mere april Fools’ day joke. after all, how easy is it to uncover the date to which is being counted down? no, this date must sig­nal a major event in the world of “happy endings” news. consider this: of the six principal stars in the show’s original run, damon wayans Jr. has announced he’s leaving his series regular role on “new girl” at the end of its current fourth season, and adam pally left “The mindy project” on Jan. 13, reportedly due to signing a new, nondescript contract with abc. additionally, eliza coupe’s series “benched” was cancelled by usa a day later, despite a promising first season, leaving her free of commitment. as of now, the other three stars, casey wilson of “marry me,” Zachary knighton of the upcom­ing FoX midseason sitcom “weird loners” and elisha cuthbert of the upcoming nbc midseason sitcom “one big happy,” are still tied to shows through 2015. however, “marry me” lies in the balance with ratings dropping to the low two millions since its January re­turn. equally, “weird loners” and “one big happy” year. Though none of the scenes directly relate to one an­other, they all center around the same theme: love. 
“There’s nine different stories that we’re working with and they all land in a different place," Favorite said. "They’re all really different and really creative, but they’re all tapping into something that ties in together really well. love is a really complicated feeling, and what i think the show does the best is try to touch a little bit on everything that love can have you experience." 
That doesn’t mean that all the stories are happy. some of the scenes could be pulled straight from your favorite, feel-good romantic comedies, but others won’t give you an easy happy ending. 
“i think everyone could like the show," Fleming said. "no one could sit through this and go, 'hmmm ... it wasn’t that good.' you can relate to one of these characters, at least one. it’s light, but it’s also deep at the same time." 
if you’re on the fence about seeing the show, the cast says that there’s no way you could leave without loving it. 
“if you’re absolutely in love with the idea of love, believe in romance, true love, all that, we’ve got scenes for you," leader said. "if you basically plan on wearing solid black on valentine’s day and live a life of gagging at any cutesy­coupley things you see, we’ve got scenes that will appeal to you as well. This is a show that showcases the full spec­trum of romantic experiences, falling into and out of love, missed connections, almost connections." 
“almost maine” is playing Thursday and Friday at 
7:30 p.m. and saturday at 4 p.m. in the washington hall lab Theater. Tickets are $5 and can be purchased at the laFortune student center box office or at the door. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 
currently have only six episodes ordered. 
could the creatives behind “happy endings” be prep­ping their fans for a resurrection of their beloved show? The stars literally are aligning in an order that could suggest so. it would be foolish to expect that the show would return as soon as april 1, even more so with the 12 
a.m. timing. it could be counting towards a release of the old seasons of the show on a streaming service, though, based on it being the turning of a month. however, “happy endings” has previously streamed on netflix, and the streaming service confirmed it would not be re­viving it now. instead, i’d like to hold out hope that abc could be preparing a return to the 2012 Tuesday night sitcom block, right under our under-studious noses. 
meanwhile, abc currently airs freshman sitcom “Fresh off the boat” on Tuesday nights at 8 p.m., and the promising show could use another comedy compan­ion. who better to accompany the nahnatchka khan-created “Fresh off the boat” than the return of david caspe’s “happy endings?” khan previously created and ran the very sharp and specific “don’t Trust The b---- in apt. 23,” so khan and caspe have a history of comple­menting each other in schedule. abc, “happy endings” and khan — possibly — have the rare opportunity at a history-repeating second chance. presumably, a lot more people will be taking notes this time around. 
Contact Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

MLB’s best offseason moves 

Samantha Zuba 
assistant managing editor 
There should be an award for mlb’s best offseason acquisition. 
i guess there is, when the bold move pays off the next season in the form of a pen­nant or world series title. until then, the moves are just big and bold, not necessarily best. 
They don’t all pan out, and sometimes a team ends up paying a large amount for significantly less than it ex­pected to get. 
so far this offseason, how­ever, some of the big moves look like they should be successes. 
on monday, the san diego padres asserted themselves as potential contenders in the national league west with a reported four-year deal for right-handed pitcher James shields, previously of the kansas city royals, to be finalized if he passes a physical. 
shields has posted a 3.72 era over a nine-year ca­reer and has recorded 1,626 strikeouts, including 200­plus in both 2011 and 2012. most importantly, shields is a winner. he’s won at least 11 games every year other than his first in the majors and eats a lot of innings. in each of the past eight sea­sons, shields has passed the 200-inning mark. 
The padres also acquired outfielders matt kemp and Justin upton in the offseason. kemp has battled injuries but can swing a potent bat, some­thing the padres desperately need as a team whose rbi leader last season had just 51. 
another team, the chicago white sox, made some key moves this offseason, namely adding right-hander Jeff samardzija. samardzija has put together a 3.85 era, and like shields, was a workhorse last season, racking up 219 and 2/3 innings. he went 7-13 last season despite possess­ing a 2.99 era, largely be­cause he didn’t receive many favors with the cross-town cubs. 
last season, the white sox rotation finished ranked 13th of 15 al teams and 27th out of 30 mlb teams with a staff era of 4.29. 
chicago also acquired left-handed reliever Zach duke, right-handed closer david robertson and first base-man/designated hitter adam laroche. 
big-name free-agent and trade acquisitions have been known to flop big-time, bringing their massive contracts right along with them in exchange for draft picks and talented young prospects. 
but how can a team protect itself? with a little financial restraint? perhaps. if you’re willing to shell over $100 mil­lion over an extended con­tract or part with a stable full of prospects, you’re tempting a flop. 
The padres and white sox have that financial restraint, generally, as the teams don’t rank among mlb’s biggest spenders. but what they’ve demonstrated this offseason in particular is the ability to make a series of quality trades and signings. 
They haven’t heaped all the pressure on one guy as the team’s savior. They’ve done their best to put to­gether a group of players who will make each other bet­ter. They’ve addressed both pitching and offensive needs. 
The padres and white sox finished with similar records last season at 77-85 and 73-89, respectively. san diego finished third in the national league west, while chicago finished fourth in the american league central, both teams a hefty 17 games behind their divi­sion winners. 
with records like those, they needed more than one piece. They didn’t need ev­erything, though. 
although the padres of­fense was abysmal last season, they already had right-hander ian kennedy in the rotation and finished ranked second in the nl in staff era at 3.27. The white sox had rookie sensation Jose abreu, plus reliable and dom­inant lefty chris sale. 
For middling teams hop­ing to climb the ranks, san diego and chicago seem to have executed the recipe just right. Their managements evaluated their needs, built around established pieces and sought to make their teams more consistent, not just flashier. 
catchers and pitchers will report to spring training in under two weeks, and man­agers will start watching their new players fit in with the team and get in peak condition for the upcoming season. 
For the padres and white sox, at least, that process is shaping up to be quite successful. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu
 The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL | kenTucky 71, lsu 69 
Top-ranked Kentucky hangs on against LSU 
Associated Press 

baTon rouge, la. — willie cauley-stein scored 15 points and top-ranked kentucky stayed unbeaten with another tough road win, 71-69 over lsu when the Tigers missed a 3-pointer that could have won it at the buzzer Tuesday night. 
devin booker added 14 and aaron harrison had 13 for the wildcats (24-0, 11-0 southeastern conference) who can tie a school record for the best start to a season by winning at home on saturday against south carolina. 
karl-anthony Towns had 12 points and 13 rebounds, including a jump-hook that put the wildcats up for good with 1:30 left, and a clutch offensive rebound inside the final minute. 
Trailing by two with rough­ly six seconds left, lsu got the ball to keith hornsby on the wing, who missed an off-balanced 3-pointer that bounced harmlessly off the rim as time expired. 
Jarell martin had 21 points and 11 rebounds for lsu (17­7, 6-5), while hornsby scored 17 points. 
early in the second half, lsu appeared to be strug­gling with kentucky’s height, with cauley-stein dunking twice within a few posses­sions as the wildcats built a 10-point lead. harrison then drained a 3 to give the wildcats their largest lead at 58-45 with 12:46 to go. 
lsu called timeout, and responded well, surging into the lead with a stunning 21-2 run during the next five-plus minutes that sent a sellout crowd into an ear-ringing frenzy. 
it started with a 3 by Josh gray. hornsby scored eight points during the surge, in­cluding a 3 and a fast-break layup off of cauley-stein’s turnover that capped the run and put lsu up 66-60. 
The wildcats briefly ap­peared to be losing their com­posure during the lsu surge. Towns was called for a tech­nical foul for hanging on the rim after a missed dunk, af­ter which coach John calipari pulled the 6-foot-11 forward from the game and gave him a scolding on the bench. 
but it was Towns who snapped the run with a short jumper after being put back in, starting an 11-3 run to close the game. 
The Tigers started quickly and led by eight several times in the first five minutes, thanks largely to martin and mickey, who combined for 12 of lsu’s first 14 points. 
but the wildcats’ second unit was able to quickly close the gap as devin booker hit three of his first four shots for seven points, pulling the wildcats to 17-15. 
The Tigers managed to maintain a slim lead most of the half until jumpers by booker and cauley-stein capped an 8-2 kentucky run shortly before halftime, giv­ing the wildcats a 38-34 lead. 
Tip-ins 
kentucky: Trey lyles made his return from a three-game absence because of an ill­ness. The 6-foot-10 forward played 18 minutes and fin­ished with four points and three rebounds. ... kentucky has now won eight of the last nine meetings, with the lone loss to lsu coming last February in baton rouge. 

NBA | pisTons 106, horneTs 78 
Monroe leads Pistons to win over Hornets 
Associated Press 

charloTTe, n.c. — greg monroe had 23 points and 12 rebounds, d.J. augustin add­ed 18 points and the detroit pistons handed the charlotte hornets their third straight loss 106-78 on Tuesday night. 
monroe, who had 14 double-doubles in January to tie a fran­chise record, was dominant inside and on the drive when the pistons build a 23-point lead at the end of the third quarter. They coasted to an easy win. 
monroe has recorded at least 20 points and 10 rebounds 48 times since the 2011-12 season, which is the most 20-10 games in the eastern conference dur­ing that span. 
Jodie meeks and anthony Tolliver each had 16 points for 

FOR SALE 

Well maintained ranch in Granger. 3BR, 2BA, beautiful sunroom. Open House Feb 15, 2-4. Call Janessa 
the pacers, who are 16-9 over their last 25 games. 
andre drummond had 14 points and nine rebounds as the pistons outrebounded the hornets 48-38. 
gerald henderson had 17 points, and al Jefferson added 13 points and 10 rebounds for the hornets (22-30). 
rookie p.J. hairston had 16 points on four first-half 3-point­ers for charlotte. 
The pistons staked to a 54­48 lead at halftime despite the hornets shooting 8 of 11 from 3-point range. 
hairston, who had been out of the rotation and hadn’t played since Jan. 31, was 4 of 5 from beyond the arc for the hornets. 
but the hornets went cold in the second half, missing their first 10 3-point shots, and the pistons began to pull away. 
The hornets had no an­swer defensively for monroe, who had 11 points in the third quarter as detroit outscored charlotte 29-18 to build an 83­60 lead. 
The hornets enter the all-star break on a three-game skid and in dire need of rest to get some players healthy. 
when they return, they will have mo williams run­ning the offense. The veteran point guard was acquired from minnesota on Tuesday along with Troy daniels in exchange for gary neal and a second-round draft pick in 2019. 
he’ll split time with brandon roberts at point guard while kemba walker continues to re­cover from knee surgery. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Traylor 574-340-1651 his side/ But he doesn’t realize 
he hurts her so much/ But all the 

A lonely mother gazing out of praying just ain’t helping at all. her window / Staring at a son ‘Cause he can’t seem to keep that she just can’t touch/ If at his self out of trouble/I know that any time he’s in a jam she’ll be by you’re gonna have it your way 


SMC BASKETBALL | kalamaZoo 71, smc 70 (oT) 
Belles suffer overtime loss to Kalamazoo 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 
saint mary’s lost an over­time thriller to kalamazoo, 71-70, on saturday at angela athletic Facility. 
after the belles (3-19, 1-12 miaa) started the game with a 6-0 lead, the hornets (14-7, 9-4 miaa) responded by scor­ing 12 of the next 14 points to go up 12-8. however, saint mary’s went on a 12-4 run to gain a 20-16 lead with the first half winding down. The teams continued to go back and forth for the remainder of the first frame, and the belles went into the locker room at half­time with a 27-24 lead. 
with just under five minutes left in regulation, the saint mary’s led kalamazoo, 51-49. The belles then went on an 8-1 run to hold a 59-50 advantage with just over two minutes to go. kalamazoo fought back and trailed by just two points with 30 seconds remaining. after a made saint mary’s free throw, kalamazoo got the ball and attempted a tying 3-point­er that missed, but a rebound by the hornets and a foul by the belles gave kalamazoo life again. 
after kalamazoo made both free throws, the hornets fouled senior guard ariana paul to send her to the free-throw line. paul was perfect from the charity stripe to push the belles lead back to three. however, with just 0.3 seconds left, the hornets drew a foul on a three-point attempt, send­ing them to the line for three shots. They made all of them, and the game headed to over­time with the score tied at 62. 
kalamazoo got out to an early 66-62 lead in overtime, but the belles battled back and were able to take a 68-66 lead with just over two minutes re­maining. The hornets evened up the score before saint mary’s sank two free throws, and then kalamazoo tied it up again with two free throws of their own and stole the ball on the ensuing belle possession. 
The belles fouled, and the hornets were able to make one free throw for a one-point lead with just over 10 seconds remaining. after two saint mary’s attempts at a game-winning shot came up short, a jump ball rebound gave the ball back to the belles with two seconds remaining on the game clock. Junior forward krista knapke caught the in­bound pass and attempted the game-winning shot, but she missed, and time expired to give the hornets a 71-70 win. 
“The game against kalamazoo was a great game,” belles coach Jennifer henley said. “it was a heartbreaker in the end, but we did so many 
paid adverTisemenT 


things right on saturday. we put ourselves in in a position to win the game in both regu­lation and overtime and just came up short in the end. i am so proud of how hard this team played.” 
paul was the belles’ leading scorer with 21 points, and she added nine rebounds as well. 
knapke recorded 17 points to go along with a team-high 10 rebounds. Junior forward eleni shea had 10 points and four rebounds, while fresh­man forward molly robinson had 10 points and three rebounds. 
“as we get ready for calvin, we need to continue to work 
CLUB SPORTS 
on our transition defense and not give away points at the free throw line,” henley said. 
The belles final home game is against conference oppo­nent calvin on saturday at 3 
p.m. at angela athletic Facility. 
Contact Michael Ivey at         mivey@hcc-nd.edu 

Irish finish 3-1 in tournament 
Special to The Observer 
The men’s ultimate Frisbee team traveled to grand rapids, michigan this weekend to com­pete in a one-night “hat tour­nament.” hat tournaments typically consist of teams that are put together by randomly drawing names out of a hat, but this tournament also featured several college ultimate Frisbee teams. notre dame was split into “a” and “b” teams for the first time this season, and both teams looked comfortable under new leadership. 
The irish “a” squad started off by playing against two hat teams in 50-minute timed rounds. after starting off slow during a casual first few points, the squad shook off its rust, and the offense start­ed clicking. notre dame won the games 18-11 and 16-6, respec­tively, due in large part to the athletic freshman class, com­prised of luke brennan, sam deTrempe and collin klenke. 
Following a short bye round, notre dame had games against michigan state’s “b” squad and indiana wesleyan. Firing on all cylinders by the third game, notre dame easily defeated the spartans, 18-3. The game against indiana wesleyan proved more difficult due to a combination of fatigue and a still developing early-season chemistry. The fi­nal match of the night ultimately came down to double game points, and indiana wesleyan came out on top by a score of 12­11, despite strong defensive ef­forts from juniors charles labuz and andrew geisel. 
notre dame capped off the night with a 30-minute game against a “hat all-star team,” which was made up of the best players from the hat teams. it was a good-spirited match that showcased some of the tour­nament’s top players on both sides of the disc. score was only loosely kept, as it was primarily an exhibition match, so notre dame officially finished 3-1 on the weekend. 
having lost just three seniors to graduation last spring, notre dame is poised for a big season in 2015. The team will travels to cat Fight in lexington, kentucky, on the last weekend of February for its first outdoor experience of the season. 



W Basketball 
conTinued From page 16 
and learn from them, and there wasn’t a lot of pressure on me,” reimer said of playing with achonwa and braker. “i think that that really helped, so now in my sophomore year, now that we lost that experience in the post, i’ve kind of become a mentor on the team already in the post as a sophomore. 
“so it’s a lot different, but i think that our seniors last year really prepared me and prepared all of us for that leadership role.” 
For Turner, a pearland, Texas native, some of that leadership has been simple as starting ev­ery game she’s played in during her freshman campaign. 
“[Taya] always helps me get to the right spot,” Turner said. “she always lets me know where i need to be.” 
in terms of their styles of play, the two complement each other well, reimer said. 
“she’s so athletic, and defi­nitely a lot more athletic than i am,” reimer said, laughing. “i think that i am probably more of a mid-range player, i would say, as a post compared to her, but i think that we have a lot of simi­larities in our game offensively. our job is to score and rebound, and that goes for both of us. 
“it’s kind of the same and kind of different, but we love playing together, and we’re just going to keep getting better and playing off of each other and learning each other’s style of play.” 
one key aspect both players bring to the table, Turner said, is speed to go along with their size. both Turner and reimer are 6-foot-3. 
“i think because we’re for­wards and not really centers, we’re more versatile, so we can probably get up and down the floor quicker than some other centers can,” Turner said. 
rebounding has been a team focus this season, with reimer and Turner handling much of the load. Turner leads the irish with 166 rebounds, an average of 
7.5 per game, and reimer is sec­ond with 147 rebounds, averag­ing 6.4 boards per game. 
irish coach muffet mcgraw sets rebounding goals for each game to keep the team on track, reimer said. 
“she always talks to me and bri specifically about that being our job, and so when she puts it to us like that, it’s like, ‘okay, this is what we have to be doing be­cause it’s just what she expects from us,’” reimer said. 
so far, both reimer and Turner said the transition into the regu­lar starting lineup has gone well. 
“we’re good friends, so we communicate well,” Turner said. 
“she just really adds so much athleticism to our team,” reimer said of Turner. “it’s fun for me to throw lobs for her, and i think we both just work off of each other really well, offensively and de­fensively. i just love playing with her and having her on our team.” 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 




M Basketball 
conTinued From page 16 
led to sophomore guard demetrius Jackson’s tip-shot to tie the game at 56. after another Jackson basket gave notre dame the lead, grant drained a fade-away jumper with under a minute left to give the irish the go-ahead score. 
senior guard captain pat connaughton added 14 points for the irish along with three of notre dame’s six 3-pointers. Jackson also contributed 11 points. 
“we lost our last two on the road, so to get a road win like this is big time in the acc,” grant said. 
coming into the game, clemson had one of the best defenses in the acc, sit­ting in the top three in the conference in overall scor­ing defense. although they held notre dame to just 43 percent shooting from the floor, the irish showcased their own defensive abilities containing the Tigers to 43 percent shooting and forced them to turn the ball over 11 times. clemson’s 58 points were the fewest notre dame has ever allowed in an acc matchup. 
“They hit shots and they came to play today,” grant said. “we had to pick our de­fense up and we did it in the last four minutes.” 
sophomore forward Jaron blossomgame led the Tigers with 17 points and 14 boards, which helped keep the Tigers in the lead for almost 18 min­utes. however, in the last 
5:45 of the second half, notre dame allowed just one field goal. 
although clemson isn’t a team of the same caliber as no. 4 duke, who notre dame fell to on saturday, grant said a win on the road is al­ways important regardless of who the opponent is. 

“getting a road win in the acc is tough no matter what,” grant said. “To come in here on the road after los­ing like that [to duke] is big time for us.” 
The win for grant means a little bit more for him because of the family ties he has with clemson, he said. his older brother Jerai grant played for clemson from 2007-2011, his father harvey grant played for clemson for a year before transferring to oklahoma and his uncle horace grant is a member of clemson’s hall of Fame. 
“i think it meant more,’’ grant said. ‘’obviously with my family, i wanted to per­form pretty well.’’ 


notre dame has now im­proved to 10-3 in conference play, which makes it the first acc team with 10 confer­ence wins. before the game, espn’s Joe lunardi placed notre dame as a four-seed in his bracketology. with just five games left in the regular season, notre dame is still in contention for an acc regular season title sitting two games behind no. 2 virginia, which holds a 9-1 acc record. 
notre dame will take a short break before hosting wake Forest, who are no. 12 in the acc standings, on Feb. 17. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 
Seniors 
conTinued From page 16 
roughly 90 seconds to go in the second half, grant slow­ly dribbled down the clock, waiting in the clemson paw at midcourt. The senior guard drove right and pulled up for a jumper. 
miss. 
but connaughton skied for the offensive rebound and heaved it back out to grant in one motion. 
grant milked the clock again. This time, he drained the right-elbow jumper to lift the irish ahead by four with 
42.8 seconds left. 
grant poured in a game-high 22 points and tallied five assists, while connaughton added 14 points and six re­bounds. The two upperclass­men combined to make up 60 percent of notre dame’s scoring. 
brey was his typically opti­mistic self after notre dame’s 90-60 thrashing at the hands of duke on saturday. 
“i would think this group will bounce back very quick,” brey said to reporters in durham, north carolina on saturday, citing the leader­ship of his seniors. “They’ve been through a lot.” 
and while it wasn’t pret­ty three days later against the Tigers, grant and connaughton ensured the irish made the bounce back. 
“They know what we’ve gotta get better at, and they know the big picture of the season,” brey said of his team during monday’s acc teleconference. 
although grant dropped 12 points in the first half, clemson led by as many as eight in the opening stanza. grant and connaughton went to work in the second half. 
connaughton finished on a tough drive to the rack in the opening minutes after the intermission and added a 3-pointer moments later to put the irish ahead by two points. 
and as clemson senior guard damarcus harrison remained scorching hot — he made his first five shots, including three long balls — grant and connaughton kept notre dame’s ship steady. grant buried a beautiful, crowd-quieting fadeaway jumper, found slashing soph­omore guard steve vasturia for an easy layup and picked off a clemson pass that set up another connaughton 3-pointer at the other end midway through the second half. 
clemson kept battling, and harrison kept drilling jumpers. but grant sneakily swiped away a short outlet pass in the backcourt and fin­ished with an easy lay-in to get the irish back within one with roughly five minutes re­maining. a few minutes later, grant forced another steal on the perimeter that prompted a layup by sophomore guard demetrius Jackson. 
and in the end, notre dame held on. 
The irish have an off day today and will reconvene Thursday in preparation for Tuesday’s matchup with wake Forest at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Mike Monaco at      jmonaco@nd.edu 




The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Rae 
conTinued From page 16 
eventually.” 
rae did not let his injuries keep him down, though, and he attributes his comeback to the trainers at his new track club, speed river new balance, in guelph, ontario. 
“i had to be consistent and push through it,” rae said. “we have a great medical team [at speed river]. we got some cool [physiological therapy] and everything we need to be healthy. it took me a while, and i’m just round­ing into shape now.” 
rae also said he chose to join speed river new balance because he believed the club could help him achieve his goal of making the olympics. 
“i joined speed river be­cause it’s 90 minutes from where i live,” rae said. “i had heard great things about coach dave [scott-Thomas]. he’s coached six olympians and i just wanted to get in there because that’s my ul­timate goal — to make the olympics in 2016. i knew that if i wanted to make [the olympics] i had to go some­where with proven success.” 
rae’s goal may seem lofty considering that he is still recovering from his injuries, but the numbers show that gradually, his performances have been improving. rae posted a 4-minute, 3.58 sec­ond-mile at the new balance games on Jan. 26. Then, last saturday in the meyo mile, he came close to recaptur­ing his sub-four minute mile form with a time of 4 min­utes, 1.88 seconds. he fin­ished third overall. 
notre dame coach alan Turner said he thinks rae will be able to qualify for the olympics. 
“he definitely does,” Turner said when asked if rae had the talent to make it. “he hasn’t hit his top level yet. he hasn’t peaked yet. now he can space out his training, space out his rac­ing so he can be fresh for the summer. Jeremy’s one of the best canada has, so i’m quite sure he’ll get his stuff together in 2016.” 
echoing Turner’s confi­dence, rae said he remains hopeful that he can qualify for the very next olympiad in rio, despite the fact that it is only a year away. 
“i am optimistic,” rae said. “it’s not like i’m racing at an olympic level right now, but it’ll come. i have faith in my training partners and coach. it’ll happen. i have to stay away from injuries and be consistent. … The mile isn’t an olympic event. it’s the 1,500-meter and my best is 
3:38 and i have to get a 3:36 to qualify. it isn’t out of the realm of possibility.” 
For the moment, though, rae said he is just happy to be able to come back and race at his alma mater. 
“it’s very different,” rae said on returning to notre dame. “i’m not sleeping in the dorms like i’m used to. it feels like i’m competing at an away meet, but really so many things are familiar as well. it’s so nice to see the team, i was on the team with most of these guys. i had my time here so it’s not like i’m sad to come back, but it’s fun to be back and competing.” 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 





CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 

DOME NUTS | aleXandria wellman SUDOKU | The mepham group 



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to: 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
 Happy Birthday: more options will become available. Fortunate circumstances will help you accomplish your goals. look at the big picture and make your choices based on how your decisions will affect the people you love the most. additions to your home or family will lead to both joy and limitations. embrace emotional situations and make the alterations necessary to move forward. your numbers are 5, 17, 22, 26, 30, 41, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): an opportunity to form a partnership should be taken advantage of by sharing and adapting your skills and services to fit universal needs. it’s up to you to sell what you have to offer. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): making reforms will help you move forward with your plans. you’ll be questioned initially, but once you share your long-term goal, you will be given the freedom to carry on. a worthwhile suggestion will pay off, enabling you to exceed your expectations. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take a cautious approach to whatever you do. someone will be working against you. keep your strategy a secret and refrain from letting your emotions govern an important decision. a romantic relationship will take an unexpected turn. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t hesitate to ask questions or change your mind and your direction. consider starting a creative project based on your skills, and you will experience greater freedom. Thoughtfulness will ensure better personal relationships with the people you love the most. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Fix up your home or make a domestic move that fits your current lifestyle better. Trying to please the people you love most is likely to backfire. do what’s best for you and keep on moving. someone you admire will offer you insight. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): make an effort to understand the partners you are involved with personally and professionally. a well-thought-out response will help you maintain your position and your reputation. do whatever it takes to show off what you have to offer. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Focus on professional gains. make a unique change or take a personal interest in people who have something to contribute to your ideas and goals. use emotional tactics when dealing with someone trying to take advantage of your kindness. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): promote a project you’ve been working on or make a suggestion that will help you entice an audience to join in your pursuit. raise your profile by making influential connections. Taking a small risk could pay off in big ways. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): listen, but question what’s being said. get the facts straight or you’ll pay for someone else’s mistake. situations you face with friends, neighbors and relatives will escalate, putting you in an awkward position. Travel delays are likely. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): use your savvy business sense to gain approval. an unusual idea you came across in the past will be an ideal solution to a problem you are facing now. rely on your ability to get a job done right the first time. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): listen to what’s being said and use your experience and knowledge to fight opposition. wasting time on something you cannot change will set you back. Try to settle a money matter, allowing you the freedom to move forward with your plans. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): sign contracts and invest time and money in a creative idea you want to pursue. collect old debts and clear up misunderstandings before you move forward. romance can help improve your personal life and relationship. a commitment can be made. 


Birthday Baby: you are stable, determined and intelligent. you are sensitive, caring and passionate. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 

The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 
address 

city      state Zip 

FOOTBALL 
LaFleur becomes latest to leave ND 
Observer Staff Report 
Former irish quarterbacks coach matt laFleur has official­ly been named to the same posi­tion with the atlanta Falcons. 
The Falcons announced a slew of staff changes Tuesday under new head coach dan Quinn. laFleur spent one sea­son in south bend tutoring the irish quarterbacks. 
before arriving at notre dame, laFleur served as the quarter­backs coach of the washington redskins for four seasons. 
The mount pleasant, michigan native had previously coached under irish head coach brian kelly as an offensive assis­tant for two seasons at central michigan. 
Former irish assistant coach­es Tony alford (ohio state) and kerry cooks (oklahoma) re­cently landed at new schools, too. 
notre dame is scheduled to begin spring practice march 2. 

MEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 60, clemson 58 
Clawing by the Tigers 
Notre Dame rallies in final moments 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
no. 10 notre dame scored the tying and game-winning field goals against clemson in the final minutes to come away with the 60-58 win at littlejohn coliseum on Tuesday. 
The irish (22-4, 10-3 acc) started the matchup against the Tigers (14-10, 6-6 acc) similar to the way their contest against duke began. after making the first two straight bas­kets, clemson went on an 11-point run before notre dame was able to rally back and reduce the defi­cit to two points by the end of the first half. 
senior guard Jerian grant led the charge for notre dame, scoring a team-high 22 points to go along with five assists and three steals. with 
3:23 left in the game, grant made a steal that 
see m baskeTball PAGE 13 


Seniors stay cool, calm in tight win over Clemson 
By MIKE MONACO 
senior sports writer 
pat connaughton stood patiently with the ball on the left wing. 
The senior then looked to his right and delivered a pass to fellow senior Jerian grant, who calmly sank a deep 3-pointer as time expired. 
grant’s buzzer-beating long ball pulled no. 10 notre dame within two points of clemson at the end of the first half, and the senior leaders went on to lead the irish (22-4, 10-3 acc) in the second half to a hard-fought 60­58 victory over the Tigers (14-10, 6-6) at littlejohn coliseum on Tuesday night. 
“Jerian was flat-out fab­ulous making plays for us,” irish head coach mike brey said in his postgame radio interview. 
with the irish lead­ing by two points with 
see seniors PAGE 13 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

irish turn to new frontcourt 
By SAMANATHA ZUBA 
assistant managing editor 
The irish starting forwards got younger, fast. 
last season, natalie achonwa and ariel braker started at the position as seniors. This sea­son, sophomore Taya reimer and freshman brianna Turner have stepped into their starting roles. 
now it looks like the two should have a few years to play and develop their games together. 
“i think that that’s definitely something that i wanted, and i know that bri wanted too,” reimer said of the opportunity to play together. “we wanted to go somewhere we could make an impact and make an impact right away.” 
That immediate impact has come in the form of a combined 
24.9 points per game and 13.9 rebounds per game this sea­son for the no. 4 irish (23-2, 9-1 acc). 
“it’s good because we can get comfortable playing with one another,” Turner said of being able to work with reimer over the next few years. “… she’s re­ally been a really great learning tool for me.” 

reimer was a spot starter last season, appearing in all 38 games for the irish and start­ing six of them. The Fishers, indiana native has assumed more of a leadership role this year after the senior forwards graduated. 

“it was great because i got to just observe what they did 
see w baskeTball PAGE 12 

WAKING THE ECHOES | Jeremy rae 
Olympic hopes live on for Rae 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
when Jeremy rae toed the starting line of the meyo mile on saturday, it was almost as if nothing had changed in the year since he gradu­ated. rae may come from the small town of Fort erie, ontario, but for five years, notre dame was his home. 
and while he competed for the irish, there was little rae did not accomplish. a three-time all-american, one of the ncaa’s best in the 1,500-meter and part of a national championship distance medley relay team in 2012, rae dipped below the four-minute mark in the mile on multiple occasions and won a silver medal rep­resenting canada in the 2013 world university games. he also earned all-conference honors three times in cross country. 
and throughout it all, the meyo mile was rae’s signa­ture race. on one of the na­tion’s fastest indoor tracks in loftus sports center, rae won the race three times in four years, going below four minutes every time and set­ting a school record in his last victory. 
yet for all his collegiate ac­complishments, rae fell on tough times in the months after leaving notre dame. an achilles sprain denied rae the opportunity to rep­resent canada in the 2014 commonwealth games. one month later, mumps and brain swelling forced rae off the track for the entire summer. 
“i wanted to race last sum­mer,” rae said. “i missed the commonwealth games, i re­ally wanted to qualify for it. it was my first down year in my entire career. … it was bound to happen 
see rae PAGE 14 




