the independent to uncover newspaper serving the truth notre daMe and and report saint Mary’s it accurately 

voluMe 48, issue 110 | FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 2015 | ndsMcobserver.coM 
SMC student to read at Vatican Mass
 Ali Mahoney will give first reading at Palm Sunday Mass in St. Peter’s Square 
for catholics across the globe. of the new evangelization, good friends with Fr. geno, “[sylva] told me that he was 
By KELLY KONYA 
senior news writer according to Mahoney, she whom she was introduced to and a few of the saint Mary’s very impressed with my read-was selected to do the reading one day while attending an girls and myself have joined ings at the past few Masses at Most students who study english Mass at santo spirito him for coffee a few times.” santo spirito and was won-
Ali Mahoney
sophomore 
Mahoney, who is currently 

Mahoney to give a reading. Mahoney said she attributes speak at the Mass, and he felt studying abroad in rome, was 
“i spoke up and said i this fateful e-mail to “the luck that i would be a great fit.” chosen to give the first read-by Fr. geno sylva, the speak-would gladly read,” she said. of the irish,” and she hurried Mahoney said she could not ing this sunday in st. peter’s ing official of the pontifical “throughout this semester, to the hotel’s front desk to square to kick off holy week council for the promotion my friends and i have become make the call. see Mass PAGE 5 
abroad can testify to having 
in sassia in rome. on st. patrick’s day, dering if i would like to read Mahoney said she and her Mahoney’s fellow student and the first reading for the holy 
a unique experience, but not 
many can say they offered friends began attending Mass friend Mary luka relayed the Father’s palm sunday Mass in 
the first reading at the holy in english at santo spirito in news that sylva had sent an e-st. peter’s square,” she said. 
Father’s palm sunday Mass. sassia each sunday, and it was mail requesting for Mahoney “his job was to find a young, 
saint Mary’s sophomore ali there that sylva first asked to call him as soon as possible. english-speaking pilgrim to 


nd professor’s first book released in dublin 

By JACK ROONEY 
Managing editor 
dublin — surrounded by notable priests, politi­cians and members of the notre dame community at the historic Merrion hotel in ireland’s capital, profes­sor of political science Fr. sean Mcgraw launched his new book, ‘how parties win: shaping the irish political arena’ on thursday evening. 
the book, Mcgraw’s first, stems from his doctoral re­search dating back to 2006, he said. 
“it’s been a long time com­ing because i began my doc­toral research back here [in dublin] in 2006 and 2007 when i lived here and had a Fulbright [scholarship] at 
see dublin PAGE 4 



Latin Expressions showcases Latino culture 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
the latino student alliance (lsa) will host latin expressions, an annual show­case of music, dance and other performances related to latino culture, Friday at 7 
p.m. at the century center in south bend. 
“we hope that this showcase will make the latino presence on campus felt,” lsa trea­surer and latin expressions committee co-director kaylee calles said. “we are here, and we have a diverse culture of music, dance and talent, and we want to share it with nd and those of the south bend community so that they can better understand what it means to be latino.” 

the show will feature a va­riety of individual perform­ers, community groups and student groups, including Mariachi nd, ballet Folklórico azul y oro, which performs traditional Mexican dances, and coro primavera, notre dame’s spanish-language choir; as well as two bands, los vecinos and Mouse child. 
this year’s show is the first to be officially hosted by the lsa, which was created last year when two latino stu­dent groups, la alianza and Mecha notre dame, merged. calles said this year’s latin expressions theme, “raíces: return to our roots,” reflects these changes. 
“we wanted to encompass what lsa meant to us,” calles said. “at this time, our logo was a tree with all the leaves as flags from different latin american countries. 
“it got me thinking that 
see eXpressions PAGE 5 


PrismND hosts annual LGBT retreat this weekend 
By MADISON JAROS 
news writer 
this weekend, prismnd will host its second annu­al retreat — one it hopes will foster reflection and a feeling of fellowship within the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgen­der (lgbt) community at notre dame, prismnd spirituality commissioner shannon connolly said. 
see retreat PAGE 5 






Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney alex Jirschele Asst. Managing Editor: Mary green Asst. Managing Editor: lesley stevenson Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: Margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 
Scene Editor: erin Mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: brian lach Online Editor: Michael yu Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu lsteven1@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Who is the most influential woman in your life? 

Michael Wajda 

Marissa Ray 
senior 
sophomore 
duncan hall 
walsh hall 
“My three sisters.” 
“My nani (grandma).” 
Katie Loughran 

Pat Hansen 
junior 
junior 
off-campus 
knott hall 
“Mrs. katy Mcshane.” 
“sally ride.” 
Katie Cox 

Amber Watson 
junior 
sophomore 
pangborn hall 
ryan hall 
“katie dold.” 
“My mom.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

the observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint Mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. the observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
the news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, Managing editor, assistant 
Managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of the observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

the observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
the observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
postMaster 
send address corrections to: 
the observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
the observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Corrections 
News Sports 

WEEKEND PREVIEW: 
emily Mcconville rachel o’grady 
in thursday’s edition, a story about the bridgend 
Madison Jaros Manny de Jesus 
immigration debate incorrectly reported Mark 
Margaret hynds Zach klonsonski gianfalla said immigration quota numbers should Include your event: email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Graphics Scene 

be increased to 650,000-690,000. these are actually 
erin rice Miko Malabute the current visa quota numbers, and gianfalla stated 
Photo Viewpoint 

Friday Saturday Sunday 
he favors increasing them. 
amy ackermann Mary kate luft 
in addition, a story about the wednesday student LGBT Retreat Holy Half Marathon Solemn Mass senate meeting failed to report that a letter Off-campus Campus-wide Basilica of the Sacred presented to the senate was written by student All day 9 a.m. - 12 p.m. Heart 
the observer regards itself as body vice president Matthew devine, who could not PrismND student-Benefits charities in 9:45 a.m. - 11 a.m. 
a professional publication and present the letter to the senate himself because he organized retreat. South Bend Worship service. 
strives for the highest standards serves as its chair. student body president lauren 
of journalism at all times. we do, vidal, who presented the resolution with student 
Baseball Film: Inherent Vice Women’s Tennis 
however, recognize that we will make union chief of staff shannon Montague, tabled the 
Frank Eck Stadium DeBartolo Eck Tennis Pavilion 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, motion so that devine, who leaves office next week, 
6:05 p.m. - 8:05 p.m. Performing Arts 12 p.m. - 2 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so can present it at the next senate meeting. 
Notre Dame takes on Center Free admission and 
we can correct our error. the observer regrets these errors. 
Virginia. 6:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. open to the public. Open to the public. 

ndsMcobserver.coM | FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 2015 | the observer 

ND graduate examines pitfalls of service projects 
By GABRIELA MALESPIN 
news writer 
daniella papi, a 2000 notre dame graduate and social entrepreneur, presented a lecture on the importance of language, perspective and learning in the context of in­ternational service thursday night. part of the dean’s Fellows speaker series, the talk centered on papi’s experiences in cambodia and the lessons and perspectives she obtained from her years of service work. 
papi, the founder of the edu­cational travel organization pepy tours, said an important step in international service is reframing the language and vocabulary currently used to describe service work. she said words such as “villager,” “aid” and “development” often convey power dynamics and connotations that project an unequal relationship between communities and volunteers. 
“our vocabulary needs to change,” papi said. “if i’m a volunteer and you’re a benefi­ciary, i’m already in a position of power. instead of it being, ‘hi, i’m here to help you, in a language i don’t know, place i don’t know,’ it should be, ‘hi, i’m here to learn from you.’” 
papi said some of the prob­lems within development work stem from the ways we learn about service work. papi said simplistic fundrais­ing tactics, such as televised pleas for donations, provide the public with the impression that development work has simple solutions to complex problems. 
“our fundraising channels actually become our educa­tion channels,” she said. “it causes huge problems. … often times, our efforts be­come solution-led instead of problem-led.” 
papi said a fundamental problem in development work involves believing material agents, such as money or in­frastructure, rather than hu­man agents are the solution to development problems. papi said her time working and serving in cambodia helped her understand how many of the often simplistic solutions stemmed from a well-inten­tioned but often misplaced desire to provide a solution without focusing on the par­ticular problem or community. 
“one of the things that i learned was that we shouldn’t be investing in things; we needed to invest in people,” she said. 
papi said in order for more effective leaders to change and engage in meaningful service work, there needs to be a fundamental shift in mind­set from intending to save a community towards wanting to learn from it. 

“the question shouldn’t be, ‘how are you innovating; how are you uniquely solving this world problem?’” she said. “it should be, ‘who’s shoulders are you standing on? who has tried to solve this problem be­fore you?’” 
papi said in order to take ac­tion and learn how to become an agent for service, people must engage in frequent per­sonal development by becom­ing self-aware, understanding their culture and becoming open to learning. papi empha­sized that engaging in mean­ingful service work requires recognizing how personal and global development are intertwined. 
“if we are constantly focus­ing on ‘saving the world’ as an external things to ourselves, that is what is going to cause problems later on,” she said. “personal development and global development are en­tirely interlinked. if we’re not willing to look at ourselves, we’re not going to change the world.” 
Contact Gabriela Malespin at gmalespi@nd.edu 
paid advertiseMent 


Students to run in 11th annual Holy Half 
By ANDREA VALE 
news writer 
the 11th annual holy half Marathon will be held this saturday. this year’s race will be filled with the maximum 1,500 participants, as well as 500 waiting list members, and will benefit the local charities st. Margaret’s house and la casa de amistad. 
holy half president katie wood said the tradition started eleven years ago with only 80 runners and earned $1,000 for charity. 
“it was really these kids see­ing, ‘hey do you think we could run a half marathon?’” Maria Murphy, vice preisdent of the holy half, said, “so they decided to put one on, and a couple kids joined in. it’s expanded a lot.” 
this year’s race was capped off at 1,500 runners, with 500 left on a waiting list. 
“we have a strict cap of 1,500,” kate simons, chief of staff for the holy half, said. “the campus is not big enough to go bigger than that. so we’re going to keep it at 1,500 for the foreseeable future.” 
wood said registration for the race opened the first week in december, and the 1,500-runner cap filled up by early January. 
“this is the earliest it’s ever filled up since we’ve been race directors … for the past three years,” wood said. 
after beginning the race at the stepan center, the same starting place as last year, runners will embark on a 13.1 mile route that is a departure from past years. 
“this year is unique because of all the construction on cam­pus,” Murphy said, “we’re still finalizing the course due to last minute changes we had to make. we’re avoiding the stadium and everything in that direction. we’re seeing a lot of the main sights of notre dame avenue; we’re hitting both of the lakes, which are really nice to run along; god Quad; going up by the grotto.” 
Murphy said this year will fea­ture another first – a spaghetti dinner on the Friday before the race. 
“everyone can carbo-load, meet each other, get excited for the race,” she said, “we’re trying to expand it into more of a week­end experience, as opposed to a three-hour race.” 
For each of past two years, the holy half has raised $30,000 for charity, and all three race direc­tors hope to exceed that figure this year. 
the charities the race benefits changes every year, but simons said they make a point of choos­ing charities that have a connec­tion with notre dame. 
“we always try to keep it with­in the south bend community,” wood said. 
according to their respective websites, la casa de amistad assists bilingual and bicultural members of the community in education and work, with an emphasis on latinos, and st. Margaret’s house is a day cen­ter aiding homeless or suffering women and children in the area. 
anne arnason, a member of the charity committee and par­ticipant in this year’s race, said the club has “done charity days with both of the organizations. with la casa we went … and toured their building and met with the director of their pro­gram, who told us what they do.” 
as an organizer, arnason said she hopes the race “gives stu­dents an opportunity to know what their participation in the race is for. both of the chari­ties will be setting up a booth at the race for both runners and spectators to learn more about the organizations, which will hopefully give them a way to make known all the good things that they do for the south bend community.” 
Murphy said emphasizing the charity aspect was the most im­portant part of the race. 
“that’s obviously why we’re doing this,” she said. “we’re ex­cited to raise money.” 
Contact Andrea Vale at  avale@nd.edu 




Dublin 
continued FroM page 1 
university college dublin and worked out of o’connell house,” Mcgraw said in an interview. “i followed a lot of politicians around during the 2007 election, and that’s re­ally when i did the heart of my initial research, and then have done several rounds of research from that. 
“in 2010 and 2012, i did par­liamentary surveys where i interviewed nearly two-thirds of the irish parliament. so i’ve been kind of building on my initial research since back in 2006, so it’s been a long time coming. it feels good to actu­ally have it done.” 
the book also launched in the united states last tuesday, st. patrick’s day, at an event on notre dame’s campus that featured former irish president and current keough-naughton institute for irish studies visiting fellow Mary Mcaleese. 
thursday’s event brought together important figures in irish politics and society, in­cluding apostolic nuncio to ireland charles John brown, who received his undergradu­ate degree from notre dame, irish businessman Fergal naughton, who serves on the notre dame board of trustees and current and former irish legislators and members of government. 
Mcgraw encountered many of these politicians during the course of his research and said his experiences working on the book showed him the hard working reality of irish politi­cal life. 

“the politicians [in ireland] take a bad wrap, i think, as politicians do in many places, but they are really hard work­ing, and they’re almost hyper representative in responding to the needs of their constitu­ents, maybe to a fault,” he said. “but it was pretty remarkable 
“ ... A lot of studies look at one election and make a lot of that, and my point is actually you have to look at how parties adapt over a series of elections, and that’s what really matters.” 
Fr. Sean McGraw 
professor of political science 

to see how hard they work and literally knock on doors with them and go into peoples’ homes with them and to see how responsive they are.” 
some of these politicians who read earlier drafts of Mcgraw’s book have given him positive reviews, he said. 
“thankfully, the few politi­cians who have read it already in earlier drafts have given me good feedback,” Mcgraw said. “Mary Mcaleese … used the image that it was as if i gave her my hand and walked her through a period of her life that she lived through and showed her things that she hadn’t seen before, which was a great compliment because in some ways, i’m an outsider, so to be able to have them say that you’re an insider is really a great honor.” 

Mcgraw said his research for the book led to several basic conclusions “about how major political parties adapt to huge socioeconomic change.” 
“i think the main thing that’s different in my approach than in many others is that i try to look at multiple dimensions and i look at competition over time,” he said. “so a lot of studies look at one election and make a lot of that, and my point is actually you have to look at how parties adapt over a series of elections, and that’s really what matters. 
“the other thing is i come up with this idea of what i call ‘displacing issues.’ in ireland they have referenda and all kinds of other institutional bodies that deal with issues that i think in some ways some people look at as a bad thing because they feel like politicians are punting. but in some ways it reduces tension and creates consensus, and that’s not such a bad thing, especially if you look at what we’re experiencing in the u.s. or other places where there’s such intense polarization.” 
in his remarks at the event, Mcgraw thanked the poli­ticians and academics he worked with throughout his research, and also the friends who he said have helped make ireland his home. 
“one of the first times i came to ireland, i heard the phrase, ‘home is the place you always have to go back to and they always have to take you,’ and for me, that’s the way i think about ireland ... that it’s my home.” Mcgraw said. “and even though for many people i encounter, i am just one of these yanks and i’m an outsid­er, in some ways, my time over the last really 20 years of com­ing to ireland has been one of shifting from, hopefully, be­ing an outsider to one of being an insider.” 
in an interview before the event, Mcgraw, who said he hopes his second book will focus on “the collapse of the institutional church in irish society,” also expressed his gratitude to the notre dame undergraduate students who have worked with him over the course of his research for the book. 
“i’ve been very fortunate to have students working with me over the last five years,” he said. “when i was here as a doctoral student, i had stu­dents who were at the trinity and [university college dublin] program who literally helped me look through news­papers and went to elections with me. one of the exciting to me all along is that notre dame undergrads have been hugely helpful to me in my re­search, and that’s also made it more fun.” 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 
SMC seniors write letters of gratitude 
By OLIVIA JACKSON 
news writer 

this spring, saint Mary’s college seniors have the opportunity to write letters to people who influenced their time at the college. 
the senior letter project, spearheaded by senior class president tori wilbraham and senior vice president lauren osmanski, began as a way for members of the senior class to show grati­tude to one another and to the saint Mary’s commu­nity, wilbraham said. 
“our hope is that the saint Mary’s community will take a few minutes to say thank you to one anoth­er for their presence and in­fluence during their time at saint Mary’s,” wilbraham said. “i think writing let­ters is such a beautiful way to preserve a feeling or relationship.” 
wilbraham said the letter project was a key part of her and osmanski’s campaign for president and vice pres­ident of the senior class. 
wilbraham said a mes­sage was sent to all mem­bers of the senior class, with examples of possible people to write to, such as a lab partner or a roommate. the letters will be sorted and distributed by the se­nior class officers. the message also stated that letters should be submitted by april 24. 
“[students] may email a letter to smcletters@gmail. com with the [recipient’s] name in the subject line. during senior week, the letters will be handed out,” wilbraham said. 
Contact Olivia Jackson ojacks01@nd.edu 


paid advertiseMent ndsMcobserver.coM | FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 2015 | the observer 



Expressions 
continued FroM page 1 
this is our founding year and that we are setting down roots for what we hope lsa to be — an organization in which all latinos can come together to share our culture with the rest of the nd community as we branch out and proudly share our individual heritage.” 
Fellow latin expressions co­
“[The show] is an opportunity for the Latino community to invite that great ND community to convivir con nosotros [live with us], to share a space and a place and celebrate with us ... ” 
Diana Gutierrez 
Latin Expressions co-director 
director diana gutierrez said planning for the showcase be­gan before the spring semester started, auditions were held after spring break and the groups have been rehearsing since. 

“i can’t even keep track of how many hours we put into planning this,” she said. “it was a lot like a part-time job since we were trying new ways of running the show. however, this work will pay off not only in a great show but in a legacy we’re trying to create.” 
calles said the show would emphasize latino culture and recognize the contribution of latino cultural clubs to the notre dame community. 
“it is also an opportunity for the latino community to in­vite that great nd community to convivir con nosotros [live with us], to share a space and place and celebrate with us our expressions of being not only latino but part of notre dame,” she said. 
tickets to the show, which are available at laFortune box office, are $3 for dues-paying members of lsa, $4 each for groups of 10 or more and $5 for individual tickets. shuttles will transport students from library circle to the century center starting at 6 p.m. Friday. 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 
Mass 
continued FroM page 1 
believe what she was hear­ing, though she immediately accepted. 
“Mary stood by me the whole time, and i’m pretty sure the concierge at the front desk of our hotel looked at me a little funny because i couldn’t stand still. i felt so much joy and confusion while still on the phone with Fr. geno,” she said. “i imme­diately called my mom and told her ... it was when i was on the phone with her that i started crying and realized how great this opportunity is.” 
shortly after accepting sylva’s offer, Mahoney said she received a formal in­vitation from Msgr. John cihak, the papal Master of ceremonies and a notre dame alumnus from the class of 1992. 
“it’s hard to put into words how i feel. it is such an honor to be chosen for this experi­ence,” she said. “when peo­ple ask me how i feel, i can’t help but to think about how surreal this experience is. this invitation would have never been offered had i not gone outside of my comfort zone to volunteer to read a few sundays at santo spirito. 

“to be able to proclaim god’s word in a church in rome is an amazing experi­ence in itself. but it is truly a blessing to be able to share god’s word with thousands of people of different languages, cultures and nations, com­ing together as one catholic community.” 
Mahoney said this up­coming experience reflects 
“ ... It is truly a blessing to be able to share God’s word with thousands of people of different languages, cultures and nations, coming together as one Catholic community” 
Ali Mahoney 
sophomore 

precisely what studying abroad in rome has meant to her — having the center of the catholic faith at her fingertips. 
“whether it is going to Mass at the vatican, seeing the pope at the angelus or papal audience, attending a few more daily Masses or simply developing a friendship with a priest, i can say that my faith has immensely grown while studying abroad,” she said. 
“i’m not saying you have to come to rome to experience this change. however, i think that studying abroad has al­lowed me to expand on the freedom i am given as a young woman, by taking chances or doing things i never would have done before.” 
in addition, Mahoney said the entire experience would not be complete if she did not have her friends and fellow classmates to share it with. 
“over the past three months, we have become like a family. we do everything together. if i am having a bad day, i know someone is always there to make me feel better,” she said. “having my saint Mary’s family and my parents there with me this sunday is truly a blessing. 
“i’m so grateful to be able to represent saint Mary’s in this way.” 
Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Retreat 
continued FroM page 1 
connolly said the retreat looks to serve lgbt students whose spiritual needs may not be entirely met by what is provided on campus. 
“there are not many ven­ues on campus that are, understandably, willing to create a space that addresses lgbt student needs in terms of spirituality,” connolly said. “ … and that’s under­standable because that’s not serving the needs of the ma­jority. that’s definitely not the majority here. so, there are conversations that hap­pen on campus around the theology of [lgbt issues], which is great, there are a lot of fellowship opportuni­ties in general and resources in general, but we feel real­ly called to offer that space where orientation or gender identity isn’t going to come 


paid advertiseMent 

up as an issue.” 
sophomore and prismnd secretary Jennifer cha said the club established the re­treat to give lgbt students the chance to engage with the faith life “so integral to notre dame’s identity.” 
“spirituality and lgbtQ life are sometimes portrayed in opposition to each other, and we wanted to challenge that idea by creating a space where the two can be not only in conversation with but intimately connected to each other,” cha said. 
connolly said she hopes the retreat, which will fea­ture lgbt student speakers in addition to other basic retreat activities, will foster internal reflection. 
“i’d like to think that [the retreat] will invite people to look at a process that they don’t have time to look at,” connolly said. “Journeying with your orientation or your gender identity is something that’s very difficult, and it’s part of who you are. … not only is [the retreat] an invi­tation to take that time [to explore that], it’s an invita­tion to be with people who understand it, to be in a place where you can reach out to people.” 
campus response to the retreat has been mixed, connolly said. 
“notre dame itself, the administration, has been incredibly supportive,” she said. “campus ministry, rectors, there are too many people to name who have been supportive. the stu­dent body has mixed reviews a lot of the time. it’s hilari­ous how many people think we’re actually trying to ‘pray the gay away.’ some people i don’t think understand how this is kosher, but we defi­nitely do keep it in line with catholic teaching.” 
the question of prismnd’s involvement with student allies is one that has come up during the planning of the retreat, which is open to all students regardless of 
“Journeying with your orientation or your gender identity is something that’s very difficult, and it’s a part of who you are.” 
Shannon Connolly 
PrismND spirituality 
commissioner 
sexual orientation, connolly said. 
“the question of how much room do we make for allies is a big one,” she said. “is [prismnd] an or­ganization that serves as an ambassador from the com­munity to allies, trying to say ‘this is what we’re about, welcome?’ or is it more of an inward-facing organization, as a space for [lgbt] to com­municate? ideally both. and the retreat is one of the most inward-facing places we have. i think last year we had one or two allies, and they were people who had already been deeply involved in the lbgt community ... 
“so this is not necessar­ily something that i would encourage allies to go on as their first foray into be­ing better allies. because i think it would just be a lot. this is a really personal and intimate retreat. i think the experience of the allies we had come last year was posi­tive, and i think they already understood a lot about what it means to be lgbt. so if someone didn’t understand that, it would be kind of difficult.” 
but overall, the retreat’s focus on lgbt issues will be less alien to allies than they might think, connolly said. 
“i’d say the lgbt ‘lens’ doesn’t change things as much as people would think it does,” she said. “so, while all of our speakers are speaking on lgbt issues, coming from an lgbt per­spective, there are other ac­tivities that don’t have any orientation. … i think a lot of the time, you think you’re coming from an lgbt per­spective, and you are, but an lgbt perspective includes the same questions anyone else is going through. am i doing the right thing? am i hurting the people i love? how do i forgive myself for who and what i’ve been? how do other people forgive me? how do people see me? it’s all the same questions.” 
the prismnd retreat will take place Friday and saturday. 
Contact Madison Jaros at mjaros@nd.edu 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Math in March 
Jodi Lo 
senior photographer 

March is coming to a close, and be­cause of this, i would like to talk about the inevitable end of March Madness. so how is your bracket doing? great? you’re going to win your pool? not so hot? well i’m here to remind you that if your bracket isn’t 100 percent accurate then you are pretty normal. i’m checking espn right now to see who has the most ac­curate bracket so far in the country. and even jghayes2932, who leads the country in accuracy, only has 620 points out of the possible 640 points. 
sure jghayes2932 has the most accurate bracket in a pool of millions of entries, but he still does not have a perfect bracket. no one has a perfect bracket and perhaps that is the beauty of March Madness. being in computer engineering i know several different ways one can formulate an algorithm and system to pick all of the teams and decide who is going to make it to the top. My favorite algorithm so far is from the wall street Journal, which has a Madness Meter. the wall street Journal literally has a setting accepting the fact that statistics, skill and strategy might not always guarantee a win. sometimes what determines a win over a loss is the heart of the team and how much that team wants to win; two discerning factors that are not quantifiable and yet are perhaps the most important factors to a team. 
so back to brackets, if you also did not take into consideration the heart and drive to win in a team, don’t worry, you are not the only one. if you are one of the people to have an awful, shaming bracket then let me cheer you up. in the annual the observer group, where what will be won isn’t money but bragging rights over every other department, my personal bracket has been destroyed. i am no lon­ger in last place, but i am in the penulti­mate position. not surprising considering the fact i picked villanova to make it to the final four, did not see baylor and sMu getting upset and forgot that wichita state is a grossly underrated team while ku is a grossly overrated team. it comes out that i may not be the ultimate loser in the observer group, but my pct stands at 4.4 percent (meaning my bracket is in the bottom 5 percent of brackets in terms of accuracy). 
My bracket is bad. but i would like to defend myself in stating that sure it is dif­ficult to be in the top 95th-percentile but it is also just as difficult to be in the bot­tom 5th-percentile (assuming the graph is a bell curve). and we should all be impressed with the people who do really well in their bracket and people who do really poorly in their brackets because it takes just as much talent to be in the bot­tom 5 percent as it takes to be in the top 5. 
also, go irish! beat stanford! 

Contact Jodi Lo at jlo1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
A true Notre Dame man 

EDITORIAL 

with the ncaa tournament in full swing, irish men’s basketball head coach Mike brey is one of the most visible figures in sports right now, especially after his team’s two nail-biter wins over northeastern and butler last weekend. 
but for members of the notre dame community, brey is consistently one of the most visible figures on campus, not just in March. 
whether he’s patrolling the sidelines during a game at purcell pavilion, grabbing lunch at south dining hall or dropping by dorms to encourage students to watch the irish in action, it’s hard to go a long period of time without spotting brey. 
however, brey doesn’t come by just to make an appear­ance and drum up ticket sales. he is approachable and just as eager to talk about what students did for spring break as he is to discuss the latest irish victory. 
like his counterpart on the women’s team, head coach Muffet Mcgraw, he’s genuinely involved in the notre dame community instead of confined to his office in the Joyce center. 
although he might have bigger things on his mind, such as landing a five-star recruit, figuring out how to break through a tough 2-3 zone or running a program in one of the most difficult conferences in the country, we can al­ways count on brey for a good conversation, even if it’s not about basketball. 
we can also count on brey to show enthusiasm and op­timism, even when times are tough. notre dame’s 15-17 record last season was far from stellar, and many of us de­cided we didn’t want to sit through any more home losses this year. 
but brey never gave up on the leprechaun legion, sending reminder emails before big matchups to make us believe our presence was just as important as a step-back jumper from Jerian grant or a hard-fought rebound from pat connaughton. “we need our sixth man,” brey would tell us, and his sixth man would be there to cheer after a key 3-pointer, bang on the seats during opponent free throws and chant, “we are nd,” after an irish win. 
now, possibly more than ever, we want to let brey know we’ll always have his back because he’s an integral part of the notre dame family. 
after last night’s win over wichita state, the irish are still dancing in the late stages of an unbelievable season. the team has reached its first elite eight since 1979, and its 32-5 record and acc tournament championship were pinnacles many of us thought were unattainable after last year. 
brey has led an incredible turnaround to prove that notre dame is, once again, one of the nation’s top programs. 
but more so than that, we want to show our support for brey because of the tremendous courage he displayed last saturday, when he announced to his players, assistant coaches and the media after the overtime win over butler that his mother, betty brey, had died that morning. 
brey said he didn’t want to make the day about him. he wanted the focus to remain on his players and their game. his commitment to both his team and notre dame as a whole shone through as he coached the irish to yet anoth­er victory, despite his loss. brey’s selflessness reinforced our knowledge that we have a man of high character — a true notre dame man — at the helm of the men’s basket­ball program. 
“the strength that he had to have had to go through it without mentioning it, without acting like it, he hadn’t skipped a beat,” connaughton said after last saturday’s win. “i just hope he knows this team is here for him.” 
your team is there for you, coach brey, and so is your notre dame family. you’ve always had our back, and we’ll always have yours. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



the observer | FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 2015 | ndsMcobserver.coM 
Implement Good Samaritan policies at ND 
Alex Caton 
Modest proposals 

one night in January of my junior year, i was roped into a walkover to a dorm on the south half of campus to pick up a passed-out friend of mine. after a fragmented night of hopping dorm parties, he had wound up basically unresponsive on a futon, his head resting eight inches above a trashcan on the knee of an eagle scout who was trying unsuc­cessfully to make him throw up. 
we talked about what to do. he could probably sleep it off. his pulse was slow but regular. his skin wasn’t cold or discolored. but he was unable to talk, and his eyes were dead-looking. rolling the dice with a friend’s life and health is no way to conduct business, so we determined that the best thing to do was to call for help. 
if i told you that we never talked about our friend (and us) getting disciplined in the 10-minute dis­cussion we had about whether to call in the ars, ras and eMts, i’d be telling you a lie. 
in 2012, indiana joined 15 other states in guarding against this thinking when it passed the “lifeline law.” the law gives minors immunity for alcohol-related offenses if the reason they encounter police is because they called for medical attention, or be­cause medical attention was sought for them. 
as of 2013, more than 240 american colleges have implemented “medical amnesty” and “good samaritan” policies affording these protections to students on their campuses. the latter protects the individual who calls for help from prosecution while the former protects the individual needing help. 
neither of these policies exist explicitly in du lac. they should. 
brian coughlin, assistant vp of student affairs, women’s club water polo coach and very nice guy, articulated the university’s position to the observer in 2012: “it is hard to fathom one notre dame student acting so much out of a perceived self-interest that they may not help a fellow stu­dent in need because they are more worried about potential discipline … i recall one statement that questioned what kind of place notre dame would become if we have to start legislating and put­ting conditions on care and compassion for one another.” 
i too have an optimistic view of the notre dame student body, and in the few other times i have seen someone carted off in an ambulance for alcohol poisoning, nd students have put disciplinary con­cerns aside to do the right thing. 
but why risk it? why build in disincentives to do the right thing? 
contra Mr. coughlin’s argument, notre dame does legislate good behavior. whatever their legiti­mate communitarian aims, parietals exist and no one is going to deny their connection to catholic moral teachings on sex. the same can be said for our stringent policies on marijuana use. 
there’s no discernible downside to explicitly im­plementing medical amnesty and good samaritan policies and no reason to believe that doing so would turn notre dame into an anarchist nihil­ist booze mecca. according to the international Journal of drug policy, when cornell implemented good samaritan and medical amnesty policies in 2000, the number of students saying they did not call to help a sick person because they were afraid of getting the person in trouble decreased two-and-a-half times. Meanwhile, the amount of binge-drinking on campus stayed the same, which is unsurprising, because nobody really goes into a night aspiring to black out and wind up in the hos­pital. cornell also smartly maintained punishments for causing or threatening physical harm, sexual violence, property damage, fake ids, hazing and so on, ensuring that medical necessity can’t be used as a cover for other wrong behavior. 
notre dame students and student governments have been advocating medical amnesty and good samaritan policies with varying degrees of strength since 2010. partially because the university only re­views du lac every three years, these sensible poli­cies have never gotten off the ground. the proper response is not just to implement good samaritan and medical amnesty when du lac is reviewed next year, but also to open up disciplinary reviews to stronger and more frequent student input. giving residence halls more latitude for first offenses when the office of community standards came to be was a good place to start. a good place to continue would be opening du lac to binding and nonbind­ing referenda. 
if student referenda seem out of character with notre dame, we need only look a couple decades into the past. the desegregation of dorms based on class year and shift to “stay-halls” as they were called then came out of a 1967 binding student referendum. in 1970, students rejected the idea of changing the academic calendar to give students two weeks off leading up to congressional elections, again with a binding referendum. in March 1990, 80 percent of students voted to create co-ed residence halls for upperclassmen. that one didn’t get far. 
but if you had a referendum today on good samaritan policies it would pass with overwhelm­ing majorities. such a policy is sensible, safe, proven effective and consonant with our university’s mis­sion. let’s open up some policy windows and make it happen. 
Alex Caton is a senior political science major in the one and only St. Edward’s Hall. He welcomes commentary at acaton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

save knott Quadrangle 
on april 26, 2013, trumpets were blown, speeches defend our property rights. nonetheless, we re-functional plumbing system. this fall, filthy water made, ribbons cut and out of the shadowy eastern main reasonable men willing to negotiate with the containing tiny worms gurgled up sporadically from edges of notre dame’s fabled campus, a quadrangle university for fair use of our Quadrangle. the sinks of one of your authors and his next door was born. we hwave but three demands: neighbors. 
we named her knott Quadrangle. she was our First, knott Quadrangle must retain its god-given For these demands, we will picket knott Quad quadrangle and we loved her. her verdant meadows name. we loudly denounce any schemes to absorb at 5 p.m. on March 27. we look forward to working pushed eastward from knott hall to the b2 parking knott Quad into Mod Quad or rename this portion of with the university to secure a bright future for our lot, stretching from the n 41° 42’ 13.8895’’ parallel campus “east Quad.” Quadrangle. to the n 41° 42’ 10.0398’’ parallel. in crisp fall air, we second, we demand naming rights for the new tossed footballs across her lawn, crunchy with fallen dorm built on our Quadrangle. we have shortlisted Andrew Weiler leaves. and when life returned to south bend, she the following names: knott hall ii, not knott hall and hall president emeritus hosted many a springtime grill-out. such was our knott hall: the sequel. senior eden. Finally, the university must pay for the use of knott hall 
but then on March 18, an iron curtain fell between knott Quad in the form of dormitory improvements. knott hall and our beloved Quadrangle. our paradise after the fall of knott Quad, we became aware of our Joe Schneider was lost. they’re digging deep into her soil, and by nakedness in the dorm shower stalls and we subse-hall presdient 2016, a dorm will arise. quently realized that the curtains on every stall are junior 
this aggression has shaken us from the romance six inches too narrow. we must have shower cur-knott hall of our agrarian past and we’re now determined to tains that ensure our privacy. we further demand a March 26 

the observer | FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 2015 | ndsMcobserver.coM 

By BRIDGET DEDELOW 
scene writer 

when i think of bands that have truly been with me throughout my life, the ones i can count are few and far be­tween. however, one that would in­stantly be put on my soundtrack would be death cab for cutie. the band has had a hefty 17-year career, and they have been working their way up through the charts with well-known songs about love, loss and everything in between. however, youth cannot stay for long, and this is identified on death cab for cutie’s newest album, “kintsugi.” kintsugi, as a method, is a Japanese art of taking broken pottery and repair­ing the cracks with gold or silver. the Japanese treat this art as breakage be­ing part of the pottery’s history, instead of something to cover up and disguise. 
this album is death cab for cutie’s very first without their producer, chris walla. “kintsugi,” both as an album title and an idea, fits along with the concept of the album, because while the theme is partly adulthood, it has 
By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 

titling something “the room” is, at this point, a dead giveaway that what­ever medium the creative work is using, it is going to be playing with our psycho­logical responses and our perceptions of reality. the very title creates some kind of captured tension, where the reader must instantly start to question every­thing about this “room,” and try to ana­lyze what about it makes it important enough to give it such prominent space. 
Jonas karlsson’s recently published and translated “the room” explores the concept of reality (and personal reality and delusions) through the (probable) ravings of a desk worker. at the begin­ning, nothing appears to be wrong with protagonist bjorn, but as he tells us more about his work at the office and his coworkers’ reactions to him, it quickly becomes clear he is not as authoritative as he would have us believe. 
karlsson’s story does interesting work with the concept of the unreliable nar­rator. other than the clearly ominous an underlying theme of repair and re­newal. i was surprised by the simplic­ity of this album overall, compared to the upbeat nature of their last album, “codes and keys.” its opener, “no room in Frame,” is definitely a breakup song, a possible ode to ben gibbard’s break­up with Zooey deschanel earlier in the year. their premiere single, “black sun,” has the memorable lyrics that death cab for cutie is known for, but with a new, cleaner mellowness that ra­diates throughout the entire album. 
a third song that is definitely worth mentioning is “little wanderer.” it has a dreamlike, drifting quality, while keeping with the overall neatness of “kintsugi.” a memorable lyric comes from the chorus: “you’re my wanderer / little wanderer / off across the sea / you’re my wanderer / little wanderer / how i wish that you could see / how i need you back with me.” this song would definitely be perfect for when you have a serious case of wanderlust. 
on the same note, “hold no guns” is different from anything i’ve ever heard death cab for cutie do before. this is 
title, the work begins with a seemingly trustworthy narrator. he’s starting a new job, and he clearly works very hard. he seems somewhat intelligent. there seems to be no real reason to question the existence of the room he tells us about on the very first page. 
bjorn’s actions within the room are al­ways fuzzy, and when he brings others into the room, he never explains exactly what happens there. For the reader, this means that the only thing that is avail­able is bjorn’s explanations after the fact, which make it somewhat confus­ing when his coworkers and boss start talking about “staffing issues.” despite bjorn’s complaints about his coworkers, it’s fairly clear that he has not taken the time to relate anything serious enough to require intervention. 
after the “staffing issues” remark, the inconsistencies in narrative start to pick up. if possible, it becomes even less clear what bjorn does exactly and he works for the ominously named “authority” (all i can really think is “big brother,” but this never really fleshes itself out). his coworkers clearly find him strange because in the beginning, there are no instrumentals on the track. gibbard’s soulful voice bleeds through, and just like at his shows, his raw emotion and talent are showcased. it eventually fades into barely-there guitar, accen­tuating the softness of the song. “My love, why do you run / My hands hold no guns,” then, “break you with the slightest bend / that leaves you lost and helpless.” i believe that if they had add­ed anything more to this track, it would have taken away from its aesthetic and meaning; this is something they did just right. 
although i do not have many nega­tive things to say about “kintsugi,” i did not end up connecting with one of the songs as much as i thought i would. as a major death cab for cutie fan, i expect­ed to love all of their work, especially after hoping for a comeback after the disappointment that was “codes and keys.” “el dorado” is one of the songs i felt myself skipping, even after listen­ing to the album a couple of times. i hope it will grow on me, like some of my old favorite death cab for cutie songs 
and at some point, he’s even asked if he’s on drugs. despite his language, it’s very clear that his perception of reality is not the same as everyone around him. 
at the heart of all bjorn’s delusions is the mysterious empty office between the elevator and the bathroom. For him, it provides an important space to think and relax from the stressors of his job. For everyone else, it’s not clear that it exists. 
perhaps the most interesting part about karlsson’s creation is the relation­ship between bjorn’s productivity and the room. there is something about this space that allows bjorn to tap into some intellectual power that helps him be­come one of the very best workers at his firm. he uses this space to unwind and to consider problems. For some reason, it allows him to unlock problems that have puzzled his coworkers for weeks. karlsson appears to be making some kind of link between madness and ge­nius, though bjorn’s final predicament casts serious doubt over whether this is worth it. 
while many pieces of the novel are did. 
overall, death cab for cutie has defi­nitely rounded out their career — and their style — with “kintsugi.”  this concept definitely works with their growing up and coming-of-age, and i’m happy to report that they are back and better than ever. this is one album that i will not just be getting on itunes only. if this is what death cab for cutie’s fu­ture looks like, it is definitely bright, and they are going to be sticking around for more than 17 years. 
Contact Bridget Dedelow at                    bdedelow@nd.edu 
“Kintsugi” 
Death Cab for Cutie 
Label: Atlantic Tracks: “Little Wanderer” If you like:  All-Time 
Quarterback 

perhaps not meant to be realistic, per­sonally i could never figure out why his firm didn’t fire him after he broke their rules again and again. it’s the only piece of story that is just unrealistic enough to distract from the overall theme of the story. 
as an unreliable narrator, bjorn clearly wants the reader to think highly of him. he consistently reassures the reader that he is very good at his job, and he clearly believes himself the in­tellectual superior of everyone he works with. while the fact that he still has a job implies that this isn’t a complete lie, almost everything else leads the reader to question just how well bjorn knows himself. 
in the end, bjorn’s genius fails to com­pensate for his strange eccentricities that border on complete madness. still, for him, the room remains a very real thing, and it become his only retreat when everyone he knows attempts to make him come to terms with reality. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at                        cmoriari@nd.edu 

ERIN RICE | The Observer 

the observer | FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 2015 | ndsMcobserver.coM 

By KATHRYN MINKO 
scene writer 

as spring and warm weather ap­proach, everyone notices a difference in mood, activity and, of course, mu­sic. they say March roars in like a lion and comes out like a lamb, and it simi­larly follows that depressing music and moods transform into bright energies and warm tunes. what better way to ring in the spring season than to attend one of country music’s most anticipat­ed stars sam hunt? hunt is coming to legends on saturday night, courtesy of sub. 
after the release of his 2014 fall al­bum “Montevallo,” country fans around the nation have shared and jammed to hunt’s r&b-country-mix melodies. Many of his songs uniquely combine a 
By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
scene writer 

when the los angeles rap collec­tive odd Future wolf gang kill them all first broke out into the mainstream nearly five years ago, the group gar­nered attention as much for their group dynamic as their outrage-garnering antics. even as the group’s profile rose, its members rarely collaborated with anyone outside their inner circle and continued to litter their music with inside jokes. when they performed to­gether, the collective inspired an anar­chical energy that gained them legions of young supreme-clad fans. 
yet over the past two years, odd Future has drifted apart as its mem­bers have increasingly pursued their own projects. the group’s ringleader tyler, the creator admitted in a Fader cover story last year that he and rapper earl sweatshirt, who were once as close as siblings, had grown apart and hadn’t collaborated on new music since 2013. 
earl’s second studio album, “i don’t like s**t, i don’t go outside,” which was released sunday evening, is the first hint of a post-odd Future career. the album finds earl working largely bluegrass vibe with rap and r&b sty­listic touches. the lyrics to many of his songs reflect the stereotypical country message: summer lovin’, day drinkin’ and life reflectin’. though some songs embrace calmer tunes and lyrics, a handful adopts high spirits and upbeat vibes. therefore, country gurus and in­terested spectators alike can be assured that there’s an adequate variety of song types and impressions. 
concert-goers can expect many of hunt’s popular hits, including “take your time” (which has recently climbed to the top of billboard’s hot 100 country songs), “bottle it up” and “speakers.” hunt’s most renowned song, “leave the night on,” has landed within the top-25 country hits for a period of consecutive weeks, and viewers can certainly an­ticipate this as one of the loudest, most 
without the input of his odd Future collaborators, save a guest verse from vince staples and a song produced by left brain. it’s earl’s most insular work to date, a dark album on which he sounds depressed and paranoid. 
“this is the first thing that i’ve said that i fully stand behind, like the good and the bad of it,” earl told npr’s “Microphone check” this week. “i’ve never been this transparent with my­self or with music.” 
earl’s singular vision is all over “i don’t like s**t, i don’t go outside” which streamlines the moody, down­beat sound he established on “doris,” his major label debut. while “doris” featured production credits from tyler, rZa, badbadnotgood and the neptunes, this time around earl largely handles production himself. working under the pseudonym ran­domblackdude, earl is credited as the sole producer on nine of the 10 tracks on “i don’t like s**t, i don’t go outside.” his productions are moody, hazy affairs with droning synths and muted drums that mirror the late night introspection. 
earl’s understated production serves his lyricism, which focuses on coping anxiously awaited songs of the night. as stated before, hunt’s notably soulful style brings great diversity to the stage, which places a unique spin on contem­porary perception of country. this, in turn, should attract a wide variety of musical interests. so, if you can’t decide on whether to attend, go for the sheer fact of unconventional style and intrigu­ing takes on songs. 
For all you country fanatics, keep in mind that sam not only performs his own songs, but has also composed an assortment of songs as well. aside from his own album, hunt has aided in the production of “come over” by the leg­endary kenny chesney and “cop car” by keith urban. if these prominent beats do not entice you, think of hunt’s simple stage presence. a former university of alabama at birmingham quarterback, 
with a newfound modicum of fame and complicated relationships with an ex, friends and family. lead single “grief,” which earl called a “a final lament and epilogue,” best encapsulates his pen­sive mood and seeming agoraphobia. “i ain’t been outside in a minute / i been living what i wrote,” he explains over the track’s dark, bass-heavy pro­duction. on the track’s second verse, earl’s slows down to a lethargic flow as he rattles off the fleeting thoughts that come to him under the influence. after three minutes exploring the vari­ous ways he manages his anxiety, he concludes in a whisper, “i just want my time and my mind intact / when they both gone, you can’t buy ‘em back.” 
earl continues to delve deep into his psychology throughout “i don’t like s**t, i don’t go outside.” on “Mantra” he describes the overwhelming inten­sity of his fans, “who you can’t get mad at, when they want to pound a pic / ‘cause they the reason that the traffic on the browser quick.” the track’s dis­torted guitar riff gives way to silence, echoing earl’s own desire to retreat from the limelight. he even takes shots at his peers on “Faucet,” rapping, “i feel like i’m the only one pressing to grow sam’s love for performance and music 
— not to mention his muscles — will carry positive favor for the audience. even more, hunt’s unconventional-country style rejects cowboy hats and boots to embrace snap-backs, black tees and flannels. his music and fash­ion choices, therefore, embody the uni­fication of dissimilar genres. thus, the threatening combination of good music, compellingly diverse styles, summer­time lyrics and performance capability will certainly boost energy and mood for whomever chooses to attend. all that said, if you’re searching for a saturday night filled with music and hopes for the summer, then rest assured: your hunt is over! 
Contact Kathryn Minko at            kminko@nd.edu 
upwards.” 
clocking in at just under half an hour, “i don’t like s**t, i don’t go outside” nonetheless manages to encapsulates earl’s worldview due to his dense emo­tional lyricism. while nothing on the record quite reaches the heights of “hive” or “sunday,” it’s his most per­sonal work, both in creation and con­tent, to date. earl may have retreated from the outside world, but he brings listeners into an immersive world of his own on “i don’t like s**t, i don’t go outside.” 
Contact Matthew Munhall at           mmunhall@nd.edu 
“I Don’t Like S**t, I Don’t Go Outside” 
Earl Sweatshirt 
Label: Tan Cressida Tracks: “Grief” If you like: Tyler, the Creator 


ERIN RICE | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Cinderella has nothing on Bhutan 
Daniel O’Boyle 
sports writer 
earlier this month, one of the greatest events in all of sports began, and a huge underdog pulled off an unlikely upset to begin what they hope will be a great cinderella story. they may not have any hopes of going all the way, but they’ve already made some great memories. 
i’m not talking about March Madness, or about basketball at all: i’m talking about the 2018 FiFa world cup and the bhutan national soccer team. 
Maybe you’re confused: shouldn’t the 2018 world cup be happening in, well, 2018? they haven’t moved the date of this world cup too, have they? and what exactly did bhutan do that’s so impressive? the an­swers are it’s the early stages of the asian qualifying section — the first official matches of the world cup to eventually decide which teams travel to brazil just over three years from now — and bhutan beat sri lanka, 1-0 away and then 2-1 at home, to qualify for the second round. 
Maybe that still doesn’t help, maybe it just looks like a game between two obscure asian na­tions with little claim to soccer fame. but bhutan isn’t just any minnow of international soccer: before it played sri lanka, the national team held the title of the worst international soccer team in the world. 
i don’t know much about bhutan. wikipedia tells me it’s a small state — just a little big­ger than Maryland — at the eastern end of the himalayas. the capital city is thimphu. the national sport is archery, but the most popular sport is soccer. in 2006, business week rated it as the happiest country in asia, but starting in 2008 it might have gotten a little less happy as the national soccer team lost every game for six years and nine months. 
that run saw them fall down the FiFa world rankings. in december 2012, they fell into a tie for last place, with zero rank­ing points. on november 15, 2014, san Marino — europe’s bottom feeders — played out a 0-0 draw with estonia, dooming bhutan to last place. bhutan’s streak included losing 7-0 to turkmenistan and pakistan, 8-1 to afghanistan and three games against the sri lanka team they would later defeat: losing 6-0, 3-0 and 5-2. before that, bhutan’s soccer history isn’t much better: they’d never won a world cup qualifying game before, and in 2000 they lost a game against kuwait 20-0. 

so expectations for bhutan weren’t high when they were to face sri lanka again. the island nation may be better known for cricket, but at 173rd in the world and their domi­nant head-to-head record, they were a powerhouse compared to bhutan. to make matters harder for the bhutanese team, they were without a full-time coach, relying instead on for­mer player chokey nima after their last coach left the role. like most south asian, usually bhutan brings someone in from a country with a stronger soccer set-up, like sri lanka’s german coach, but nima was able to call on the national pride and do what three coaches before him couldn’t: win a game. 
but win they did, twice. a late goal in the first game was enough to ensure victory in sri lanka, and in front of a sell-out crowd at thimphu, with the second game at 1-1, chencho gyeltshen scored his second goal of the game in the last min­ute to seal the victory. 

Making it all the way to the world cup still looks outlandish for the bhutan national team and its fans. they’d have to make it through two group stag­es against much tougher opposi­tion than anyone they’ve faced in their history. but just making it this far is an achievement: bhutan will be drawn in a group with at least one of asia’s top teams — perhaps tim cahill’s australia or shinji kagawa’s Japan. it may not be a real glam­our game like brazil, germany or argentina, but for bhutan, it’s something their players will have dreamed of. 
so if you’ve liked watching teams pull off unlikely upsets this March, bhutan might be a team to watch, just in case their cinderella run has another sur­prise. or maybe you should root for anguila, who takes over the reins as the world’s worst inter­national soccer team. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu
 The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmcobserver 

ROWING 

Irish prepare for test at Ohio 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writer 
no. 12 notre dame heads to columbus, ohio, this coming weekend to take part in the an­nual big ten-acc double duels on saturday. 
after their first regatta of the spring two weeks ago in oak ridge, tennessee, the irish row­ers have taken advantage of the changing weather to take to the water on the st. Joseph river in preparation for their trip to columbus this coming weekend, junior katie scorcz said. the irish will face a slate of both confer­ence and out-of-conference foes during the regatta, including clashes with host and two-time defending national champion ohio state, the no. 1 team in the country. 
scorcz praised her team’s work ethic during this week’s practices, citing the unpredictable south bend weather as a vexing — but useful — obstacle during their outdoor training. 
“we were on the wa­ter on sunday, tuesday and wednesday,” scorcz said. “we’ve been focusing on the same skill and drill activities that we’ve been doing every day. luckily, we’ve been on the water most every day since we’ve been back. … we’ve had to work a little bit more against the wind and the current this week. it can make it a bit slower for our racers and it can offset the boat — it’s been a bit unfortunate, but it has been good practice for columbus, where it is supposed to be pretty cold and windy. i think we’re better pre­pared for that after this week.” 

scorcz also said she was pleased with the team’s difficult nonconference schedule – in­cluding teams like ohio state, Michigan and yale — citing the slate’s relative rigor as both an op­portunity to get better and make a statement to the ncaa selection committee. 
“we don’t get to row against every team — we only race five times in the year, including the acc championships. From there, all the teams who place first in their conference go to the ncaa tournament,” scorcz said. “but there are 10-20 at-large bids, so the more we race out of confer­ence can help us get one of those.” 
scorcz said the example of last year’s yale squad served as motivation for her to strength­en the team’s nonconference scheduling. 
“last year, yale did not race out of conference,” she said. “[they were] arguably one of the fastest teams, but because they didn’t race out of conference, they didn’t get the opportunity to compare against other people. harvard won the ivy league champion­ship and yale didn’t get the at-large bid because they didn’t have the opportunity to race competi­tors out of conference.” 
the team is especially excited to face quality competition like ohio state, scorcz said. 
“ohio state’s going to put up a really good fight,” she said. “they were number one the past two years. it’s a little unrealistic to think that we’ll come in and stomp on them, so we’re going to use them as a measure. i’m not going to say we don’t have it in us to beat them — i think the expec­tation is that we use our race with them as an opportunity to really measure ourselves.” 
the irish travel to columbus, ohio, on thursday night. they will spend Friday training before competing in their second regat­ta of the year – the big ten-acc double duels — on saturday. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 

SMC SOFTBALL | wheaton 9, sMc 1; wheaton 4, sMc 3 
Belles fall in doubleheader 
Observer Staff Report 
after returning home from its spring break, saint Mary’s was ready to start its regular season off with a home game last sunday. the belles’ double­header against dominican was postponed, however, and the team had to wait until thursday to play at wheaton. 
the belles finished their spring break trip with an 8-2 record. however, wheaton halt­ed the early-season momen­tum thursday, handing saint Mary’s two losses yesterday in wheaton, illinois. 
the first game ended via mercy rule after five innings and saw the belles take a 9-1 loss. in the second inning, the thunder put up six runs on junior pitcher sarah burke. although burke managed to strike out three in 1.2 innings, she also walked four batters and allowed four hits. her trouble started at the begin­ning of the second when she 


WANTED 
TRIPLE DOMER NEEDS NANNY­-SUMMER ONLY, P/T, or F/T: ND family needs an energetic, outdoor-loving, reliable gal to travel to beautiful 

walked the leadoff batter. she then loaded the bases mul­tiple times before a double by opposing junior pitcher katie thornton broke the game open. the thunder added one more run on burke to make the game 6-0 before saint Mary’s head coach kelli Zache called on freshman right-hander Jessica alberts to finish the in­ning. wheaton tacked on an­other run in the third and two more in the fifth to claim the mercy-rule victory. 
thornton allowed two hits and one run, unearned, to col­lect the win. 
the second game of the day was closer, but the belles were still saddled with a 4-3 loss. the belles loaded the bases with nobody out in the first in­ning, yet could not manage to put a run across on thornton, throwing her second game of the day. 
in the second inning, both teams scored three runs, and the belles managed to knock thornton out of the game ear­ly. the scoring started for saint Mary’s when freshman out­fielder Makenzie duncan dou­bled to center field to knock in freshman pitcher Morgan raymer. soon after that, junior outfielder sarah callis singled in junior second baseman angela dainelli. 
the belles stranded five run­ners over the rest of the game and failed to score again. 
in the fourth inning, raymer ran into trouble and gave up an unearned run when a wheaton runner tried to steal second. the runner swiped the bag and advanced to third on a fielding error by freshman shortstop Jamie young. despite allowing four runs, raymer struck out seven batters and issued zero walks but still took the loss. 
the belles will next take the field for their doubleheader at north central on saturday at 2 p.m. saint Mary’s then opens Miaa play against conference foe adrian on tuesday. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Jackson Hole WY from end of May/ “So, here’s a story from A to Z early June to early August as our live-You wanna get with me, in nanny. Email: info@greymattersintl. you gotta listen carefully com (evidently not English words went here) You got G like MC who likes it on a... FOOSBALL: Looking for high level Easy V doesn’t come for free, she’s a playersforfoos.574-257-4441leavemsg real lady, and as for me, ha you’ll see” 

WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Irish host Marquette, NC State over weekend 
By BENJAMIN PADANILAM 
sports writer 
no. 36 notre dame will re­turn home this weekend for a pair of matches, welcom­ing acc foe north carolina state on Friday followed by a matchup with Marquette on sunday. 
the irish (10-6, 5-3 acc) are coming off two close road matches this past weekend, as they fought their way to a narrow 4-3 victory over Florida state last Friday in tallahassee, Florida, before falling to georgia tech in atlanta by 4-3. 
against both opponents, the outcome was decided in the final singles match. against the seminoles (10-6, 3-4 acc), the irish trailed 3-1 before winning the last three singles matches to secure the victory. then, just two days later against the yellow Jackets (6-6, 3-3 acc), four of the six singles matches took all three sets to reach a con­clusion. irish head coach Jay louderback said he believes close, competitive weekends such as this past one will pre­pare the team for the bigger matches down the road. 
“it’s going to really help us later on,” louderback said. “it’s hard losing one as tight as we did, but both teams are very good. as we get into the acc tournament and then — even more than that — the ncaa tournament, playing these type of matches helps. we’ve had 11 matches that were either 4-3 or 5-2 this year, which is a lot, and we’ve won seven of them. it’s going to help us later as we get fur­ther into the season and the postseason.” 
louderback said he expects his team is in for another close match Friday when it welcomes the wolfpack (9­8, 0-6 acc) to eck tennis pavilion. the wolfpack are coming off losses to Miami and Florida state this past weekend that kept them winless in conference play. however, louderback said it will be a hard-fought match due to the fact that confer­ence play has had one tight match after the other for the irish all year. 
“if you look at their scores, [nc state has] had tight matches with everyone,” louderback said. “they just lost a tight 5-2 match at Florida state two days after we played them. we haven’t had an easy acc match [ei­ther]. it’s going to be another good acc match for us, and they’re needing a win and want a win in the acc right now so they’ll be tough.” 
notre dame will play their second match of the weekend sunday when they host the golden eagles (9-7, 0-1 big east). although no longer a member of the big east, notre dame has continued to play Marquette due to the natural rivalry that exists between the teams, louderback said. 

“we’ve played Marquette every year for a long time,” louderback said. “now that we’re not in the big east, they’re just sort of a natural close rival for us, so we’ve continued to play them. we haven’t lost to them for a long time, but we’ve had close matches. and they always compete well.” 
in addition to the rivalry, the benefit of the match for the irish is the timing of it, as louderback said it provides the team with a strong but re­laxing non-conference tilt. 
“i think it will actually be good for us to play a non-conference match because, even though it will be a good match, it’s not quite the same pressure as when your playing acc matches,” louderback said. 
the irish will take to the courts Friday at 3 p.m. when they take on nc state at eck tennis pavilion, followed by the matchup with Marquette on sunday at noon. 
Contact Benjamin Padanilam bpadanil@nd.edu 

MEN’S TENNIS 

ND to take on Miami in Florida 
By RYAN KLAUS 
sports writer 
coming off a doubleheader sweep sunday, no. 37 notre dame is set to begin a four-match road trip Friday against Miami. the irish (10-7, 2-3) dominated in both of their matches sunday, beating both georgia tech and ipFw 6-1. the two victories were a wel­comed sight for the irish fol­lowing home defeats to no. 25 texas tech and no. 8 virginia earlier in the week. 
“even though we lost to virginia and texas tech ear­lier in the week, we felt like we were playing good tennis and putting ourselves in a position to be successful,” said irish head coach ryan sachire. “we actually entered the matches on sunday with a lot of confi­dence that we were doing a lot of the right things and that it was going to be a great day for us and it was. 
“it’s one thing to walk off the court and know you did a lot of good things, but winning re­inforces the positives and that you are doing things well. we were really excited to continue to do things well and also get the win.” 
the wins sunday furthered a trend dominating for notre dame when it comes to play­ing in doubleheaders. over the course of the season, notre dame has played in three dou­bleheaders, winning all six of those matches by scores of ei­ther 6-1 or 7-0. 
“i think it’s maybe a little bit of a coincidence,” said sachire of his team’s success in doubleheaders. “we’ve had a good year. short of having a few injuries here and there, our guys are playing well. they’re improving and pro­gressing, and we’ve lost close to a lot of teams. we’re happy with where we are and we’re excited for what’s ahead.” 
notre dame’s final road trip of the season starts with the hurricanes (6-9, 0-4), who are looking for their first confer­ence victory of the season. Following Miami, notre dame has road contests against Florida state, duke and north carolina. 
“our focus is just on Miami right now,” said sachire. “we know it’s going to be a really tough and competitive match. they’re a good team and play­ing them down in Miami is not an easy chore, and we know that. we’re hoping to start off this four-match road swing with a good performance and hopefully a win. if we do that then we can build to Florida state, duke and north carolina, but it all starts with a good performance on Friday.” 
notre dame’s first position singles player, junior Quentin Monaghan was named the acc tennis player of the week following a successful 3-0 weekend. 
“we’re continuously excited about the play of our dou­bles and the play of Quentin Monaghan at number one singles,” said sachire. “i think that if those two components of our lineup keep putting us in position to get wins in those spots, then we’re going to be tough to beat coming down the stretch.” 
the irish and hurricanes 


are set to begin at 2 p.m. Friday 

paid advertiseMent 
at neil schiff tennis center in coral gables, Florida. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at        rklaus1@nd.edu 



the observer | FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 2015 | ndsMcobserver.coM 

WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish set up for ACC showdown 
Observer Staff Report 
coming off a win over Marquette in Milwaukee on wednesday, no. 17 notre dame returns back home sunday for an acc showdown with no. 3 north carolina. 
after losing their first three games of March, the irish (6­4, 1-2 acc) are now winners of three consecutive games, with sunday representing the month’s rubber match. Following losses at no. 6 duke, no. 2 boston college and no. 12 stony brook, the irish rebounded with a pair of home wins over virginia tech and no. 18 ohio state prior to wednesday’s win. 
in addition to the trio of wins, the three-game run has seen the reemergence of cortney Fortunato as the pre­eminent scoring threat for the irish. the sophomore attack 
—
 who scored just 10 times in notre dame’s first six games 

— 
has tallied 17 goals over the last three games. 


Fortunato is not the only one making a sizable con­tribution to the irish attack, though, as the team’s second-leading scorer —junior attack rachel sexton — has eight goals in the past two games, including a five-goal outing wednesday. 
the tar heels (9-2, 2-1 acc) enter sunday’s contest look­ing to keep in touch with un­defeated boston college at the top of the conference stand­ings; north carolina fell 10-9 in overtime against the eagles on saturday before bounc­ing back with a 14-5 win over virginia tech on wednesday. 
north carolina — the 2013 national champions — is led offensively by a sextet of players with double-digit goals on the year, including sophomore attack Molly hendrick’s 23 goals. Junior attack/midfielder sammy Jo tracy has tallied 21 times on the year while junior attack aly Messinger has paired her 15 goals with nine assists to trail just hendrick in points. 

at the back, the tar heels will likely turn to goalkeeper caylee waters. the sopho­more — who holds an 8-2­0 record on the year — has saved 47 of 104 goal-bound shots so far this year (45.2 percent) and allows just over eight goals per game. if the choice is not waters, junior goalkeeper Megan ward has also seen significant action for sunday’s visitors; she has played in just over one third of the minutes logged by the tar heels so far this season. 
while Fortunato leads the irish by a significant margin in goals (32) and points (43), she is not the only significant part of the attack. sexton’s 22 goals put her second on the team while sophomore midfielder casey pearsall (10 goals, 12 assists) and sopho­more attack grace Muller (13 goals) have also made their presences felt on the field this year. 
irish head coach christine halfpenny will be expected to turn to liz o’sullivan in goal again for the irish; the soph­omore has been the goalie of record in each game this season. o’sullivan has saved 
38.5 percent of goal-bound chances so far this year, but has posted a 54.1 percent save percentage during notre dame’s three-game winning streak. 
the irish can pull back to .500 in acc play sunday when they host north carolina at arlotta stadium. the first draw is scheduled for 1 p.m. 

BASEBALL 
nd to challenge virginia in conference home series 

By BRIAN HARTNETT 
senior sports writer 
since it entered the acc last season, notre dame has faced some of the toughest competi­tion in the nation. this week­end, the team will welcome a perennial national contender in no. 14 virginia, which will enter Frank eck stadium fresh off a college world series finals ap­pearance last season. 
the cavaliers (15-8, 3-6 acc), which fell to vanderbilt in the best-of-three college world series finals last June, have struggled recently, losing seven of their last 10 games. nonetheless, notre dame head coach Mik aoki said he expects virginia to present a tough challenge for the irish (16-7, 3-6). 
“i know that they’re a re­ally good club,” he said of the cavaliers. “i know that they’re going to pitch their rear ends off, and we’re going to have to do a great job of competing from pitch to pitch in order to get the results we want to come out with. 
“whether they’re struggling or not, i don’t think it matters. they’re a really good ball club, and we’re going to have to do a really good job against them.” 
aoki said virginia has typi­cally been strong in multiple facets of the game under head coach brian o’connor, an assis­tant coach at notre dame from 1995 to 2003. since o’connor arrived at virginia in 2003, the cavaliers have made 11 ncaa tournament appearances and 
reached three  college  world  
series.  
“i  think  over  the  years,  

they’ve proven that they can be one of the best pitching teams in the country,” aoki said of the cavaliers. “they’ve had really good players from a positional standpoint. … they’re typically very athletic, and they swing the bat very well.” 
virginia sophomore catcher Matt thaiss has led the cavaliers at the plate, post­ing a .345 batting average and seven home runs on the season. virginia junior right-hander nathan kirby, named a first team all-american last season by multiple publications, has a 3-1 record with a 1.16 era and 54 strikeouts in 38 2/3 innings on the season. 
notre dame will enter this weekend’s series coming off an 8-3 win against western Michigan on wednesday night. irish sophomore catch­er ryan lidge was 4-for-4 with three runs scored, two dou­bles and an rbi against the broncos, and irish sophomore right-hander ryan smoyer picked up his second con­secutive win while allowing two runs on six hits in 5 1/3 innings. 
the irish hosted their first home conference series last weekend, scoring only four runs in three consecutive losses to no. 7 louisville. 
despite the team’s strug­gles last weekend, aoki said he is not worried about notre dame’s ability to play at a high level and maintain focus over a three-game series. 
“we’ve played 23 games so far, and to be honest, i think it was four innings out of the 23 games that we’ve played, which included a few extra-inning affairs, that our energy level hasn’t been outstand­ing,” he said. “we’ve been fine. i’m not really concerned about how we can come back to who we are from an energy standpoint.” 
notre dame’s usual week­end starting pitching trio of senior right-hander scott kerrigan, freshman right-hander brandon bielak and junior right-hander nick Mccarty have provided strong efforts on the mound all year, aoki said, which he expects to continue this weekend. 
“i would expect for them to go out and compete at the same level they’ve been com­peting at all year,” aoki said. “they’ve been really good for us, and i’ll would expect them to do the same thing, and hopefully we can turn some losses from last weekend into wins this upcoming weekend.” 
notre dame and virginia will meet in a doubleheader be­ginning at 1:05 p.m. saturday. the irish and cavaliers will conclude the series sunday at 
1:05 p.m. all games will be at Frank eck stadium. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at        bhartnet@nd.edu 

paid advertiseMent ndsMcobserver.coM | FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 2015 | the observer 



MEN’S LACROSSE 

No. 1 Orange set on collision course with No. 2 Irish 
W Bball 
continued FroM page 16 
netted 10 points against depaul and 18 against Montana — fairly modest compared to her season average of 20.1 points per game. 
the play of freshmen for­wards brianna turner and kathryn westbeld has also been key — the two tournament rookies combined for 42 points between them in the first two rounds. 
Mcgraw praised the ability of the freshmen to step up in a high-stakes environment like the ncaa tournament. 
“you know, i think when you come into a program, the expectation level is set pretty high, and so i think everybody coming in knew that there was going to be a lot expected of [the freshmen],” Mcgraw said. “we talked to the freshmen early on that they weren’t going to be able to play like freshmen. we were going to need them right away. … i think our posts, all three of them, [sophomore for­ward] taya [reimer], bri, and kathryn, have really played well of late and have just continued to get better.” 
similarly, stanford’s offense has a number of different scor­ing threats, and Mcgraw said the irish have worked to defend all of them in practice this week. 
“we’ve got to figure out how we can stop the penetration and the kick-outs, which is very dif­ficult for us just having played depaul which was a five-out team,” Mcgraw said. “i think we came away with a lot of things we need to do better. 

“it’s a difficult challenge for us. i think that defensively, man-to-man, containing the ball, has been somewhat of an issue for us this year, so i think that’s something that we hope­fully have fixed this week.” 
though notre dame breezed through the first two rounds with double-digit margin wins, its trip to oklahoma city was a little more troublesome. the team’s plane was diverted to an airport in lawton, oklahoma, due to severe weather, waiting there until buses picked them up to finish out the journey. 
“we hung out, we ordered piz­za,” Mcgraw said. “it was a very small airport. we were the only ones there, and we had about 95 with the band and cheerleaders and our whole party. we made the most of it, and our condo­lences to the people that were seriously affected by the storm.” 
eventually, notre dame ar­rived safely in oklahoma city where it will face stanford at chesapeake energy area in a sweet 16 showdown tonight at 10 p.m. 
Contact Renee Griffin at         rgriffi6@nd.edu 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
when no. 2 notre dame takes on no. 1 syracuse tomor­row at arlotta stadium, both teams will bring top-10 of­fenses and top-10 defenses to the matchup. naturally, some­thing’s got to give in this battle of heavyweights. 
while some might think the stakes higher than usual for notre dame (5-1, 1-0 acc), head coach kevin corrigan said the irish have prepared for tomor­row no differently than previous games. 
“we don’t put any more or less importance on any game,” corrigan said. “that’s just the way it is. it’s not the sexy ap­proach, it’s just the one that works.” 
still, corrigan said his play­ers are undoubtedly keyed in. after all, the orange (7-0, 2-0 acc) recently dismantled no. 6 duke, 19-7, on sunday. they sport one of the most balanced and veteran offenses in the country; in addition to a start­ing midfield made up of three redshirt seniors, the orange are led by two older attackers in se­nior kevin rice and redshirt ju­nior dylan donahue. donahue leads the orange with 22 goals this season, while rice adds 15 goals and 35 points. 
“kevin rice is the quarter­back, but everyone else on that offense can hurt you,” espn an­alyst paul carcaterra said. “ … [rice is] a playmaker, even if he doesn’t run by you. he always capitalizes off of any defensive mishap, and the guy he’s look­ing for is dylan donahue, who’s a lefty finisher.” 
rice and donahue are not the only players that can hurt op­ponents, however. each of the front-six starters for syracuse averages at least a goal a game. 

“i think the challenge is that you can’t concentrate on any one of their guys,” corrigan said. 
as efficent as syracuse’s scor­ers are, the ‘X factor’ for the orange could be sophomore faceoff specialist ben williams. williams, who has won 68.2 percent of his draws this year, has the ability to dictate the pace of the game, carcaterra said. 
“this is an offense that is veteran, smart and has great lacrosse iQ to begin with, and now you’re giving them so many more opportunities com­pared to what they had in the past with their ability to win the faceoff with ben williams,” carcaterra said. “he’s is one of the biggest stories of lacrosse. … if you look at the duke game, ben williams won 11 of the first 12 faceoffs. eleven more pos­sessions than another team. do the math, it’s just going to put the defense in a tough situation.” 
notre dame has struggled to find a replacement for gradu­ated faceoff specialist liam o’connor, trotting out the likes of senior nick ossello, sopho­more p.J. Finley and freshman John travisano, Jr. on different occasions this season. one of them will have to limit the ef­fect williams will have on the game, corrigan said. 
“the key for us is to make sure [he’s] not a huge factor,” corrigan said. “both by win­ning faceoffs but also by mak­ing sure we don’t allow them to make any plays outside of the faceoff game. if they’re [doing that], then that’s a problem for us.” 
if the irish can limit williams, they will still have to deal with the wealth of of­fensive weapons at syracuse’s disposal. that task will be left up to goalie shane doss, reign­ing acc defensive player of the week, and the defensive trio of sophomore garrett epple and juniors edwin glazener and Matt landis. 
“[From the defense we need] good, smart, off-ball play; guys working really hard in small spaces to be where they need to be [and] communication at a high level,” corrigan said. “… [but] it’s nice to know for our defense, when they make a mis­take, the other team still has to beat shane. and that’s no small task.” 
the irish will also counter syracuse’s firepower with a deadly offense of their own. Junior attack Matt kavanagh has tallied 13 goals and 27 points on the season, while freshman attack Mikey wynne has burst onto the scene with 19 goals. 
“Matt kavanagh is one of the best dodging [attackers] in the country without question,” carcaterra said. “[and] Mikey wynne is a perfect complement to him because he plays off-ball so well. he’s been a fantastic addition to the notre dame offense.” 
as prolific as both offenses are, the game may ultimately come down to one player: ben williams. 
“if ben williams has a typi­cal ben williams-type day … i don’t know if there’s a team in the country that can beat syracuse,” carcaterra said. “[but] if notre dame finds a way to bottle up williams and offset the dominance somewhat … i think they can win this game.” 
notre dame and syracuse, the top two teams in the coun­try, clash tomorrow at noon at arlotta stadium. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at  bpalamond@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

nd carries momentum into lsu tiger classic 
rouge to compete in the lsu the sun devils, but ahead senior captain ashley recorded 16 pars on sunday 
Observer Staff Report 

tiger classic this weekend. of the rest of the 15-team armstrong also picked up sandwiched around a pair of 
after a successful showing the team is coming off of a field. tcu made a late push her fourth top-10 finish bogeys. 
at the clover cup, the notre second-place showing in the sunday, but the irish man-of the season. she tied for senior kelli oride tied for 
dame women’s golf team clover cup, which it hosted aged to hold them off, and eighth at seven-over-par 40th at 17-over-par, while 
will head down to baton March 13-15. while most the horned Frogs ended up 223 (76-71-76). she ran into freshman kari bellville’s of the student body was re-two strokes behind notre trouble sunday when she 25-over-par score rounded 
paid ad 

turning to notre dame, the dame. bogeyed three of her first out the irish roster in 64th. team placed behind only no. Junior talia campbell led five holes. however, she re-now the irish look to the 18 arizona state. the irish with a fourth over-bounded with 12 pars in her tiger classic, which will fea­
the team has been very all finish with a one-over-par final 13 holes to maintain ture three teams in the top 
consistent during this 217 (72-74-71). she matched her finish. 11 and nine in the top 50. 
promising season, and it her best finish this season the last of the trio of top-the entire field is 16 teams, 
continued that consis-and was a part of three notre 15 finishers was sophomore so the team will be matched 
tency with notre dame’s dame golfers who finished Jordan Ferreira, who earned up against other blue chip 
third consecutive top-three in the top-15. her best day a share of 13th place. she programs. 
finish. they shot a three-was sunday, when she re-finished just shy of a season tee times start at 8:30 a.m. 
round score of 32-over-par corded three birdies on the best, shooting a nine-over-Friday, and the tournament 
896 (296-301-299), which front nine and added two par 225 (73-78-74). after a draws to a close sunday 
was eleven strokes behind more on the back nine. rocky saturday, Ferreira afternoon. 



the observer | FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 2015 | ndsMcobserver.coM 

double figures too. M Bball “they just shot layup after continued FroM page 16 layup it seemed like,” wichita 
state junior guard Fred vanvleet shockers on thursday night in said. “we just, for whatever rea­cleveland at Quicken loans son, couldn’t stop them.” arena. the shockers struggled to find 
“they’re really cruel com-an offensive rhythm, as well. petitors,” brey said of his team. notre dame limited wichita “when they feel a little blood in state to 36 percent shooting in the water … they go for it again, the first half, and the shockers and i think that’s why they’re connected on just three of their special and playing for a region-18 3-point attempts. al championship on saturday.” “that’s been the story of 
a 13-point first-half lead our six wins in the postsea­eroded into a one-point deficit son,” brey said, referring to the at the start of the second half, 3-game stretch in the acc tour-and notre dame cooled from nament before the recent run in beyond the arc. but follow-the ncaa tournament. “we’ve ing brey’s timeout with 16:28 really defended the arc well.” remaining in the second half, though the offense thrived the irish transformed back into after notre dame’s early the free-flowing offensive jug-timeout in the second half, gernaut that has carried notre connaughton said the defense dame to the most wins in pro-set the tone. gram history since 1908-09. “it wasn’t about strategy,” wichita state head coach gregg connaughton said. “we talked Marshall called the irish “hands about defense, about getting down” the best offensive team stops and getting out and run-the shockers faced all season. ning. that’s the fun way to play 
“they just shot the cover off and that’s the way that we’re of it, in reality,” wichita state at our best on both ends of the redshirt junior guard ron baker floor.” said. “i’ve never seen a team notre dame stormed out to shoot it like they have today.” a 13-point lead in the game’s 
notre dame shot 75 percent opening five-plus minutes, as (18-of-24) from the floor and Jackson buried two 3-pointers 3-point range (6-of-8) in the and pat connaughton added second half. another. but the irish soon went 
irish sophomore guard cold from long range, missing demetrius Jackson, who their final seven tries of the half. Marshall called the “catalyst,” baker buried a pair of 3-point­ignited the squad with a pair ers to lift wichita state within of 3-pointers after the time-three, and vanvleet added 10 out. sophomore guard steve first-half points with an attack­vasturia weaved a beautiful ing mentality. notre dame car-bounce pass to senior guard/ ried a 33-30 halftime lead into forward pat connaughton to the locker room before explod­finish off a give-and-go. Jackson ing after the break. “we kind of went to 3-pointers made also tied 
Jackson 

lobbed an alley-oop to junior “i just don’t want it to end for [Jackson] off the ball screen, his collegiate single-game 
continued FroM page 16 

forward Zach auguste. this particular team because and he just kind of exploded best. clinical. surgical. textbook. this group has been so energiz-for us.” Jackson said the key to unending. ing and so fun to be around,” rim for the most part, but Jackson scored the first his quick-strike success in­
“i’ve never seen a one-point brey said. then he knocks down four 3s,” six points of notre dame’s volved crisp and efficient lead get out of hand so quick-the irish will face no. 1 seed wichita state head coach greg second “lightning strike,” team play from the irish. ly,” shockers head coach gregg kentucky  in the Midwest Marshall said. “at the begin-a 23-10 run over the course “we really do a great job Marshall. “and it did tonight regional Final on saturday in ning of the game, it started of nearly seven minutes that sharing the ball, finding a because of their firepower.” cleveland at Quicken loans with him — he made two of started with the irish trail-great shot every possession,” 
Jackson powered the arena. the first three 3s.” ing and ended with them he said. “the guys step up irish with 20 points, while Jackson’s second boost of leading by a dozen. and make huge shots. connaughton (16), auguste (15) Contact Mike Monaco at  energy would come at a time such “lightning strikes” “it’s a really fun way to and vasturia (15) all reached jmonaco@nd.edu when the irish needed a jump-reflect notre dame’s men-play when we play the game 
start a little bit more. after tality as a team of tough that way, so we want to con-carrying a three-point lead competitors, something tinue doing that and contin­into halftime, notre dame Jackson displays, brey said. ue getting better.” got off to a slow start in the “demetrius was in an at-vanvleet said the shockers second stanza. behind eight tack frame of mind, so we even came into the game combined points from senior can get into those [offen-willing to give Jackson deep forward darius carter and ju-sive] flows at any time,” he looks so that he wouldn’t get nior guard Fred vanvleet, the said. “and then we do have too many points driving to shockers had taken their first — this group is cruel, and i the basket. lead of the game at 38-37 with love it, it’s a great trait. “that was our game plan 
16:40remaining. “they’re really cruel going in — he’s so quick off and then Jackson got going competitors.” the dribble, just pick him up again. Jackson’s second-half ef-at the 3-point line, and if he 
he hit a 3-pointer from the forts were necessary to help makes four or five of them, corner to get notre dame back open up the floor and get that was our game plan go-in the driver’s seat. and he fol-notre dame’s other scorers ing into the game,” vanvleet lowed that up the next pos-out in space, according to said. “… i think that was a session with a long shot from brey. guy that we would let take beyond the arc to give the “i thought what was a key that shot, and he knocked irish a five-point cushion, one was demetrius got going them in … so give him all they would never relinquish. — and he got us going, and the credit.” 
“we went to [Jackson] a then we came back around Jackson and the irish will little bit more,” brey said of to Jerian and the ball screen, face no. 1 seed kentucky the team’s second-half strat-and they were a little tired, in the Midwest regional fi­egy. “[wichita state] took they couldn’t quite guard nal on saturday at Quicken [notre dame senior guard] the ball screen,” brey said. loans arena in cleveland. Jerian [grant] away on the Jackson finished the game ball screen; they were doing a with 20 points, just two shy Contact Brian Hartnett at good job on him. of his career-high. the four bhartnet@nd.edu 



ndsMcobserver.coM | FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 2015 | the observer 

CROSSWORD | will shortZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | christopher brucker 
SUDOKU | the MephaM group 

DOME NUTS | aleXandria wellMan 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia last 
Happy Birthday: you’ll be ready to take on the world. explore your options and take on as much as you can. the rewards you receive for the assistance and contributions you make will put your mind at ease and bring you greater options to turn an idea or investment into something tangible. strive for perfection by using your imagination and insight. your numbers are 5, 12, 26, 28, 30, 37, 49. 
Birthday Baby: you are playful, unpredictable and unique. you are quick and free-spirited. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): look on the bright side and make plans to do something a little different. activity and sharing an adventure with someone special will give you a new lease on life. a short trip will spark an idea or a residential move. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Make a list of the people you want to connect with who can help you reach your career goals. discussing what you have to offer will help you revamp your resume to suit the changing economic climate. update your image. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): do something to improve your community or support a cause you endorse. your ability to bring about change and your willingness to reach out to those in need will give you the push required to excel. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): take a quiet or secretive approach to what you feel needs to be done. Flying under the radar will ensure that you avoid interference. someone will mislead you if you rely on hearsay. put more effort into an important relationship. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): be open about the way you feel and what your expectations are. the changes you want to make will be much easier if you have the approval of the people who mean the most to you. secure your position by taking action. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Form an alliance with someone who feels the same way you do about a concern you have. Making a difference in your community will put you in a position requiring diplomacy, strength and determination. don’t let anyone stand in your way. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t believe everything you hear. being gullible will make you look bad and can end up being costly as well. do your own research and make changes based on your needs, not on what someone else wants. don’t give in to bullying. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): get your documents in order to avoid any trouble with banks, government agencies or other institutions. preparation will spare you grief as well as legal troubles. Follow your intuitions and act quickly. contracts and financial deals look promising. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Follow your heart, not what someone else wants. you have to stand up for your rights. deferring to someone in order to avoid discord will only make matters worse. do your own thing and don’t look back. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you can make positive changes at home or to the way you live. don’t be tempted to copy what someone else is doing. putting greater effort into a personal relationship will help you avoid an outpouring of complaints. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): restlessness will kick in if you aren’t challenged by your current career. consider your options and determine how you can use your skills differently. don’t be afraid to set your goals high. you’ll find it easy to learn as you go. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): refuse to give in to someone who is using emotional manipulation. stand up for your rights and follow through with the plans that interest you the most. a change at home can be made if you act quickly. 


JUMBLE | david hoyt and JeFF knurek 



Make checks payable to and mail to: the observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

the observer | FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 2015 | ndsMcobserver.coM 
MEN’S BASKETBALL | notre daMe 81, wichita state 70 
elite at last 

Jackson’s 20 points stomps 
Notre Dame spark Irish second-
Wichita State half outburst 
By MIKE MONACO By BRIAN HARTNETT 
senior sports writer senior sports writer 
cleveland — one of the 

cleveland — on a day nation’s most efficient offenses 
when notre dame inflicted looked decidedly average. 
several of what irish head all-american guard Jerian 
coach Mike brey called grant hadn’t hit a shot in more 
“lightning strikes” on wichita than 20 minutes, and notre 
state, it was sophomore guard dame had just committed a shot­
demetrius Jackson who pro-clock violation, barely threaten­
vided the opening jolt. ing with a good look. 
twice. wichita state waltzed down 
Jackson hit four 3-pointers the court and snatched its first 
thursday night, but his be-lead of the game early in the sec­
yond-the-arc scores sparked ond half. irish head coach Mike 
two opportune runs for no. 3 brey watched seven seconds of 
seed notre dame (32-5) in its the next possession before sig­
81-70 victory over no. 7 seed naling for a timeout. 
wichita state (30-5). “we’ve been here before. little 
nearly two minutes into the did i know it would be another 
game, Jackson hit a 3-pointer lightning strike,” brey said of the 
to put the irish up 5-0. twelve timeout. “it was a flat-out light-
seconds later, he stroked an­ning strike.” 
other 3-pointer to give the From there, no. 3 seed notre 
irish a six-point lead, helping dame (32-5) buried 15 of its next 
launch a run that would give 17 field goals and never looked 
notre dame a 20-7 advantage back in a second-half stomp of 
to open the game. no. 7 seed wichita state in the 
“demetrius Jackson is so sweet 16, advancing to the elite 
good off the bounce, and we eight for the first time since 1979 
were able to keep him out of with an 81-70 win over the KEVIN SABITUS | The Observer the paint and away from the 
Irish sophomore gurad Demetrius Jackson splits two Wichita State defenders during Notre Dame’s 81-70  see M bball PAGE 14 win on Thursday in Cleveland. The Irish advanced to the Elite Eight for the first time since 1979. see Jackson PAGE 14 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Irish arrive in Oklahoma City for Sweet 16 
Despite travel woes, team continues to prepare for multi-faceted Stanford offense 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
in the program’s sixth-con­secutive sweet 16 appearance, no. 2 notre dame meets no. 14 stanford tonight in oklahoma city at 10 p.m. 
both teams had the benefit of hosting the first two rounds in­side their home arenas and now will play at a neutral location. the cardinal (26-9, 13-5 pac-12) are a no. 4 seed in the tourna­ment and defeated california state northridge and oklahoma last weekend. the top-seeded irish (33-2, 15-1 acc), mean­while, are coming off wins over Montana and depaul. 
notre dame and stanford have not met since 1991 and irish head coach Muffet Mcgraw said in her thursday press confer­ence the cardinal’s intelligence on the court could be difficult to adjust to without much prior experience. 
“you know, i think the big­gest concern is how smart they are,” Mcgraw said. “they’re just a really disciplined team that — they run their offense, but they’re also really good at recognizing personnel and seeing some mis­matches and weaknesses and re­ally exploiting them. so they’re not a team that you can say they’re actually going to run this when i think they’re very flexible in what they do.” 

sophomore guard lindsay allen said the newness of the cardinal as an opponent was a factor in the way the team prepared. 
“some teams we’ve seen be­fore like depaul and then the acc schedule,” allen said. “we’ve seen stanford play before on tv and things like that, but just learning what they’re about and what plays they actually run is a little difficult.” 
through its first two tourney games, notre dame has de­pended on a balanced attack and contributions from a variety of players. Junior guard Jewell loyd, the team’s leading scorer, 
see w bball PAGE 13 

WEI LIN | The Observer 

Junior guard Jewell Loyd attempts a 3-pointer during Sunday night’s win against DePaul in the  second round of the NCAA tournament. Loyd had 10 points in the 79-62 victory at Purcell Pavilion. 



