The independenT newspaper serving noTre dame and sainT mary’s 



WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
All too familiar 
Connecticut ends Notre Dame’s season for third straight year, second consecutive championship game 

WEI LIN | The Observer 
Connecticut junior forward Breanna Turner blocks a shot by Irish junior guard Jewell Loyd late in the second half Tuesday night during Notre Dame’s 63-53 loss at Amalie Arena in Tampa, Florida. Loyd, who led the Irish in scoring this season, was held to just 12 points on 4-of-18 shooting from the field while Stewart registered a game-high four blocks. 
By marY Green 
assistant managing editor 
Tampa, Fla. — narrow the gap, fall back. narrow the gap, fall back. narrow the gap, fall back. 
That was the theme for much of the second half between no. 1 seed notre dame and no. 1 seed connecticut, and ultimately, it kept the irish from their long-awaited second national cham­pionship and gave the huskies their 10th in a 63-53 game at amalie arena in Tampa, Florida. 
“They’re a great team, and they had an answer for all of our runs,” irish senior guard madison cable said. 
notre dame (36-3) started the second half down eight and opened with a 3-pointer from junior guard michaela mabrey that brought the deficit to five. however, a series of free throws and layups from connecticut quickly had the irish trailing by 12. 
They closed the gap to six a few minutes later and got into an of­fensive rhythm led by freshman forward brianna Turner, but they also struggled in their transition defense, allowing a response from connecticut (38-1) to every basket they made on five out of six straight possessions. 
after a two-minute period that was marked by just one bucket between the two teams — a la­yup from Turner that cut the huskies’ lead to seven — the trend resumed for another three minutes, almost like clockwork. 
Turner made a layup, and huskies freshman guard Kia nurse hit a 3-pointer. 
seven minutes left and connecticut up by eight. 
Turner banked in an unchar­acteristically deep jumper as the shot clock expired, but junior guard moriah Jefferson knocked in a layup. 
six minutes left, with the defi­cit still at eight. 
sophomore guard Lindsay allen weaved through traffic for a layup, and huskies senior for­ward Kaleena mosqueda-Lewis drilled a 3. 
Five minutes remaining and connecticut is now ahead by nine. 
“it was really hard. when we got that close, a mental lapse would happen, and then we would allow a transition 3 or a backdoor basket or just a wide-open layup,” allen said. “so it’s just about focusing on the little things, and those lapses can’t happen if we want to be a great team.” 
mosqueda-Lewis then ham­mered the final two nails in the coffin of notre dame’s hopes for a comeback, hitting a jumper and a layup to take the huskies’ lead to 13 with two-and-a-half minutes left. 
after the allen layup, notre dame recorded just one more field goal, but the 3-pointer from michaela mabrey was a moot point with 1:33 left on the clock and the irish down by double-digits. 
“i’m glad that the two buck­ets that ‘K’ made down the stretch were kind of the differ­ence in the game,” huskies head coach geno auriemma said of mosqueda-Lewis, who totaled 15 points. “and that’s the way she’s supposed to go out because she made a big difference all year and throughout her career.” 
while mosqueda-Lewis final­ized connecticut’s victory at the tail end of that stretch, Turner al­lowed the irish to stay in the hunt for most of it. 
The freshman had recorded just three rebounds and no points in the first half, and she didn’t hit her first field goal of the game until 23 minutes in, a layup that cut the connecticut lead to 10. 
“i think i wasn’t aggressive enough,” Turner said. “i was re­ally timid in the first half.” 
she went on a tear after that, putting up 14 total points on 7-for-8 shooting after the break and pulling down 10 boards. 
see deFeaT PAGE 2 The observer | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


turnovers plague notre Dame 
By GreG HaDLeY 
editor-in-chief 
From start to finish, the first half of notre dame’s na­tional championship loss to connecticut on Tuesday night was filled with turnovers. 
Just over 40 seconds in, huskies freshman guard Kia nurse stole the ball from irish sophomore guard Lindsay allen. 
nearly 19 minutes later, ju­nior guard moriah Jefferson picked junior guard hannah huffman’s pocket. 
in between, the irish (36-3) surrendered the ball 11 other times, leading to 10 points for connecticut (38-1). along the way, they lost their only two leads of the game and fell into an eight-point hole from which they would never escape. 
“in the first half, we kind of shot ourselves in the foot in terms of just taking care of the ball,” allen said. “we had a lot of unforced turnovers. ... and that’s part of being a young team. we just need to value the ball more.” 
almost every irish player fell victim to rash of turnovers, with only junior guard Jewell Loyd maintaining a clean sheet. allen, who was top 30 in the nation entering the game in assist-to-turnover ratio, gave up the ball four times and added just one assist. 
part of the issue, junior guard michaela mabrey said, was due to nerves of less expe­rienced players. 
“we’re a young team,” mabrey said. “ ... i think it shows that people are ner­vous. This is the biggest game of their lives. but it comes with experience.” 
notre dame’s freshmen who saw the court in the first half agreed. 
“This is definitely the big­gest game i’ve played in,” freshman forward brianna Turner said. “i just didn’t play the first half aggressive and didn’t play my game.” 
“i think it just comes along with being in the national championship game and be­ing a freshman,” freshman forward Kathryn westbeld said. 
westbeld and Turner had three combined turnovers on the night in 23 total minutes, while failing to score a single point. 
Loyd said the turnover problem resulted from early excitement causing the irish to abandon their usual style of play. 
“everyone was overthink­ing a little bit,” Loyd said. “we had open shots, and everyone wanted to dribble in and try and attack the post players a little bit and making deci­sions we haven’t seen all year. i don’t know, maybe we were a little rattled, trying to do too much.” 
once that happened, notre dame had trouble getting back on track and matching the huskies. 
“we just had some mental lapses on offense ... “ sopho­more forward Taya reimer said. “it was hard for us to get into a rhythm.” 
and after those turnovers occurred, notre dame failed to get back on defense and could not stop the huskies from scoring twice as many fast break points as the irish did (6-3). 
“They made shots in transi­tion, which we can’t let hap­pen,” senior guard madison cable said. “and they got a lot of points off our turnovers, which also hurt us.” 
connecticut shot 38 percent from the field and 23 percent from 3-point territory in the first 20 minutes of the game, but had four more attempts from the field and 10 more from long range. 
irish head coach muffet mcgraw said she was pleased with her team’s halfcourt de­fense throughout the first stanza but emphasized at the midway break that if notre dame was to come back, it needed to take care of the ball. 
“if we could stop turning the ball over, we’d have an op­portunity to close that gap,” mcgraw said. “our problem was in transition and second-chance points.” 
while the irish did take better care of the ball in the second half — just four turn­overs — notre dame could not come back as connecticut be­gan to heat up from the field. meanwhile, the irish could not force any turnovers of their own and continued to struggle in transition defense. 
“Transitions and turnovers, that’s where all their points came from,” mabrey said. 
Contact Greg Hadley at            ghadley@nd.edu 

WEI LIN | The Observer 
Irish sophomore forward Kristina Nelson, right, consoles sophomore forward Taya Reimer as they walk off the court following Connecticut’s 63-53 victory in the national championship game Tuesday night. 
Defeat 
conTinued From page 1 
“she does some amazing things on the court, for her to be a freshman and keep fighting the way she did, she just knew she could do great things in such a huge game,” sophomore forward Taya reimer said. 
Turner’s 14 points led the irish, while mosqueda-Lewis and Jefferson’s 15 points paced connecticut. Jefferson was also charged with the task of guard­ing junior guard Jewell Loyd for most of the night and limited notre dame’s leading scorer to 12 points on 4-for-18 shooting. 
“i thought she was a great defender tonight,” irish head coach muffet mcgraw said of Jefferson. “i thought she made things hard for Jewell. ... we weren’t able to really get anything going because most of our offense runs through Jewell, and she did a great job denying her the ball.” 
The irish were able to lim­it huskies junior forward breanna stewart to single-fig­ure scoring with eight points, below her season average of 17.6, but she still made her pres­ence felt, grabbing 15 of her team’s 34 rebounds. 
“i thought that brianna Turner did a great job on her,” mcgraw said. “That was the matchup we were hoping for. she was able to stay out of foul trouble and made it difficult for bre to get any shots and i thought [Turner] just did a great job both guarding her on the outside and the inside.” 
The irish jockeyed back and forth with the huskies for the game’s early lead, with notre dame ahead by as many as three about three minutes into the action. 
after opening the game by connecting on four of their first six attempts, the irish reached a sudden cold spell, missing nine of their next 10 shots and turning the ball over 13 times in the first half, just below their season average of 14.8 per game. notre dame, the nation’s second-best offense in terms of field-goal percentage (49.6 per­cent), shot 33.3 percent during the entire 40 minutes. 
“[it was] disappointing in, i think, that we weren’t able to really play our game,” mcgraw said. “i feel as though, offen­sively, we never got into any rhythm.” 

despite the outcome, notre dame’s performance this time around was a step up from the way it played in 2014’s 79-58 loss to connecticut in the title game. 
“we’re getting closer than last year,” Loyd said. “we kept fighting until the buzzer, and we had our chances to push the lead down to two, and we didn’t stop fighting. Last year, it was a blowout early on. we didn’t compete, and [this year] we fought all the way down to the final minute. 
“That’s the difference be­tween this year and last year. we competed.” 
Contact mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 

The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTeLy 

voLume 48, issue 113 | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Lecture explores rights in China 
Civil rights advocate reviews human dignity concerns in home country 
By JP GSCHWinD 
news writer 
prominent chinese civil rights advocate and political dissident chen guangcheng de­livered the university of notre dame 2015 human dignity Lecture, entitled “interpreting reform: human dignity and human rights in contemporary china,” Tuesday evening in mcKenna hall. with the aid of a translator, the “barefoot law­yer” discussed his personal ex­periences as a legal counsel for poor rural chinese citizens, the persecution he faced from the government and the state of civ­il rights in modern china. 
see digniTy PAGE 5 

Week to promote religious awareness 
By emiLY mcConViLLe 
associate news editor 
This week, the muslim students association of notre dame (msa) is host­ing islam awareness week, featuring a series of events meant to increase under­standing about the religion and its representations. 
msa vice president and graduate student Fatemeh elahi said the week’s events, whose co-sponsors include the graduate student union and multicultural student programs and services and which include a panel dis­cussion, a lecture and a film, focus on society’s perception of islam and the role of the hijab, or head-covering veil, in the religion. 
“This is the most obvi­ous appearance of a muslim girl, that she is wearing a hi­jab,” elahi said. “That’s also where it has been most mis­represented, that [people think] the hijab is a symbol of oppression. so we wanted to talk about how this is ac­tually a misrepresentation, and how it actually means empowerment for girls.” 
To start the week, msa held a panel discussion and Q&a monday night about the im­portance of the hijab in the 
see isLam PAGE 5 

EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 
nd to award honorary degrees 
observer Staff report 
Editor’s Note: A version of this article was previously published online April 6. 
in addition to commence­ment speaker Lord christopher patten, the chancellor of oxford university, notre dame will award six honorary degrees at its 170th commencement cere­mony on may 17, the university announced in a press release monday. 
The honorary degree re­cipients, whose accomplish­ments span the fields of education, business, medicine and religion, are: Freeman a. hrabowski iii, John e. Kelly iii, Jane mcauliffe, alfredo Quiñones-hinojosa, shirley welsh ryan and Fr. Thomas F. stransky. 
hrabowski, who has served as the president of the university of maryland, baltimore county since 1992, will receive a doctor of laws degree, the re­lease stated. a mathematician who grew up in birmingham, alabama, during the peak of the civil rights movement, hrabowski also serves as the chair of the president’s advisory commission on educational excellence for african americans. 
see degrees PAGE 5 
smc activities board announces Tostal artist 
By StePHanie SnYDer 
news writer 
a concert by ron pope will headline the saint mary’s college Tostal this year, the highlight of the annual event hosted by the student activities board (sab) on april 25. 
all activities will take place on the college’s library green from 12 to 4 p.m., and the pope concert will take place in angela athletic Facility at 7 p.m. doors open at 6:30 p.m. 
pope’s songs have been fea­tured on “The voice,” “mTv’s TrL” (Total request Live), “vampire diaries” and “so you Think you can dance.” some of his most popular songs include “a drop in the ocean,” “you’re the reason i come home” and “our song.” 
currently, he is recording a new album set to release in 2016. 
“as soon as ron pope’s name was mentioned, sab board members were ex­cited,” sab’s marketing committee chair maddie ehlerding said. 
in the past, students have voted on which artist will perform at Tostal. past art­ists include bonnnie mcKee, Timeflies, sammy adams, sean Kingston, sarah bareilles and colbie caillat. 
ehlerding said sab took on the responsibility of choosing the artist this year because the board cannot always en­sure that they can get the art­ist who has received the most votes from the student body. 
“The process for choos­ing an artist is difficult, timely, and we can’t always guarantee the student body that the person who they voted for will be available to perform for us,” ehlerding said. “To avoid disappoint­ment, we found it best if we just narrow down our options and decide as a board.” 
sab vice president colleen michael said the change of this year’s Tostal priorities 
see TosTaL PAGE 5 

news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 9 FooTbaLL PAGE 16 men’s Lacrosse PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
managing editor  Business manager
                      Jack rooney alex Jirschele asst. managing editor: mary green asst. managing editor: Lesley stevenson asst. managing editor: wei Lin 
news editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene editor: erin mcauliffe Saint mary’s editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo editor: Zach Llorens Graphics editor: erin rice multimedia editor: brian Lach online editor: michael yu advertising manager: elaine yu ad Design manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
office manager & General info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
managing editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
assistant managing editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu,  lsteven1@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 
Business office 
(574) 631-5313 
news Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
What is the most annoying thing about your best friend? 

ian Dwyer 
sophomore 
sorin college 
“not letting a joke die.” 
Bridget mooney 
junior 
badin hall 
“he picks the pool table over me.” 
emily morris 
senior 
breen-phillips hall 
“That she is getting married.” 

Kaitlyn Keffler 
freshman 
breen-phillips hall 
“she is high maintenance.” 
Kelia Li 
sophomore 
pasquerilla-west hall 
“we have completely opposite tastes about everything.” 
Sean Paulsen 
senior 
o’neill hall 
“peer pressures me into watching bad movies when i should be sleeping.” 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du Lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief  Greg Hadley 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 
rebecca o’neil renee griffin Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
madison Jaros rachel o’grady Jennifer Flanagan nicole caratas Zach Klonsinski 
Graphics 
Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
emily danaher Scene maddie daly 
Photo 
“Getting Started in Mindful Meditation Startup Weekend The Black Man’s Women’s Lacrosse 
Zach Llorens Viewpoint austin Taliaferro Research” Coleman-Morse Innovation Park Think Tank: Finding Arlotta Stadium Brownson Hall Center 6 p.m. Your Passion 1 p.m.- 3 p.m. 4 p.m.- 5 p.m. 5:15 p.m.- 6:15 p.m. Kick-off to a three-Mendoza Notre Dame vs. Corrections Undergraduate Weekly meditation. day event to launch 12 p.m. Michigan. workshop. businesses. Lunch and talk. 
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives 
Breaking Barriers “Ida” (2013) Baseball Game Fiestang: La Misa en Espaol 
for the highest standards of journalism at all times. we do, however, recognize Fashion Show DeBartolo Performing Frank Eck Stadium “Kapamilya, Of the Dillon Hall that we will make mistakes. if we have Morris Inn Arts Center 6:05 p.m. Same Family” 1:30 p.m.- 2:30 p.m. made a mistake, please contact us at 6:30 p.m.- 8 p.m. 7 p.m.- 9 p.m. Notre Dame vs. Florida South Dining Hall Spanish mass. 
(574) 631-4541. Fashion show hosted Nanovic Institute State. 3 p.m.- 7 p.m. by Best Buddies. Film Series.                      Filipino cultural event. 


Muslim community members explain hijab 
By mattHeW mcKenna 
news writer 
The muslim student association of notre dame hosted an installment of the prayers from around the world lecture series Tuesday evening in the coleman-morse center student lounge as part of islam awareness week. The event, entitled “understanding the hijab,” featured two speakers from the greater south bend area who teach and practice islam. 
imam mohammed sirajuddin said the hijab is a concept that is found in dif­ferent forms in various other faiths. 
“hijab is a practice, not just when we piece off cloth that we put on our heads,” sirajuddin said. “hijab is the concept of modesty that exists in all other abrahamic faith traditions. if you look at pic­tures of christian and Jewish women from 100 years ago, you will find hijab.” 
sirajuddin said the term hijab that the many associ­ate with the hair covering of women is relatively new. 
“in the classical islamic ju­risprudence, this word itself is used many times in the Quran, but not particularly to describe the hair covering,” sirajuddin said. “The word hijab literally means ‘screen­ing,’ or ‘barrier.’ so it is used many times in the Quran, but not with the same meaning that we use today.” 
“when we say hijab, what muslims mean is a modest dress, lowering our gazes, showing modesty towards the opposite gender, and not dis­playing our parts of beauty and the ornaments that could provoke the passion of the opposite gender,” sirajuddin said. 
There is a similar verse in the Quran prior to the verse regarding women that per­tains to men, sirajuddin said. 
“The verse instructs men to lower their gaze, be modest and not to show off,” he said. “There is a modesty in the dress in men just as there is for women, but not necessar­ily the same requirements.” 
sirajuddin said the con­nection between prayer and everyday life makes the de­bate about the proper time for hijab unimportant in the muslim faith. 
“inside the prayer, there is a consensus that covering parts of body, especially your hair and your head, is an ob­ligation,” sirajuddin said. “in the ritual prayer that muslims offer five times a day, it isn’t controversial, but in the clas­sical muslim jurisprudence, you don’t find any difference between having hijab during prayer and having it outside of prayer.” 
sirajuddin said the contro­versy about hijab inside the islamic community is a by­product of society. 
“This question of wheth­er hijab is an obligation or whether it is a suggestion for muslim women is a product of our times,” sirajuddin said. “we see toward the islamic tradition and in the muslim jurisprudence that there has never been a dispute about this issue of modest dress for 
paid adverTisemenT 

muslim women. 
“all qualified islamic schol­ars throughout history agree on the obligation of hijab. it is not a religious symbol, it is not a cultural symbol to differ­entiate between muslim and non-muslim women, rather it is a dress code ordained by law on muslim women.” 
The event’s second speaker, Jamille Jojo, said the choice to cover her hair and practice hi­jab was an easy one. 
“my father came to me, he showed me the verse in the Quran, and he asked what i thought,” Jojo said. “i said, ‘okay.’ The next day, with god as my witness, i covered my hair and i continue to do so. “ 
Jojo said her consistency is as much as a character trait as it is a dedication to her faith. 
“i’m not a halfway kind of person,” she said. “if i’m go­ing to learn something i’m go­ing to learn it to the maximum that i can. if i’m going to have a slice of pie, it’s going to be a good slice. so why wouldn’t i take that same approach with my faith?” 
Jojo said she covers her hair simply because it is what she has been asked to do. 
“it wasn’t because i’m now going to be a women’s libera­tor,” Jojo said. “it wasn’t be­cause i wanted to stand out in a crowd. it’s not because i want people to come up and ask me why i’m covering my hair. i covered it specifically because its what god tells me to do in the Quran.” 
Jojo said there is a modesty requirement for both men and women within islam, but they are different because of the nature of the male and female body. 
“For women, to be honest, their hands and their face can be shown because a woman is a sexual being by definition,” Jojo said. “a man, on the other hand, could be shirtless, and nobody is going to say a word. he has to wear a pant above the knee or the middle of the knee, so he can’t walk around in short shorts either. 
“That’s just the way it is because of the way a man is versus a woman. That doesn’t make them better; it just makes them different.” 
sirajuddin said hijab is com­manded by god, and obey­ing god is central to what it means to be a muslim. 
“we are muslims, which basically means that we will submit to the will of god and obey god’s commandment, and you follow his teachings, not because of good feelings or spiritual accomplish, as a result you will have those things,” sirajuddin said. “you do it because god command­ed you to do it, and you obey god because he is god.” 
Contact matthew mcKenna at mmcken12@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



Tostal 
conTinued From page 1 
affected the process of choosing an artist. 
“Tostal has been rein­vented this year,” said michael. “it is different from what it has been in the past. although the art­ist is an important aspect of the event, it is not the main focus of the event. The im­portant part of Tostal is to celebrate the year and foster community.” 
michael said Tostal is meant to bring the commu­nity together. 
“The purpose of Tostal is to celebrate the end of the academic year and to foster community,” michael said. 
ehlerding said the group wanted to emphasize this sense of community in this year’s Tostal, not only among saint mary’s stu­dents, but with holy cross and notre dame students as well. 
“This is an event that al­lows students to kick back and relax before finals,” ehlerding said. “we hope to have a great turn ut of at­tendance from saint mary’s, notre dame and holy cross. it’s an awesome chance to bring the three campuses together.” 
michael said Tostal will be hosted on a saturday this year, differing from years past when the event took place on Thursday or Friday. michael said she hoped this change of day would be ultimately beneficial to students. 
“Tostal is different this year,” michael said. “it is not just a concert, but a full day of activities. in order to allow all students to partici­pate in the day’s events, we moved Tostal to a saturday.” 
The activities leading up to the concert include in­flatables, novelty food, a dJ, caricatures, airbrush tat­toos, crafts and giveaways, michael said. sodexo will also be serving an outdoor picnic, and following the concert, there will be a fire­works show. all activities are free to students. 
historically, students paid for Tostal concert tick­ets, but ehlerding said the event would be free this year. students still need tickets to enter the concert, and they can get them by bringing their student id to the student center atrium. 
“we want to ensure that all students are able to come and are not prevent­ed by the price of a ticket,” michael said. 
ehlerding said students seem to be looking forward to the event. 
“students have already been very supportive and excited for Tostal this year,” she said. “we’re hoping this will be a fun event for the students of saint mary’s, notre dame and holy cross, and [we] feel that this will be a great opportunity to bring the communities together.” 
michael said Tostal will be a fun and beneficial event for the entire community, improved by its accessibil­ity in cost. 
“all of these events allow students to spend time to­gether; to enjoy a day full of fun and exciting activi­ties,” michael said. “it is not every day that students get to go to a free concert. sab has worked hard to provide the community a day to cel­ebrate and have fun.” 
Contact Stephanie Snyder at ssnyder02@saintmarys.edu 
Islam 
conTinued From page 1 
prayer life of muslims. at the Fieldhouse mall on Thursday, the group will also give out the garment, answer questions about the hijab and teach people how to wear it. elahi said the goal is for muslims and non-muslims alike to un­derstand why many muslim women wear a hijab. 
“hijab basically means modesty, and modesty is one of the biggest teachings of islam for both men and wom­en, so it’s very important that we internalize this, that our prayers are about modesty,” elahi said. “... we can learn so much by understanding the concept of hijab.” 
Thursday evening, islamic studies professor ebrahim moosa will give a lecture in the hesburgh center auditorium about representa­tions and misrepresentations of muslims in the media, msa 
Degrees 
conTinued From page 1 
Kelly, senior vice president of solutions portfolio and re­search for ibm, will receive a doctor of engineering degree. he has held several different positions at ibm, beginning in 1980, and helped redesign the semiconductor processing and device fabrication clean room in stinson-remick hall of engineering, according to the release. 
mcauliffe serves as the di­rector of the John w. Kluge center at the Library of congress, which gives scholars the opportunity to research and interact with members of congress, and will receive a doctor of laws degree. she has president and senior Liyana muhamad said. 
“people want to talk about this, so we want to provide a platform so people can talk about this and stop blam­ing each other for things that 
“Hijab basically 
means modesty, 
and modesty is 
one of the biggest 
teachings of Islam 
for both men and 
women, so it’s very 
important that 
we internalize 
this, that our 
prayers are about 
modesty” 
Fatemeh Elahi 
MSA vice president 
none of us are accountable for,” muhamad said. “That’s pretty much the idea, watch­ing out for each other. The 
previously worked as the pres­ident of bryn mawr college from 2008 to 2013 and as as dean of georgetown college at georgetown university from 1999 to 2008. according to the release, mcauliffe is also a scholar of the Qur’an and early islamic history. 
Quiñones-hinojosa works as a professor of neurosur­gery and oncology and direc­tor of the brain tumor surgery program at Johns hopkins hospital and will receive a doctor of science degree. according to the release, he was born in a small village outside of mexicali, mexico, and graduated from both the university of california, berkeley and harvard medical school. 
ryan, who along with her whole idea of wars and things like that are very much moti­vated by the media, and not by our innate role.” 
The week will end with a screening of “Fordson: Faith, Fasting, Football,” a docu­mentary that explores the im­pact of the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on a muslim community through the eyes of a predominantly arab­american football team. elahi said msa chose the film because it was relevant to the lives of muslims in the united states today. 
“after 9/11, their lives changed,” elahi said. “it wasn’t because of something they had done … it was just, the media was painting the whole group with a broad brush and they were suffer­ing for that. we just realized it was a good movie because people can connect with it, and it’s very educational.” 
Contact emily mcConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 
son corbett, a 2005 notre dame graduate, are the name­sakes of ryan hall, will re­ceive a doctor of laws degree. she is a trustee emerita of the university and served on the national council on disability, which led to the american with disabilities act, the re­lease stated. 
stransky, a paulist priest and the rector emeritus of the Tantur ecumenical institute in Jerusalem, will receive a doc­tor of laws degree. according to the release, stransky con­tributed heavily to one of the second vatican council’s most important documents, the 1965 declaration on the relation of the church to non-christian religions. stransky is also a former president of the paulist fathers. 
Dignity 
conTinued From page 1 
“as long as you remain true to your cause as an activist, the communist party will continue to persecute you,” guangcheng said through his translator. “There is really no moral limit.” 
guangcheng said although many americans now visit china, they typically only stay in the modernized cities and avoid rural areas. This limited per­spective, guangcheng said, can contribute to misconceptions about how the chinese people actually live. he said that over 70 percent of the population lives in rural areas. 
“if you look at some of the offi­cial published statistics, you will get the impression that many of the farmers or poor peasants enjoy a relatively good life, but what i can tell you is that those data are not true,” guangcheng said. 
after conducting his own studies, guangcheng said the actual standard of liv­ing for the vast majority of the agrarian chinese population is much lower than the figures the government issues publicly. Further compounding this pov­erty, guangcheng said, is the fact that local peasants receive virtu­ally no monetary support from the government. 
“right now it is undeniable that china’s new exercises are autocratic,” guangcheng said. “it is truly a one-party state.” 
guangcheng said he began his career as an activist by rep­resenting the disabled in rural areas who are entitled to ben­efits by chinese law, but instead receive nothing and are even taxed. Their plight is compound­ed by a dearth of access to legal counsel caused by their lack of money and the general reluc­tance of lawyers to pursue cases that could be considered anti-government, guangcheng said. 
however, guangcheng said the issue of coercive family plan­ning practice also drew his atten­tion and deserved more scrutiny. according to guangcheng, gov­ernment agents use physical violence to enforce reproductive policy and the one-child rule in particular. 
“oftentimes, the way they do it is to not only punish the woman who is pregnant with her second child, but also to go beyond her­self such as her immediate fam­ily, relatives, siblings, uncles and aunts,” guangcheng said. 
The abuses of the government in this regard include threats of violence, torture, and physi­cally forcing women to undergo abortions, guangcheng said, as well as forging consent forms to use as legal cover. according to guangcheng’s estimates, there have been over 30,000 cases of forced abortions and overall 360 million chinese women have gotten abortions. guangcheng said this has resulted in massive social problems in china, in­cluding a substantial gender gap in the population and unusually small families being unable to support older relatives. 
guangcheng said seeing these injustices made him dedicate his life to activism, and he has suffered repercussions, rang­ing from torture and physical abuse to financial bribery, be­cause of it. however, he said he will persevere in this cause and continue to to help his fellow countrymen. 
“on the other side, for foreign­ers or people who have an inter­est in china, i hope you all will hold more of a long-term view and do not compromise, do not give in to the communist party,” guangcheng said. “i think the future is bright.” 

Contact JP Gschwind at  jgschwin@nd.edu 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 
She doesn’t even go here 
rachel o’Grady 
news writer 
i didn’t get into notre dame. 
instead of following the typical fresh­man path, i’m part of something called the gateway program. basically, i’m living and taking classes at holy cross this year, while also taking certain classes, eating meals, joining clubs and participating in much of student life at notre dame. at the end of the year, provided i achieve all the requirements, i’ll automatically transfer to notre dame to begin my sophomore year. it is what it is, nothing more and nothing less. i always said, “i would do anything to get into notre dame,” so frankly, if this is my anything, it’s not bad at all. 
overall, it’s been a great experience, and i’m grateful to holy cross for the incred­ible opportunity they’ve provided me. The 20 kids in the program are like family, for better and for worse. From the first week of school, we’ve been inseparable. we took on domerFest together, we make the “holy hike” from holy cross to notre dame ev­ery day together, eat every meal together, and we’ve become annoyingly close. it’s rare to have such a close group of friends for life within the first week of school, so it’s a wonderful privilege. 
while i love the program, it can be chal­lenging. i often have to answer simple questions, like where do you live or what other classes are you taking, with, “well, it’s a long story.” i realize that most things in life worth attaining usually aren’t easy, but it’s hard to admit that i don’t go to notre dame right now. it feels like i’m wearing the jersey but i’m not on the team yet. each of us in the program has taken our experiences in completely different di­rections with varying levels of success. i’m hopeful we all get our chance on the team next year. For right now, i’m just doing my best in practice. 
occasionally, i get some negative re­sponses to the program. For those who feel this is a bogus way to get into notre dame and that i will somehow “dilute” their ac­ceptance or degree, all i can say is that i’ll try to represent the university to the best of my ability. 
prospective gateways for the class of 2019 always ask me if it’s worth it. my an­swer remains the same: hands down, un­equivocally, yes. 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at       rogrady@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

realizing Fr. Ted’s vision 
Alexander Hahn 
guest column 
The services and commemorative events of four weeks ago honored a man of faith, reason, heart, vision and de­termination. a man who is correctly recognized as having transformed notre dame from a school known primarily for football into an internationally acclaimed academic institution. it stands as one more testament to Fr. Ted’s brilliant leadership that he recognized and gave broad responsibilities to colleagues who had the talent and drive to help him realize his ambitious vision for notre dame. 
in his autobiography “god, country, notre dame,” Fr. Ted recalled that when he assumed the presidency of our university in 1952, he had to deal with a football program that was out of control and an endowment that barely ex­isted. he realized that alongside his own personal engage­ment on the national and international stage, there had to be a vigorous emphasis on raising notre dame’s academic quality and impact. To this end, he extended personal invi­tations to a number of distinguished catholic intellectuals to join this effort. ivan mestrovic, one of the most famous sculptors of the 20th century, as well as ernan mcmullin, a very distinguished philosopher of science from Louvain university came quickly to mind. 
one individual whose influence in this regard merits special attention is Timothy o’meara. Fr. Ted persuaded the young princeton ph.d. to leave his faculty position in princeton’s math department to join notre dame. Tim o’meara would soon serve as chair of notre dame’s math department and was instrumental in building its repu­tation in the 1960s and 1970s. he achieved this with his research and his lectures. his treatise “introduction to Quadratic Forms” became the standard work in this dif­ficult area at the interface between number theory and algebra. This “introduction” completed the classification of mathematical constructs that have their roots in greek antiquity and had been pursued with broad emphasis ever since. The book was reprinted recently as a springer-verlag classic in mathematics. here’s an excerpt from one of the reviews: 
“anyone who has heard o’meara lecture will recognize in every page of this book the crispness and lucidity of the author’s style. … The organization and selection of mate­rial is superb. … The author’s relentless pace imparts to the book almost the flavor of a research paper, certainly not of a leisurely textbook. ‘introduction to Quadratic Forms’ deserves high praise as an excellent example of that too-rare type of mathematical exposition combining concise­ness with clarity. it would be interesting to speculate on the subject o’meara will next choose to unify and expound upon in his own elegant style.” 
anyone who knows Tim o’meara will realize that this is also very much a biographical assessment of the man. (as Tim’s ph.d. student at the time, i was one of those who was inspired by both his lucidity and relentless pace.) his appointment to the Kenna professorship in 1976 came in recognition of his exceptional qualities: penetrating mathematics, clarity and discipline, unbending integrity, a stubborn insistence on quality and a singular ability to communicate and organize. when Fr. Ted was look­ing for a new provost to realize his lofty goals for notre dame, he had his man in Tim o’meara. provost o’meara knew well that national and international recognition for notre dame could only come as a consequence of stellar scholarship by prominent intellectuals either already at notre dame or those who would soon be attracted to it. at the helm of notre dame’s academic enterprise, he made “superior scholarship by a superior faculty” his leitmotif. he pursued this theme with characteristic skill and at full throttle from 1978 to 1996, in striving to bring the vision of Fr. Ted and his successor Fr. monk malloy to fruition. 
aware that stellar scholars would command salaries commensurate with their talents, he made salary raises a top priority. when he took over as provost, the average yearly salaries at the assistant, associate and full professor ranks at notre dame were, respectively, $17,100, $21,600 and $28,000. eighteen years later, they had more than tripled at the assistant and associate ranks and almost quadrupled at the full professor rank. predictably, the quality of notre dame’s academic programs rose as well. a comparison of assessments of the competitive landscape of american research-doctorate programs serves to docu­ment the progress that was made. a national report in 1980 classified one of notre dame’s doctoral departments as strong, seven more as good and two as adequate. The follow-up report in 1993 rated six doctoral programs as strong, nine as good, and two as adequate. 
it is clear to all of us who thought, wrote, lectured and taught on this campus during the 1980s and 1990s that Tim o’meara’s tireless efforts raised the quality of the intellec­tual environment at notre dame dramatically. Tim’s rigor­ous commitment to “superior scholarship by a superior faculty” provided significant momentum that has enabled the university’s more recent administrations to continue to promote the pursuit of academic excellence effectively. 
Alexander Hahn is a professor of mathematics at Notre Dame.  He can be contacted at hahn@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
that was then and this is now 
Tim Scanlan 
pardon the prose 
a large republican presidential field is shaping up with candidates from all corners of the politi­cal right vying for the chance to face off against the established democratic candidate. ah, 2012! at first glance, there are many similarities between the presidential race four years ago and the one shaping up now. republicans will field a wide set of candi­dates who will compete for different factions of the party, including the “conservative” and “establish­ment” wings. The democratic candidate will not be a sitting president, but there are few people who enter american politics with more name recognition than hillary clinton. her role as “incumbent” is taken for granted, even as some legitimate democratic can­didates may soon announce. The parallels between 2012 and 2016 seem credible on the surface, but if we look deeper into the race we find a different playing field on both sides of the aisle. The 2016 election will surely repeat some of the same policy talking points that have been around for decades. however, this election will be fought on new ground and by new players. 
on the right of the political spectrum, the variety of candidates remains the same, but the quality is arguably improved. The success of governors from both parties in primary and general elections (carter, clinton, reagan, bush and romney) gives a basis to compare the two election cycles. in 2012, the only governors that contended for the republican nomi­nation were romney (ma) and perry (TX). The 2016 field could see as many as six former governors in the race, with perry possibly making another run, as well as bush (FL), walker (wi), christie (nJ), Jindal (La) and huckabee (ar), who also ran in 2008. in addition to the glut of governors tossing their hats into the ring, the republican field will also benefit from the lessons learned during the failed romney campaign. particularly in regards to projecting voter turnout, which the gop miscalculated by so much that romney hadn’t even written a concession speech before election night in 2012. 
democrats will obviously partake in a different process now versus four years ago, but the number of potential candidates — a number that could real­istically challenge clinton for the nomination — is small. The differences the left will face this election will have to do with obstacles that were not in the way for president obama in 2012. most obviously, clinton has not already won a presidential election by historic margins, having lost a tight primary race in 2008 to the president. her inability to defeat the up­start junior senator in 2008 should raise concerns for democrats about clinton’s ability to fend off a strong republican challenger, eager to get back in the white house after eight years in the cold. clinton’s electoral success also will hinge on her ability to hold together a democratic coalition she did not shape. she will face headwinds concerning her age, wealth and deep ties to wall street. 
beyond the parties, americans are looking at a very different world than they were in 2012. The economy is better (excluding the most recent job numbers) and many voters may be more interested in how the next president will respond to situations occurring outside of the united states’ borders. russia has forcefully changed the map in eastern europe. The nuclear deal with iran has polarized the country, and the passage of Trans-pacific partnership could create seismic changes in the united states economy. Finally, a united congress poses challenges and opportuni­ties for both parties. republicans may boast about all they can get done with a united government, but democrats will have even more reason to go to the polls come november. 
The 2016 presidential race is hardly beginning, but with Ted cruz and rand paul already declared, it will be the top story for much of the next 19 months. as more candidates come forward and the money begins to flow, there will be new lessons to learn and old myths to shatter. republicans will again be hungry for a win against a figurative incumbent. This time, however, both sides will be coping with a much dif­ferent landscape than when president obama earned his second four years. 
Tim Scanlan is a senior finance major with a minor in public service. He is a former resident of Morrissey Manor. He encourages debate on his columns and can be reached with any comments or questions at tscanlan@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
‘catholic school, vicious as roman rule’ 
William McMahon 
blue collar blues 
all outgoing seniors are asked to complete an ex­tensive survey that covers everything from your reli­gious views to the details of your academic schedule. There were a thousand or so questions — under­classmen can decide if that’s an approximation or an exaggeration — but the last caught my eye. why did i decide to live on or off campus during my senior year? oh, boy. 
i lived on campus for three years — morrissey manor — then moved off. my first year in morrissey built my core friend group and shaped my time at notre dame, and i wouldn’t change it if i could. by senior year, however, i was ready to leave dorm life. i may have been ready earlier, in fact. i can’t say how common my reasons are, but any underclassmen considering their prospects should listen up. other seniors are welcome to join in and commiserate. 
From a financial standpoint, it was a pretty easy decision for a student coming out of the working poor. The university gave me a generous financial aid package, for which i am grateful, but i was still cutting it close, and a decent amount of my aid was from federal loans. when you move off campus, i learned, you directly receive any financial aid that would have been applied to your room and board. 
off-campus housing meant more space and bet­ter amenities for a much lower cost. morrissey had some of the smallest rooms on campus with no air-conditioning or elevators, yet the cost of living — $13,846 annually — was the same as someone living in new, spacious halls like ryan or duncan. my rent at stadium club apartments is $399.50 a month each for my roommate and i — including internet and utilities — making it $3,995 for a 10-month lease. with a kitchen, i buy groceries and cook for myself, saving money and eating on my own schedule. 
The financial reasons were enough, but i had stronger personal reasons. The administration treats us like children — children in the 1950s at that. gender segregated dorms are odd, but you get used to them. parietals are more difficult to get used to — apparently friends of different genders can’t be trusted together after midnight, or 2 a.m. on week­end nights. i suppose those two extra hours make sense, as weekend nights are characterized by fewer academic responsibilities and a higher likelihood of drinking — surely making illicit activities between the sexes much less likely. 
during my time on campus, i knew students kicked out of the dorms that had been their homes for daring to have sex at a catholic university. i love notre dame, and when i came here i was told that the religion was always there for those who wanted it, but that it wasn’t forced on you. “Follow our pu­ritanical sexual morality or risk homelessness” is a betrayal of that promise. i like being able to have friends of any gender in my home at any time, but maybe that’s a needless liberty. i like being able to have sex in my own bed without losing my home in the middle of a semester, but maybe that’s unrea­sonable. after four years at this university, some­times it’s hard to tell. 
Then there’s ndsp. i don’t want to run afoul of any police, but at least with south bend police i know the laws they’re enforcing and the powers they pos­sess — and i can refuse them entry into my own home. in my dorm, ndsp officers patrol without the consent of the residents. They have governmen­tal powers of arrest but private rights to secrecy, which rubs me the wrong way. an ndsp officer once crawled under the door of a bathroom stall i was sit­ting in, unlocked it, dragged me pants-down into a crowded hallway with two more officers, demanded i take a breathalyzer test on the grounds that it looked like i had been drowsing on the toilet, then arrested me when i refused. This was the place that was supposed to be my home. i spent 15 hours in the st. Joseph county jail as if i had been arrested by a public police force, but ndsp doesn’t have to release its records or answer for it publicly. it’s much harder to know my rights — was i lawfully arrested, or was i criminally violated by a posse of self-important hall monitors? Thankfully, a judge threw out the charges they trumped up against me — a lesson in keeping your mouth shut. 
as i said, i love that i lived in morrissey. i honestly wouldn’t have made the same tight-knit friendships i have now if my room wasn’t so unlivabley small that i was forced to constantly spend time in the common room. being on campus for freshman ori­entation and that first year was great for integration into the notre dame community. but for the sake of my personal finances, my personal dignity and my personal safety, i’m glad i live just down the road now. 
William McMahon is a senior studying Latin American history and is active in the labor movement. He welcomes all comments at wmcmahon@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By DanieL o’BoYLe 
scene writer 
in 2012, Lower dens released "nootropics." it was a great swirling, experimental effort, but among its tracks, "brains" really stood out as the most straightforward song on the record. it wasn’t a standard pop song by any means, with lead singer Jana hunter’s vocals hard to de­cipher behind layers of psychedelic shoe-gaze effects, but it was among the best songs of the year, suggesting that hunter and company might have the potential to write a great album of more accessible music. 
That album is "escape from evil," released last week on ribbon music. The layers of synth and guitar are toned back a little, the melodies are a more accessible and hunter’s powerfully deep voice is more clearly at the fore­front. it’s maybe still not what you would call an indie-pop record, and you mightn’t be hearing Lower dens on Top 40 radio any time soon, but it’s a notable move toward a more approachable sound — perhaps more similar to beach house, who had significant commercial success with their 2012 album "bloom," released just weeks after "nootropics." 
Lower dens’s more melodic sound is at its best on "escape from evil’s" first two singles. The first, “To die in L.a.,” is carried by a light-hearted synth running through­out, making the song almost danceable. The chorus of 
By erin mcauLiFFe 
scene editor 
“it Follows” was hyped so hard. Like as hard as the TidaL release or notre dame day. 
reputable news sources, rotten Tomatoes enthusiasts and youTube commenters all played the rosie to sophia grace-esque hype girl role, so i questioned my initial ap­prehensions of the seemingly campy trailer for david robert mitchell's film. 
however, after seeing this film in theaters, my interpre­tation of the movie reflects my initial thoughts: an inter­esting idea with poor execution that resulted in an almost laughable experience for the most part. 
as maybe the worst horror movie watcher ever, it doesn’t take much to get me to have nightmares or avoid mirrors for a few weeks. regarded by rolling stone as “a must see … nothing short of amazing,” this movie made me jump once — and that was when a tall man that reminded me of the creepy giant from “Twin peaks” appeared on screen. i am pretty sure i jumped more than once in “The hunger games.” 
i am not alone in my thoughts either — the man in front of me could hardly give the film the time of day, scrolling EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 
“Time will Turn the Tide” sounds like something you could sing along to, while hunter sounds clearer than ever, no longer lost behind her band. it’s a kind of happy synth-pop tune that seems a long way from the likes of "nootropics," but it works and makes for a great song. 
“ondine,” the album's second single, is a more gentle affair, but it’s another highlight of the album, with most of the instrumentation stripped back, allowing hunter to really let her voice shine. Far from any deep experimen­tal shoe-gaze, it’s an incredibly simple song, with incred­ibly simple cries of “i will treat you better” and “hold on.” while Lower dens has made some great complicated songs in the past, with “ondine” they’ve shown that they can make great songs with a little less experimentation. 
however, "escape from evil" still has its more experi­mental moments. “control,” located towards the end of the album, would never feature on your ordinary synth-pop album. with a swirl of voices gradually building up while the synths and guitars drone on, it’s probably the track on the album most similar to “brains.” also like “brains,” it’s another great song, hitting that balance of having a simple melody but buried deeply enough to keep it interesting. 
at times though, the balance isn’t always quite right. some songs toward the middle aren’t quite enjoyable enough to be great synth-pop songs, and they aren’t quite deep enough to be great experimental songs. instead, 
through Facebook, leaving three times, answering a phone call and spitting out a string of curse words as the credits appeared. 
The movie, being called the best horror film in a decade, has an interesting concept: a monster curse is passed on through sexual intercourse to Jay (maika monroe), the young, blond protagonist. The curse entails being followed by someone — maybe a familiar face, maybe a naked mid­dle aged man standing on your roof, maybe an old lady in a hospital gown — who walks towards you slowly but indefi­nitely. The monster can’t be killed, and the only way to rid yourself of the curse is to pass it along through intercourse. 
The idea of a sexually transmitted monster affecting the young, experimental and curious acts as a sort of sTd pre­vention ad throughout and beyond the movie. The curse takes on a sort of seventh grade chain-text message feel: “pass this on to some1 b4 midnight or be haunted 4ever.” 
The idea creates a unique premise for a horror film as the scenes are, for the most part, based on psychiatry over gore. Jay’s friends cannot see the monster, as some scenes were filmed from their view — totally absent of whatever naked perpetrator was on the prowl. in these respects, “it Follows” channels a thriller more than it does an in-your­face horror film. 
they sit in a kind of purgatory that every crossover album risks, which leads to a couple of songs sounding like for­gettable filler. 
Luckily though, there are enough good songs to stop this from being a major problem. hunter’s voice and more down-to-earth lyrics are enough to keep the album interesting, while the simple tunes, not drowned in ef­fects, are still listenable again and again. 
The overall product is proof that Lower dens always had a great synth-pop album in them. There’s not quite one song that will grab you and feel like an instant indie-pop classic, but there are some great tunes that will make "escape from evil" a great starting point for new fans of a usually out-there sort of band. 
Contact Daniel o’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
“Escape from Evil” 
Lower Dens 
Label: Ribbon Music Tracks: “Ondine,” “To Die in L.A.,” “Control” If you like: Beach House, Lotus Plaza, Frankie Rose 

The suspense is integral in the cinematography, as the audience’s eyes scan the entire screen the whole movie. The wide screen film shots, specifically the scan of the parking garage where we are first introduced to it, accom­modate the viewers’ desperate attempts to locate the loom­ing monster. 
The electronic score, composed by rich vreeland, or disasterpeace, heightens the suspense. The music chan­nels “Twin peaks” or ”The shining” in its creepy, other­worldly sound and rushed repetition. 
The music bridged the film’s modernity with its horror film predecessors; however, this was the only aspect of the film that did so. seemingly set in present day by the outfit, car and hairstyle choices, Jay’s house featured rabbit-ear Tvs, a type writer (that plugged into an outlet) and black and white films. These antiques stood in juxtaposition to Jay’s friend’s clamshell-shaped reading gadget, akin to a Kindle inside of a make-up compact. 
although the movie lacked the “it” factor, i have to give it some credit for subconsciously putting me on high alert when i see students cross the quads slowly or through the grass as if they’re on their way to follow me. 
Contact erin mcauliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By erin mcauLiFFe, matt mcmaHon, JimmY KemPer and matt munHaLL 
scene editor and scene writers 
it’s spring — sorta — and there is a lot of great new music out. what’s that? you wish you had a great new playlist to strut to class with, relax to in your ham­mock or just increase your music creds? well, thank­fully scene’s staff of music connoisseurs are here with an exclusive look — listen — at what is on repeat on their phones, ipods, laptops, iwatches, hitclips, etc. 
Courtney Barnett — “Elevator Operator” 
This track off “sometimes i sit and Think, and sometimes i Just sit,” released march 23, embodies barnett’s eccentric narrative lyricism. accompanied by a repetitive guitar and drum riff, the annuncia­tion in her conversational delivery (highlighting her australian accent) plays on the storytelling aspect of her songs. in this track a man with “a thick head of hair who worries he’s going bald” decides to skip work, gifts his tie to a homeless man and heads to a tall building for an escape from the day-to-day, trip­ping in a pothole on the way. in the elevator he reaches for the rooftop button at the same time as an overly botox-ed woman. The lyrics transition into dialogue: the woman urges him not to commit suicide, and he says that he just likes to look at people from the roof to “imagine he’s playing sim city.” This humorous, nos­talgic response is contrasted with another: the idea that the woman is projecting her feelings onto him. The man goes on to admit that, while not suicidal, he is “idling insignificantly.” The three-minute and-15 second song combines vivid description with circu­itous, hoppy rhythms to create an enjoyable snapshot that evokes further rumination and listening. 
Action Bronson — “Actin' Crazy” 
warning: This song’s title is no joke. This track, a single off of bronson’s “mr. wonderful,” released march 23, has a catchy flow that will influence you into — you guessed it — actin' crazy. The loopy beat will make you want to ride really fast on your bike. it will take over your mind and influence your better judgment until you find yourself lying on the ground in front of debart with a sprained wrist after running into an innocent bystander who probably has never even had the privilege of listening to this song. 
(sidenote: when i came home from break my fam­ily was watching action bronson music videos on revoLT, a channel my dad called “The new mTv.” my mom said his beard “makes her feel good about her­self.” get on the action bronson train before it’s too late.) 
Kendrick Lamar — “King Kunta” 
although “To pimp a butterfly” is, in essence, a sit down, shut up, listen all the way through and avoid human interaction for hours while you process and reprocess what you just listened to kind of album, this single is the one stand alone track that you can blast and jam to (just avoid eye contact with friends and dance partners during the spoken word parts). This song has a heavy funk influence and a strong message. Kunta Kinte was a slave who had his foot cut off af­ter he refused to assimilate into slave society and ran away from his plantation multiple times; his life was the basis of the novel and miniseries “roots” and in­spired this song. The title, “King Kunta,” plays on the basis and message of the album: empowering those who have been deprived of power and the means to obtain it. 
Central Park (In The Rain) — “Don’t Stop or We’ll Die” 
Just under two months ago, on Feb. 19, comedian and writer harris wittels passed away after a long up-and-down struggle with drug use. he was part of one of the finest writing teams in modern television histo­ry who wrote ”parks and recreation,” coined the term “humblebrag” and was revered by seemingly every top comedic presence (he was handpicked to open for Louis c.K. and wrote and opened for sarah silverman). Less well-known projects of wittels’ include his one­of-a-kind appearances on comedy podcasts such as “comedy bang bang” and “you made it weird,” as well as a drumming appearance in the comedy bang “don’t stop or we’ll die,” with peers paul rust and michael cassidy. wittels’ death at age 30 with a new Tv project on the way was particularly devastating, as his shining personality and funniest-person-in-the-room touch was apparent in every project on which he worked. besides revisiting all of his “parks and recreation” and “comedy bang bang” episodes and his inventive Twitter handles, i’ve been playing central park a lot to remember his bright influence and to keep his memory strong. 
WebsterX — “Doomsday” 
as spring finally rears its skittish, hesitant head to usher in a vibrant, lively campus overzealous in the imminent wake of the season, a number of songs crop up and beckon to be blasted alongside the crowded quad happenings. “doomsday,” released earlier this year by milwaukee rapper websterX, will now finally have its day — or, if predicted correctly, its season. The summery track, lavishly produced by wisconsin post­dubstep and downtempo producer chants, amps up a chime lead, bombastic toms and campfire vocals cre­scendoing into strong, catchy turns by websterX and featured partner siren over a bass beat and click clack percussion. The song resides in between busdriver’s heady, experimental hip hop and animal collective-influenced post-chillwave, and it is heard best loudly and outside. 
Sonnymoon — “Blue” 
amongst the past few weeks’ myriad of great album releases, from courtney barnett to Kendrick Lamar, and earl sweatshirt to sufjan stevens, brooklyn via boston two-piece band sonnymoon quietly contin­ued their bafflingly understated success on new album “The courage of present Times.” a crossbreed between bedroom pop and experimental jazz, sonnymoon sounds like dirty projectors, sylvan esso, Thundercat and Flying Lotus, while not sounding like any project making music right now. as their song “blue” bends through its slinky, effortless four minutes, you get a sense of all the directions and soundscapes in which the band can travel. 
Gucci Mane — “Cold Day” 
burr. even in prison, gucci mane is still the trap god. it’s been a very long two weeks since gucci mane (or guwop, as he is affectionately known by his fans) released music, so with a proliferation that is only rivaled by viper, gucci knew it was obviously time to show that he’s still the dominant force of atlanta rap. guwop just dropped “Trap house 5: The Final chapter” on Tuesday, and it is everything you could have hoped for in the conclusion to this awesome se­ries. every song from this mixtape is straight fire, but “cold day” particularly stands out with its hard hitting verses, beats and overall attitude. i love you guwop. 
Tame Impala — “Cause I’m A Man” 
The latest release from Tame impala’s upcoming al­bum “currents” is a wonderfully spun ballad that is smooth as can be and filled with all the little details that make a Tame impala song beautiful. writer, pro­ducer, recorder and performer Kevin parker combines elements of prog-psych, arena rock, synth pop and r&b ballads into this amazing, airy daydream of a song to perfectly emit feelings of regret, forgiveness, angst and love. “‘cause i’m a man” stands in sharp contrast to the epic eight-minute lead single “Let it happen” and gives plenty of reason to get excited about “currents.” 
Carly “Slay” Jepsen — “All That” 
my apologies to Taylor swift, but carly rae Jepsen is the reigning queen of 80s throwback pop. her new single, which was produced by pop masterminds dev hynes and ariel rechtshaid, is a dreamy John hughes­core ballad that could soundtrack a teen movie prom montage. Jepsen’s best singles aren’t about love, but the giddy infatuation of a new crush. “all That” cap­tures the experience of pining after someone and beg­ging them to just show you that they care, even as part of you realizes they never will. 
Jamie xx - “Loud Places” [ft. Romy] 
on their first two albums, the xx created a minimal­ist soundscape anchored by whispered vocals, iso­lated guitar riffs, muted synth lines and simple drum machine beats. Their music often feels like a house of cards that would collapse under the weight of even one more element. “Loud places,” from xx producer Jamie smith’s forthcoming solo debut “in colour,” follows that template for the first minute or so. over sparse piano chords and a deep bass line, xx front-woman romy madley-croft finds herself reflecting on a relationship late at night. “didn’t i take you to higher places you can’t reach without me?” she asks her ex tenderly. Then, the idle chatter of a crowd bubbles up underneath madley-croft’s voice, and suddenly she’s backed by an ebullient gospel choir, courtesy of a sam­ple of idris muhammad’s “could heaven ever be Like This.” The chorus, buoyed by that sample and massive percussion, builds toward transcendence, before the track retreats again into the shadows. no other track this year moves so effortlessly between extremes — maximalist and minimalist, shouts and whispers, communion and isolation, highs and lows. 
Honorable Mentions: 
Zenith- ben Khan — “Zenith” 
speedy ortiz — “puffer” 
ava Luna —”coast of shellac” 
mitski — “Texas reznikoff” 
goldlink — “when i die” 
st. vincent — “Teenage Talk” 
Contact erin mcauliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu,  matt mcmahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu,  Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu and  matt munhall at mmunhall@nd.edu 
EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 
What just happened? 
By ZaCH KLonSinSKi 
sports editor 
To be honest, i’m still try­ing to process everything that happened at the Final Four this weekend. and i’m not talking about wins and losses. in reality, the games were the side show at times, especially saturday night. 
it started off innocently enough as eventual national champion duke trounced michigan state. mike Krzyzewski and Tom izzo — two of the all-time greats — shook hands, led their teams off the court, and the country eagerly awaited the more anticipated of the two match-ups between Kentucky and wisconsin. 
as the second game moved into the closing stages, Kentucky freshman forward Trey Lyles did his best rocky impression on wisconsin redshirt-senior guard Josh gasser. no call at first, then it’s under review. good, they’ll get this right and … no call. 
suddenly, everything went downhill in a hurry. 
a huge missed shot-clock violation on badger sopho­more forward nigel hayes’s game-tying bucket followed shortly after the Lyles no-call. alright, just the game evening itself out, i guess. The media, of course, played to big blue nation after the game about the shot-clock call but the punch/slap thing by Lyles was overlooked, typically. 
i was only partially ques­tioning our society’s morals at this point, but i guess it’s not that big a deal, heat­of-the-moment and every­thing. next thing you know, Kentucky players are walking off without shaking hands. at least show some sports­mansh … wait. what did andrew harrison just say? The wildcat sophomore guard said what during a question about badger senior center Frank Kaminsky in the post-game press conference? 
“F— that n—.” 
really? There’s no excuse for that language, period, especially not at a nationally-televised press conference in a room full of hungry report­ers dialed in for good quotes. did you learn anything from the “nigel hayes hysteria” that swept the nation after his “accidental” microphone slip about the stenographer in Los angeles? someone is always listening, and there are doz­ens of video cameras pointed right at you to capture the moment forever. 
at least harrison called and apologized to Kaminsky. as bad as what he said was, at least he’s taking responsibil­ity for it … by calling it a joke on Twitter? 
“First i want to apologize for my poor choice of words used in jest.” 
as bluntly described by a character in “monsters, inc.”: “shut up! you’re just making it worse!” 
you have one hell of a sense of humor, mr. harrison, espe­cially 15 minutes after losing for the first time all season. about the only people who laughed at what you said were your brother seated next to you and everyone who ever dreamed of watching you and your teammates make fur­ther fools of yourselves and the Kentucky program. real funny. 
please, somebody, make it stop. 
“[we’re] over it,” and “noth­ing more needs to be made of it,” Kaminsky said when reporters probed him for a reaction at sunday’s press conference. 
Thank you, Frank and/or the wisconsin pr coaches. 
not that the action was confined to indianapolis, of course. Like after seemingly every other major sporting event nowadays, Lexington, Kentucky, was restless for a few hours as students burned random things and rioted in the streets. police there ar­rested 31 for public intoxica­tion and disorderly conduct after some fights broke out. Fans in madison, wisconsin, took to the streets in a similar manner after the badgers fell to the blue devils in monday night’s national champion­ship game, although there were “only” five arrests, one guy jumping off a light post and racial comments re­mained confined to yik yak. 
still, someone needs to be held accountable for some­thing this weekend. i don’t know if you can fine uni­versities or their presidents to get a message across, but something needs to happen. saturday night’s events in particular were a disgrace to college basketball, one quick­ly being swept under the rug by the ncaa thanks to the championship game monday night. 
but hey, at least saturday night saw a great college bas­ketball game. Too bad it was completely overshadowed. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NCAA 
Dekker to take time before deciding on NBA 
associated Press 
indianapoLis — Junior sam dekker needs to cool off and return home before mak­ing a decision about the fu­ture. sophomore nigel hayes sounds like he is coming back to wisconsin. 
The badgers could be a force in the big Ten again if the versa­tile forwards return in the fall. 
First, they need time to ease the sting of the 68-63 loss to duke in the ncaa Tournament title game on monday night. 
“i can’t really worry about it. i’m going to get home, cool down with the guys, do what i need to do, talk to who i need to talk to make an educated decision,” said dekker, who used a balled-up warmup shirt to dab away tears from his eyes. 
he boosted his nba draft stock after averaging 19.2 points in the tournament. 
nigel hayes did, too, after a jump in production following his freshman year. in his second year in coach bo ryan’s system, hayes developed a 3-point shot. 
he was 40 of 101 (39 percent) from behind the arc in 2014-15 after not taking a single 3 the previous season. it was a perfect complement to his already dan­gerous baseline drives and spin moves in the post. 
but hayes spoke afterward as if he had already made a decision. 
“i’m nowhere near good enough to do anything else besides come back,” hayes said. 
it will be a dramatically differ­ent team regardless of whether dekker decides to join him. 
senior Frank Kaminsky’s re­markable career is over. gritty guards Josh gasser and Traevon Jackson are out of eligibility, too, as is key reserve forward duje dukan. 
but Kaminsky was the ring­leader. gasser and Jackson pro­vided steady leadership. 
There is no next game to look forward to for this tight-knit group. They were so adept at shaking off losses because of their experience and fun-loving antics. 
“Just how close we were,” hayes said when asked what he would remember most about this season. “how much fun we had together, on and off the court.” 
Kaminsky, a double-double machine, finished with 21 points and 12 boards against duke. but a couple late-game mistakes by the usually savvy senior hurt the badgers. 
The ap player of the year threw up an errant shot as the shot clock wound down with 
2:39 left. 
Kaminsky got beat by duke freshman phenom center Jahlil okafor with 3:14 left for a layup in the middle of the blue devils’ second-half surge, right after the big guy missed his own layup off a spin move. 
“it’s hard to say anything. These guys are my family,” Kaminsky said. “i mean that lit­erally. it’s going to be hard to say goodbye.” 
The disappointment won’t take away from what has been one of the most unique rags-to­riches stories in recent college basketball memory. 
Kaminsky played just 10 min­utes a game off the bench two years ago. he was an unknown quantity to the rest of the big Ten when he entered the start­ing lineup in november 2013 as junior. 
ryan said he always knew what he had in Kaminsky, who turned into an inside-out force. it was just a matter of him get­ting confidence and playing time. 
“he’s going to get even better,” ryan said. “but what he did in his years at wisconsin will be re­membered for a long time.” 
The badgers remembered their 2014 loss in the national semifinals to Kentucky as mo­tivation for this season. They finished with a school-record 36 wins and went one step closer to the title game. 
maybe they’ll use the loss to duke to power them for another long run next year. 
“with the records they’ve been telling us, we’re definitely one of the best teams in wisconsin basketball history,” hayes said. “we haven’t reached the level of the 1941 team with the title, but the guys we had, the awards we had, the accolades we received 
— i think we’ll be remembered.” 
NHL | canucKs 2, Kings 1 
Canucks skate past Kings in shootout win 
associated Press 
vancouver, british columbia — The vancouver canucks are in the driver’s seat heading down to the end of their regular season. 
chris higgins scored in a shootout and eddie Lack make 36 saves as the canucks defeated the Los angeles Kings 2-1 on monday night to solidify their hold on second place in the pacific division. 
The win means the canucks have 97 points, four points clear of third-place calgary with two games re­maining. The canucks can lock in home-ice advantage for the opening round with a win Thursday at home over arizona. Their season fi­nale is saturday at home to edmonton. 
however, just because vancouver has some breath­ing room doesn’t mean it’s going to take these final games lightly. 
“it’s really close, but we got a job to do here Thursday,” said Lack. “These are the kind of teams we’ve had dif­ficulty with before, too, so we have to be really on top of our toes and just take it shift by shift and grind it out.” 
daniel sedin scored in reg­ulation for the canucks. his goal came on a beautiful pass from his brother henrik. The assist was henrik’s 700th of his career and rogers arena erupted after the milestone. 
“i didn’t think it was go­ing to be that big a reaction,” said henrik sedin. “if you play long enough and you are mostly injury-free you are go­ing to reach some numbers.” 
dwight King scored for the defending stanley cup champion Kings, who moved into a third-place tie at 93 points with calgary in the pacific. however, the Flames own a tiebreaker with more regulation and overtime wins. 
Los angeles also dropped one point behind winnipeg for the second wild card in the western conference en­try. The Jets downed the wild 2-0 earlier in the night. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


SMC SOFTBALL | smc 8, deFiance 5; smc 14, caLvin 8 
Belles go a perfect 6-0 over Easter break 
sarah burke and freshman the belles the lead for good. 
observer Staff report 
pitcher Jessica alberts com-The game ended 8-5, and the 
saint mary’s stayed busy bined to allow one hit through-belles won the nightcap 5-2 last week and over the easter out the rest of the game. For behind a three-rbi day from break, playing three double-her scoreless three innings, junior catcher Jillian busfield. headers and opening miaa alberts picked up the win. on saturday against calvin, league play. The belles’ whirl-she was helped by the belles the Knights committed 15 er-wind stretch will continue to-offense coming to life in the rors,  nine in the second game. morrow as they travel to alma in the third and scoring in ev-despite the multitude of er-to face the scots. ery inning for the rest of the rors that gave the belles mul­
after splitting their first game. This added up to eight tiple extra outs, they showed two league games against runs and ten hits for the day. their full offensive capabili­adrian on march 31, both of in the third, the belles made ties in the fourth inning of which went to extra innings, the yellow Jackets pay for their the first game. in that inning, the belles swept defiance last fielding miscues and hung they scored seven runs on five wednesday to improve their four runs on defiance pitcher hits and did not benefit from record to 12-6. sarah Kaya. The inning was any errors. The belles man-
in the first game, the belles highlighted by a two-run aged to string six two-out hits dug themselves into a 5-0 hole homerun by freshman out-or walks together. one of the after allowing five runs, four fielder makenzie duncan, clutch hits was a three-run earned, in the first three in-and in the fifth duncan dou-double by freshman pitcher nings. however, junior pitcher bled down the line to give morgan raymer that broke the 
paid adverTisemenT 




game open. The game ended in six innings and saint mary’s beat calvin 14-8 in the second game to push their league re­cord to 3-1. 
Last monday, north park challenged the belles, and saint mary’s again emerged with two victories. The sec­ond game featured a memo­rable performance from belles freshman pitcher mary green, who threw six innings of two-hit ball and was rewarded with her first career win. 
while green did allow three runs, none of them were earned, and she did her best to limit the damage from a bas­es-loaded, nobody-out jam. although the final score was 10-3, the game was fairly close until the seventh. The belles struck first with a run in the bottom of the second, and the teams traded three runs in the bottom of the fourth and top of the fifth. in the seventh, the belles turned a 4-3 game into a 10-3 game with six runs, high­lighted by freshman outfielder cassie young’s two-rbi single. after winning the first game 6-2, the belles completed an­other sweep to push their overall record to 16-6. 
The belles will have a quick turnaround and travel to alma tomorrow for their third league doubleheader. The scots are 16-10 overall, but 7-1 in conference, and they boast reigning miaa pitcher of the week in morgan stratton. 
SMC TENNIS 
smc tennis looks to improve record 
in straight sets by scores 
By miCHaeL iVeY 
sports writer of 6-0 and 6-1, and fresh­
man bailey oppman won in 
saint mary’s is set to straight sets by scores of 6-1 take on conference oppo-and 6-1. Freshman Kelsey nent Trine in a home con-Kopf rounded out singles test wednesday at 4 p.m. at play for the belles, winning home. in straight sets by scores of 
The belles (7-7, 2-1 miaa) 6-0 and 6-1. The only loss will look to improve their of the day was senior Kayle record to over .500 while sexton, who ended up losing also improving their record in straight sets by scores of in conference play. Their 6-4 and 6-2. opponent, Trine (6-4, 1-1 in doubles play, the belles miaa), is coming off of wins were equally successful. The against bethel and adrian. doubles team of sophomore 
“i think our seniors [will] sam setterblad and sexton set the tone in doubles,” were able to defeat their op-belles head coach dale ponents by a score of 9-8 (7­campbell said. “They have 1). in the second match, the been there for important doubles team of freshman conference matches and maddie minaudo and Faller know how to get off to a were victorious by a score great start.” of 8-3. in the third and final 
The belles will go into the match, the doubles team of matchup rejuvenated from Kjolhede/elliott ended up easter break, campbell said. on the right side of a hard­
“we have had a short fought match by a score of easter break which has 8-5. hopefully helped us get over “we had a comeback some injuries,” campbell win at no. 1 doubles and said. “we have continued fought through some dif­to focus on doubles and ferent styles to win at three want to continue to get two doubles, so we are showing or three doubles wins.  The some patience and perse­weather hasn’t really affect-verance,” campbell said. ed us.” The belles will have a 
The belles’ last home quick turnaround after match was against indiana their match against Trine. wesleyan back on march 25, Thursday, the belles go on a 9-0 loss, but the belles re-the road to play bethel. bounded on the road with “hopefully, we come out an 8-1 win over olivet on focused and sharp at the march 28. start,” campbell said. “we 
The belles were domi-have to set a tone in doubles nant in singles play. senior that we are business-like Jackie Kjolhede won in and there to win.” straight sets by scores of saint mary’s faces Trine at 6-4 and 6-2. senior shannon home wednesday at 4 p.m. elliott won in straight sets by scores of 6-3 and 6-2. Contact michael ivey at  Junior margaret Faller won mivey@hcc-nd.edu 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

TRACK AND FIELD | sTanFord inviTaTionaL 
Sprinters stand out at Stanford 
By mareK maZureK 
sports writer 
The irish sprinters shone in palo alto, california, as notre dame traveled to compete in the stanford invitational on Friday and saturday. 
Led by senior chris giesting and junior margaret bamgbose, the irish took first place in both the men’s and the women’s 400-meter sprints and 4x400-me­ter relays. irish head coach alan Turner said he felt the team had a successful weekend. 
“This meet as a whole, i was pretty satisfied,” Turner said. “as a coach, there’s always an athlete or two who doesn’t have a great performance that could have been a lot better, but the majority of the athletes did really well this weekend.” 
giesting, who has been battling minor injuries, posted a time of 
45.93 seconds in the 400-meter sprint for his first individual win of the year in the event. Turner said giesting’s health was a key to his victory. 
“[giesting]’s feeling much bet­ter than he did at the indoor acc meet,” Turner said. “he ran very well. he ran pretty evenly. as the season progresses, he’s going to be able to get out a little bit faster in the first half [of the race] which will help him for the second half. my key for chris is … to keep him healthy and keep him fresh. part of the way i’m doing that is not to overrun him.” 
on the women’s side, bamgbose also finished the 400 in first place with a time of 52.38 seconds. Turner said he was look­ing for bamgbose to have a good showing at her first outdoor 400. 
“i didn’t give her any specific instructions that were different that what we’ve done all year,” Turner said. “The only thing i told her was, ‘it’s your first outdoor 400 meters, let’s go out there and get a good solid time.’ it’s one of her best outdoor times. For her first outdoor race, it’s a good start.” 
giesting and bamgbose also led their respective 4x400-meter relay teams to first place finish­es. The men’s team, which fin­ished eighth at the Texas relays last weekend, was comprised of freshman eric ways, sophomore harvey smith, sophomore alex groesch and giesting. The team finished with a time of 3:08:61. 
similarly, the women’s relay team improved from their sev­enth place finish at the Texas relays with a time of 3:35:17. The irish women’s team included bamgbose, freshman parker english, senior amber Lalla and freshman Jordan shead. Turner said this improvement was due to the team’s familiarity with the outdoor environment. 
“i think we were just really getting used to being outdoors,” Turner said. “my kids ran a lot faster this week than they did at Texas and i think it was just get­ting that first meet out of the way. before we had gone to Texas, we only worked outdoors in south bend one time. i think it was them getting acclimated to being back outdoors.” 
The irish fielded a second women’s 4x400-meter team which finished in fourth place with a time of 3:43.87. The sec­ond team was made up of fresh­man payton miller, senior Kalia barber, senior michelle rotondo and senior Jade barber. Turner said he was not expecting the second relay team’s stellar performance. 
“i knew the ‘a’ team was go­ing to run very well,” Turner said. “and i entered a second team be­cause i knew we had some depth in that event. i was a little bit sur­prised with the women’s ‘b’ team 4x400 doing as well as they did. i’m going to have a little bit of a dilemma on my hands deter­mining … who’s going to be the top four on that women’s [4x400­meter relay]. it’s a good dilemma to have.” 
in addition to anchoring the women’s 4x400-relay team, Jade barber also won her second con­secutive 100-meter hurdles with a time of 13.33 seconds. Turner said even though she ran well in the relay, her focus will be on the 100-meter hurdles. 
“Jade barber ran the anchor leg for the ‘b’ team [in the 4x400-me­ter relay],” Turner said. “she had a pretty good lead when she got the baton and she just extended it by another 20 meters. if Jade keeps running pretty fast on her relay leg, i may have to put her on the ‘a’ team pretty soon. but with Jade, we’re just concentrating her on the 100-meter hurdles and the 100-meter dash.” 
in addition to the sprints, the irish distance runners post­ed respectable scores. in the 5,000-meters, junior michael clevenger finished with a time of 13:56:24 to get eighth in his section while junior molly seidel posted a time of 15:52:41, good for 15th place overall in the wom­en’s competition. Turner said he was satisfied with clevenger’s and seidel’s showings. 
“it was [clevenger’s] first race since the acc indoors and he did very well,” Turner said. “we weren’t trying to kill ourselves in distance, but get a real good race in that’s going to get us into the [ncaa] regional, and michael definitely did that and molly seidel definitely did that. i’ve very pleased with them and how they ran.” 
notre dame’s next competi­tion is the acc/big Ten challenge next weekend in Lexington, Kentucky. 
Contact marek mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 
BASEBALL | nd 8, piTT 1; nd 7, piTT 1; nd 8, piTT 3 
ND sweeps weekend series in Pittsburgh  
By Brian Hartnett 
senior  sports writer 
notre dame continued its string of road success over the weekend, sweeping pittsburgh in a three-game series during which it surrendered only five runs. 
The irish (20-10, 6-9 acc) took both games of a doubleheader saturday, winning 8-1 and 7-1, re­spectively, before closing out the series with an 8-3 win over the panthers (11-19, 4-11) on sunday. 
with the victories, notre dame won consecutive conference road series and earned its first confer­ence road sweep since april 2012. 
regular weekend starters fresh­man right-hander brandon bielak and junior right-hander nick mccarty led the irish in saturday’s twin bill. bielak shut out the panthers over seven innings in the first game, allowing four hits and striking out eight, while mccarty held pittsburgh to two hits and one run in six-and-two-thirds in­nings in the later game. 
notre dame jumped to early leads in both games saturday. The irish scored seven runs in the first four innings of the first game, while they used a four-run second inning and two-run fourth inning to jump out to an early 6-0 advan­tage in the second game. 
“we’ve been pretty good when we’ve scored first all year long,” irish head coach mik aoki said. “To be able to do that is good. it gives the pitchers more of a com­fort level. it allows the hitters to just settle into something where they’re not pressing to try to make up runs. 
“Those are things you’re always talking about trying to not let af­fect you, but the fact of the matter is that when you’re chasing runs early, it does have a bit of a differ­ent feel to it.” 
The bottom of notre dame’s lineup keyed the irish in the dou­bleheader victories, as the hitters in the no. 7, 8 and 9 slots combined for 10 hits over the two games. 
“Those guys led to a lot, es­pecially [junior shortstop] Lane richards, [junior first baseman] Zak Kutsulis and [senior leftfield­er] mac hudgins in games one and two being down there helped us out a lot,” aoki said. “… as we hopefully start to get healthy…i hope that we get that length to our lineup we had earlier in the year.” 
notre dame had a more dif­ficult start sunday, as pittsburgh erased an early three-run deficit by scoring three runs in the first inning off irish freshman right-hander evy ruibal. after sopho­more right-hander ryan smoyer relieved ruibal in the second in­ning, however, the irish did not 
paid adverTisemenT 
allow another run, and the team retook a lead it would not relin­quish on a single by senior right fielder robert youngdahl. 
notre dame broke from its usual midweek schedule Tuesday and traveled to Four winds Field to face the south bend cubs, the single-a affiliate of the chicago cubs, in an exhibition game, los­ing 5-3 in seven innings. 
The two teams were hitless until the bottom of the fourth in­ning, when the cubs scored the first run of the game on a sacrifice fly. The irish tied the game up in the top of the fifth when senior designated hitter conor biggio walked with the bases loaded, but the cubs broke the game open with three runs in the bottom of the inning before going on to the victory. 
“it was nice to come over here and have an ongoing relationship with the south bend cubs,” aoki said. “… more than anything else, i was pretty impressed with their outfield. it didn’t seem like there was a whole lot of green grass with those three guys running around.” 
The irish are set to play valparaiso tonight at Frank eck stadium at 6:05 p.m. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at  bhartnet@nd.edu 



ND SOFTBALL | noTre dame 10, wesTern michigan 2 
Koerner becomes leading scorer in ND history 
observer Staff report 
notre dame extended its win streak to 14 games Tuesday evening, defeating western michigan, 10-2, in six innings at melissa cook stadium. 
The game was highlighted by irish two-time all-american and senior outfielder emilee Koerner’s milestone accom­plishment, as Koerner became the all-time leading notre dame runs scorer on Tuesday evening. 
The irish (28-11, 10-5 acc) outhit the broncos (12-17, 4-2 mac), 15-4, as nine notre dame batters recorded a hit in the contest. 
Koerner recorded her 167th run scored in the bottom of the sixth inning on a walk-off rbi single by freshman morgan reed, which ended the game due to a run rule. 
sophomore outfielder Karley wester and reed each recorded a trio of hits for the irish. 
sophomore pitcher rachel nasland earned her 15th vic­tory on the season, pitching six innings for the irish and giving up just two earned runs on four hits. 
in addition to Tuesday night’s contest, the irish saw action over the easter break, sweeping con­ference opponent pittsburgh in three games at the petersen sports complex in pittsburgh. 
The victories marked the third straight acc series the irish have swept, as notre dame improved its conference record to 10-5 on the season. 
notre dame outhit the panthers, 30-7, over the course of the weekend, accounting for seven doubles and seven home runs. 
senior infielder Katey haus accounted for three of those irish home runs, as she im­proved her homerun count to 11 on the season. 
haus earned co-acc softball player of the week for her per­formance in the four irish con­tests last week, all notre dame victories. 
For the pittsburgh series, ju­nior outfielder megan sorlie and junior infielder micaela arizmendi led the irish’s of­fensive attack, each notching six hits over the course of the weekend. 
on Friday afternoon, the irish beat the panthers, 13-5, in the first game of a doubleheader, with nasland winning her 13th game of the season. nasland pitched six innings for the irish, surrendering five runs on six hits. 
arizmendi and wester each notched three hits in game one, and wester added two rbis to the stat sheet. 
The irish won Friday’s sec­ond game by a score of 14-0 in just five innings, recording 17 hits and four home runs on the afternoon. 
among the irish who recorded homers on the afternoon were wester, haus, senior catcher cassidy whidden and Koerner. 
both Koerner and whidden recorded a trio of hits for the irish, with Koerner chipping in two rbis and whidden chip­ping in four. 
irish junior allie rhodes picked up the victory, her 11th of the season, giving up zero runs on just three hits in four innings. 
in the final game of the series, the irish defeated the panthers, 3-2, in a tightly contested matchup, with nasland earn­ing her second victory of the weekend. 
nasland pitched five innings, 
paid adverTisemenT 

giving up two runs, one of them earned, and striking out four panthers’ hitters. nasland won her eighth straight decision of the season and earned her 14th victory overall. 
in the top of the fourth in­ning, sorlie broke the 1-1 tie with a bases-loaded single that scored two irish base runners, giving notre dame a 3-1 lead. 
although pittsburgh scratched across one more run in the bottom half of the inning, rhodes was able to shut down the panthers’ offense in the bot­tom of the fifth and sixth to earn her first save of the season. 
notre dame welcomes butler to melissa cook stadium to­night, with the first pitch sched­uled for 6 p.m. 
notre dame is 28-2 all time against butler (15-19), winning the last 20 contests against the bulldogs. 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Football has cross-trained at running M Lacrosse Three days later, the irish job of getting into the flow back this spring. after losing a 
traveled back home to take on of the weekly schedule and 
conTinued From page 16 
conTinued From page 16 
captain from cam mcdaniel’s 
the golden eagles in arlotta peaking when its time to play, Who’s under center? graduation, denson said he was 
The irish scored a couple stadium, where notre dame so mentally we don’t need to not surprisingly, sanford pleased with the way Folston has 
more goals before the duke previously defeated former change much but keep do-spent a great deal of time ad-stepped up. 
made a run of their own. The no. 1 syracuse in an exciting ing what we’re doing,” doss dressing the quarterback com-“more than anything, he’s 
blue devils brought the deficit double-overtime finish. said. “we’ve put ourselves in petition between graduate leading,” denson said. “he’s 
down to three with a goal by doyle carried over his im-a good position so far but it’s student everett golson and ju-played probably [the] most in 
duke sophomore midfielder pressive performance against important to just keep getting nior malik Zaire. although no the room, so he’s bringing the 
Jack bruckner making it 7-10 duke to the matchup against better every day.” decision has been made, sanford other guys along with him. he’s 
midway through the third pe-marquette, scoring four while the irish are cur-said he is using quantifiable met-taking coaching very well.” 
riod. but notre dame pressed goals. sophomore midfielder rently no. 1, they understand rics to grade the quarterbacks so To get to the next level, denson 
on offensively, scoring five sergio perkovic and senior that the only thing that mat-there is some concrete feedback said Folston has been continual-
goals to end the game. midfielder nick ossello add-ters when the season wraps regarding their performances. ly working on the mental aspect 
“it definitely feels good beat-ed hat tricks to give the na-up is who is raising the ncaa “we want those guys to feel of the game. 
ing an acc rival and a team tion’s seventh-best scoring championship title, doss like there’s accountability for ev-“getting the concepts and re-
that we’ve had a lot of close offense all the offensive fire-said. ery rep that they take,” sanford ally being another quarterback 
games with recently,” sopho-power they needed against “The other day coach said. “i think it helps them in on the field, so that’s when the 
more goalie shane doss said. marquette. corrigan asked us who was #1 their progression. it helps them game really starts to slow down,” 
“overall, though, we’re not re-The golden eagles scored at this time last season, and understand it, that we’re not denson said. 
ally thinking about last season the game’s first two goals be-when no one answered he going to make an arbitrary de-regarding bryant, denson 
because we know as much as fore the irish went on a nine to said ‘exactly – no one cares,’” cision about who’s the starter. said he was impressed with his 
anyone that what happens in three run to end the first half. doss said. “we know that the we’re going to work through the eagerness to learn this spring. 
the postseason is what really doss had another solid outing only ranking that matters is process of deciding that.” “he has a great work ethic, 
counts. we’re just gonna treat in the cage saving seven shots the one at the end of the sea­sanford echoed Kelly’s state-and i don’t want to place a ceil­
this as a good win but move on and allowing just seven goals. son, and i’m confident our ment last week that, during ing on him,” denson said. 
and focus on the next game.” notre dame’s strong show-team can stay focused on the practice, the first-team quarter-
doss, who won acc player ing on offense and defense task at hand and not worry back reps are being split down Smythe leads tight ends, 
of the week honors this week, helped the irish secure the about things like our ranking the middle between golson and for now 
had 17 saves against the blue 14-7 win over the visiting right now.” Zaire. sanford did, however, hint whoever starts for notre 
devils, who rank sixth in the golden eagles by the time the notre dame will look to head at a decision timeline for the dame at tight end this fall will 
country in scoring offense clock hit zero at the end of the into the acc championships quarterback battle. have to follow in the footsteps 
with over 14 goals per game. fourth period. on a six-game winning streak “ultimately, i think that the of ben Koyack, who played more 
wynne, doyle and Kavanagh doss thinks that the team as they host the Tar heels on progression of one over the oth-than 1,000 snaps last fall. 
all scored a hat trick by the has spiked at the right time march 18 at 4 p.m. at arlotta er, as it starts to separate, we’ll Furhter, he will have to follow 
conclusion of the game, and with just one game left stadium in its final regular make that decision,” sanford the five tight ends that preceded 
doyle added a team-leading against acc rival no. 4 north season game. said. “i think the timeline, you Koyack, all having started in var-
four assists as well, which carolina before the acc like to be going into fall camp ious circumstances in the nFL. 
helped him earn acc co-championships begin. Contact manny De Jesus at feeling like you’re in fall camp, right now, it looks like junior 
offensive player of the week. “i think we’ve done a good mdejesus@nd.edu and you have a very clean defini-durham smythe will get that tion of who the starting quarter-chance. back is.” “i guess i’ll differ those things 
to coach [Kelly], but i do know Development of running that durham has really done ev­backs erything we’ve asked him to do 
denson is also dealing with so far as far as his development,” a position in which two play-irish tight ends coach and spe­ers, juniors Tarean Folston and cial teams coordinator scott paid adverTisemenT greg bryant, split time last fall. booker said. “i like where he’s at Those two are in fact the only right now, april 1st.” scholarship running backs on the irish football team, while Contact Brian Plamondon at senior wide receiver c.J. prosise bplamon@nd.edu 

up with a goal at 2:31 to send the 
W Lacrosse 
game to overtime. 
conTinued From page 16 
Two early overtime goals by 
break strong, outscoring the the irish proved too much for orange, 3-1, in the first 11 min-the orange to match, and notre utes of the second half, and the dame was able to hold the ball two teams exchanged goals for at the end of the game to secure most of regulation. the upset. 
sophomore attack heidi The irish will look to extend annaheim found the back of their two-game win streak when the net at 3:44 to give the irish a michigan visits arlotta stadium 10-9 lead, but the orange tied it on sunday at 1 p.m. 




CROSSWORD | wiLL shorTZ 

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

DOME NUTS | aLeXandria weLLman SUDOKU | The mepham group 



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to: 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia LasT 
Happy Birthday: Look at the big picture. if you let the little things get to you this year, it will hamper your chances to get ahead. discipline and preparation will help you reach your goals without delay or emotional setbacks. Think on your feet and be ready to take advantage of any possibilities that come your way. your numbers are 4, 9, 14, 20, 28, 36, 42. 
arieS (march 21-april 19): excess will be your downfall. say no to people who are too demanding. changes may not be to your liking, but if you’re patient and willing to put in a little more effort, you will reach your goal. 

tauruS (april 20-may 20): your strong, dependable nature will be appreciated, but don’t feel you have to pay for others when you cannot afford to do so. pride will turn into a costly situation. romance is highlighted, but don’t jeopardize your reputation. 

Gemini (may 21-June 20): don’t let criticism get in the way of a healthy relationship with someone you work or deal with daily. put a difference of opinion aside and focus on what needs to be accomplished. you can bring about change and make a difference. 

CanCer (June 21-July 22): a creative project will turn out better than you anticipated. Love is on the rise, and an expression of your emotions will pay off. your changing attitude will attract an interesting candidate who will lead to a unique partnership. 

Leo (July 23-aug. 22): you’ll face opposition at home if you make promises you can’t keep. To avoid an emotional dispute, include everyone in your plans. a trip or social event will change the way you view life. a new direction looks inviting. 

VirGo (aug. 23-Sept. 22): you’ll discover valuable information if you research, attend a conference or ask an expert about the personal changes you want to embark on. you will attract positive attention from someone who interests you. romance is on the rise, and a commitment can be made. 

LiBra (Sept. 23-oct. 22): money problems will surface if you spend on aesthetics or luxury items that you don’t need. a change in the way you view someone can be expected. don’t make a fuss; just try to keep the peace. 

SCorPio (oct. 23-nov. 21): use your emotions to express the way you feel. Take a unique approach to divulging your interests or secrets to someone you want to spend more time with, and it could lead to a new adventure. stick to your budget. 

SaGittariuS (nov. 22-Dec. 21): ask questions and get the lowdown on a festering situation before you make your move. Time is on your side, and positive results can be yours if you listen carefully to determine your best course of action. 

CaPriCorn (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Listen and learn. back away from anyone who appears to be unpredictable or inconsistent. Focus on home, family and the people you know you can trust. romance will result in an improved personal life and a more stable future. 

aQuariuS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t overreact. it will be a waste of time and cause you to miss out on an opportunity that looks promising. changes to work, money and partnerships will lead to advancement and security. don’t let an emotional situation hold you back. 

PiSCeS (Feb. 19-march 20): re-evaluate your current position. Financial gains can be made if you are innovative in the way you approach an interview, project or revised budget. invest in yourself, your skills and your future. romance and personal improvements are on the rise. 

Birthday Baby: you are quick, alert and unpredictable. you are smart, innovative and engaging. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 
address 
city      state Zip 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 
New coaches adjust during spring practice 
Sanford aims for accountability and quarterback competition 
By Brian PLamonDon 
sports writer 
ncaa rules allow only 15 prac­tice sessions, including only eight that allow live contact. Just over halfway through notre dame’s spring practices, it can be hard to get a read on who has made a jump or what the depth chart might look like come fall, especially when the team can’t get on the field more than two or three times a week. 
spring practice, however, is cru­cial for new faces among the irish coaching staff. new running backs coach autry denson said that he has only looked at film to under­stand the offense, not as much the players. 
“i was still able to remain ob­jective, and every guy was a new start,” denson said. 
new offensive coordinator and quarterbacks coach mike sanford emphasized the communica­tion among the staff as a reason he has been able to hit the ground running. 
“The thing that’s great about our situation here is that obvi­ously coach [brian] Kelly’s a tre­mendous resource,” sanford said. “and also what’s been told to the quarterbacks, he gives me a great understanding that makes the transition really easy. The commu­nication between he and i has been just outstanding, seamless.” 
sanford and denson are the two new hires on offense, joining defensive backs coach Todd Lyght and defensive line coach Keith gilmore. The key to integrating their philosophies with what the players have learned from previous coaches is tailoring ideas to each specific player, sanford said. 
“The biggest thing is, you don’t come in and say, ‘i have all the an­swers, this was screwed up before i came here,’” sanford said. “but you want to have a clear and direct way of communicating what you want to get done, and then laying out the expectations and working through that process. … There’s certain­ly some things from a learning standpoint that i’ve been associ­ated with and i’ve been exposed to at the quarterback position that i want to impart on those guys. ultimately, just make them more efficient throwers, make them a better pocket player. we’re making tremendous strides.” 
see FooTbaLL PAGE 14 

ANNEMARIE SOLER | The Observer 
Senior quarterback Everett Golson recieves a snap in a March 28 practice at Loftus Sports Center. Golson will compete with junior quarterback Malik Zaire for the starting position next year. 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE | nd 14, uva 4; nd 12, syracuse 11 
Irish upset pair of ACC rivals 
observer Staff report 
The no. 13 irish upset two top-10 teams during their road swing, toppling no. 6 virginia, 14-4, on saturday and no. 7 syracuse, 12-11, in overtime last night. 
notre dame (8-5, 3-3 acc) took down the cavaliers (9-5, 2-3) thanks to dominant per­formances everywhere on the field, including six goals from sophomore attack cortney Fortunato, nine draw controls by senior defender barbara sullivan and a career-high 11 saves by sophomore goal­keeper Liz o’sullivan. 
The irish effort shattered virginia’s six-game winning streak, while also marking several milestones for notre dame. The win was the pro­gram’s first against virginia and marked the highest-ranked opponent the irish have beaten on the road. sullivan’s nine draws in a game tied the single-game school record established in 2006. 
The irish jumped out to an 5-0 lead by halftime and ex­tended the differential to 11-0 before the cavaliers finally got on the board at the 17:57 mark in the second half. 
notre dame edged out the cavaliers in every major sta­tistic, outshooting them by 10, winning five more ground balls, hauling in six more draws and committing one fewer turnover. 
The match against syracuse (9-5, 2-3) was much closer, with hat tricks by junior mid­fielder stephanie Toy and 
junior attack  rachel  sexton  
making  the  difference  for  
notre dame.  
The  score  was  tied  five  

times. Like they did saturday, the irish struck first, going up 2-0 before a 4-0 run by the orange. however, sophomore midfielder casey pearsall and sexton each scored once in the last five minutes of the first half to even the score notre dame came out of the 
see w Lacrosse PAGE 14 
MEN’S LACROSSE | nd 15, duKe 10; nd 14, marQueTTe 7 
ND defeats Duke, Marquette to extend win streak 
By mannY De JeSuS 
sports writer 
no. 1 notre dame has extend­ed their winning streak to five games after taking down no. 7 duke and no. 16 marquette over the easter break. 
almost a year after fall­ing to duke (7-3, acc 0-3) in the national championship, notre dame (8-1, acc 3-0) took down acc rival duke 15-10 on saturday in durham, north carolina. carrying over the momentum from their win over the blue devils, the irish defeat­ed the no. 6 golden eagles (9-3, big easT 2-1) 14-7 on Tuesday. 
The irish were relentless offensively against the blue devils. in the first half, notre dame outscored duke 8-4, and were led by senior attack conor doyle, who scored a hat trick in the first half, junior attack matt Kavanagh who scored two goals and freshman attack mikey wynne who added an­other score and an assist. 
see m Lacrosse PAGE 14 

EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 
Junior attack Matt Kavanaugh lines up to shoot at Loftus Sports  Center on February  14 in a 14-12 against Georgetown. 


COMMENTARY 
irish still have much to celebrate 

mary Green 
assistant managing editor 
Tampa, Fla. — as the irish walked off the court, im­mersed in the difficult here and now with confetti falling and ladders being pulled out for the wrong team, at least one player didn’t want to dwell on the present. 
“offseason starts now,” sophomore forward Taya reimer said. “so we’re using it as motivation, because we want to get back to this mo­ment, and we want to be the ones out there holding the trophy.” 
There’s no doubt the irish seemed sad after Tuesday’s loss, but even more than that, they seemed frustrated, like they had come so close only to walk away empty-handed yet again. 
They don’t pass out shirts and hats after the game that read, “national runners-up,” and if they did, this group wouldn’t want to wear them anyway. The team came to Tampa for a title, and just one trophy will remain in the case after this weekend. 
Last weekend, irish head coach muffet mcgraw said she wanted her team to celebrate advancing to a fifth straight Final Four ap­pearance. her players said throughout the week that they were doing just that, playing with a new looseness, and had even seen mcgraw more laid-back. 
before they can move on to the future and the next sea­son, the irish should make sure they keep that mentality because with that comes the ability to celebrate, not just dwell. 
she had said it over and over again during the past couple weeks, but mcgraw repeated Tuesday night that notre dame’s return to the final game was an accomplishment. 
The irish need to celebrate that. nobody — mcgraw in­cluded — foresaw that, and many eliminated the possibil­ity of making this deep of a run in the tournament after their Jan. 8 loss to miami. 
but there they were Tuesday, on the same court as the team everyone expected to be the last one standing, and they had earned their place just as much. 
They learned from the miami loss and came out a different team that won 22 straight games. 
reimer experienced a midseason renaissance and led the transition in notre dame’s post players to becoming what mcgraw praised as a much tougher unit, one that was out-rebounded in just one post­season contest. 
Junior guard Jewell Loyd shot her game up to a whole new level this year, earn­ing praise along the way from coaching legends like connecticut’s geno auriemma, stanford’s Tara vanderveer and baylor’s Kim mulkey. 
sophomore guard Lindsay allen matured into a more vocal point guard and learned how to serve as more than a facilitator, scoring 51 com­bined points in notre dame’s sweet 16 and elite eight wins. 
in the next round, the irish found something within themselves to pull out a late-game comeback against south carolina on sunday in the national semifinal, and they did it by relying on a to­tal-team effort, led by senior guard madison cable and ju­nior guard hannah huffman. 
Freshman forward brianna Turner joined Loyd on the all-tournament team after nearly single-handedly fuel­ing an irish comeback against the huskies after she missed the teams’ first matchup in december. 
each of those points, and many others, are what the irish need to look at when ex­amining this year. when they take a look at the past, they should see that nearly every­one counted them out, but they still rose to the occasion and came out with another trip to the final game — and they didn’t need an unde­feated season or two wnba first-round picks to do it. 
and when they finally turn towards the future, the irish have a lot to look forward to. 
unlike last year, when they lost three starters, notre dame will keep its en­tire starting lineup for next season. 
adding to that, the team will bring in three new guards with mcdonald’s all­american distinctions. 
“i think those guards can really help us, so i’ve got re­ally optimistic, high hopes for next year,” mcgraw said Tuesday. 
at the very least, the irish built a firm foundation for the future with this run and should take away a new con­fidence, and that’s a lot to celebrate. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Turner struggles in first half before bouncing back 

KEVIN SONG | The Observer 
Irish freshman forward Brianna Turner plays defense during Tuesday’s 63-53 loss to Connecticut. Turner recorded her 10th double-double in the game with 14 points and 10 rebounds. 
By GreG HaDLeY 
editor-in-chief 
it’s not often brianna Turner matches up against a frontcourt she can’t handle. 
but anyone listening to the pregame chatter surround­ing the ncaa championship Tuesday night knew Turner was facing a challenge un­like anything she had faced in her freshman season. player of the year junior for­ward breanna stewart, all­american senior forward Kaleena mosqueda-Lewis and redshirt sophomore for­ward morgan Tuck all had more experience than Turner, and all averaged more points per game. 
but after the irish matched up well against south carolina in the national semifinal, Turner said she felt confident confronting one of the ncaa’s top frontcourts in the title game. 
“of course there was a lot of talk before the game about south carolina’s front four, and how dominant they are, and how we’d probably struggle so we wanted to go out and prove we had a good front four as well,” Turner said monday. 
after fouling out against south carolina in the semi­finals, Turner did not record any personal fouls Tuesday night, but for the first 20 minutes, she was conspicu­ously absent from the rest of the stat sheet as well. despite playing 18 minutes, she at­tempted only one field goal and missed it, in addition to collecting three rebounds compared to two turnovers. 
meanwhile, stewart and mosqueda-Lewis grabbed five offensive rebounds over her and combined for nearly half of the huskies’ 31 first-half points with 14 between the two players. 
however, it was not Turner’s fault she did not make an im­pact, irish head coach muffet mcgraw said. 
“we didn’t look for her enough,” mcgraw said. “i thought we needed to get her the ball more, talked about it at halftime, trying to get her in the pick-and-roll, going high/low. … i think our point guards had a little trouble finding her.” 
despite standing 6-foot-4, the tallest irish player on the court, Turner did not figure into notre dame’s early of­fensive attack, sophomore guard Lindsay allen said. 
“in the first half, we weren’t really looking for her,” allen said. “i think she was open a few times in the first half [but] we couldn’t get the ball to her, kept turning it over trying to get it to her.” 
yet Turner said she blamed herself for the results of the first half. 
“i think i wasn’t aggressive enough. i was really timid in the first half,” Turner said. 
after halftime, though, Turner almost single-hand­edly kept the irish alive, go­ing 7-for-8 from the field and scoring 14 points, including a midrange jumper as the shot clock expired to put notre dame within six with six minutes, 30 seconds left in the game. 
“i don’t know, just being in the locker room at halftime, reflecting on my first half, i wasn’t happy with my per­formance,” Truner said. “so i just came out in the second half determined to rebound and get the shots i usually get.” 
Turner was equally domi­nant when it came to re­bounds. she grabbed seven boards, four of them offen­sive, and pushed the irish to out-rebound connecticut, who boasts the second-best rebounding margin in the country, 45-35. 
“she’s a great player. she’s amazing,” sophomore for­ward Taya reimer said. “i’ve kind of tried to be a mentor to her, but i look up to her. she does some amazing things on the court, for her to be a freshman and keep fighting the way she did, she just knew she could do great things in such a huge game. and again, she’s just a freshman.” 
in  the  end,  howev­ 
er,  Turner’s  efforts  were  
not  enough  to  overcome  

mosqueda-Lewis’s 3-point shooting and stewart’s domi­nance down low. both were named to the all-tournament team, with stewart collecting her third most outstanding player award. They put up a combined 23 points and 20 rebounds, along with all six of connecticut’s blocks. 
“They have great bigs on their team,” reimer said. “we knew that they had shot-blockers on their team, and, i mean, they’re very good inside. … we really couldn’t find the rhythm offensively.” 
Contact Greg Hadley at         ghadley@nd.edu 



WEI LIN | The Observer  WEI LIN | The Observer  
An American flag is spread across the arena before the start of the 2015 NCAA Women’s Basketball   Freshman forward Brianna Turner jumps for the ball at tip-off    
National Championship game Tuesday night. Both teams entered the tournament as No. 1 seeds.  Tuesday night at Amalie Arena in Tampa, Florida.  






