The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48  issue 114 |  THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Students celebrate Easter at  the Vatican 
Campus Ministry organizes trip to Rome over Easter break for students studying abroad in Europe 
By JACK ROONEY 
managing editor 
dublin — as the clouds parted and the rain stopped in st. peter’s square at the vatican last sunday morning, more than 100 notre dame students were on hand to cel­ebrate easter sunday mass, led by pope Francis. 
The mass, part of a pil­grimage organized by notre dame campus ministry, brought together juniors cur­rently studying abroad across europe to celebrate easter as a community in rome. 
John paul lichon, assis­tant director of retreats, pil­grimages and spirituality for campus ministry, said the pilgrimage, one of several offered by campus ministry throughout the year, is spe­cial not only because of its location in rome but also its timing with the church’s easter celebration. 
“[The pilgrimage] is so tied to the liturgical season,” lichon said. “it’s simply just opening the space for the students to experience it. especially when you’re study­ing abroad, there are students who come to a new city, and there are so many things to do, but we really put rome in a particular light where we’re 
see vaTican PAGE 6 


Courtesy of Campus Ministry | The Observer 

Notre Dame students who are studying abroad in Europe journey to Rome to celebrate Easter Mass at the Vatican as part of a Campus Ministry pilgrimage. 


le mans lit blue for autism awareness 

By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
saint mary’s editor 
The iconic le mans bell tower on saint mary's campus glows blue this month in honor of autism awareness. 
president of the students supporting autism club angelina lazovich said she heard about the national autism speaks campaign “light it up blue” and thought it would be a good way for saint mary’s to show support of those with autism. 
“i think the glowing blue light, which will shine through­out the month of april, shows how supportive saint mary's is of all,” lazovich said. 
lazovich said she hopes the blue light will probe students to ask questions. 
“i think people will ask a lot of questions about why the tower is blue, which is a good thing, because it will further help our cause of spreading awareness of autism in the community,” 
see auTism PAGE 5 


breaking barriers Fashion show unites community 
By ANDREA VALE 
news writer 

The second annual breaking barriers Fashion show was held at the morris inn on wednesday night. The show featured members of best buddies, the special olympics, special Friends and super sibs to simultaneously exemplify the work of each group and encourage others to join, as well as “break down the barriers for the full inclu­sion of people with develop­mental disabilities and help to spread awareness in the south bend community,” according to the notre dame events calendar. 
“The goal of this fashion show is first and foremost to display the beauty of friend­ship and convey the dignity and worth of people with de­velopmental or intellectual disabilities,” the description read. 
“it is different from other fashion shows because of the mission of the models,” freshman meghan Freeman, a volunteer for the show, said. “This fashion show strives to embrace our differences and celebrate the bonds and friendships that have formed because of them. not only that, but it also aims to raise money for future activities so that the benefits of the fashion show will last even after the last walk.” 
Freeman said the money raised from the fashion show will be used to benefit logan, which funds student initia­tives for the best buddies, special olympics, and special Friends and special sibs clubs in the area. 
senior alexis pala has been a buddy and student research­er within best buddies since 
see Fashion PAGE 6 




Writer reflects on career 
By RAHCEL O’GRADY 
news writer 
co-author of bestselling book american sniper and trial attorney scott mcewen discussed the challenges of staying true to the story throughout the production of the blockbuster film and the importance of accurate­ly representing the life of chris Kyle, america’s most lethal sniper wednesday night at washington hall. 
“someone said to me, the book sounds like someone walked into a bar, sat down with someone and they turned a recorder on and said tell me about the war, and that’s exactly what the book was. it was about all the experiences of chris’s life, all those years of war,” mcewen said. 
mcewen said the book and its screenplay original­ly endured some struggles to remain true to the core of what Kyle talked about to him, and he tried to de­pict that as accurately as possible. 
“The story in the book was really about god, family and country,” mcewen said. 
see auThor PAGE 6 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 9 scene PAGE 11 Jewell loyd PAGE 20 FooTball PAGE 20 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What would you title a movie based on your life? 


Holding candles and hymnals, members of the Notre Dame community attend the Easter Vigil Mass at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart on Saturday night as Holy Week came to end and the Easter season begins. 

Want your event included here? 
News Sports 
margaret hynds alex carson Email news@ndsmcobserver.com matthew mcKenna rachel o’grady Jp gschwind hunter mcdaniel 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday
mary mcgraw caelin miltko 
Photo Viewpoint 

Mindful Meditation Startup Weekend “A MIdsummer Women’s Lacrosse “Getting Started in
emmet Farnan austin Taliaferro 

Coleman-Morse Innovation Park Night’s Dream” Arlotta Stadium Reseach” Center 6 p.m. Washington Hall 1 p.m.- 3 p.m. Brownson Hall 
5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. Kickoff to a three-4 p.m. - 6 p.m. Notre Dame vs. 4 p.m. - 5 p.m.
Corrections 

Weekly meditation. day event to launch Theatrical Michigan. Undergraduate 
The observer regards itself as businesses. perfomance. Workshop. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
“Ida” (2013) Baseball Fiestang: La Misa en Espaol “Mothers of Bedford” 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

DeBartolo Performing Frank Eck Stadium “Kapamilya, Of the Dillon Hall Geddes Hall
however, recognize that we will make 

Arts Center 6:05 p.m. Same Family” 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. 7:00 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 

7 p.m.-9 p.m. Notre Dame vs. Florida South Dining Hall Spanish mass. Film and discussion on
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 

Nanovic Institute State. 3 p.m.-7 p.m. mothers in prison.
we can correct our error. 

Film Series. Filipino cultural event. 

ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor Business Manager
 Jack rooney alex Jirschele Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: lesley stevenson Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: brian lach Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, lsteven1@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
-
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
-
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college. editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
Jordan Ryan 
freshman 
lyons hall 
“diary of the average college student.” 

Garrett Blad 
senior 
Zahm house 
“somewhere over the rainbow.” 
Daniel Anderson 
junior 
o’neill hall 
“life’s imagery drawn by my Fantasy’s pen” 

Nandi Mgwaba 
freshman 
mcglinn hall 
“don’t conform to the man.” 
Michael Dimen 
freshman 
morrissey manor 
“life: The board game: The movie.” 

Beth Spesia 
senior 
mcglinn hall 
“The bethinator.” 



NSF renews funding for nuclear physics program 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer 
last week, the national science Foundation (nsF) renewed funding for the notre dame-led Joint institute for nuclear astrophysics (Jina). 
“over the last decade, Jina has pushed the fron­tiers of physics by foster­ing collaborations between researchers who normal­ly would not have inter­acted with one another,” michael wiescher, princi­pal investigator and notre dame’s Frank m. Freimann professor of nuclear phys­ics, said. “There is also a strong educational com­ponent for both young researchers as well as K-12 and general public outreach.” 
according to a university press release, Jina is dedi­cated to the research of broad-range nuclear pro­cesses in the universe and their effect on the lifetime and creation of stars. 
“one goal of Jina is to an­swer the longstanding ques­tion of where the heaviest elements — like platinum and uranium — found on earth were originally pro­duced. since we don't know where in the galaxy these elements are made, we use our models to test pos­sible astrophysical sites, like supernovae,” rebecca surman, researcher and as­sociate professor of nuclear theory and astrophysics at notre dame, said. 
notre dame has col­laborated with michigan state university, arizona state university and the university of washington, all core institutions in the research, according to a university press release. 
“it really brings togeth­er scientists from diverse areas of physics, such as nuclear experiments, as­tronomical observations, astrophysical modeling and nuclear theory to solve multidisciplinary problems in nuclear astrophysics,” surman said. 
The institute is broad in its research, and according to surman, this represents only a small amount of the work Jina does, as all the research builds on itself. 
“as part of Jina, i make recommendations as to which of these unstable nuclei have properties that most strongly influence the models and thus should be the targets of the next generation of nuclear phys­ics experiments led by Jina nuclear physicists,” surman said. 
“i work to understand its impact on astrophysical predictions. The predic­tions can be compared to observations made by Jina astronomers,” she said. 
while the nuclear astro­physics can appear compli­cated, graduate student and researcher Tyler anderson simplified the question Jina asks to the following: “where do all the elements come from?” 
“we know that elements up to iron are created in stars through nuclear fu­sion, but we can nail down the specifics of those pro­cesses by recreating the rel­evant nuclear reactions in the lab,” anderson said. 
“most experiments boil down to smashing a nu­cleus into a stationary one and watching what comes out. depending on what we see, such as gamma rays or x-rays, which are just dif­ferent energies of light, or other ejected nuclei, we can piece together what hap­pened in the reaction.” 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at  rogrady@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

STUDENT SENATE 
senate considers notre dame day, student readership 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
The student senate lis­tened to a presentation re­garding notre dame day from aaron wall, the asso­ciate director of the student 
development  committee,  
and  reviewed  the  status  
of the  college  readership  

program for the 2015-2016 academic year wednesday night. 
notre dame day starts at 
6:42 p.m. (18:42, the year nd was founded), sunday, april 26. wall said the event is the best time for ordinary people to influence life on campus. 
“This is the day that all of us, like me, who’s never go­ing to have my name on a building here, is never going to have an endowment schol­arship in my name, this is the day that us regular folks get to have deep impacts on notre dame,” he said. 
Ten families have donated a collective $1 million, which will be allocated to over 750 organizations including stu­dent clubs, residence halls, athletic teams, academic de­partments and notre dame scholarships. how the mon­ey is divided will depend on donations made at notre­dameday.nd.edu. each $10 donation allows for 5 votes which can be split however the donor desires. wall said these donations are intend­ed for smaller communities within campus, not the uni­versity as a whole. 
“This day is about impact­ing smaller areas,” he said. “it’s not about the notre dame endowment, this is not about huge sums of mon­ey, this is about localizing the impact of our donors.” 
additionally, there will be a 29 hour streaming broad­cast where over 80 students, 71 faculty and staff and 45 alumni will share their sto­ries and experiences about notre dame. it is expected to be broadcasted to over 50,000 people. wall said The shirt will be revealed on the broad­cast april 27 at 6:57 p.m. 
next, the senate discussed the college readership program which provides The new york Times and the wall street Journal for students at various locations around 
“Nidia and I are concerned that spending $50,000 a year for 150 students isn’t the best, and that money can be spent elsewhere.” 
Bryan Ricketts 
student body president 
campus. currently, 700 copies are ordered each day, but an average of only 150 are picked up each day. student body president bryan ricketts said the program costs student government approximately $50,000 a year. 
“The money that we’re spending on this is unsus­tainable,” he said. “[student body vice president] nidia [ruelas] and i are concerned that spending $50,000 a year for 150 students isn’t the best, and that money can be spent elsewhere.” 
The senate then discussed alternative ways to keep the student body engaged in 
u.s. and world affairs, in­cluding obtaining individ­ual or dorm subscriptions to the newspapers, expand­ing the political brew events on campus and boosting the current press clips pro­gram, amongst other ideas. ricketts said the method of making news available to students will probably need to change. 
“we’re paying for an ex­pensive format that most students don’t engage with,” he said. 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 




Club hosts annual ‘End the R-Word’ event 
By OLIVIA JACKSON 
news writer 
This week, special olympics notre dame is hosting their an­nual end the r-word day event as part of the awareness cam­paign spread the word to end the word. 
Junior shannon golden, a member of special olympics notre dame, said the end the r-word campaign asks students to pledge not to say the “r-word,” retard or retarded. 
“we hope to raise awareness of how the r-word can hurt peo­ple and we want to promote re­spectful and inclusive language on the notre dame and saint mary's campus,” golden said. 
senior co-president laura gardner said the club hopes to reach more students with the online pledging system it will use this year. 
“we traditionally have pledge stations all over campus collect­ing signatures from members of the notre dame community as they pledge, in short: ‘as a mem­ber of the notre dame commu­nity, i pledge to end the hurtful use of the word retard,’" gardner said. “we're using an online platform this year, instead of the traditional banner signing. we're hoping we will be able to reach a wider audience online.” 
gardner said special olympics notre dame is team­ing up with other groups on campus, including best buddies, special Friends and super sibs to promote the awareness cam­paign spread the word to end the word. 
golden said spread the word to end the word began in 2009 at the special olympics global youth activation summit. 
“The spread the word to end the word campaign was cre­ated by soeren palumbo [a 2011 graduate of notre dame] and Tim shriver as a national aware­
“We hope to raise awareness of how the R-word can hurt people and we want to promote respectful and inclusive language on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s campus” 
Shannon Golden 
junior 
ness campaign to end the hurt­ful and derogatory use of the word ‘retard(ed)’,” gardner said. “The goal is to highlight the dig­nity of people with intellectual disabilities and make the world a more positive place in the pro­cess. we hope to raise societal consciousness about the effect of our words.” 
according to golden, the campaign is meant to encour­age people to watch what they say. 
“it is an extremely derogatory and hurtful word," golden said. "The campaign hopes to create a more accepting and under­standing attitude towards those with intellectual disabilities." 
Contact Olivia Jackson at ojacks01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


Professor examines different types of love 
By STEPHANIE SNYDER 
news writer 
Tim o’malley discussed the meaning of love in a talk at saint mary’s on wednesday night hosted by the christ's light group. o’malley is the director of the notre dame center for liturgy and assis­tant professional specialist in the department of Theology at the university of notre dame. 
christ’s light is a catholic faith sharing group that was recently formed this year at saint mary’s that has speak­ers who come to lecture about theology and other aspects of faith. Junior sofia piecuch had invited o’malley to give a talk for christ’s light after hear­ing him speak at Four:7, notre dame's catholic faith sharing group. 
piecuch said the goal of the group is to help each other grow. 
o’malley simplified what he described as a complicated topic of love into four differ­ent aspects. The first aspect he described as ‘pagan’ love. he defined ‘pagan’ love as basic human love; the typical idea of love that people tend to hold on to. 
he said that this is the love based on sexual attraction for another. 
“sexual attraction is itself a part of love,” o’malley said. 
Autism 
conTinued From page 1 
she said. 
lazovich said this is the first year of the students supporting autism club and the college has been extremely supportive of its efforts, especially with the bell tower initiative. 
“[The college] supported our club by making our dream come to reality, all while show­ing their support for people ev­erywhere affected by autism,” she said. 
The idea for the students supporting autism club came at the end of last year, lazovich said. dr. nancy Turner, chair of the education department, wanted to start an organiza­tion to raise awareness about autism and raise funds for the local autism community, she said. 
“i loved the idea, so together we were able to get the club started for this year,” she said. “our main goal is to raise awareness across the tri-cam­pus community along with “That form of love is real too, and whatever christian love is, it cannot deny this form of love. 
“one of the great things about being in love is having another person there to share your life with. it’s natural. it’s good. and you don’t want it to end.” 
o’malley used a section of John donne’s holy sonnets to explain the power of eros, which is physical love. 
“This natural desire for eros can be lifted up into divine light [through donne’s poem],” o’malley said. “eros is the love that really hurts. This is the love that can destroy, this is the love that can be violent.” 
he said how he discourages the typical human view of love. 
“love isn’t just feeling, af­fections or desires,” o'malley said.”The first thing we imag­ine love to be is this huge wave of affections and desires, but that’s not it.” 
he explained that the love you have for your parents does not include the wave of affec­tions and desire when you see them; but you still love them. o’malley explained that this is the kind of love we strive for with one another; it is simi­lar to the love between two friends. 
“Friendship is a basic form of love; you enjoy each oth­er’s company,” o’malley said. 
raising funds for the local au­tism community. 
“we have tried to reach out in any way we can to help lo­cal centers and families and hope that this involvement can 
“Our main goal is to raise awareness across the tri-campus community along with raising funds for the local autism community.” 
Angelina Lazovich 
senior 
increase in the coming years as our group becomes more established.” 
lazovich said at the end of this academic year, the club will choose two local centers that support individuals with autism to which they will do­nate the funds they raised. 
as one of its fundraisers, the club is hosting a 5K walk/run “some part of life is made beautiful by that friendship.” 
he said that loving some­one is giving a part of yourself away; this is the second aspect of love. 
“To love a person is to say, ‘i am yours;’ especially in friendship,” o'malley said. “Friendship is real love. it’s difficult.” 
o’malley discussed how christ is the ultimate example of giving oneself away in love. his love was so deep that he faced one of the biggest human fears, death, to save us. christ’s love is the third aspect of love.” 
The fourth aspect o’malley spoke of was the love of god and neighbor. 
“love of god and neighbor is the redemption, the salvation of the human being in the cre­ated order,” o’malley said. 
he talked about this salva­tion particularly through his perspective on marriage and said that married love is a choice, not a feeling. 
“love is a choice,” he said. “i could’ve fallen in love with a million different women; i still could. my wife is not my ‘soul­mate’, i fell in love with her. 
“Through the love of mar­riage, i am being saved. no, not just saved, i am being made and remade into the image of god.” 
Contact Stephanie Snyder at ssnyder02@saintmarys.edu 
april 18, she said. all funds will be donated to the centers cho­sen at the end of the year, and lazovich said the club hopes to make this an annual event. 
The race will start by saint mary's welcome center and will conclude on the island of lake marian. The registration fee is $10. people can register in person the day of the event or online at http://goo.gl/forms/ cdzglvQ1qb 
The week following the 5K will be saint mary’s first autism awareness week, lazovich said. The week’s events include a bake sale and movie screen­ing. additionally, students will be able to sign and decorate banners and puzzle pieces, the national symbol of autism, representing the complexity of autism spectrum disorder, she said. 
all week long, the club will also be collecting loose change in cyber and spes-unica cafes to help boost the year-long fun­draising total. 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 



The observer |  THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


fact that we weren’t willing normally receive. as experience the city on a 

Vatican “The location is definitely deeper level.” Author to compromise what we were 
conTinued From page 1 conTinued From page 1 

special, because everybody on the pilgrimage, runkle in discussing his experi­
doing.” 

knows about rome, every-said she gained a deeper un­“i’m not here to preach to you ence in publishing the book, 
visiting all these churches body knows about easter, derstanding of the univer­or tell you anything, but i’m mcewen challenged young 
but we’re not doing the more too, and the two kind of go sality of the church. just saying that is what chris writers to live up to the same 
touristy things you typically together really perfectly,” “all of the other campus Kyle was about. That’s what level of integrity he had to in 
might do. campbell said. “a micro-ministry events that i have drove the man to do what he producing “american sniper.” 
“but you kind of see rome cosm of what’s special about attended have really only did. That’s what drives a lot “my message to you is ... 
through a particular lens, this is the holy Thursday included notre dame stu­of people in the military to do if you feel like you have the 
especially through holy walking pilgrimage to all the dents, so this one was dif­what they do, and that’s why truth, or you have a message 
week and through the cur-churches. ferent since we were a group that message resonated so worth telling, then don’t let 
rent faith life in rome — “i would bet that there’s of notre dame students that deeply with people when they anyone change you from your 
both the local church, that’s nowhere else in the world was part of a much larger saw the movie and they read attitude or your message,” he 
why we went to santa maria where you could do that pilgrimage of people from the book.” said. 
in Trastevere where you got kind of thing in that kind of all over the world to cel-Though he faced adversity despite some of the criti­
a very vibrant italian parish, time in that space — where ebrate easter in rome,” she both with the publishers of cism the film received, 
but then also the universal we could visit 12 or 15 differ-said. “i really noticed this at the book and the producers of mcewen encouraged aspir­
church that comes togeth-ent churches in the span of a easter mass in the vatican, the film, mcewen remained ing filmmakers to stay on 
er in st. peter’s on sunday couple hours in the same six and it was a great moment committed to staying true to message. 
morning. so i think that’s city blocks. i think that’s the to realize that we are not the story. “The film was largely well 
a really cool part of the kind of the thing that makes only part of the notre dame “we had a lot of people that received and i feel like it 
pilgrimage.” rome special. and then also family, but also part of a wanted us to change that made a difference amongst 
The pilgrimage began holy having pope Francis here to catholic family that really is message along the way,” he the people i really wanted it 
Thursday with mass at santa celebrate liturgies with him universal.” said. “i personally refused to to, and that’s those military 
maria in Trastevere, one of and to know that’s the city along with the four-day do it and chris refused to do families that wanted recogni­
the oldest churches in rome. where all that history is with pilgrimage, students had it. we were at odds with others tion and wanted to be heard,” 
over the next three days, the church, i’d say that’s the option to only attend at times, but we refused to let mcewen said. 
students on the pilgrimage definitely makes it special.” easter sunday mass at the it happen and now ... i think 
also traveled to st. peter’s, Junior melanie runkle, vatican, with tickets pro-we were right, and i think we Contact Rachel O’Grady at 
st. John lateran, st. mary who is currently studying in vided by campus ministry. should be recognized for the rogrady@nd.edu 
major and st. paul outside dublin, said she went on the The weekend concluded 
the walls, among other holy trip in hopes of experiencing with a reception at the notre 
sites. Together, these four both rome and the celebra-dame rome global gateway, 
little princess Treasures, and churches make up the ma-tion of easter in a more spiri-which lichon said was an 

Fashion macy’s. 

jor basilicas of rome, the tual way. opportunity for students 
conTinued From page 1 
sorella, a local boutique, was 

highest-ranking catholic “i decided to go on the pil-scattered across the world to “extremely helpful and enthu­
churches in the world and grimage to rome because celebrate the church’s holi­her freshman year and served siastic, and the owner worked 
pilgrimage sites for thou-it was somewhere that i re-est day with friends. as the main coordinator for the to make sure that every buddy 
sands of years. ally wanted to travel, and “This is a great chance for show. pair had an outfit that was per-
senior duncan campbell, going there on a pilgrim-[students] to reconnect, talk “although significant prog-fect for them,” Freeman said. 
a campus ministry intern age for easter seemed like a to each other,” he said. “it’s ress has been made in recent organizers also had to se­
who helped organize and very appropriate way to see kind of like a notre dame years, people with intellectual cure help from notre dame’s 
lead the pilgrimage, said the city,” runkle said. “i fig-family easter celebration.” disabilities continue to be seg-university hair stylists to help, 
the setting in rome also ured that on a pilgrimage, i regated globally,” pala said. “all as well as, chipotle and other 
gave students spiritual op-would see a much more au-Contact Jack Rooney at the clubs in the show work with local establishments for gift 
portunities they wouldn’t thentic side of rome, as well jrooney1@nd.edu people with intellectual and bags. The organizers also re­
paid adverTisemenT 
developmental disabilities in cruited volunteers to emcee, various capacities to highlight write short bios to be read dur­the things that they love and re-ing participants’ walks and veal their true potentials. with help to complete various tasks. this show we want to celebrate The show was emceed by one those we work with and show of notre dame’s leprechauns, everyone the relationships that mitch meersman, and featured we have formed and the value a slideshow displaying each we bring to each others lives.” group participating in various 
she said that the show “isn’t activities from the past year. only about the clothes we are before the show began, the wearing, but the beauty of night opened with a perfor­those wearing them.” mance by the humor artists, 
according to pala, the idea a video combatting “ableism” for the show was conceived that addressed stigmas sur­after her experiences working rounding mental disabilities on a similar fashion show with and a performance by the pom best buddies in madrid, spain. squad. 
“we borrowed the name models walked out alongside ‘breaking barriers’ from the their respective buddies, each united nations’ campaign of whom was a notre dame stu­“breaking down barriers to dent, as meersman read mod-full inclusion” that they used els’ brief bios and described the for the international day of outfits worn. speeches from persons with disabilities,” she organizers and performanc­said. es from notre dame a cap-
The show was brought to pella groups halftime and the notre dame for the first time undertones were interspersed last year, when it was held in throughout the show. The night legends nightclub as part of ended with all of the models spread the word to end the and their buddies joining in to word day. pala noted that this sing notre dame’s alma mater. year is unique in its focus on “we are looking to gain more the collaboration between the popularity and become an south bend community and event that people want to come notre dame clubs. back to every year,” Freeman 
This year’s show involved an said. “at the end of the day, we immense amount of prepara-hope to raise money to sponsor tion, including reaching out future events, and we just want to potential donors, Freeman everyone to have fun.” said. clothing had to be secured for all ages and sexes through Contact Andrea Vale at  donations from ali boutique, avale@nd.edu 




domestic politics to mold iran nuclear deal 
Associated Press 
washingTon — democratic senators are in­tent on changing a bill that would give congress a say in an emerging nuclear deal with iran — tweaks that could make it more palatable to president barack obama, who called two key senators on wednesday to lobby against undermining diplomatic ef­forts to end a standoff with Tehran. 
The president’s calls to republican sen. bob corker, chairman of the Foreign relations committee, and the committee’s top democrat, sen. ben cardin of maryland, were the latest consulta­tions in the white house’s robust lobbying campaign to convince congress that an international framework team has the space they need her opposition to the corker-agreement reached last week to achieve and implement a menendez bill, saying it un­is the best way to prevent good deal that verifiably pre-dermines the ongoing nuclear Tehran from developing a nu-vents iran from obtaining a negotiations and constructs clear weapon. nuclear weapon.” an “unnecessary hurdle to 

“i am trying to bridge the cardin, who spoke with the achieving a strong, final differences here - not that i president for about 15 min-agreement.” feel i’ll be able to get the presi-utes, said he hopes an amend-“To force congress to weigh dent as a cheerleader to the ed bill can carry out two in now on the iran nuclear bill but try to deal with some purposes: provide congress talks before a final deal has legitimate concerns,” cardin with an orderly way to review been completed would be a said in an interview. any final agreement reached reckless rush to judgment,” 
“we look forward to con-with iran and mandate peri-pelosi said, adding that more tinuing to work with senator odic reports on compliance than 50 foreign policy and cardin, a thoughtful and so congress can take action if military leaders have urged principled lawmaker and iran violates a final deal - if it congress not to take any ac-longstanding foreign policy can be reached. tion that would impede prog­expert,” in his role as rank-obama has threatened to ress toward reaching a final ing member of the Foreign veto the bill, which was intro-deal. relations committee, said duced by corker of Tennessee whether the measure could white house spokeswom-and sen. bob menendez, garner a two-thirds major-an Jennifer Friedman. “The d-n.J. ity in the full senate to over-president raised with senator standing by the presi-ride a presidential veto is not cardin the importance of en-dent, house democratic known, but it’s clear there is suring that our negotiating leader nancy pelosi voiced bipartisan support for finding 
paid adverTisemenT 


a way for congress to weigh in on any deal, regardless of whether the white house wants it to or not. 
“i would hope that if we get it done the way i’m hoping to get it done that the concerns that the president has raised” will be addressed, said cardin, who is proposing more than a handful of amendments. “now, the president may feel compelled because of separa­tion of powers to veto it. i un­derstand that.” 
white house press secretary Josh earnest said obama’s conversation with corker was not an opportunity for the two men to negotiate the terms of legislation, but rather to help members of congress under­stand exactly what’s included in the commitments that iran has made thus far and make sure negotiators have the time and space to complete a final agreement by the end of June. 
on capitol hill, the focus is on the committee, which is scheduled to vote on the bill Tuesday. 
as it’s written, the corker­menendez bill would require obama to submit any final agreement reached with iran to congress within five days. it would require obama to send a report that explains the ex­tent to which the secretary of state will be able to verify that iran is complying with the deal. The bill also would re­quire the white house to cer­tify that the agreement does not jeopardize u.s. national security, including preventing iran from pursuing nuclear-related military activities. 
in implementing any fi­nal deal, obama could lift sanctions imposed through presidential action, but the bill would prohibit him - for 60 days - from suspending, waiving or otherwise easing any sanctions that congress imposed on iran. during that 60-day period, congress could hold hearings and approve, disapprove or take no action on any final nuclear agree­ment with iran. 
if congress passed a joint resolution approving a fi­nal deal - or took no action -obama could move ahead to ease sanctions levied by congress. but if congress passed a joint resolution dis­approving it, obama would be blocked from implement­ing any relief of congressional sanctions. 
after the 60-day congres­sional review period, the bill requires the president to as­sess iran’s compliance with the agreement at three-month intervals. if the president can­not certify iran’s compliance, or if he determines there has been a breach of the deal, the bill says congress could quickly vote to restore sanc­tions that had been waived or suspended. 

The observer | THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
What happens after graduation

INSIDE COLUMN 
diagnosing ‘ineglect’ 
Erin Rice 
graphics editor 
For the third time this month, a couple was spotted inappropriately interacting in south dining hall, openly conversing and neglecting their iphones. This is a growing problem across campus that needs to be addressed. multiple eyewitnesses claim other students choose to avoid eating at the right-right side of the dining hall in attempt to avoid a potential encounter with the pair. 
one bystander complained, “That couple is disgusting. how can i possibly instagram a picture of my lasagna with those two making eye-contact in the background?” 
another onlooker felt violated by the couple’s laughing and constant talking. 
“They had the audacity to talk to each other the entire meal without ever look­ing at their phones,” she said. “i’ve always heard that things like this happen, but i never thought i would see it.” 
This kind of public display of communi­cation should be banned throughout cam­pus. social media psychologist Fay spook said this behavior is now being categorized as early signs of ‘ineglect.’ students will leave their phones on the table without looking at them. sometimes they will even leave them in their backpack. 
many ‘ineglectors’ have a history of abusing technology. early symptoms of ‘ineglect’ includes letting a Tamagotchi die, reading books, refusing to make a Facebook account and in the worst cases, letting a piece of technology die and not charging it immediately. many ‘ineglec­tors’ have a history of punishment by a close family member or parent for watch­ing television during the school week, making the child feel humiliated and disconnected. 
if you or someone you know is struggling with ‘ineglect’, it’s not too late. a counselor is only a text away … during convenient hours. For the sake of your iphone and all iphones, speak up against technology abuse. don’t ignore your Twitter or snap notifications. prevent the illusion that per­sonal relationships are valuable by paying closer attention to your phone in public and private settings. make sure to get in the habit of personalizing your text tone to prevent confusion among peers and mak­ing your iphone feel special. 
There are proven positive effects of re­maining emotionally absent in personal in­teractions. by getting in the routine of using your iphone as a tool for avoiding awkward situations, you can learn to confront your problems without dealing with real people. embrace the inevitable decline of intimate relationships because they are repulsing and require far too much effort and com­munication on a personal level. 
if you have any further questions re­garding this topic, snap your concerns to username iphoneaddictions (please limit messages to 10 seconds or under, thank you). 
Contact Erin Rice at erice4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Christopher Damian 
ideas of a university 

many undergraduates believe their lives after college will be full of life and excitement. That’s not the whole truth. 
after watching a few classes graduate and seeing my friends progress from college to post-graduate life, i’ve realized the transition isn’t always pretty. here are a few things that will probably happen to you. 
First, you will find yourself surprised by whom you keep in touch with. college is full of friendships of convenience, of people you spend time with because they’re available to you, because you work together and live together, because you’ve just happened to find yourself in the same place together. There’s nothing wrong with these relationships; they’re good and valuable. but after college, you’re forced to prioritize who will remain your good friends. who will you try to live near? with whom will you schedule regular coffee dates or phone calls? The people you are still talk­ing to a year after graduation are not always the people you would have guessed. you’ll lose some of the people you once thought were your closest friends, and your ability to maintain relationships will be tested. 
second, for those who begin full-time work after gradu­ation, the majority of you will undergo periods where you feel incompetent and unprepared for your work. even students who get technical or vocational degrees will find work is very different from school and a career is very dif­ferent from an internship. you’ll find yourself thrown off by your lack of confidence and the apparent confidence of all your coworkers. but the truth is, your peers are prob­ably putting on a show. They’re all just as nervous as you are. 
Third, many of you will feel isolated and depressed for a while. one of the worst things about notre dame is that, the better it gets as a community, the worse your post-college community will seem by comparison. you’ll move from a place of strong ties to people with whom you share common interests and desires, to a place where, for a while, you’re mostly on your own. The faith community doesn’t seem as rich; the intellectual community is hard to find; the social community isn’t nearly as exciting; and these communities, after graduation, often don’t intersect. 
This is the secret that college doesn’t tell you: life after graduation for many people is just awful. i don’t say this just to scare you. i’m saying this because i want you to know if you go through these things that you’re not alone, that you’re not crazy and that, like many of my friends, you will get through this. 
i’m also saying this so you can prepare yourself now. 
Try to regularly throw yourself into new experiences and opportunities where you feel uncomfortable and unsure. learn how to navigate new and scary experiences and to reach out to others when you need help and support. 
as soon as you graduate, prioritize relationships and create regular opportunities to be with your friends. Friendship is a habit and a skill. it’s like brushing your teeth or working out; if it’s not practiced regularly and deliberately, it will grow weak and decay. and be prepared for when a friend decides he or she isn’t going to prioritize you. when that happens, don’t be passive aggressive or sweep the issue under the rug. address the problem and, if you have to, move on and prioritize other relationships. Friendship can’t be a one-way street. 
if you find yourself unhappy with where your life is after graduation, decide what you’re missing and make plans to get it. start a book club, schedule a weekly happy hour or get a group to go to mass with you regularly. The easi­est thing to do is to sit around and think about how un­happy you are. but you’ll only change if you get up and do something. 
and finally, don’t be afraid to come back to notre dame every once in a while. There’s nothing wrong with using a football game as an excuse to visit a place that still feels like home. you’ll feel nostalgic at times, even though you’ll want to have “moved on” and not be that student-who­graduated-but-basically-didn’t-graduate-and-basically­lives-at-notre-dame. There’s nothing wrong with wanting to come back. The transition takes time. That’s ok. Just remember that notre dame, our mother, will always be your mother, tender, strong and true. 
Christopher Damian graduated from Notre Dame in 2013. He is currently pursuing a J.D. and an M.A. in Catholic Studies at the University of St. Thomas. He can be contacted through his blog at universityideas.wordpress.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



The observer | THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
The beginnings of goodbye 
Matt Miklavic 
The maine idea 
i’ve always had a lot of thoughts. 
growing up, i read everything. i’d read news­papers, magazines and books. i read the sports section until i memorized the red sox batting averages on a daily basis. my parents encour­aged it, both because everyone knows you have to be a pretty bad parent to not let your kid read, and because it gave me an outlet for what was, i suspect, at times an annoying curiousness about everything. i had thoughts aplenty to share, and my parents would usually end up being the ones consigned to hearing them in the car, at the din­ner table, in church or long past my bedtime. 
i still have a lot of thoughts, but my parents are 1,000 miles away and friends aren’t biologically obligated to listen to me. with that in mind, i applied to write for The observer my sophomore year. it was one of the best decisions of my time at notre dame. 
as i sat down to write this, my penultimate column, i took a look back. i’ve written almost 40 columns, weighing in at over 30,000 words. it’s kind of like my version of a thesis, just with more thinly-veiled sex jokes. 
They’ve been written at breakfast, on a plane, on geddes’ patio and, most often, in my room while wearing boxers and listening to run dmc and blink-182. They’ve been written sober, and, well, otherwise. They’ve covered marathon bombings, newtown, 9/11 and Feve. They cov­ered friends, sections, day of man and the best flag football team the world has ever seen. 
There were jokes about business majors, en­gineers and valentine’s day. There were jokes meant for everyone, some that just made sense to my friends and there were probably a few only laughed at by me. i once made a joke about playtex and the vatican. don’t tell the alumni or the pope. 

i always told myself i’d never take my column too seriously, which wasn’t too hard once i real­ized anything serious i wrote would be dwarfed by the incredible writing on politics and the world other people put in this space. 
i always told myself i wanted my columns to make people think about important things, make them laugh and leave them with a smile. hopefully i did oK. 
i always told myself i’d ask someone out via a column, but it turns out columns don’t come out in the summer, and some things won’t wait. sorry, bridget. it was going to focus on your smile. it’s still pretty cute. 
reading through what i’ve written, there are some common trends. There’s an honest attempt to say something worth thinking about. There are some pretty bad jokes. There’s a lot about seeking something bigger than yourself, do­ing something important and helping others. in so much as a 21-year-old with little clue about where he’s going in life can talk about those things, i hope i have done well. 
These pages offered me much over the years. They’ve given me a chance to think out loud and say something on my mind. They’ve given me a spot to say things i might otherwise forget and to thank people who have gotten me here. 
These pages let me thank my friends for four incredible years on campus, in washington d.c., alabama, Florida, california, canada and every­where in between. For picking me up when i’m down, for the shenanigans and for the memories. 
my parents, for everything they’ve done to get me to and through notre dame. 
siegfried and its ramblers, for making this place home. section 2b, for making me who i am today. section 4b, for making my job as a ra one of the best experiences of my life. may your appreciation for 4lokos coming in under the 14 percent limit never diminish, Teebz Tuesday nev­er dwindle and hanle never be in the hallway. 
The observer, for taking a chance and letting me write. For my editors, who always helped me untangle a run-on sentence or three. Tom, for always looking over my writing and making it better. 
notre dame, for all it has done for me. Thank you for the experiences, the professors, the peo­ple and the opportunities. 
oh, and for parietals. “you may be old enough to go to war, vote or drink, but the dangers of a girls’ dorm after midnight are too much.” That’s John 3:14, i think. what can i say; i got a b- in theology. 
Four years later, i still have a lot to say. i still have a lot of thoughts. and i’m truly thank­ful to have had a space to share them. Five se­mesters and 30,000 or so words ago, i wrote my first words here. in two weeks, my time in The observer is up. like most seniors, i’m not really sure where it has gone. like most, i cannot imag­ine a different place to spend it or different peo­ple to spend it with. in two weeks, my viewpoint career is over. in five weeks, my notre dame experience is done — the ride is over. ultimately, it’s been a ride like no other. Thanks for tagging along. 
Matt Miklavic is a junior political science and finance major from Cape Elizabeth, Maine. He can be reached at mmiklavi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Not an ‘afterthought’ 
i am writing in response to “an open letter to men’s basketball.” 
isn’t it a poor indictment of the notre dame student body when you state, “you were an after­thought when the student body looked ahead to what the south bend winter would hold?” i under­stand that the 2013-14 season was disappointing on and off the court for the irish, but to claim that the team was an “afterthought” seems to sug­gest no notre dame student even gave the team a fighting chance. 
as a diehard college hoops fan who is well aware of the team’s coaching staff and personnel, i take great offense with that statement. with the talent the team had in place and the clear devo­tion all those players have to head coach mike brey and his staff, it was clear very early on this team had a good chance of being different from past notre dame men’s basketball teams. Just listening to what brey said in the preseason about the returns of senior guards Jerian grant and pat connaughton along with the development of ju­nior forward Zach auguste and sophomore guards demetrius Jackson and steve vasturia during the summer’s italy exhibition tour should have given everyone hope. 

please do not make excuses for the poor student attendance throughout the basketball season. yes, people showed up for the michigan state and duke games, but even then it seemed like the students only went to those games as a social event. There were February home games against boston college and wake Forest when the team was ranked in the top 10, and the student section was a ghost town. That is really sad and really pathetic. 
These kids were out there playing an amazing brand of team college basketball, yet students still could not find time to make their way to purcell pavilion for games. you mention that “our” faith was tested with a road loss to a Final Four team, a road loss at a place (pittsburgh) that gives teams trouble every year, and a loss to a team with a hall-of-Fame coach who made the Final Four just two years ago. do you think the wisconsin student body had its faith tested when the team lost at rutgers in January? how about duke when its team lost back-to-back games to north carolina state and miami (Fla.)? michigan state, another Final Four participant, lost home games this season to Texas southern, illinois and minnesota. do you think that stopped the “izzone” from fully supporting its school’s team? The answer to all those questions is no. and it is absolutely egregious that our student body does not keep that same level-headedness about a group of classmates that, for the most part, has been a massively successful regular season unit since it stepped on campus. 
it is a real shame that it took a run to the acc tournament title and the elite eight for “us” to realize what brey and the team had been working towards for several years. i encourage everyone to look ahead to notre dame hoops next winter, be­cause there is something special there. 
Walker Carey 
graduate student april 8 


The observer |  THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 
a major label debut album is an important step in any rapper’s career. after a few years of mixtapes, eps, singles and youtube videos, any rapper with a burgeoning fan base and broadening influence is going to get a chance to tackle this behemoth. 
if you’re action bronson and you have a belly almost as big as your fan base, then tackling things isn’t going to be that much of an issue. on march 23, bronsolino (one of the big man’s many nicknames) introduced himself to the big leagues with “mr. wonderful.” despite a few mis­steps, this debut album is, for lack of any better words, wonderful. 
action bronson is to greasy new york culture what riff raff is to trashy los angeles culture. like the neon icon, action bronson fully embraces the character he’s devel­oped, this parody of himself that indulges in profanities, rocks obscure sports references and definitely enjoys gourmet meals. Fun fact: his vice web series “F***, That’s delicious” is awesome and only further proves this point. 
These little quirks and many others come out all over “mr. wonderful” and really show how action bronson shines. bam bam (another of bronson’s nicknames) is an absolutely hilarious guy whose sharp wit and quick thinking create some of the best lyrics of 2015 so far. definitely check out “actin’ crazy,” in which bronson brags about his salsa dancing skills, excretes out of 
By MADDIE DALY 
senior scene writer 
Finally, after a full year of anticipation, the second half of the final season of “mad men” has begun. on april 13 last year, when the first episode of the seventh season was released, fans were enthralled with the start of a new season, and here we are, 12 months later, finally receiv­ing the second half of that season’s whirlwind beginning. 
in case you (understandably) forgot what happened in the season’s first half, titled “The beginning” by cre­ator matthew weiner, here is a little refresher. The season begins in January 1969, with time split between the new york and los angeles offices. roger (and probably don too) begins experimenting with the 70s counterculture, including run-ins with lsd and other psychedelic drugs. additionally, don struggles with his alcoholism as his job and his life in general dangles by a very thin thread; he also continues to grow farther and farther away from his second wife megan, both emotionally and physically, as she pursues her acting career in l.a. peggy rises in sta­tus due to her hard work and clear talent, and pete strug­gles with keeping women in his life. The first part of the season ends with bert’s death and a trippy dream and/ or drug-induced musical number, while don hits rock bottom. 

excitement, swaggers about his gourmet sustenance habits and tells his mom he’s still her little baby. 
speaking of bronson’s mom, bronsolino takes several breaks in “galactic love” to call her on the phone, tell her about how he’s been typecast in films as a generic hollywood heartthrob and discuss how her knee is do­ing. songs like “actin’ crazy,” “galactic love” and the smooth, guitar-laden “Terry” exemplify the bronson we’ve come to know and love: a rapper who’s approach­able, likeable and comical. 
as great of a rapper as action bronson is, he cannot sing nearly as well. unfortunately, he spends a good por­tion of the album attempting to do so. in the middle of the album, action bronson engages in a mini conceptual piece, “Thug love sTory 2017 The musical.” 
This three-song and one-interlude musical piece isn’t exactly the highlight of the album and feels out of place, although it is cool that bronson brought in some classic, bluesy new york sounds to “mr. wonderful,” much like fellow big apple native ghostface Killah did with last year’s “36 seasons.” (both rappers share similar vocal styles.) 
chance the rapper’s guest verse at the end of “baby blue” makes up for most of this mess though, because in about 30 seconds he cracks more jokes and creates more laughs than bronson did over the whole musical. 
while i am glad bronson is expanding and attempting to diversify his sound with unique pieces like this, he is definitely at his best when he’s rapping hilarious things 
“The Final era,” also known as the second half of sea­son seven, started airing sunday and carried through the themes seen at the finale of the previous half-season. don dominates the episode with nostalgic looks and depressive, regretful comments filling his every appear­ance. unsurprisingly, he has several sexcapades in the hour-long episode, attempting to fill the enormous void in his life left by his two ex-wives and estranged children. peggy continues to shine, finding a new love interest as well as working on important campaigns in the office, though she and Joan face severe sexism in a pantyhose meeting with misogynist company representatives. 
as always, this season has already showcased its au­thentic costuming, with short, groovy-printed dresses on secretaries and bright, accessorized yet professional numbers on both peggy and Joan. 
during the hiatus between season halves, amc at­tempted to hype up the fashion with numerous articles and gorgeous cast photo shoots, trying to draw in new viewers and keep existing, impatient ones. They left no one wanting after the hippie-chic fashion shown in this much-anticipated episode. 
conspicuously missing from the first episode was the always fashion-forward megan, don’s most recent ex-wife; viewers were left anticipating her whereabouts, per­haps ‘imdbing’ her character to see if she will appear in over sick beats. and sick beats are definitely not lacking on “mr. wonderful.” “galactic love” features a dirty, thumping bass line that is rarely found in modern rap, while “brand new car” has a pretty cool piano backing the track. 
some backing doesn’t work though, like the live crowd in “The passage – live From prague.” This live rendition fits into “mr. wonderful” about as well as Kanye west’s “pinocchio story (Freestyle live From singapore)” fit into “808s and heartbreaks.” (hint: not well.) 
despite these minor flaws, action bronson has cre­ated a wonderful major label debut in “mr. wonderful,” especially when he embraces and flaunts the awesome character he’s created, and gives plenty of reason to look forward to his future. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
“Mr. Wonderful” 
Action Bronson 
Label: Atlantic Records, Vice Records Tracks: “Terry,” “Galactic Love,” “Actin’ Crazy” If you like: Ghostface Killah, A$AP Rocky, Danny Brown 

any episodes at all. speaking of don’s ex-wives, betty and the children were also absent, though surely they will make an appearance soon, as they have firm roots in the previous six and a half seasons and extensive fan bases (January Jones, who plays betty, has been blowing up her instagram with “mad men” references). 
since its start in 2007, “mad men” has gathered a dedi­cated audience, and although the surface-level storyline has morphed quite a bit, weiner still keeps viewers cap­tivated by the underlying mystery of don’s childhood. whether it’s the historically accurate 60s and 70s set­ting, the fantastic all-star cast or the storyline that peeks into the scandalous advertising industry, “mad men” has been one of the most successful shows to span eight years. although the extenuated split in the airing of sea­son seven left viewers frustrated and impatient, the time has come to finally witness the “end of an era,” as the characters transition into the 70s and the show winds to a close. if this first episode was any indication, don will continue with his lusty, immoral antics, peggy will never slow her ambition, Joan will continue to be graceful and desired and roger will ... well, who knows what roger will do, but hopefully he’ll at least shave that hideous mustache. 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 


MARY McGRAW | The Observer 

The observer |  THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By JONAH POCZOBUTT 
scene writer 
The pemco revue makes its return to laFortune ballroom on Thursday to benefit Turnaround arts, a charity for music and performing arts education in im­poverished schools. The program aims to narrow the achievement gap, increase student engagement and im­prove the culture and climate of these schools through musical education. 
This year’s revue setlist features 18 songs, all some­what loosely linked by the theme “living the dream.” 
a six-piece band tucked into the corner of the ballroom plays the accompaniment music for each show tune. audience members seated closest to the band may find it difficult to hear vocal performances over the bass and drums. This problem seems to be a recurring issue for the pemco revue. 
The show begins on a high note with the entire en­semble performing “live in living color” from the mu­sical “catch me if you can.” ensemble member chris siemann performs leading vocals in this piece, and his loud, distinct voice definitely stands out above those of other cast members. The “live in living color” perfor­mance starts the revue off on a high note unmatched for much of the show. 
The rest of act one proceeds with a few recognizable 
By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 
The year is 2015. you’re a college kid, bright, young, somewhat attractive — somewhere between a seven and an eight point five, you reckon — and ready to see the world. oh, but what’s this? homework? Family prob­lems? reposts on yik yak? inevitable unemployment and student loans courtesy of your english major? Just when you’ve got the hang of living the college dream, ‘real life’ gets smack in the way. you have to do laundry and stuff. you’re put in the friend zone so often you memorize the patterns on its carpet. The squirrels pretend they don’t know you. it’s times like these you dream of the moun­tains and the country and the beach: summer vacation. 
but then you get to summer vacation, and there’s real life there too. The mountains have bugs. The country has, well, too much country. and the beach? annoying drunk guys and jellyfish and screaming kids and that creepy grandma who keeps looking at your butt. come on, where was the summer you were promised? The va­cations that you dreamed of, the good old times you re­member? why did ‘real life’ ever have to start in the first place? 
The go! Team, aka singer/songwriter/producer ian parton and his band of merry instrumentalists, craft the sort of music that can trick you into believing that sum­mer is a magical time where nothing bad ever happens. Their latest record, “The scene between,” flashes and songs from musicals such as “Tarzan,” “wicked,” and “west side story,” as well as a number of songs only avid theater fans will recognize. 

ben swanson, alex Joyce and ryan Jones give anoth­er particularly strong performance in their rendition of “who i’d be” from “shrek The musical.” The singers’ voices blend nicely in this performance, and the dialogue before the song leaves no doubt as to what play the char­acters are from. This sort of dialogue only appears in the performances of a select few songs where lines from the play are particularly helpful for the performance. Those performances preceded by rehearsed lines felt more nat­ural than those where the performers jumped straight into song. 
The second act begins with a performance from argu­ably the two strongest singers in the ensemble, siemann and Quint mediate, performing “what you own” from “rent.” The audience will be pleased to hear clear, strong vocals and see choreography that engages the entire three-sided seating area. 
siemann and mediate both shine in their assorted roles throughout the show as vocal performers and with the genuine nature of their gestures. 
individual performances in the second act outshine those of the first act as a whole, but it is occasionally hard to distinguish individual words because of the volume of the band and sometimes quiet or slurred singing. 
burns with bursts of beach-y melodies and sing-a-long ready choruses. in a year already boasting a number of weighty musical masterpieces like “To pimp a butterfly” and “carrie & lowell,” “The scene between” stands out because it’s not at all concerned with being the album of the year, yet seems to be a contender for the spot anyway. it’s bright, fizzy and happy beyond compare and yet com­pletely avoids being annoying or cheesy. 
yet there’s far more going on than meets the eye on “The scene between.” almost every track is helmed by a different female singer, and yet a signature style ties the record together, making it incredibly cohesive. even af­ter several listens, i failed to notice the songs were being sung by different people. The go! Team simply boasts a remarkably fun and cohesive songwriting and produc­tion style that is at once extremely accessible and unique­ly lo-fi. 
it’s part of what makes “The scene between” such a blissful summer record — it seems to hail from an ear­lier, brighter era. The light sheen of distortion envelop­ing the guitars, tambourines, steel drums and more on the record casts it in a sepia shade of nostalgia. yet the originality of the melodies that anchor each track and the cluttered, impactful percussion samples help the record seem simultaneously like a new discovery and a throwback. 
2015 is proving to be one of the best years for music so far this decade, churning out excellent records in near­ly every genre. “The scene between” is a masterfully 
Photos Courtesy of PEMCo 
all audience members will likely recognize the crowd-pleaser “i dreamed a dream” from “les miserables” after the successful reproduction of the musical as a movie in 2012. The ensemble delivers the strongest female perfor­mance of the night in its cover of this song, which fea­tures a particularly chilling harmonization near the end. 
another recognizable piece, “King of new york” from “newsies,” features the best choreography of any song in the show, matching the upbeat and positive song with a dance that covers the whole stage. The performance also features excellent vocals from siemann and mediate once again, with strong and lively performances from their accompanying cast members. 
director sam squeri throws in another playful crowd pleaser at the end of the show to wrap up the perfor­mance. “circle of life” from “The lion King” seems an appropriate way to end or begin just about any perfor­mance, and the pemco revue is no exception. The whole ensemble does well to create a harmonization strikingly similar to what audience members will remember from the movie itself. 
The total run time for the performance is about 90 minutes, with performances on Thursday, Friday and saturday. Tickets are $5 and are available at laFortune box office and at the door. 
Contact Jonah Poczobutt at jpoczobu@nd.edu 
written, remarkably fun record that should be at the fore­front of your summer playlist. The go! Team have man­aged to make their shoe-gazey, summer-hazey brand of indie rock seem like top-40 tunes based on the strength of songwriting alone. From the driving beach-avenue harmonies on “her last wave” to the lemonade-infused guitar lines on “waking the Jetstream” and finally the bittersweet farewell of “reason left to destroy,” “The scene between” presents the strongest set of pop songs since Taylor swift’s “1989,” drenched in sun-drenched guitar amp fuzz. a slice of paradise in the midst of long library hours or the monotony of a summer job, “The scene between” is a fantastic and rewarding way to es­cape the ‘real world,’ if only for a little while. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 
“The Scene Between” 
The Go! Team 
Label: Memphis Industries 
Tracks: “The Scene Between,” “Catch Me On the Rebound,” “Blowtorch” 
If you like: Los Campesinos, Clap Your Hands Say Yeah, The Unicorns 



MARY McGRAW | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Charges limiting aggression 

Alex Carson 
associate sports editor 
i’ve got to admit, it was pretty funny. 
all year long we had to put up with the complaints about college basketball; the pace of play, the physicality, the low-scoring games, the one-and­done players. 
a term i heard a lot? “unwatchable.” 
but then a funny thing hap­pened on the way to doomsday. 
on march 28, notre dame and Kentucky played the most-watched college basket­ball game in cable television history. 
a week later, wisconsin and Kentucky bettered it, turning in the best rating for a national semifinal in 22 years. 
and even without the wildcats going for perfection, monday’s title game garnered a 
17.1 overnight rating; the high­est for a title game since lute olson won his national title in 1997 at arizona. 
remind me what “unwatch­able” means again? 
look, i’m not going to sit here and pretend college basketball is perfect; we all know it isn’t. but at the same time, there’s no need to act like the sport is on its deathbed. 
it’s pretty likely the shot clock will be trimmed to 30 seconds next year. i’m not a huge fan of the move — i previously wrote a column advocating the aboli­tion of the shot clock — but i’m willing to concede the point. 
Fundamentally though? it’s a cosmetic change. sure, the pace of play should increase a little bit, but it actually doesn’t do much to change what we actually see on the floor. 
so i figured i’d throw out a trio of suggestions of ways we can fix the game. 
let’s move back the 3-point line again, widen the lane and eliminate the charge from the game. 
The motivation? go back and watch basketball from the early days — let’s say the 1950s 
— and you’ll find a game that’s beautiful to watch; it’s free-flowing, with players able to move seamlessly from one spot on the court to the other. 
let’s bring that back. moving the 3-point line — i’d propose the Fiba and wnba standard of 22 feet, 1.75 inches — opens up more space for offenses to operate by naturally stretch­ing everything out. especially in the modern game, with the gradual elimination of the long 2-pointer, offenses will run their sets from a little further back. 
and what if we widened the lane? The nba took it to 16 feet and it works well there, so why not in college? it forces post players to be a little more pol­ished in their offensive games, sure, but it also opens up four more feet guards and forwards can use to drive the lane. while i wouldn’t go as far to suggest a defensive 3-second rule like the nba has, a simple, nice, wider lane should make the game a little easier on the eye. 
Then there’s the one that pains me a little bit. growing up, i loved the charge. everyone does, right? it’s the epitome of everything we’re supposed to love about sports; the gritty, hard-nosed defender putting his body on the line to get the ball back for his team. 
but the more and more i think about it, the more and more i can’t defend it, because the referees. i’ll flash back to saturday’s national semifi­nal between Kentucky and wisconsin. as the game starts to wind down, wisconsin’s Josh gasser drives the lane and dishes to bronson Koenig for an open 3. he drains it. lucas oil stadium goes wild. The badgers take the lead. 
but wait. here comes the most hated man in the gym waving his arms, blowing his whistle. 
i’m optimistic. The referee’s going to get it right. he’ll count the bucket for wisconsin and then whistle a loose-ball foul on Kentucky. 
and then he screws it up. 
he says andrew harrison took the charge, despite being nowhere near legal guarding position early enough. 
on the biggest stage of the season, it was a call that al­most determined the outcome; harrison’s brother aaron hit a jumper on the other end to put the wildcats up two. That’s a five-point swing in the span of 20 seconds. 
all because it’s a call few officials know how to properly make. 
For too many referees, a block/charge opportunity is like waking up christmas morning. Their eyes get big, and the anticipation nearly kills them. heck, i’ve even seen officials blow the whistle to sig­nify the charge before contact is even made with the defender. 
The charge rule punishes offensive players for being ag­gressive. it puts players in a dangerous spot. and officials can’t call it correctly. 
it’s time to cut it from the rule book. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MLB | Tigers 11, Twins 0 

Sanchez, Tigers blank Twins once again 
Associated Press 

deTroiT — anibal sanchez helped detroit blank minnesota for the second straight game, Jose iglesias had four hits and alex avila scored four runs as the Tigers routed the Twins 11-0 wednesday. 
ian Kinsler drove in four runs for detroit, which had beaten minnesota 4-0 on opening day behind star left-hander david price. sanchez (1-0) was impres­sive, as well, allowing three hits and two walks in 6 2-3 innings while striking out six. it was the right-hander’s first start since aug. 8. he was limited over the last two months of last season by a pectoral issue. 
ricky nolasco (0-1) gave up six runs and six hits in three-plus innings, walked four and struck out two. 
avila and iglesias, hitting eighth and ninth in the order, reached base every time they came up — avila had three walks and a single. 
anthony gose, making his detroit debut after the Tigers acquired the center fielder in an offseason trade, came within a home run of the cycle. 
This is easily the longest shut­out streak for the Tigers to start a season since at least 1912. They opened with 12 scoreless innings in 1914, 1947 and 2004, according to sTaTs. 
The Twins have never gone this long without scoring their first run since moving to minnesota, although the origi­nal washington senators were blanked for 19 innings at the start of 1940. 
avila drew leadoff walks in the third and fourth, and the Tigers went on to big innings both times. Kinsler opened the scoring with a two-run single in the third, and miguel cabrera’s rbi double made it 3-0. 
gose added a two-run triple in the fourth, and Kinsler fol­lowed with an rbi single that skipped past center fielder Jordan schafer for an error. Kinsler came home on a wild pitch for a 7-0 lead. 
even after avila was taken out, the no. 8 spot remained produc­tive when pinch-hitter James mccann singled in the eighth. iglesias followed with a walk — the last two spots in the detroit order reached base in all 10 plate appearances. 
it was the first four-hit game of iglesias’ career. 
NBA 

pacers’ copeland stabbed outside new york nightclub 
Associated Press 

new yorK — indiana pacers forward chris copeland, his girlfriend and another woman were stabbed early wednesday following an argument on the street near a manhattan nightclub that also led to the arrest of two atlanta hawks players, au­thorities said. 
The violence erupted just before 4 a.m. outside 1oak club, a trendy chelsea spot where celebs such as Justin bieber and snoop dogg min­gle with partygoers, police said. 
The couple was arguing on the street as the attacker eavesdropped and started to interfere, according to police. The dispute escalated until the 22-year-old suspect pulled out a knife and started slash­ing, police said. copeland’s driver grabbed the suspect and held him until officers arrived. 
The suspect, shezoy bleary, was in custody, authorities said. police said charges were pending, and it wasn’t clear whether bleary had an attor­ney who could comment on them. 
copeland, 31, a former member of the new york Knicks, was stabbed in the left elbow and abdomen and Katrine saltara was slashed in the arm and across the breast. 

The second woman, who was believed to be with the at­tacker, was slashed in the abdomen. The victims were hospitalized and in stable condition, police said. police recovered a switchblade at the scene. 
hawks players pero antic, 33, and Thabo sefolosha, 30, who were not with copeland but were also at the club, were arrested after police said they blocked officers from trying to start their investigation. The teammates were in town to play the brooklyn nets on wednesday night. The team arrived late Tuesday, after beating the phoenix suns in atlanta. 
antic and sefolosha were released without bail af­ter a brief court appearance where they were charged with obstructing governmen­tal authority and disorderly conduct. Their attorney, alex spiro, said they did not com­mit any crime. 
“They should not have been arrested. we fully expect the case to be dismissed,” he said. 
The hawks said neither antic nor sefolosha would play against the nets. sefolosha was limping during his court appearance and spiro said he had been injured during the arrest. The two are reserves, averaging less than 6 points per game on a team that has locked up the top playoff seed in the eastern conference. 
The players issued a joint statement through the team, apologizing for any embar­rassment they caused. The arrests were an unwanted dis­traction for a team that is less than two weeks away from starting the postseason. 
“as members of the atlanta hawks, we hold ourselves to a high standard and take our roles as professionals very se­riously,” the statement said. “we will contest these charges and look forward to commu­nicating the facts of the situ­ation at the appropriate time.” 
hawks coach mike budenholzer called the inci­dent “unfortunate.” 
“we never want to see our players put themselves in a potentially negative situa­tion,” budenholzer said in a statement. “we will continue to look into the facts of the in­cident but with the informa­tion and foundation that we currently have established, we will support them through this process. otherwise it is a continuing legal mat­ter and i will have no further comment.” 
The pacers were in town to play the Knicks; copeland played with new york during the 2012-13 season. pacers president of basketball operations larry bird said the team was aware that copeland had been injured. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 



SMC LACROSSE | smc 13, adrian 9; oliveT 12, smc 9 

Vanneste keys Belles in MIAA split 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writer 
saint mary’s split a recent pair of conference match­es, with 13-9 victory over adrian on Friday before suf­fering a 12-9 loss to olivet on Tuesday. 
The belles (5-6, 1-2 miaa) fell behind early Friday, as the bulldogs (0-7, 0-3 miaa) scored three times in the first eight minutes to take an early lead before sophomore attack emilie vanneste led saint mary’s to the come­back victory. 
vanneste scored the first of her five goals to spark a run that saw the belles score four straight goals to take their first lead of the game. 
The two teams traded the lead back and forth for a while before saint mary’s used another run to pull away; the belles turned an 8-7 deficit into a 12-8 lead over the course of 10 min­utes to secure their victory. 
The second half of play saw the belles dominate in possession, recording 18 shots against the bulldogs’s 5 in the last 30 minutes. 
saint mary’s also lead in transition, winning 37 ground balls to adrian’s 24 and committing only 16 turnovers to adrian’s 26. 
For belles head coach amy long, controlling possession is a big part of what makes her team successful. 
“winning the draw and gaining possession is huge in our game,” she said. “we would always like to win the majority of the draws in a game and were even on draws with adrian on Friday.” 
a pair of first-years played key roles for the belles in the win; attack hanna makowski scored three goals on three shots and also tallied an as­sist while midfielder clare Theisen scored four goals and collected eight ground balls. 
“makowski had a great game on Friday and put the ball in the back of the net to tie the game twice,” she said. “she came up with great goals when we needed them most and helped shift the momentum of the game in our favor. clare Theisen also had an outstanding game with four goals and one as­sist. she also led our team in ground balls with eight and draw controls with three. 


“we were able to outshoot adrian by such a large mar­gin in the second half be­cause we possessed the ball. we took care of the ball and had better transitions up field which increased our clear percentage in the sec­ond half. our defense did a solid job of allowing few shots during the second half as well. we forced 17 turn­overs in the second half compared to nine in the first half.” 
Tuesday was a different story, as the belles were not able to come back from an early deficit. 
saint mary’s tallied just twice in the first half and trailed by four at halftime, as olivet (5-5, 1-2) con­trolled six of nine draws and outshot saint mary’s 11-3. 
The second half was a dif­ferent tale, however, as saint mary’s made an attempt at a comeback. The belles 
paid adverTisemenT 

outshot the comets 16-12 and outscored them 7-6 on the scoreboard, but it was not enough to seal the deal. 
vanneste scored twice in the second half and leads the belles with 32 goals in the last seven games. 
The belles continue their conference schedule saturday as they travel to angola, indiana, to take on Trine at 1 p.m. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 


The observer |  THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


MEN’S TENNIS | duKe 5, nd 2; nc 5, nd 2 
Monaghan keeps streak alive 
By DOMINIC BUSH 
sports writer 
notre dame traveled to Tobacco road over the week­end, dropping a pair of con­tests to duke and north carolina. 
while the irish (12-9, 4-5 acc) saw their four-game winning streak ended, junior Quentin monaghan extended his personal winning streak to 10 consecutive matches with a pair of wins at no. 1 singles. 
“Quentin’s season has been incredible,” junior Kenneth sabacinski said. “he has won so many big matches this year, and it has been amaz­ing to be able to see him excel in the big moments of each match he’s played.” 
against the no. 6 blue devils (19-3, 6-2) on good Friday, monaghan notched one of notre dame’s two points in a 5-2 loss when he defeated 11th-ranked duke freshman nicholas alvarez in a match that went the dis­tance. monaghan took the first set 7-5 but dropped the second 5-7, before rallying to take the tiebreaker 10-6. 
sabacinski secured the other irish point in a straight-set win over duke junior Josh levine at the no. 5 singles flight. 
irish senior billy pecor stretched his match at no. 4 singles to a tiebreak before falling 12-10 to duke junior bruno semenzato while soph­omore eddy covalschi lost in three sets at no. 3 singles, preventing the irish from tak­ing any more singles points. 
The doubles point came down to the final match ear­lier in the day as duke eked out the win with an 8-6 win at no. 3 doubles. semenzato and sophomore T.J. pura won the point for the blue devils with a win over the irish pair of sabacinski and monaghan. 
notre dame returned to ac­tion sunday down the road in chapel hill, north carolina, and fell 5-2 to the no. 16 Tar heels (16-8, 5-3). 
For the second time in three days, monaghan defeated a top-15 opponent as he took down north carolina sopho­more brayden schnur — who was ranked 12th — in three sets. monaghan took the first set 6-3 before schnur replied in an emphatic fashion, tak­ing the second set 6-0 to force the decisive final set. 
monaghan dominated the final set though, winning 6-2 to lift the irish junior into the top 10 of the intercollegiate Tennis association national rankings. 
“[he is] the hardest worker i have ever seen in tennis,” sabacinski said. 
lawson’s play was the oth­er bright spot for the irish on sunday, as the 6-foot-3 junior beat north carolina sophomore oystein steiro in a straight-set, 7-5, 6-3 victory. 
doubles remained a sore spot for the irish, where notre dame dropped both complet­ed doubles matches. 
sabacinski said while the irish lost a pair over the week­end, they can build on the re­sults moving forward. 
“we should take confidence in the fact that we had chances to beat two of the best teams in the country,” sabacinski said. “if we can improve from this past weekend, i think our team will end the season very strongly.” 
after this late season hic­cup, the irish now focus their attention on their end-of­the-year home stand, which begins Friday with a match against acc rival clemson. The match is scheduled for 
3:30 p.m. at courtney Tennis center. 
Contact Dominic Bush at  dbush@nd.edu 

SMC TENNIS | smc 7, Trine 2 

Belles continue winning ways against Trine 
By DAISY COSTELLO 
sports writer 
saint mary’s continued its success in conference play wednesday night with a decisive 7-2 home victory over Trine. 
The win means the belles (8-7, 3-1 miaa) remain in third place in the league standings midway through the conference season. 
coming off a short easter break, belles head coach dale campbell felt his team’s condi­tioning could have been better but that saint mary’s produced a solid performance wednesday. 
“i am a bit concerned with con­ditioning [for our team], but the rest was good,” campbell said. 
senior captain shannon elliott and junior andrea Fetters won for the belles at no. 2 doubles in perhaps the most impressive re­sult of the match, taking the vic­tory in a quick 8-1 match. 
“[They] played a very efficient match and really only made a few mistakes,” campbell said. “winning 8-1 at no. 2 [doubles] is not easy to do.” 
while campbell said he wor­ried about his doubles teams ear­lier in the year, he now feels they are starting to come into their own, improving each time out. 
“our doubles teams are get­ting better most every match,” campbell said. 

Fetters took the match at no. 1 singles 6-2, 6-4, while senior cap­tain Kayle sexton won her match at no. 2 singles 6-1, 6-2. senior Jackie Kjolhede won at no. 3 singles while elliott won at no. 4 singles. campbell said his team’s veterans were key to getting the victory. 
“i think our experience was [most] important against them,” campbell said. 
The belles do not have much time to rest, as they have a quick 24-hour turnaround before to­day’s non-conference game against bethel. campbell says the team has experience play­ing several matches in a short 
paid adverTisemenT 
amount of time and has little worry regarding the team’s adjustment. 
“They have done this before, having played four matches in two days, so i know they are ready for that,” campbell said. 
The pilots (7-11, 1-7 crossroads) have just three seniors on the roster, making them one of the younger teams the belles will match up against. 
The two teams will take to the court today at Knollwood country club in granger, indiana, with matches slated to begin at 4 p.m. 
Contact Daisy Costello at mcostel4@nd.edu 




ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | nd 7, waKe 0; nd 4, va. Tech 3 
Irish take two in ACC action 

paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 




By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
notre dame had yet another successful weekend in acc play, returning from a road trip with two more conference wins, defeating wake Forest on Friday and virginia Tech on sunday. 
Friday afternoon, the irish (14-6, 8-3 acc) dominated the demon deacons (12-11, 2-9 acc), winning 7-0 to secure their second straight shutout victory. notre dame defeated marquette 7-0 on march 29. 
Junior Quinn gleason said the weather played a factor in the match against a wake Forest team that might be bet­ter than its record indicates. 
“The wind was a huge fac­tor in our match against wake Forest,” gleason said. “as a team that has been playing in­side, i was so proud of the way our team rose to the challenge. wake Forest is a very underrat­ed team. i would definitely con­sider them top-30, so getting a 7-0 win against them will add to our momentum going into the acc tournament.” 
in the doubles portion of the match, the duo of gleason and sophomore monica robinson won 8-3 at the no. 1 flight, while freshman allison miller and sophomore Jane Fennelly won by the same mark at no. 3. 
The only loss for the irish on the afternoon came at no. 2 doubles, where junior Julie vrabel and sophomore mary closs lost 8-2. 
gleason needed three sets to get past demon deacons soph­omore Kimmy guerin at no. 1 singles, but robinson, closs and miller each had straight-set victories at nos. 2, 4 and 5 singles respectively. 
after the win — its third straight by either a 6-1 or 7-0 margin — notre dame headed north to blacksburg, virginia, to take on a hokies team that had not lost at home all season. 
however, the irish stopped that streak as they snuck past virginia Tech (12-7, 4-6) with a 4-3 victory. 
“The virginia Tech match was huge for us,” gleason said. “being on the road is always tougher, and they were just coming off of a big win against miami (Fla.). it was really a full team effort on sunday. everyone out there contributed to the win whether it was in sin­gles or doubles.” 
it only took two matches for the irish to secure the doubles point, as miller and vrabel won 8-3 at no. 2 doubles, be­fore closs and Fennelly fin­ished an 8-6 win as gleason and robinson trailed at no. 1 doubles when the third flight ended. 
it was the singles portion of the match, though, where the irish saw their toughest test on the day. after closs (6-2, 6-3) and miller (6-2, 6-1) made quick work of their opponents at nos. 4 and 5 singles, notre dame was just one singles match from a victory. 
but after robinson and Fennelly lost their deciding sets at nos. 2 and 6 singles, it came down to gleason and vrabel to take home the win for the irish. 
both were down a game in the third set, each needing to break her opponent’s serve to force a tiebreaker. both did. 
vrabel fell first in her tie­breaker at no. 3 singles, putting gleason in a must-win situa­tion. she did. 
“Julie and i were the last ones playing,” gleason said. “and we both got broken to go down 5-6 in our third sets at the exact same time. in that game i faced two consecutive match points. i was keeping track of every one of vrabel’s points and knew her score the whole time. winning those two match points was definitely a turning point in the match for me. i could feel her getting nervous and knew i had to capitalize on the op­portunity. winning that match was huge for us as a team. i’m so proud that i got to be a part of it.” 
The irish have now won four straight, but it must now turn its attention to no. 17 miami (Fla.), who visits courtney Tennis center at 3:30 p.m. Friday in notre dame’s penultimate home match of the season. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 


The observer |  THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


MEN’S GOLF | mason rudolph championship 

Irish end regular season in Tennessee 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame closed out its regu­lar season over the weekend at the mason rudolph championship, finishing 11th from a field of 14. 
The field at vanderbilt legends club in Franklin, Tennessee, in­cluded three teams ranked in the top 25 and six in the top 50, with no. 6 vanderbilt winning the event with a six-under-par 846 over 54 holes. 
The irish shot 56 over for the tournament, carding a final score of 908 to finish eight strokes behind the college of charleston, who placed 10th. 
after getting off to a hot start Friday with a two-under 69, sopho­more matthew rushton led notre dame the rest of the way, finishing tied for 27th with a nine-over 222 for the tournament. 
senior Tyler wingo also cracked the top 40 for the irish, finishing tied for that position after shooting a three-round, 11-over 224 over the three days. 
rushton — who had four bird­ies Friday and was tied for fourth at the completion of the day’s play 
— was not the only irish golfer who enjoyed a successful open­ing round, as wingo’s one-under 70 and sophomore blake barens’s three-over 74 helped notre dame to a seventh-place spot after the first round. 
From there though, the irish dropped in the field. a five-over 76 from rushton kept him in the top 20 but it was senior david lowe who paced notre dame with a four-over 75 on saturday. wingo carded the same total to lead notre dame in sunday’s play. 
late in his final round, it looked as if rushton might be headed for a finish outside the top 35, however, the sophomore birdied both the 17th and 18th holes — a pair of par­5s — to get into the clubhouse with a six-over 77 on the day. 
both rushton and wingo made up ground over the course of the tournament on the par 5 holes; rushton finished two-under while wingo finished three-under on such holes. 
barens’s three-day total put him tied for 65th, while freshman Thomas steve finishedwith a share of 69th position. 
The 11th-place finish meant notre dame finished ahead of a pair of in-state rivals; ball state fin­ished 13th while indiana brought up the rear. 
notre dame returns to action at the acc championship at the old north state club in new london, north carolina. action starts april 24 and runs through april 26. 


ND WOMEN’S GOLF | bryan naTional collegiaTe 

campbell leads notre dame at bryan national 
really proud of the team for “[campbell] let some shots being competitive. we beat four teams ranked in the top 
By MAREK MAZUREK 

sports writer bouncing back the second day. get away from her because duke earlier this year, we beat 25 in the acc.” 
we ended up having the low of her frustration on the first virginia earlier this year. i like The acc championships 
in a field riddled with round of the day in difficult day,” holt said. “The last cou-our chances, we’ve got good will begin at sedgefield golf top-ranked teams, notre conditions. we just played ple of days, she played really players. Just like all the other club in greensboro, north dame tied for seventh at the better. we managed the con-solid. she managed herself teams in the acc, everybody carolina, on april 17. bryan national collegiate in ditions better, [the team] and managed the conditions. is going to have to show up greensboro, north carolina. managed themselves better. it’s a really good finish in that and get it done. it’s going to be Contat Marek Mazurek at  
The irish shot a 45-over-it’s a learning process all the field because there were a lot really competitive, there are mmazurek@nd.edu par 909 for the tournament, way through.” of really good individual play-paid adverTisemenT 
just nine shots behind tour-Though notre dame fin-ers. For her to play that well in nament-champion no. 12 ished seventh, they were that field, on that golf course, virginia. irish head coach within touching distance of with those conditions was re­susan holt said she knows the the leaders. holt said the team ally impressive.” team can do better. is very close to being able to senior captain ashley 
“we were still pretty incon-compete with the top-ranked armstrong — who often leads sistent,” holt said. “[sunday] programs in the acc. the irish on the scorecard we had it going, we were play-“we only missed first place — finished with a 10-over­ing well, and we lost some by nine shots,” holt said. par 226 to place 17th. while shots, which really cost us. we “we’re being competitive, armstrong typically leads the could have easily finished in which is great, but we still have irish, holt said she was not the top five. overall it isn’t go-little things, nitpicky things disappointed with her cap­ing to hurt us in the rankings. that are the difference from tain’s play. at this point in the season, we us finishing seventh to us fin-“golf is not an individual need to not be losing shots and ishing first. The competition sport when it comes to what wasting shots.” we’re going to be playing the we’re doing,” holt said. “we 
The irish started the week-rest of the year is going to be need everybody to step up. we end on the wrong foot Friday, top teams all the way through. need four scores every single shooting a 21-over-par 309 we really have to clean things day. it doesn’t matter who does to place 11th after one day of up and pay attention to detail, it, we just need to get it done. i play. over the next two days which this team is capable of. don’t think it’s fair to put pres-though, notre dame improved They just have to execute and sure on any one player, it’s on its play to shoot an 11-over-par get it done.” everybody to accept that re­299 saturday and a 13-over-The top performer for the sponsibility and get it done.” par 301 sunday to wrap up its irish on the weekend was ju-The irish will have a week tournament. holt said she was nior Talia campbell who tied off before competing in the happy with the way her team for sixth place overall with a acc championships. holt said came from behind after the six-over-par 222. holt said she her team is ready to make an first day. was glad campbell was able impact. 
“we did not play well the to turn around her game this “i think we’ve got a great first day,” holt said. “but i was weekend. chance,” holt said. “we’re to us a little bit, and i thought 




Softball 
Baseball 
we got out there a little bit on 
conTinued From page 20 conTinued From page 20 

the front side, but i think we were able to turn that around fielder’s choice. 
the non-conference matchup some, put a little pressure on The irish then attempted a 
to rotate in some fresh arms; them with our legs,” aoki said. double steal, and a throwing 
vorsheck made his collegiate “obviously, a well-hit ball, but error by butler junior catcher 
debut in the sixth inning, while the ball that [mahoney] boot­riley carter allowed simon 
hale pitched for just the third ed ended up being a pretty big to come around and score 
time this season. play, gets Kyle up there.” the first run of the game be­
“i think what it really speaks notre dame scored once fore irish senior center fielder 
to is the fact that these guys more after the five spot in the emilee Koerner hit with a two-
have done a really good job of second. The irish loaded the run home run to extend the 
continuing to work, despite the bases with one out in the eighth lead to 3-0. 
fact that they haven’t gotten a inning, and freshman pinch senior third baseman Katy 
ton of opportunities, and have hitter Jake shepski drove in a haus then hit a double, and se­
continued to improve, have re-run on a fielder’s choice. nior catcher cassidy whidden 
ally poured themselves in the “i think throughout the knocked her in two batters 
process of getting better rather course of the night, we had later to extend the irish lead to 
than getting caught up in, ‘oh good at-bats, but between the 4-0 before butler junior pitch-
gosh, i’m not getting opportu-third and eighth innings, we er Kristin gutierrez was able 
nities right now,’” aoki said. “i just didn’t necessarily get the to get out of the inning. 
think charlie vorsheck is a kid timely hit,” aoki said. “That’s after a scoreless top half of 
who’s come a long way. connor just one of those things, base-the frame, butler brought in 
hale, the way he goes about his ball is that way.” freshman mikeila boroff to re-
business in practice has been valparaiso’s most serious place gutierrez on the mound allowing a hit and a walk to “That’s the last thing on 
really good, and i think evy and threat came in the sixth inning, in the bottom of the fourth in-put a runner in scoring posi-[our] mind,” gumpf said. “it 
sean have continued to just im-when vorsheck surrendered a ning. sorlie started the inning tion. however, she was then doesn’t matter. That’s some-
prove and have had really good double and single, respectively, with a single, and two batters able to strike out the next hit-thing that i don’t even talk 
outings for us.” to the first two batters he faced. later, wester advanced her ter to strand the runners. about. all i care about is that 
notre dame struck early The freshman escaped the slow and reached base with anoth-in the bottom of the in-we are playing good, consis­
against valparaiso freshman start to keep the shutout intact, er single. ning, irish sophomore utility tent softball, and the results 
left-hander connor Kaucic in however, as he got a strikeout, later in the inning, with two player dana bouquet pinch hit just kind of happen when you 
the bottom of the second in-pop out and groundout to end outs, haus drove both runners for wester and reached base do that.” 
ning, scoring five runs. the half-inning. in with another single to ex-on an error. wester then re-notre dame will next take 
after irish senior right field-with the victory, the irish tend the irish lead to 6-0. entered the game as the base the field for a three-game series 
er robert youngdahl led off improved to 15-1 in non-con­rhodes then held the runner and promptly stole against boston college start-
the half-inning with a single ference games. while many of bulldogs scoreless yet again in second. Then, with two outs, ing saturday at shea Field in 
up the middle, sophomore notre dame’s non-conference the top half of the fifth inning haus singled in wester to end chestnut hill, massachusetts. 
catcher ryan lidge drove the games have come against un­before junior catcher casey the game, ending the game via They will play a double header 
ball toward the left field fence. ranked opponents, aoki said africano hit a two-out, solo the run rule. saturday, with the first game 
valparaiso junior left fielder the irish have maintained the home run to push the irish The victory pushed notre at 1 p.m. and the second game 
Josh clark appeared to catch same intensity they’ve shown lead to 7-0. dame’s win streak to 15 at 3 p.m., before playing the 
the ball for a split second, but against top-ranked acc teams. Freshman pitcher Katie games, but gumpf said that series finale sunday at noon. 
it fell out of his glove when he “This team has done remark­beriont came in for the irish the streak has not been a fac­
hit the wall, and youngdahl ably well, and what i’m really in the sixth to finish the game tor for the team mentally as Contact Benjamin Padanilam 
crossed home for the opening proud of them about, is the fact and got two quick outs before they continue to extend it. at bpadanil@nd.edu 
run. that they’ve come with a really The next two notre dame consistent level of energy,” he 
paid adverTisemenT 
runs came on plays that didn’t said. “They’ve just been caught leave the infield. lidge scored up in winning pitches rather on a groundout to shortstop by than in allowing ourselves to junior designated hitter James play down to a midweek op­nevant, and one batter later, ponent and then play up to an junior shortstop lane richards acc opponent like a louisville, scored on an error by crusaders a virginia or Florida state. senior shortstop spencer “i think our compete level, mahoney. our energy level and our en-
with senior center fielder gagement level has been re-mac hudgins on first base after markably consistent from game the error, irish sophomore third one to now game 31, and that’s a baseman Kyle Fiala capped off real credit to these guys.” the scoring in the half-inning notre dame will face no. 8 with a home run over the left Florida state in a three-game field fence. series at Frank eck stadium be­
“That first inning, we knew ginning Friday. [Kaucic] was a kid that doesn’t have a lot of velocity, and we Contact Brian Hartnett at wanted to just let the ball come bhartnet@nd.edu 





The observer |  THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 



Football 
conTinued From page 20 
back position. 
Kelly said prosise’s transition to a spot in the backfield was go­ing “surprisingly well.” 
“c.J.’s not a natural football player,” Kelly said. “he’s a natu­ral athlete. he can dunk a bas­ketball, he can run track. … i quite frankly thought it would be a more difficult transition for him, but it just comes a lot easier than i thought. he looks like a natural running back.” 
while the irish return junior running backs Tarean Folston and greg bryant in the backfield for 2015, Kelly said prosise brings some added qualities to the ground game. 
“he can see things [and] is ex­ceptional at the second level,” he said. “he’s got better speed than any of our backs, and he’s almost 218 pounds. he’s a big, long back, and he’s still running routes for us too.” 
Receiving corps 
even if prosise does see ad­ditional time at running back this year, it should not drain the depth of the irish receiving corps, which returns every single member of last year’s squad. 
Junior will Fuller — whose 15 touchdown receptions tied for third in the nation last year — will lead the unit again in 2015. 
“he’s such a gifted player verti­cally,” Kelly said. “There’s no way really they can touch him down the field when he gets a release.” 
Junior corey robinson and se­nior chris brown both finished above of the 500-receiving-yard mark last year, but Kelly said graduate student amir carlisle has stood out the most this spring. 
“amir carlisle’s probably had the best spring in terms of the growth at that position, under­standing the position,” he said. 
and while those five players caught the majority of notre dame’s receptions last year, Kelly said he was looking for for increased production from a trio of receivers; junior Torii hunter, Jr. and sophomores corey holmes and Justin brent. 
Williams’s return 
defensive lineman ishaq williams — one of the five play­ers held out for all of 2014 during an investigation into academic dishonesty — was in town for notre dame’s pro day workout march 31, but Kelly said he did not have an in-depth conversa­tion with williams. 
“all we had a chance to say was, ‘hello,’ and, ‘how are you doing?’ and we did not to get a chance to talk further than that,” Kelly said. “he’s going to be back out here after the spring game.” 
Kelly also said williams — who has one year of eligibility left — still has some things in the classroom to work through before he is eligible to be rein­stated to notre dame. 
“we know there are some hurdles for him academically that he has to work through, and he knows that as well,” he said. “what we’ll really try to get some clarity on is what his in­tentions are academically.” 
Injuries 
senior defensive lineman sheldon day had what Kelly described as “his first cut-it­loose day” wednesday in his recovery from knee surgery, while robinson and sophomore defensive lineman andrew Trumbetti both returned to practice as expected from minor ailments. 
however, defensive lineman sophomore Jonathan bonner is slated to miss the rest of the spring due to a turf toe injury. The sophomore is scheduled to have surgery at the cleveland clinic on Tuesday and should return in time for preseason camp in the fall, Kelly said. 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu 
Loyd 
conTinued From page 20 
national championship tilt, loyd recorded 12 points and five rebounds in 38 minutes on the floor. she averaged 16.0 points and 5.2 rebounds dur­ing this year’s ncaa tourna­ment and was named to the all-tournament team for the second year in a row. 
with loyd, the irish looked to return their entire starting lineup from this season, along with 97 percent of their scor­ing, 89 percent of rebounding and 95 percent of minutes. 
“we appreciate all that Jewell has done for our pro­gram and the university of notre dame during her time here,” mcgraw said in a re­lease. “we understand this was not an easy decision. we wish her nothing but happi­ness and success at the next level. 
“our focus remains the same as it was moments af­ter Tuesday night’s national championship game ended. we plan on building on this year’s success, including our fifth straight Final Four, fourth national champion­ship game appearance in five years and fourth conference title in a row, with an out­standing incoming freshman class ranked among the top three in the nation. The future is so bright for our program, and we couldn’t be more ex­cited to get started with our preparations for the 2015-16 season.” 
The junior is eligible to declare for the draft because her 22nd birthday falls in 2015, the same calendar year as the draft, which will be held april 16 in uncasville, connecticut. she has until up to five days before the draft to change her mind, which would be until this saturday. 
minnesota sophomore cen­ter amanda Zahui b. also an­nounced this week that she will leave school early for the draft, the first time two players have done so in the same draft. most notably, Tennessee’s candace parker was selected in the 2008 wnba draft after forgoing her senior season. 
if she does not change her mind, loyd will be on track to keep notre dame’s four-year streak alive of having a player taken in the top four picks of the draft. devereaux peters (2012), diggins (2013) and Kayla mcbride (2014) were all selected third overall in the past three years. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

DOME NUTS | alexandria wellman 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: do your own thing. make every moment count. There is no time to waste and plenty you can accomplish if you are persistent. refuse to let emotional issues stand between you and reaching your goals. make choices that will lead to greater happiness. don’t let what others do or say disrupt your plans or cost you financially. economic strategy is a must. your numbers are 5, 12, 16, 21, 25, 34, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): a joint venture will turn in your favor. Trust in your instincts to make a suitable choice regarding partnerships and personal changes. don’t be daunted by opposition. do your own thing and success will follow. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): concentrate on obtaining information, not dishing it out. less will be more appropriate, no matter what you are doing. avoid a mishap by being precise and honest about your feelings and intentions. simplicity and moderation will work best. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you can excel if you offer help to individuals who have something you want in return. use your intelligence coupled with your persuasive skills to take control of any situation you face. expand your interests or plan to make a move. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t act on hearsay. put your time and effort into developing your talents, interests and networking skills. separate yourself from the competition and present a unique version of what you have to offer. someone from your past will help you. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): explore new avenues of interest. Travel, communication and learning will lead to new friendships and opportunities. do your due diligence before you invest in someone else’s ideas. you will gain more if you develop and follow through with your own plans. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): concentrate on home, family and personal investments. you can make gains if you are specific about what you put your money into. attend a seminar that will raise your investment savvy. romance and self-improvement projects look promising. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Find a way to improve your relationships with people who have something to offer in return. altering the way you do things, where you live or whom you associate with will make a difference when you promote your ideas and services. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): ease into the changes going on around you. don’t let anger take over when you should be looking for a way to adapt to whatever situations you face. stick to simple, effective means and methods, and you will gain ground. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Turn your ideas into cash. start a small home-based business that will bring in extra income. you can improve your standard of living if you make a move or renovate to suit your growing interests and skills. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): observe what others do and say. Keep your distance from gossip and indecisive individuals. you need to build confidence in what you have to offer. go it alone if that’s what it takes to control the outcome of a situation you face. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): make professional moves or take on more responsibilities. develop an idea or service you have to offer. Focus on bringing in money, not on dispersing it. a partnership or someone from your past can help you advance. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): don’t let anyone take advantage of your desire to please. don’t wait for opportunities to come to you. make a point to go after what you want. love is in the stars, and putting time aside for someone special will pay off. 

Birthday Baby: you are curious and adventuresome. you are outgoing and responsive. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 




make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 
form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

city      state Zip 

The observer |  THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Loyd to forgo senior season, enters WNBA draft 
By MARY GREEN 
assistant managing editor 
Junior guard Jewell loyd will skip her senior season to leave early for the wnba draft, notre dame announced wednesday. 
The announcement comes after a career year for loyd, who earned the espnw player of the year and acc player of the year awards and was a fi­nalist for the naismith Trophy, wbca wade Trophy and ap player of the year. she is also a finalist for the wooden award, which will be given Friday, and was named an ap all­american for the second con­secutive season. 
loyd scored 772 points this season for the irish, only four short of tying the program’s single-season record, en route to leading notre dame to its fifth straight Final Four and fourth national championship game appearance in five years. she was 449 points away from breaking former guard skylar diggins’ career mark of 2,357. loyd started all but one game in which she played in an irish uniform. 
The lincolnwood, illinois, native averaged 19.8 points and 5.3 rebounds per game this season, numbers that jumped to 24.9 points and 6.5 rebounds against top-25 op­ponents during the regular season. 
“i am incredibly grateful for my experience at notre dame and the support i have received from coach [muffet] mcgraw, our staff, my teammates and the entire nd community,” loyd said in a statement to The associated press. “i have grown as a woman and as a basketball player, and i am so thankful to have had the op­portunity to be a part of such an inspiring community.” 

loyd did not respond to 
The  observer’s  request  for  
comment.  
in  her  last  game  for  

notre dame, a 63-53 loss to connecticut in Tuesday’s 
see loyd PAGE 18 
FOOTBALL 
Golson, Zaire still jousting for job 
Kelly talks quarterback competition, Prosise’s transition, receiving corps 
By ALEX CARSON 
associate sports editor 
while just nine days stand between notre dame and the close of spring practice, the quarterback competition be­tween graduate student everett golson and junior malik Zaire is set to drag on much longer. 
“They’ll continue to compete into august. no question,” irish head coach brian Kelly said af­ter wednesday’s practice. 
super bowl-winning quar­terback Joe Theismann — who held a 20-3-2 record as notre dame’s starter from 1969-71 — observed yesterday’s practice, and Kelly said the two-time pro bowler saw a particularly good day from golson. 
“Today, everett had a great day in the pocket,” Kelly said. “his feet were settled, he was calm; he was protecting the football. The things that were flaws for him and problems last year, if you watched him today 
— Joe Theismann was there today, and i don’t want to put words in Joe’s mouth but in our conversation, you would not think that was an issue at all last year in Joe’s eyes looking at everett today.” 
while Kelly thought golson had a solid day on the practice field, he also saw positives from Zaire. 
“malik was throwing the ball accurate and on time today,” Kelly said. “so the areas where we really asked them to im­prove on, both of them were on their game today. i think that’s healthy competition; they’re both trying to get better and working to get better in the ar­eas where we’ve asked them to really focus on.” 
Prosise’s transition to running back 
when he ran for a 50-yard touchdown during the 31-28 win over lsu at the music city bowl on dec. 30, most would have been excused for think­ing the score was a one-time event for senior c.J. prosise. but after a year where he caught receptions that went for more than 50 yards three times, the receiver has spent the spring cross-training at the running 
see FooTball PAGE 18 
ND SOFTBALL | nd 8, buTler 0 (6 inn.) 
Notre Dame wins 15th straight 
By BENJAMIN PADANILAM 
sports writer 
notre dame extended its winning streak to 15 games and stayed undefeated at home wednesday night, defeat­ing butler 8-0 in six innings at melissa cook stadium. 
The irish (29-11, 10-5 acc) came out of the gates slow wednesday, as the bulldogs (15­20, 3-6 big east) threatened to jump out to an early lead. in the first inning, butler sophomore center fielder brandyce sallee had a two-out double and then advanced to third on a wild-pitch by irish junior pitcher allie rhodes. Junior first base­man alex Kotter then worked a full count and walked, but was caught stealing second to strand sallee at third and end the top half of the inning for the bulldogs. 
on the other hand, notre dame had just one hit in the first two innings; irish head coach deanna gumpf said the offense was not taking the right approach at the plate the first time through the order. 
“we were out in front and reaching on pitches [the first time through the order],” gumpf said. “Then, we decided to start relaxing at the plate and trying to hit hard ground balls. That was the big thing for us, just relaxing and trying to hit hard ground balls.” 
The results of the changed approach were seen in the bot­tom of the third, as the irish blew the game wide open. 
with one out, senior second baseman Jenna simon reached base on an infield single before advancing to second on an er­ror as sophomore left fielder Karley wester reached on a 
see soFTball PAGE 17 

BASEBALL | nd 6, valparaiso 0 
irish arms blank crusaders in shutout victory 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
senior sports writer 

it was a group effort on the mound for notre dame on wednesday night at Frank eck stadium, as five pitchers con­tributed to a 6-0 victory over valparaiso. 
sophomore left-hander scott Tully got the midweek start for the irish (21-10, 6-9 acc), pitch­ing five innings of three-hit ball. notre dame then called upon freshman right-hander charlie vorsheck, freshman right-hander evy ruibal, ju­nior right-hander connor hale and freshman left-hander sean guenther, respectively, to complete the five-hit shutout against the crusaders (10-17, 6-5 horizon). 
notre dame head coach mik aoki said the irish used 
see baseball PAGE 17 

MICHAEL YU | The Observer 
Sophomore left-hander Scott Tully delivers a pitch during Notre Dame’s 8-3 win over Central Michigan on March 18. 




