The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 89 | monday, february 16, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Vigil to remember muslim-american lives 
Muslim Student Association will honor lives of slain Muslim-American students 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
“vigil for peace,” an inter­faith prayer service planned for monday night, will honor the lives of three muslim­americans killed in a shoot­ing last Tuesday in chapel hill, north carolina. 
The service, sponsored by the muslim students association (msa) and campus ministry, will take place tonight at 9 p.m. in the lounge of the coleman­morse center. 
The vigil will remem­ber deah shaddy barakat, a 23-year-old university of north carolina (unc) stu­dent, his 21-year-old wife, yusormohammadabu-salha, a graduate of north carolina state university; and her sister, 19-year-old razan mohammad abu-salha, a student at north carolina state university. They were killed in their apartment near unc on Tuesday evening. 
The alleged shooter, craig stephen hicks, was charged with three counts of first-degree murder. on Thursday, the F.b.i. began an inquiry, which includes exploring the possibility that the act was a religiously-motivated hate crime. 
sophomore Faisal shariff, msa’s vice president of so­cial affairs, said the purpose of the service is for people 
see vigil PaGe 5 




SMC hosts social media week 
By OLIVIA JACKSON 
news writer 
saint mary’s launched an initiative this week to en­gage students through the college’s social media sites and hosting educational events to help students use social media to enter the workforce. director of career 
crossings  stacie  Jeffirs  
said  social  media  week is  
modeled  after  a  national  
initiative.  
“several  other  colleges  

and universities have also 


implemented a week-long By CLARE KO in the mendoza college of SSLER  concrete and relevant,”  
program to highlight various news writer  business.  alford said. conversely, csT  
aspects and impacts of social  “impact investing has  prompts other disciplines  
media,” she said. “The saint sr. helen  alford, eco­something to offer the  — particularly impact in­ 
mary’s social media week nomics pro fessor at the catholic social Tradition,  vesting — to embrace no- 
planning committee felt as pontifical u niversity of st. and the catholic social  tions of human dignity and  
though these issues and top-Thomas  aquinas in rome, Tradition has something to  the common good, which  
ics are of great relevance to discussed  how catholic offer impact investing,” she  alford said are informed by  
our students, and this led to social Tradi tion (csT) and said.  catholic teaching.  
us creating a week of pro-impact inve sting mutually impact investing, a form  specifically, impact in­ 
gramming to address these benefit one  another as a of investing which inte­ vesting helps explore sus­ 
topics and issues.” result of in terdisciplinary grates environmental and  tainable business methods  
director of the belles dialogue du ring the latest social objectives with the  for attaining philanthropic  
against violence office installment o f the "Ten years pursuit of profit, can as­ 
connie adams said the hence" lectu re series Friday sist csT in being “reliable,  see lecTure PaGe 6  

see social PaGe 5 


Lecture ties Catholic values and investing 


Arts and Letters celebrates sixth annual SonnetFest 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news writer 
shakespeare at notre dame and the college of arts and letters will  host the sixth annual sonnetFest in the great hall of o’shaughnessy today from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. members of the notre dame community are encouraged to stop by and listen to the public reading of shakespeare’s 154 sonnets. 
peter holland, notre dame's mcmeel Family pro­fessor in shakespeare stud­ies and associate dean for the arts, said sonnetFest is a unique celebration of love and valentine’s day. 
“i think this sequence of sonnets is the greatest love poetry that exists in the english language,” he said. “not because it all reads like hallmark cards but exactly the opposite. it shows that love is full of a remarkable range of emotions.” 
see sonneTs PaGe 6 

news PaGe 3 viewpoinT PaGe 8 scene PaGe 10 bengal bouTs PaGe 20 hocKey PaGe 20 





ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 

possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 

expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Who is your ideal Valentine’s Day date? 

Ariel Navotas 
sophomore welsh Family hall 
“Joe moran.” 

John Olson 
senior 
duncan hall 
“Katy perry.” 

Julianne Carson 
senior 
walsh hall 
“matt mcglynn.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Michelle Bartlett 
junior 
cavanaugh hall 
“my boyfriend, Joe.” 

Patrick Krach 
senior 
alumni hall 
“Keira Knightley.” 


Stephenie Klotter 
senior 
walsh hall 
“Jim halpert.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
carolyn hutyra mary green Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
haleigh ehmsen greg hadley peter durbin rachel o’grady 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
sara shoemake John darr 


Photo Viewpoint 

Vigil for Peace Men’s Basketball Bengal Bouts Mindful Meditation Junior Parents 
emmet Farnan gabriela leskur 
Coleman-Morse Purcell Pavilion Purcell Pavilion Coleman-Morse Weekend Student Lounge 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 6 p.m. - 8 p.m. Center campus-wide 9 p.m. - 10 p.m. The Irish take on Wake Quarterfinals of 85th 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Today - 2/22 


Corrections 

Prayer service for Forest. Bengal Bouts. Open to students, Description 
The observer regards itself as Chapel Hill incident. faculty and staff. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Town Hall Meeting Student Skate Night Film: “Alphaville” Spirituality Series Film: “Force Majeure” 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
101 DeBartolo Hall Compton Family Ice DeBartolo Performing Coleman-Morse DeBartolo Performing 
however, recognize that we will make 
8 p.m. - 10 p.m. Arena Arts Center Center Arts Center 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Undergraduate 10 p.m. - 11:50 p.m. 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. 6:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
meeting with heads of Proceeds support Free for Notre Dame Campus Ministry A favorite at this year’s
we can correct our error. 

University. Operation Smile. students. hosts. Cannes Festival. 




Lecture profiles Irish secret society 
By CLARE KOSSLER 
news writer 
The Keough-naughton institute for irish studies host­ed graduate student Jessica lumsden for the shamrocks and secrets lecture series, which focused on early 19th century ireland and the growth of a se­cret and frequently violent soci­ety known as the ribbonmen. 
although many rumors con­cerning the ribbonmen still circulate, lumsden said there are only a few established facts on the society and consequently little historical investigation into the subject. 
“what we do have is we have many, many police reports; we have letters of gentlemen who were actively investigating the ribbonmen; we have newspa­per coverage of ribbon crimes; we have a collection of cap­tured passwords and oaths and signs,” she said. “so you have all these things that indicate what ribbonmen were up to or at least what they thought they were up to.” 
lumsden said much of what we know about ribbonism comes from the personal tes­timonies of informers claim­ing to be part of the society, as well as scattered references to ribbonmen in irish literature. 
The sources reveal ribbonmen operated on both a local and na­tional level, she said. on the local level, ribbonism was primar­ily agrarian and the ribbonmen were involved in “trying to con­trol local trade, local land, local politics and do some local polic­ing of the community.” 

on the national level, lumsden said ribbonism sup­ported the nationalist move­ment and worked to repeal the act of union that both declared ireland a part of great britain and merged the british and irish parliaments. 
“ribbonmen are actually criti­cally important to irish history, and they’re forgotten for a num­ber of reasons,” she said. 
emerging from the remains of a previous secret society known as the defenders, the exclusively catholic ribbonmen became active around 1810 and gained traction between 1816 and 1824, lumsden said. 
violence was a key component of ribbonism, and lumsden said members often left “cof­fin notices” containing death threats. The 1816 murders at wildgoose lodge, in which the ribbonmen burned alive an informant and his family, ce­mented ribbonism’s status as a powerful secret society charac­terized by violence. 
“it caused uproar in ireland," she said. "This was violence that 
paid adverTisemenT 

was not unknown, but it was vi­olence that was attached to this secret society that was a new se­cret society, so that gave it some weight." 
lumsden said following a schism which divided the ribbonmen into two factions – the dublin ribbonmen and the ulster ribbonmen – the cap­ture and trial of the secretary of the dublin ribbonmen re­sulted in the collapse of dublin ribbonism. 
The ulster ribbonmen dis­integrated soon after, she said, and by the mid-19th century, ribbonism no longer occupied the position of power it once held. 
“The specter of ribbonism re­ally gets broken after the 1840s,” she said. 
The ribbonmen’s legacy lies in their intricate national net­work, which lumsden said en­abled the persistence of irish nationalism. 
“These ribbonmen built this diasporic network of irish na­tionalism and fed that fire and kept that network alive so that it could be used by later nation­alist groups,” she said. “The ribbonmen keep alive this na­tionalism, and then they spread it.” 

Contact Clare Kossler at  ckossler@nd.edu 
alumna connects passion and career 
By GABRIELA MALEPSIN 
news writer 
Kristin boyd, director of credit suisse and member of the notre dame class of 2005, delivered a keynote address that focused on the importance of finding ful­fillment, friendship and passion when developing a career. her presentation was the culmination of the sev­enth annual undergraduate women in business (uwib) professional development conference. 
during the keynote, which explored her experiences leading up to her career at credit suisse, boyd explained how her time at notre dame provided her with a founda­tion in business focused on ethics and flexibility that al­lowed her to succeed in the business world. 
“notre dame gave me the moral foundation that i needed to navigate my ca­reer," she said. "some of the things that i learned here are the importance of ethics above all else … while notre dame didn’t explicitly pre­pare me to sell complex equi­ty derivatives, it did prepare me for a career on wall street during a period of crisis and rapid change." 
boyd said her experi­ences with peers and men­tors both strengthened her connections in her career and provided her with in­valuable support during the transition from college to the workforce. she said her experience as an intern with several fellow undergraduate women allowed her to over­come insecurities related to her abilities and capacities in the workplace. 
“i encourage you as you’re thinking about jobs and ca­reer paths [that] this group of peer friends is really im­portant," she said. "They’re different from mentors and sponsors in that these are people who can really make the difference during those tough times." 
Finding fulfillment in her career was a journey, boyd said, and certain periods in her career forced her to question how she could find longterm fulfillment in her chosen path. 
boyd said the encourage­ment she received from her boss allowed her to gain a new perspective on ways to find fulfillment in her ca­reer and led her to become more heavily involved in philanthropic efforts, which included work on the junior committee of new york city’s inner-city scholarship Fund. boyd said pursuits in these areas, as well as photogra­phy, motivated her to stay in her career. 
“while most people don’t describe sales and trading as personally rewarding or ful­filling, for me it’s taken some time to figure out what a ful­filling career path means to me, and the answer to that is something more difficult than what i expected," she said. "i thought i had to quit my job and become a travel photographer or work at an education non-profit in or­der to find fulfillment in my career." 
boyd said she encourages women to reflect on the di­rection they hope their ca­

“I encourage you as you’re thinking about jobs and career paths [that] this group of peer friends is really important.” 
Kristin Boyd 
director 
Credit Suisse 
reers will take, spend time developing a list of goals they hope to achieve during their lives and evaluate whether their career paths can make these goals possible. 
“whether you stay at the same job or move to a new job or new firm, as many of you will at some point, you’ll find your focus may need to shift to a seven-year plan, which encompasses not only the job you’re doing now but the life you want to lead and that needs to be in harmony with your job,” she said. 
Contact Gabriela Malespin at gmalespi@nd.edu 




The observer | monday, february 16, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

nursing student analyzes prison healthcare 
By MACAILA DeMARIO 
news writer 
The latest event in saint mary’s “Justice Fridays” series featured junior nursing student annie mcgarrigle, who offered her per­spective on healthcare in united states prisons. 
“i wanted to talk about this topic because i am a big believer in human dignity in the hospi­tal setting as well as outside the hospital,” she said. “The ideas of healthcare regarding inmates re­ally interest me, but more impor­tantly, they really concern me.” 
on an international scale, mcgarrigle said prisons in the united states host more inmates than any other nation. 
“The prison population in the united states is the greatest in the world with about 750 people for 100,000,” she said. “whereas in places like india, it’s 30 people for 100,000 and china 119, and then in russia it’s 628. 
“in total there are more than 1.5 million people incarcerated each year, and 650,000 inmates are re­leased each year as well.” 
during the discussion, mcgarrigle said the nation’s infrastructure is not meant to contain this many inmates, and therefore, they are not getting the correct amount and type of care. 
“in the united states, the department of correction esti­mates that it’s holding 50 percent more people than it’s designed to, and that’s really dangerous be­cause the people that are receiv­ing care in this facility are more likely to have substance abuse issues, mental health problems, are more likely to have sTds and to be at risk for unplanned preg­nancies,” she said. “so it’s really important that they’re receiving the care they deserve.” 
along with the recent budget cuts, jails in the u.s. are acting as more than just correction facili­ties, mcgarrigle said. 
“our jails actually act more like hospitals, asylums, drug treat­ment facilities and retirement homes,” she said. “a lot of the people who can’t afford to do re­hab treatment centers actually tend to commit crimes just to go to jails so they can receive the medication that they wouldn’t get on the outside.” 
mcgarrigle said one in seven inmates also takes prescription drugs prior to incarceration. 
“Twenty-one percent of the federal inmates, 24 percent of the state inmates and 37 percent of the local inmates stopped tak­ing those medications when they were incarcerated, which is also really dangerous because medications work by providing a steady amount of chemicals in the blood stream,” she said. “and so if you stop that, you’re going to get withdrawals, causing more problems than you started with, and may end up back in the sys­tem shortly after.” 
mcgarrigle said it is also pos­sible to help women in prison by using their sentence as a window of opportunity to provide them effective.” with the healthcare they need mcgarrigle said she is con-and may not be able to receive sidering bringing her own nurs­otherwise. ing talents to help in jails after 

“They could be getting the re-graduation. quired reproductive screenings “i think that everyone’s capable they need,” she said. “cervical of love,” she said. “i think every-cancer, breast cancer screen-body’s deserving of love, and so ings, sTi tests, hiv testing, all of regardless of someone’s past, i that provided by a federal or state think that they should receive prison would make such a differ-the best care possible. and i also ence to the women who are either think they should receive the care staying there in the prison or go-that i would. ing home.” “The moral of the story is that 
education is power, mcgarrigle no one is exactly right, and no said, and it is especially impor-one knows exactly how to treat tant in prisons. this situation, but all i know is 
“one of the really great things that there’s definitely room for the united states has going for it improvement, and i think that we is called dTap, which is the drug can all agree upon that no matter Treatment center in new york your political standpoint on it city,” she said. “it offers residen-all.” tial, long-term treatment for non­violent, repeat offenders, and it’s Contact  Macaila  DeMario at  actually shown to be really cost mdemario01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




smc supports st. margaret’s house winter walk 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 
a team of saint mary’s stu­dents participated in the 11th annual st. margaret’s house winter walk on sunday, a one-mile fundraising event intended to raise awareness and improve the lives of lo­cal women struggling with poverty. 
Founded in 1990, st. margaret’s house launched celebrations for its 25th an­niversary with the winter walk this weekend, saint mary's team organizer and senior sarah hossfeld said. 
“st. margaret's house pro­vides each individual with attention, helping to break the bonds of isolation, em­power them and encourage them to find their strengths rather than be defined by their current struggles," she said. 
according to the st. margaret’s house website, the house “is a safe, hospi­table place where women and children can receive a hot meal, clothing and help to discover their gifts, learn new skills and create a better life for themselves and their 
Vigil 
conTinued From page 5 
of multiple faiths to unite against violence and begin a sustained discussion of is­sues of violence. 
“The death of these three students is really tragic, and the last few months have been smattered with these violent acts,” he said. “it’s a chance to come together and make a stand against vio­lence everywhere. all lives matter, as the hashtag goes, and just to remember these people, because they’re regu­lar people, just like any of us. it’s not right, and it shouldn't have happened at all.” 
The service will include welcome remarks by director of campus ministry Fr. pete mccormick and sophomore hind ourahou, a reading of al-Fatiha, the opening verses of the Quran, and a legacy, or reflection, on the lives of the victims. 
graduate student aamir ahmed Khan, msa's for­mer president and a current member, said in the legacy, students will hear about barakat and his work as a dentistry student. 
“he was very active in his local community," Khan said. "he was collecting dental supplies for charity purpos­es, so i think many students at notre dame can relate to that. They have dedicated families.” 
“The purpose of the st. margaret’s house winter walk is to walk a mile in soli­darity with the women and children of st. margaret’s house, whose everyday means of transportation is their feet, in any kind of weather," hossfeld said. “it is also the largest fundraiser of the year for st. margaret’s house.” 
it is important for members of the saint mary’s and great­er south bend communities to participate in the walk in order to demonstrate local love and support toward the guests, hossfeld said. 
“The guests of of st. margaret’s house are all wonderful people who have hit a hard time in their lives, and i think that it is really important for people to see that," she said. "walking shows our support for the guests and allows the staff of st. margaret’s house to con­tinue doing the great work that it does." 
people often distance themselves from what hap­pens in the world around them, but hossfeld said par­ticipating in the walk has the 
their lives to service and vol­unteership. These are three young people, and their lives are gone, their passions, their dreams.” 
The service will also in­clude personal testimo­nies and a call for action. professor of islamic stud­ies ebrahim moosa will re­flect on today’s interfaith situation. attendees can of­fer personal intentions and sign a sympathy card for the families. 
a. rashied omar, a re­search scholar of islamic studies and peacebuilding at the Kroc institute, and Fr. robert dowd, an assistant professor of political science, will read from the Quran and bible, respectively. dowd said he will read a passage from the gospel of luke, in which Jesus gives his ulti­mate commandments to love god and neighbor. 
“Jesus doesn’t define neighbor very narrowly; he defines neighbor very broad­ly,” dowd said. “in his ex­ample, he tells a parable of a good samaritan. it was the samaritan who was an out­sider, but it was this outsider, not the priest, not the levite, not the people who were the insiders — it was an outsider who offered support. 
"god’s love works through all of us, and we’re all called to do our best to love one an­other and seek to understand one another regardless of potential to open their eyes to the struggles of others. 
“walking a mile on a cold winter day can really put things in perspective as we complain about scraping our cars off in the morn­ing or walk from le mans to madeleva for class at 9 a.m.,” hossfeld said. 
The winter walk also hon­ors sr. agnes anne roberts, who served on the board of directors at the house for several years and partici­pated as the first honorary chair for the walk, she said. a participant for the past seven years, roberts is also known as the top walker and captain of the sisters of the holy cross walk team. 
“she has brought so much to our organization: insight, advice, a closer collabora­tive relationship with saint mary’s college and the sisters of the holy cross,” hossfeld said of roberts. “her role as an advisor has been crucial over the last several years as we have experienced tremendous growth.” 
Contact Nicole Caratas at ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 
faith background.” 
dowd said interfaith prayer is a way to find common ground among faiths. 
“it’s in the context of prayer that we realize how much we have in common,” dowd said. “muslims believe god is a god of love and a god of justice and a god of peace, and [christians] believe the same. in the context of prayer, we have an awareness of this. god speaks to us all in the context of prayer. we open ourselves. That’s what prayer is all about.” 
last wednesday, several notre dame students and faculty attended a commu­nity-wide prayer service at the islamic society of michiana for both the chapel hill shooting victims and Kayla mueller, an american aid worker who was taken hostage by isis in syria and killed in February. 
Khan said monday’s ser­vice will continue to provide support to muslim students on campus. 
“we want to channel the frustration or the concerns or any worries [and show] that the greater nd community is standing with the muslim students,” he said. “i think it’s a wonderful opportunity to show interfaith solidarity, that we are all one and that human life has dignity.” 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 
Social 
conTinued From page 1 

planning for social media week was a collaborative ef­fort across campus, includ­ing groups such as marketing communications, career crossings, athletics and recreation, residence life and community standards, student affairs, belles against violence, dining services, admissions, cushwa-leighton library and alumnae relations. 
“Those [who were] part of the [original] commit­tee identified other depart­ments on campus which use social media extensively and faculty who oversee de­partment social media sites and extended the opportu­nity to collaborate on this week," adams said. "we also included students who are connected to departments as interns and student work­ers who use social media for more than just social use. They had some great contri­butions. it's been an incred­ibly collaborative effort and great fun." 
mccandless hall direc­tor Kelley mccarthy said she is excited about social media week because of how prominent social media has become. 
“i love the influence so­cial media has in today's world," she said. "you are able to connect with people from anywhere. my favorite use for social media is us­ing it in my field of higher education." 
Jeffirs said she is look­ing forward to bringing the power of social media to the attention of students this week. 
“social media is a way for students to connect on a personal level, but it also impacts them on a pro­fessional level," she said. "students need to be ahead of the curve when it comes to knowing how to use so­cial media in a professional way." 
nearly everyone is inte­grated with social media to­day, adams said. 
“it seems that everyone's mom and grandpa and dog are connected in some way," she said. "an egyptian man even named his son Facebook due to the critical role it played in the revolu­tion there a few years ago. it's the first thing many col­lege students look at in the morning and the last thing they scan at night.” 
adams said the social media week events are both practical and fun. 
“with social media being in nearly every aspect of our lives coupled with the real­ity of its permanence and the opportunity for positive change or negative impacts, we must be conscience con­sumers," adams said. “The impact is real on our lives, regardless of whether we are students, faculty or staff. 
"what we are doing now, or not doing now, has an impact on things three months, three years and 30 years down the road. and how can you turn down a chocolate fountain, large posters of memes featuring beloved [college] president 
“Social media is a way for students to connect on a personal level, but it also impacts them of a professional level.” 
Kelley McCarthy 
hall director 
McCandless Hall 
[carol ann] mooney or other fabulous prizes, such as gift cards, t-shirts and travel mugs?” 
mccarthy said students should attend social media week not only for the great prizes but also to better un­derstand the impact their social media profiles have on their futures. 
Jeffirs said social media week will feature an alum­nae panel, a visit from a google ambassador and a panel on cyber-bullying, as well as other events. 
“There are a broad range of topics and issues all re­lated to various aspects of social media that we'll be touching upon,” Jeffirs said. 
mccarthy said mooney will also be taking part in the week’s events. To stay updat­ed, students can follow the hashtag #bellesgetsocial. 
Contact Olivia Jackson at ojacks01@saintmarys.edu 



The observer | monday, february 16, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Sonnets 
conTinued From page 1 
scott Jackson, executive director of shakespeare at notre dame, said sonnetFest traditionally features a num­ber of diverse readings. in the past, sonnets have been read in spanish, French, italian, german, russian, chinese, Tagalog, american sign language, morse code, Klingon and parseltongue. 
“since this is a college of arts and letters event, we try to engage all the de­partments within arts and letters,” he said. “That means there’s a lot of lan­guage study. shakespeare really is a universal author who crossed a lot of cultural lines and divides." 
sonnetFest aims to unify all of the varying disciplines of arts and letters around shakespeare’s works, Jackson said. 
“he’s universal in the themes that he writes about," he said. "in a way, that’s a nice symbol for the college of arts and letters because the course of study involves a myriad of disci­plines, but at the end of the day they’re all related — in some way or another — to human experience.” 
a variety of students, fac­ulty and members of the south bend community volunteered to read the son­nets, Jackson said. 
“it’s a low stress way to get some practice with pub­lic speaking,” he said. “For a lot people, that’s a fear greater than death. reading a sonnet is a good and easy exercise to just get over that anxiety of public speaking.” 
holland said the venue en­hances sonnetFest by pro­viding a chance to engage the student population that may not have much previous exposure to shakespeare. 
“most of the time, the great hall is the place be­tween waddick’s and the outside world,” holland said. “it’s a place of transi­tion. i think it’s nice when there’s something going on in there — something that’s interactive and participato­ry without being virtual and dig ita l.” 
one of the goal’s of sonnetFest and shakespeare at notre dame is to promote a curiosity in shakespeare in 
the  universit y  communit y,  
Jackson said.  
“we  really  encourage  

people to walk through and check out [sonnetFest] for a couple of minutes,” he said. “you can stay for one poem, or you can listen to 30 sonnets. we’re just hop­ing to broaden the culture of shakespeare here on campus.” 
Jackson said sonnetFest is scheduled as close to valentine’s day as possible because shakespeare’s son­nets celebrate love in all forms. 
“within his 154 sonnets, shakespeare wrote about all different experiences in life at all different stages in life,” Jackson said. “The common theme that ties it all together is the importance of love in your life. love is what makes life worth living. There are many poems that might be about death or duplicity, but they are all rooted in the passion that one person has for another.” 
Contact Katie Galioto at  kgalioto@nd.edu 
Lecture 
conTinued From page 1 
goals, alford said. Finding more sustainable means of philanthropy is so im­portant, she said, because traditional charity cannot currently meet the needs of the impoverished. 
“nobody’s saying impact investing should get rid of charity," she said. "There’s always going to be a role for charity." 
“impact investing can challenge the church to think about the potentially crucial role of profit-making business, and hence of pri­vate investment, in confront­ing poverty,” she said.  “i’m not sure that the christian tradition has really taken that seriously enough.” 
alford said impact investing offers the church the opportunity to occupy a more engaged and promi­nent position in society. 
“we could really han­dle very well this dialogue between catholic social Thought and impact invest­ing," she said. "The church could grow really to a much more leading position, could be part of the innovators in societ y.” 
alford said impact invest­ing can in turn benefit from csT because of the tradi­tion's emphasis on individual human dignity and solidarity 
– an emphasis which would help impact investing main­tain its integrity even as busi­nesses expand and begin to lose sight of the importance of individual relationships. 
“if we have a really strong combination of solidarity and subsidiarity in a serious way – these ideas are there for the taking in the catholic social Tradition – they help create an approach to scaling that keeps the focus on the poor customer and the im­portance of relationships for that person,” she said. 
The potential for csT and impact investing to learn from one another other is too great to ignore, alford said. because of their size and in­fluence, catholic universi­ties such as notre dame have an important role to play in encouraging the conversa­tion between the two disci­plines, she said. 
“notre dame and the mendoza college are re­ally trying to live up to the very exciting and important mission that catholic uni­versities have in societies today – offering very useful and new vistas for people in 


this  dialogue  between  the  of,” she said.  
catholic social Tradition and  
all the forms and branches of  Contact Clare Kossler at   
knowledge that we can think  ckossler@nd.edu  

U.S. Government considers drone legislation 
Associated Press 
washingTon — The gov­ernment is readying rules large­ly favorable to companies that want to use small drones for commercial purposes, accord­ing to a federal analysis, poten­tially leading to the widespread flights by unmanned aircraft performing aerial photography, crop monitoring, inspections of cell towers and bridges and other work. 
an economic analy­sis by Federal aviation administration, which was in­advertently posted online, de­scribes draft rules submitted by the agency in october to the white house budget office to review. in response to inquiries, the Faa said in a statement late saturday that it will officially re­lease the rules on sunday. 
The regulations would ap­ply to drones weighing less than 55 pounds. They would improve safety by using small, lightweight unmanned aircraft instead of heavier, manned air­craft that "pose a higher level of risk," the analysis said. it notes that between 2004 and 2012, there were 95 fatalities involv­ing climbers working on cell and other towers. 
if the rules would prevent only one fatality by using a small drone instead of a tower climber, the $9.2 million saved 
— the amount the government says is the economic value of a single life — would exceed the entire cost of the regulations to society, according to the document. 
The analysis does not offer a total estimate on the annual economic benefit of regula­tions, but says it would exceed $100 million a year. For exam­ple, about 45,000 annual bridge inspections could be conducted with small drones. most bridge inspections currently employ hydraulic mobile cranes called "snoopers." The average cost of an inspection using a snooper is $3,250. cable bridge inspec­tions are even more expensive because they often require a 200-foot aerial lift. 
The association of unmanned vehicle systems international, an industry trade association, estimates that small, commer­cial drones will create 70,000 jobs with an economic impact of more than $13.6 billion in the first three years after their inte­gration into u.s. skies. 
The analysis doesn't address jobs that might be displaced by drones, like some types of pilots. 
The Faa currently bans all commercial drone flights ex­cept for those by a small num­ber of companies that have been granted waivers. congress has been leaning on the Faa to move faster on regulations that would allow a wide variety of companies to employ drones for everything from monitoring pipelines to delivering pizzas. under a law passed in 2012, the Faa was to issue final regula­tions by september 2015, but that appears unlikely. 
even if the white house ap­proves the Faa's proposal, the agency is still required to offer it for public comment. Tens of thousands of comments are an­ticipated, and it could take two to three years for the agency to address them before issuing fi­nal regulations. 
The document indicates the agency has dropped its insistence that drone opera­tors have the same licenses and medical certificates required for pilots of manned aircraft. industry officials complained that obtaining a private pi­lot license or medical certifi­cate would be unnecessarily burdensome. 
commercial operators would have to take an aerospace knowledge test administered by the Faa before they could re­ceive a certificate granting per­mission to operate a drone. The agency estimates the cost to op­erators of obtaining certificate at about $300. 
a private pilot license can cost thousands of dollars because it requires many hours of experi­ence flying a plane. 
operators would have to keep drone flights under 500 feet in altitude, which is below where most manned aircraft fly. That's 100 feet higher than the agency typically has approved in waiv­ers to commercial operators. 
but the draft rules would still prohibit drones from flying far­ther away than they can be seen by their operator, and nighttime flights would remain banned. 
The line-of-sight require­ment would preclude delivery drone of the type envisioned by amazon. google is also experi­menting with such drones. 
industry officials have chafed at both restrictions, saying they significantly reduce the useful­ness of unmanned aircraft. The Faa's concern is that with no pi­lot on board, the operator on the ground is best able to prevent a collision with another aircraft by keep the drone in sight at all times. 
drone operators would also have to be checked out by the Transportation safety administration to determine whether they pose a security threat before they could receive an Faa operator certificate. There is no fee for the security check, but one might be applied in the future, the analysis said. 
last month, a small drone flew over the white house fence and crashed on the lawn. although the operator later came forward saying the inci­dent was an accident, the epi­sode has raised concern that small drones might pose a se­curity threat. 



chris Kyle’s alleged killer plans to plead insanity 
Associated Press 
sTephenville, Texas — while defense attorneys mount an insanity defense for the former marine on trial in the shooting deaths of "american sniper" author chris Kyle and his friend chad littlefield, prosecutors have described eddie ray routh as a troubled drug user who knew right from wrong. criminal law experts say the case hinges on whether the defense can prove routh did not know that the killings constituted a crime. 
routh's attorneys have said the 27-year-old, who was di­agnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder and was taking anti-psychotic medication, was insane when Kyle and littlefield took him to a shooting range to provide support and camara­derie. routh, his lawyers say, believed the men planned to kill him. 
because routh was at a shooting range and both Kyle and littlefield were armed, "it's an easier case than others for the proposition that he believed they were about to kill him," said george dix, a criminal law professor at the university of Texas, austin. 
if convicted, routh faces life in prison without parole. even if he's acquitted, routh would likely remain in custody. The Texas criminal code stipulates that in cases involving violent crimes where defendants are found not guilty by reason of insanity, the court can initiate civil proceedings to have them committed. 
The case has drawn intense interest, largely because of the oscar-nominated film based on Kyle's memoir that details his four tours in iraq. 
prosecutors did not seek the death penalty — "presum­ably because they thought it wouldn't stick," said andrea lyon, a defense attorney and dean of the law school at valparaiso university. 
Though prosecutors appear to have conceded that routh was mentally ill, they will ar­gue that he was competent enough to make choices, lyon said. 
"The question is: is he legally responsible?" she said. 
erath county district attorney alan nash said during the trial's opening statements that the evidence would show that mental illnesses "don't deprive people of the ability to be good citizens, to know right from wrong, to obey the law." 
a Texas ranger testified Friday that authorities found marijuana, a near-empty bottle of whiskey and anti-psychotic medication while searching routh's small, wood-framed home in lancaster after the shooting. routh's uncle testi­fied that he'd smoked marijua­na with routh the morning of the shootings. 
prosecutors may try to show that routh deliberately put himself in a more violent state, said park dietz, a forensic psy­chiatrist who examined ac­quitted killer andrea yates. 
"voluntarily induced intoxi­cation is not an excuse for the mentally ill," he said. 
Former erath county sher-iff's deputy gene cole testified Friday that after routh was jailed, he heard him say: "i shot them because they wouldn't talk to me." he said routh said he had been riding in the back seat on the way to the shoot­ing range. cole, who is now a police officer elsewhere, said routh also said, "i feel bad about it, but they wouldn't talk to me. i'm sure they've forgiv­en me." 
routh's mother had asked Kyle, a former navy seal whose wartime exploits were depicted in his 2012 memoir, to help her son overcome trou­bles that had at least twice led him to be admitted to a psy­chiatric hospital. routh had been a small arms technician who served in iraq and was deployed to earthquake-rav­aged haiti before leaving the marines in 2010. 
prosecutors presented a video Thursday showing of­ficers speaking with routh as he sat in the pickup that au­thorities said he took from Kyle after fleeing the shooting range where Kyle and littlefield were killed. routh refused to leave the vehicle and eventually sped off with police in pursuit. 
The video shows that a po­lice vehicle rammed the pick­up. eventually the car became disabled along the side of the road. 
The video showed officers trying to talk routh into sur­rendering as he makes com­ments such as, "anarchy has been killing the world," ''i don't know if i'm going insane," and, "is this about hell walking on earth right now?" 
lancaster police lt. michael smith said routh "told us he'd taken a couple of souls and he had more souls to take." 
authorities say routh had earlier driven to his sister's house, admitted to the kill­ings and told his sister, "people were sucking his soul." 
after presenting the video Thursday, prosecutor Jane starnes said: "i think we can agree he makes some kind of odd statements." 

police say copenhagen gunman had criminal past 
inspired by material sent out "lars was being evacu-wherever jihadis try to internet cafe, police removed 
Associated Press 

by (the islamic state group) ated. everyone was trying to threaten democracy," said at least two people in hand­
copenhagen — The slain and others," madsen said. protect themselves and oth-sacha reingewirtz, presi-cuffs, danish media report-gunman suspected in the copenhagen police made ers," she told ap. "we heard dent of the union of Jewish ed. police spokesman steen deadly copenhagen attacks no mention of islamic ex-the gunshots approaching so students of France and an hansen told ap that "the ac-was a 22-year-old with a his-tremism and said the danish-i thought that the gunman organizer of the memorial. tion was part of the police in­tory of violence and may have born suspect had a history must be in the building. also at the event was vestigation" but declined to been inspired by islamic ter-of violence and weapons of-"and then i thought obvi-patrick pelloux, a medic and elaborate. rorists — and possibly the fenses and connections to a ously i must protect myself columnist for charlie hebdo. The european union's charlie hebdo massacre in criminal gang. They didn't and i tried to find a place to "we are all danish to-law enforcement agency, paris, danish authorities release his name. hide," she said. night," he said. europol, said it was in con-said sunday. "denmark has been hit by after the shooting, she and israel's prime minister tact with danish authorities 
prime minister helle terror," Thorning-schmidt other participants continued benjamin netanyahu de-about their investigation. Thorning-schmidt mourned said. "we do not know the the discussion as an act of cried the attack and said his "we are offering our exper­the two people killed and motive for the alleged perpe-defiance, Kolek said. government plans to encour-tise and capabilities from our vowed to protect freedom trator's actions, but we know The depiction of the prophet age a "massive immigration" anti-terrorist unit including of speech and denmark's that there are forces that muhammad is deemed in-of Jews from europe. access to our databases," said Jewish community. want to hurt denmark. They sulting to many followers of "Jews deserve security in europol spokesman soeren 
The suspect was killed in a want to rebuke our freedom islam. while many muslims every country, but we say to pedersen. gunbattle with a swaT team of speech." have expressed disgust at the our Jewish brothers and sis-The attacks took place two early sunday. he had opened chief rabbi Jair melchior deadly assault on the charlie ters, israel is your home," days after denmark and its fire saturday at a cultural identified the security guard hebdo employees, they also netanyahu said at the start partners in the eu agreed to center hosting a seminar as dan uzan, a 27-year-were deeply offended by its of a cabinet meeting. boost cooperation in the coun­on free speech with an art-old member of denmark's caricatures. but Thorning-schmidt, terterrorism field as a result of ist who had caricatured the 7,000-strong Jewish commu-denmark was the focus of who laid flowers at the syn-the Jan. 7-9 attacks in paris. prophet muhammad and nity. Two police officers who anger from islamists after agogue shooting site, ex-then later at security forces were near the synagogue the 2005 publication of 12 pressed support for the outside a synagogue, police were slightly wounded. caricatures of the prophet in Jewish community, saying: said. in the earlier shooting, the Jyllands-posten newspa-"They belong in denmark ... 
a danish filmmaker was 55-year-old filmmaker Finn per. The cartoons triggered and we will do everything killed in the first attack. nine noergaard was killed while riots in many muslim coun-we can to protect the Jewish hours later, a security guard attending a panel discussion tries and militant islamists community in our country." protecting a bat mitzvah near titled "art, blasphemy and called for vengeance. u.s. state department a synagogue was slain. Five Freedom of expression." world leaders, includ-spokeswoman Jen psaki of-police officers were wounded one of the main speakers ing british prime minister fered washington's help to in the shootings. was lars vilks, a 68-year-old david cameron, german danish authorities and said 
Jens madsen, head of the swedish artist who has faced chancellor angela merkel americans "stand united danish intelligence agency numerous death threats and u.n. secretary-general with the people of denmark peT, said investigators be-for depicting the prophet ban Ki-moon, condemned and all others who defend the lieve the gunman "could muhammad as a dog in 2007. the copenhagen attacks. universal right of freedom of have been inspired by the vilks, who was whisked away French president Francois speech and stand against an-events in paris." last month unharmed by bodyguards, hollande visited the danish ti-semitism and bigotry in all islamic militants carried out told The associated press he embassy in paris on sunday, its forms." a massacre at the French sa-believed he was the intended and hundreds gathered out-police said they believe the tirical newspaper charlie target. side to show solidarity with gunman carried out the at­hebdo followed by an attack agnieszka Kolek, anoth-victims. many held candles tacks alone, but they were on Jews at a kosher grocery, er panelist, said she heard or banners. investigating whether he had killing 17 people. shouts of "god is great" in "we need to stand to-received any help. 
"he could also have been arabic. gether in europe and ... in a raid on a copenhagen 



The observer | monday, february 16, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
InSIde CoLumn 

Putting off stress 
Brian Lach 
multimedia editor 
“still watching?” 

i don’t appreciate the judgmental attitude netflix is using with me. i click the “continue watching” button. “it’s been a long week,” i think. and surely, watching all eight seasons of “dexter” is far more important than my business coursework. 
an unspoken rule states that for ev­ery hour of homework you have, there are two hours that could be spent pro­crastinating. as i go through my plan­ner, surveying the massive amount of assignments i have for the weekend, friends sing their siren song, tempting me to hit the town instead of hitting the books. 
oh, procrastination, wherefore hast thou come from, hell-bent on distract­ing me from the important things in life? earliest accounts date as far back as 30,000 b.c.e., where we see cavemen drawing crude pictures on the walls of their caves rather than going out to hunt (this species reportedly extinct due to starvation). 
Jumping ahead to biblical times, eye­witness accounts say st. peter did not fall asleep in the garden of gethsemane while waiting for Jesus, but was rather too engrossed in his game of candy crush to keep watch. 
and last but not least, in a more recent context, president obama flubbed while taking his oath of office because he had stayed up too late watching “house of cards” instead of memorizing his lines. 
i think it’s safe to say that everyone procrastinates. even the most dedicated of students have trouble focusing occa­sionally. is procrastination necessarily a bad thing? when used appropriately, procrastination is a key way to keep oneself from cracking under the im­mense pressure of a typical college workload. 
perhaps you shouldn’t spend all night taking buzzFeed quizzes (pro-tip: the mitochondria is the powerhouse of the cell). it might be prudent to trim down your hour-long field trip to the huddle’s notorious candy wall. 
but nonetheless, feel free to write yourself a prescription for hourly doses of procrastination. after a clinical sur­vey of 10 actors who have played doctors on Tv, three in four would recommend procrastination as a healthy way to stave off stress. 
college is hard, but it doesn’t always need to be. There’s a time to work and a time to play. in the words of world-renowned philosopher aziz ansari, make sure to leave some time to “treat yo-self.” you deserve it. 
Contact Brian Lach at blach@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
defining ‘love’ 
Charlie Ducey 
english, channeled 

why is it that love, a rather expansive term in english used to describe robust concern, romantic attraction and sacrificial devotion, is so often reduced to mean love of the sappy valentine’s variety? 
it’s a pity that the english language possesses a woefully inadequate supply of words to differentiate between variet­ies of love that we feel. within the wide network of feelings that this english term “love” attempts to define, it impover­ishes itself, being neither specific enough nor broad enough to define any idea well. 
when the word “love” appears in popular songs or mov­ies, it almost always connotes the typical valentine’s day trappings of floating pink heart emoticons, grand gestures of romantic affection and occasionally activities far less innocent. be wary whenever the word “love” and “tonight” appear in proximity to one another in song lyrics. when adam levine sings about loving you tonight, he doesn’t intend to just buy you flowers and express robust concern for your well-being. 
since the usage of love so frequently shrinks to the level of sexualized romance, the old platitude is worth repeat­ing: there is more to romantic love than hand-holding and sweet-talking, and there is certainly more to love than romance. 
The three greek terms for “love” give one a chance to move beyond the narrow but normal romantic usage. “eros” describes a passionate response to beauty, which for socrates was not merely sexual, while “philia” describes a friendly appreciation or camaraderie. “agape,” though, exists in an entirely different category, describing an un­conditional love such as god’s love for humanity. its latin analogue “caritas” captures a similar transcendence: god’s love for humanity reflected from one human to another through charitable actions unmotivated by potential re­wards. it’s altruism, in short — spontaneous and selfless action, not warm feelings alone. 
mel livatino portrays this kind of love excellently in his recent notre dame magazine article titled “how do we love?” in the article, livatino offers several definitions of love, including erich Fromm’s formulation: “love is sharing yourself with another person to the deepest level possible.” For livatino and Fromm, those depths are not physical intimacy but emotional and spiritual development. such a definition comes closer to defining love at its core, rather than categorizing kinds of love like the greeks do. love, essentially, involves an escape from the self, a bond between one and another in which concerns and qualities are shared. French theologian Teilhard de chardin sum­marizes the concept well: “love alone is capable of uniting living beings in such a way as to complete and fulfill them, for it alone takes them and joins them by what is deepest in themselves.” 
This is all rather abstract, but livatino reifies the essence of love as he describes the friends, romantic interests and family members whom he loved in this self-giving way, that is, in the only way one can love. his understanding of love, he writes, only achieved clarity when his wife’s debilitating struggle with advanced dementia forced him to consider what allows love to endure and redeem lives. giving of one’s self — that is how to enrich lives; that is how we love. 
The words of a priest in ernest hemingway’s “a Farewell to arms” powerfully convey the self-gift of love while cor­recting the narrow, eroticized usage of the word by mr. henry, who has just recounted his visits with italy’s finest harlots: “what you tell me about in the nights. That is not love. That is only passion and lust. when you love you wish to do things for. you wish to sacrifice for. you wish to serve.” 
of course, you’ve heard this all before: love is about sacri­fice. love is about valuing someone’s well-being more than your own. why is it, then, that love seems more commonly associated with the “warm fuzzies” and romantic relation­ships? This isn’t to say that people don’t talk about their love for their parents or their love of literature. but, why the pre­dominance of romantic love? if one hears two people say “i love you” to one another, what’s the likelihood that one will assume they are romantically involved? 
perhaps this returns to Fromm’s idea of sharing yourself fully with another person. romantic relationships, with their obligations and deepened trust, accommodate such self-giving more frequently and immediately than other relationships. again, this isn’t to say that other relationships cannot achieve the same level of sacrifice and commitment. indeed, the love that exists between friends and family members deserves more attention and mention through the actual word “love.” reminding oneself that love is some­thing more than romantic could silence the complaints of those who claim “never to be able to love again” after heart­break or breakups, since love goes far beyond being in love. 
self-gift is self-gift. love is love. call it what it is. we might only have one word in english, but the one word will suffice. 
Charlie Ducey is a junior studying the languages of John Henry Newman (English) and Immanuel Kant (German). For the next academic year, he is residing on the other side of the Atlantic Ocean in Oxford, UK. He welcomes your words. He can be contacted at cducey@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
edItorIaL Cartoon 


The observer | monday, february 16, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
LetterS to tHe edItor 

Leaders of curriculum review invite feedback 
This year, as the university does every 10 years, the faculty is reviewing the core curriculum, con­sulting all faculty — and asking for feedback from undergraduates and alumni — about what every notre dame student should learn before gradua­tion. we are the co-chairs of the committee charged by university president Fr. John Jenkins and provost Thomas burish to undertake this effort. 
we write to invite you to participate in this pro­cess. as most of you know, all undergraduates are required to take a university seminar; one course each in writing and rhetoric, in the fine arts or literature, in history and in the social sciences; as well as two courses each in mathematics, in the natural sciences, in philosophy and in theology. next year, the university will also launch the First year experience course as a successor to the physi­cal educational requirement. This core curriculum is designed to serve as the foundation of notre dame’s liberal arts education. 
no recommendations for any change, let alone decisions on whether to implement recommenda­tions, have yet been made. The committee plans to issue a draft report in fall 2015 based on its analy­sis of the ideas and feedback gathered, at which point the conversation will continue as the entire university community responds to the assessments and recommendations presented in that working document. 
what has begun is the search for answers. how can notre dame as a catholic university prepare and inspire undergraduates to serve their families, their communities and the global society, includ­ing the church? what do our students most need to know to prepare for life after college? how best can notre dame instantiate its catholic identity in the core curriculum, engaging and inspiring as many faculty and students as possible? how can we devel­op a curriculum that embodies the catholic idea of the unity of knowledge across disciplines? how do we challenge students coming to notre dame with increasingly strong and sophisticated backgrounds in areas as diverse as math and history? should we permit advanced placement testing, and if so, how? who should teach entry-level courses, and why? 
The answers to these questions are obviously complex. and curricular reviews as a consequence are lengthy. but we believe the process itself will deepen our understanding of and commitment to our most important and shared educational tasks. 
certainly the best answers to the questions posed and the best recommendations for improvement come with broad consultation and deep delibera­tion — which is where undergraduate students, too, must play a role. we are meeting with representa­tives of student government and are holding forums for students from a wide array of majors and dorms 
— but we would like to invite all students to write 
us at corerevw@nd.edu to express their views. Through the forums and meetings we have held so far (and many more are to come) we have found the students, faculty, staff, alumni and leadership of notre dame to be engaged and passionate about our curriculum. some have argued for changes, both minor and major; others have argued to keep the core requirements just as they are. in all cases, our conversations thus far have been stimulating, and we are both grateful that we were given the opportunity to work with all of you and the notre dame family on this review. 
we do encourage your comments. it is an exciting time to work and study at notre dame, and we are confident that this core curriculum review process will help us fulfill our mission to be “a catholic academic community of higher learning, animated from its origins by the congregation of holy cross … and dedicated to the pursuit and sharing of truth for its own sake.” 
sincerely, 
Gregory Crawford 

dean college of science co-chair of core curriculum review committee 
John McGreevy 

dean college of arts and letters co-chair of core curriculum review committee Feb. 14 
refuting the ‘liberal’ reagan idea 
mr. gary caruso’s article published Feb. 6 on president reagan’s supposed liberalism deserves a response. in it, he claims that reagan was actually much more liberal than republicans claim, and he insinuates that republicans are pushing a false narrative about the extent of reagan’s conservatism in or­der to capitalize on the popularity and success that was his presidency. 
on taxes, mr. caruso claims “the notion that reagan was a tax cutter who worshiped at the altar of lowest possible taxes is ridiculous.” The ar­gument here relies almost exclusively on reagan passing 11 tax increases, but the number of tax increases is a meaningless metric. after all, by such a metric, one would prefer a single tax increase of a million dollars over a thousand single dollar increases — a ridiculous conclusion. The number of tax-increase bills passed fails to cap­ture how small those increases actu­ally were relative to the tax slashing contained in the economic recovery Tax act of 1981, which mr. caruso fails to mention. in fact, most of those 11 tax increases were simply fine-tuning the reduction already in place from the 1981 act. These tax increases raised taxes equivalent to about half of the tax reductions contained in the 1981 act. mr. reagan was ambitious with his initial tax cut, and realistic enough to recognize that his taxes were lower than possible, resulting in these rela­tively smaller increases. 
with regard to reagan’s foreign policy, mr. caruso is wrong on his his­tory blatantly, as well as subtly. The beirut bombing occurred in 1983 and the subsequent withdrawal in 1984, not in 1986 as he claims. The multinational force, which included around 1,700 marines, was in lebanon to support the lebanese government and army after their newly elected president was assassinated during the country’s civil war. reagan kept the troops in lebanon after the oct. 23 bombing despite growing calls for withdrawal from congress. when the prime minister of lebanon and his cabinet resigned Feb. 5, war broke out in the capital again the following day, and reagan ordered withdrawal Feb. 7. There was barely a government to support, thus there was barely a mission, not to mention the de­teriorating situation with the militant militias rapidly gaining more power. These facts reveal a truth that stands in stark contrast to the narrative that mr. caruso attempts to push with his selec­tive presentation of facts, one of reagan “cutting and running” as an immediate and direct result of the bombing. 
mr. caruso also tries to paint reagan as anything but anti-union. perhaps mr. caruso can say reagan acted “in­dividualistically” on unions in the case of the air traffic controller’s strike be­cause after firing more than 11,000 fed­eral workers who were illegally striking, there were no more significant strikes by federal unions during his adminis­tration, as reported by The new york Times. in contrast, there were 39 il­legal federal strikes from 1962 to 1981. it would have been hard for reagan to be tough on federal unions in more than one individual instance since they ceased acting out, most likely as a direct result of reagan’s “individual­istic” response to that single instance. additionally, mr. caruso invokes reagan’s support of solidarity, a polish labor union that caused havoc for the u.s.s.r., as another example of reagan being soft on unions. This is hardly a compelling argument. one can be anti-big labor while still recognizing collec­tive bargaining rights, especially the rights of workers of the greatest threat to our nation at the time. 
strangely enough, mr. caruso’s work about solidarity in part seems to rely on an article published in a 2011 Thinkprogress article by Zaid Jilani. i’m willing to give mr. caruso the ben­efit of the doubt that he simply forgot to cite mr. Jilani, but it still calls caruso’s intent into question. why make the same argument as mr. Jilani almost four years later trying to discredit president reagan’s conservatism? 
perhaps mr. caruso’s introduction concerning the political right “rely[ing] on the political expediency of recycled junk to eventually take on a luster when incorporated into mythology” is merely projection of the political left’s attempt to hijack one of the gop’s most popular icons before a presidential election. whatever the case, i wish the late mr. reagan a happy birthday and echo mr. caruso in saying “may he rest in peace along with those political myths and legends.” may we continue to critically evaluate all myths, legends and dubi­ous narratives of all sources — left, right and center — so that only the truth remains. 
 Phillip Posway 
senior off-campus Feb. 12 

Editor’s Note: 
Gary Caruso’s Feb. 6 column titled “Birthday myths create Ronald Reagan’s ‘liberal’ legacy” contained a paragraph of un-cited material drawn from an article originally published on thinkprogress.com. The online version has been updated to reflect the original source. The Observer regrets publishing improperly cited material. 


CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 

i had a fairly good idea of what to expect when i went to see “almost, maine” this past Thursday. i’d been to rehearsal monday and saw a couple of the scenes in re­hearsal. i’d read the script and was expecting there to be moments when i’d laugh, when i’d tear up and when i’d just want to squeal “awww” in the most girl-ish way possible. 
The incredible thing about plays is that no matter how many times you read them over, nothing compares to seeing them performed. “almost, maine” was no excep­tion. The student players did a brilliant job of making the play come to life all without falling into the trap the play­wright warns of in his introduction: that a play can easily become too “cute.” 
many of the scenes in the play are made out of literal interpretations of various love clichés. glory’s heart is literally broken, randy and chad literally fall in love with each other and danny harding literally loses hope. These scenes could easily be overdone or tacky. but in the student players’ production, the cast and crew manage to hit a perfect balance between cheesy and sweet. 
particularly notable in this production were the come­dic scenes. all of the actors showed remarkable skills in not only speaking the jokes aloud but also acting them 
Alexandra Lowery 
scene writer 

with “Twilight,” “The vampire diaries” and all the glamorized supernatural inspired fanfiction in between, we as a generation are collectively over the young adult bloodsucking craze. after one too many human-vampire “ships,” “#Team_______” campaigns and inevitable were­wolf involvement, we are begging hollywood to hang up the proverbial fangs and find a different phenomenon to run into the ground. 
however, in the mess of failed attempts to dramatize the undeniably interesting world of undead sanguinarians, there is one ray of hope that shines brighter than edward on an uncommonly sunny seattle day – “True blood.” 
roughly “Twilight” for grown ups, the hbo series creat­ed by alan ball takes the entire genre up a notch, creating a world where vamps have “come out of the coffin” after Japanese scientists were able to successfully synthesize human blood and bottle it for living-dead consumption (“Tru blood”). 
set in the fictional small lousiana town of bon Temps, out; the layers of meaning embedded in each one were both obvious and compelling. 
in the two most serious scenes in the production, one between daniel (Tommy Favorite) and hope (elizabeth leader) and the other with marci (mary patono) and phil (Kelly burgess), each member of the cast showed their ability to quickly transition the mood of the play from its earlier lighthearted, cheerful scenes to something a little heavier. 
in the brief moments that the play considers the more complicated and uglier aspects of love, “almost, maine” manages to bring a heart-wrenching mood upon its au­dience. still, director paul Kuczynski’s promise that au­dience members’ moods would lifted by the end of the production was not empty. 
even though both serious scenes are near the end of the production, perhaps the funniest scene in the play finishes it out. The story of rhonda (emmy shoenbauer) and dave (Tommy clarke) is particularly funny; it’s enough to restore faith in love in all but the most cynical audience member. 
particularly noticeable in this scene is the final mes­sage that persistence and patience pay off in terms of love. despite their many miscommunications and differ­ences, rhonda and dave manage to negotiate a relation­ship that could easily dissolve before it ever begins. They also manage to do this in the funniest way possible. 
the world of “True blood” immediately strikes you as un­believable – everything from the plot to the acting is seem­ingly over-the-top, giving the show a unique vibe that works well. The series, unlike its predecessors, does not at­tempt to mimic a realm just like ours where vampires just happen to exist but instead allows the viewers to immerse themselves in an incredible universe where supernatural beings are the norm. 
despite the large departure from the reality, the show still holds cultural relevance. many critics have described the vampires’ fight for equal rights among humans as an allegory for lgbTQ rights in america today, referencing lines from the show such as “coming out of coffin” and “god hates fangs” as clever word play. 
The show never takes itself too seriously. it commits to integrating dark humor into the never-ending vamp drama. i found myself laughing while ridiculous acts of violence were committed on screen, which, i assure you, is a testament to the show’s wittiness and not my possible psychosis. 
sookie stackhouse, the show’s protagonist and resident telepath played by anna paquin, is a fresh departure from the love struck teenager that is seduced by the dark, 
“almost, maine” is perhaps the perfect play for valentine’s day. at times it is almost sickeningly sweet, reminding the audience of those couples whose love one envies and hates to witness. at other times, it is heart-wrenching and painful, as the au­dience is asked to contemplate how one deals with the end of a long and once happy relationship. 
The vignette style of “almost, maine” is perfect for what it tries to convey about love and its place in all of our lives. each scene is short and with the ex­ception of the prologue/interlogue/epilogue story, once a character leaves the set, the same charac­ter never reappears. The audience will never know for sure if marvalyn leaves eric or if east and glory manage to negotiate a relationship. 
it seems to be a particularly appropriate way to contemplate the nature of love. There are many different ways to interpret the emotion and many ways in which it sneaks into our lives. but, just as in the play, there is never a guarantee of a happy end­ing. by giving us quick snapshots into the lives of many characters, “almost, maine” manages to con­vey the myriad of feelings love can create without veering off into the completely cheesy or entirely depressing. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 
mysterious vampire world. having special abilities of her own, she has lived her whole life being misunderstood by humans and feeling the need to hide who or what she re­ally is, much like her bloodsucking counterparts. we can’t really blame her for falling in love with one of them. or a few of them. 
so, no, you can’t escape the thematic love triangle, but given that this is hbo, it turns out to be more of a love pentagon and focuses a lot less on teenage angst and a lot more on sexual deviance, which we all know is way more entertaining. 
you may think that the last thing you need is another vampire-ridden Tv show in your life, but that’s where you’re wrong. “True blood” is the vampire show to redeem all others with its smart writing and endlessly entertaining plot lines. once you’ve had a taste, you can’t get enough. much like vampires and blood. 
“True blood” is available to stream on amazon instant video. 
Contact Alexandra Lowery at  alowery1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the au­thor and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 

The observer | monday, february 16, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MATT MUNHALL 
scene writer 

This past Thursday and Friday, the debartolo performing arts center’s browning cinema screened this year’s slate of oscar-nominated short films, which in­cluded documentaries, animated and live action shorts. ahead of the 87th academy awards, which will air on abc on sunday, i reviewed the nominees for best live action short Film. 
aya 

with a running time of just over 40 minutes, “aya” is by far the longest of the nominated shorts. written and directed by israeli filmmakers mihal brezis and oded binnum, the short follows aya (sarah adler), a woman waiting at an airport who impulsively pretends to be a driver for a danish music researcher (Thomas overby). The car ride from the airport to Jerusalem that follows is often funny and at times uncomfortable, as aya tries to admit that she’s not really his driver. “i feel closer to peo­ple i don’t know than my family and friends,” she finally explains to him. yet, even with its lengthy running time, “aya” never fully delves into the psychology of its titular character’s life and why she would be compelled to pick up a total stranger. 
boogaloo and Graham 

“boogaloo and graham” is a charming short about 
ALLIE TOLLAKSON 
scene editor 

we had doughnuts. Then the all-too popular cronuts. Then all-waffle cafés. 
with the rise in popularity of the infamous sunday brunch, hip breakfast food trends are as real as the long lines for voodoo doughnuts in portland and austin, chicken and waffles in chicago and elusive it-pastries found only in manhattan. regardless of the fact that i live in indiana eight months out of the year, the news of what’s in (and what’s out) in the world of breakfast foods still somehow inundates the news i read. That’s how big the hybrid meal has become. 
according to new york magazine’s food blog, grub street, the big apple is getting an all-breakfast sandwich restau­rant to transform everyone’s favorite grab-and-go break­fast staple into a bourgeois brunch destination. depending on whether you fall on the love or hate side of the brunch debate, your feelings about being hundreds of miles away from the hottest new brunch trends are sure to differ. still, breakfast is the most important meal of the day, and there’s plenty more than bacon and eggs being served right here in south bend. instead of worrying about what’s hot and what’s not in the brunch world, skip the lines (and the Jamesy and malechy (riley hamilton and aaron lynch), two brothers growing up in 1970s belfast. The film derives its name from the two chickens their father (martin mccann) gives them as pets. when their mother (charlene mcKenna) becomes pregnant and wants to get rid of the chickens, the boys are forced to grapple with killing their beloved pets. The film is an endearing and nostalgic reflection on childhood and the sacrifices par­ents make for their children’s happiness. 
butter Lamp 
by far the most formally experimental of the five, “butter lamp” is made up of a series of vignettes documenting a photographer shooting families from a small Tibetan vil­lage. each family is shot against a background of a differ­ent landmark, from hong Kong disneyland to the lhasa’s potala palace, that hides the mountainous setting of their village. director hu wei used Tibetan locals as actors, and the film’s mix of documentary and narrative aesthetics makes for an unconventional short that comments on globalization’s impact on rural populations. 
Parvaneh 
“parvaneh” revolves around a young afghan immi­grant in rural switzerland (nissa Kashani) who trav­els to Zurich to wire her savings to her ill father back home. when western union refuses to allow an under­age girl to wire money, she befriends a slighter older girl (cheryl graf). swiss-iranian director Talkhon hamzavi’s 
dining halls) and check out these great local businesses in our own backyard. 
Fiddler’s hearth’s irish buffet 
127 N Main St. in South Bend 
sleep in this weekend and head to Fiddler’s hearth at 11 
a.m. for a hearty irish brunch. with options for both break­fast and brunch buffets, you won’t go hungry or run out of options. best of all, you can sit back with your heaping plate and hot coffee as local performers help you kick off the day. 
chicory café’s excellent eggs benedict 
105 E Jefferson Blvd. #103 in South Bend 
The newly expanded and always delicious chicory café has plenty of coffee, beignets and local music all week long, but if you’re looking for a hearty weekend meal, check out chicory for an impressive eggs benedict menu on sundays. The new orleans-inspired restaurant serves such a deli­cious cajun spin on the dish that you’ll wish they served every day of the week. 
evil czech brewery’s sunday small plates 
3703 N Main St. in Mishawaka 
Though evil czech technically isn’t south bend breakfast, beautiful cinematography depicts a bleak, snowy Zurich that complements a sweet, if slight, story of friendship. 
the Phone Call 

This short from british director matt Kirby stars sally hawkins as a crisis-hotline counselor on the phone with a suicidal man (the voice of Jim broadbent), who never ap­pears on screen. hawkins gives an excellent performance, managing to make a conversation with an unseen caller urgently riveting. with each second that passes, she be­comes increasingly desperate as she fears that the caller, who has admitted to swallowing a handful of pills and re­fuses to give her his information so she can call an ambu­lance, will die. despite hawkins’ performance, the film’s cloyingly sentimental ending prevents it from achieving the emotional resonance it attempts to inspire. 
Will Win: “The phone call,” which already won best narrative short at the 2014 Tribeca Film Festival. with excellent performances from two high-profile actors who have been recognized before by the academy — hawkins was nominated for best supporting actress in 2013 for “blue Jasmine,” while broadbent won best supporting actor in 2001 for his role “iris” — “phone call” seems like a shoo-in for the oscar. 
Should Win: “butter lamp,” which brilliantly experi­ments with the conventions of short film to offer its com­mentary on cultural identity. 
Contact Matt Munhall at mmunhall@nd.edu 
the brewery’s brunch offerings are well worth the trip to mishawaka. called the sunday hangover brunch, small plate buffet opens at 11 a.m. on sundays and can nurse any ailments the brought on by the weekend. 
The skillet’s life-changing pancakes 
2212 McKinley Ave. in South Bend 
six months ago, i thought i hated pancakes. They were always too sweet, too dry and too filling. i couldn’t fathom ordering a stack of hotcakes with a meal. This was until i found The skillet, a small family restaurant with an even smaller breakfast menu. when a friend offered me a bite of pancakes, my world flipped upside down. i don’t know how The skillet does it, but i don’t care — i’ve returned again and again for a stack of my own. 
chico’s tasty breakfast tacos 
2418 W Western Ave. in South Bend 
if you’re looking to change up your breakfast routine from dining hall waffles and omelets, you can’t get much better than breakfast tacos. Fortunately, you don’t to travel far to get great mexican food at excellent prices. 
Contact Allie Tollakson at atollaks@nd.edu 

SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


SPortS autHorIty nHL | blacKhawKs 2, penguins 1 
It’s time to look out for Carter 

Aaron Sant-Miller 
sports writer 
i’m going to go out on a limb and tell you to remember a name, the name of a player who wasn’t and will not be drafted, the name of a player who has never taken an nFl snap and only caught 13 passes in college, the name of a future nFl star: duron carter. 
Those who have heard of him know him as the son of cris carter, the hall of Fame receiver. note, this isn’t another feel-good piece about the son of an nFl star, a star who will make it big following in his father’s footsteps. no, this is all about duron. 
carter was rated as a one of the 10 best receivers coming out of high school, but his college career did not take off at ohio state. carter snagged 13 passes for 178 yards and a touchdown as a true freshman, but academ­ics held him back from using that season as a building block. after an academic suspension and continued academic issues, he left ohio state. he then tried a community college before moving back to the division i ranks with alabama. after that didn’t pan out, he tried Florida atlantic, but a petition to play ball was denied by the ncaa. 
after declaring for the 2013 nFl draft, carter was not se­lected, though he was given chances to try out for both the saints and vikings. neither panned out. again, carter’s departures were accompanied by stories highlighting a lack of professionalism. 
with that, carter took his talents to canada. in his career with the montreal alouettes, carter’s star shone bright. as one of the best receivers in the cFl over the last two seasons, carter collected almost 2,000 receiving yards and 12 touchdowns. 
Finally, nFl teams came calling. interest was high, and carter signed a three-year deal with the indianapolis colts on Feb. 2. he was finally position­ing himself to begin an nFl career. 
That’s carter’s story. it’s surely interesting, but i doubt i’ve swayed any of you into thinking you’re hearing about a future nFl star. yet, we’ve only scratched the surface of who carter is and who he can be. 
recently, it was announced that carter scored “at least a 39” on his wonderlic, the nFl’s version of an iQ test. carter’s score was better than peyton manning’s 28, Tom brady’s 33, aaron rodgers’ 35 and even andrew luck’s 37. Those are some of the most cerebral play­ers in the nFl, playing the most complicated position, and carter tops them all. 
no, this isn’t a story of a tal­ented athlete who wasn’t smart enough to keep up with col­lege coursework and who will struggle to adapt to complicated nFl schemes. This is the story of a brilliant young man who couldn’t click in a classroom set­ting and couldn’t keep up with the juggling act of a college life. 
carter is 6-foot-5, weighs 205 pounds and can run 40 yards in 4.5 seconds. he has a huge wingspan, good hands and the ability to catch the ball in traf­fic. he can contort his body in the air, pulling down jump balls and back shoulder passes. his film and highlights are from the cFl, but his talent jumps off the screen. oh, and despite his ad­ventures, he is still only 23 years old. 
if you hear him speak, he sounds like a guy who had to find himself and find what he truly wanted. he also sounds like almost any college senior/ graduate who is finally ready to commit himself or herself to the real world and a career. he rec­ognizes his mistakes and what he took away from them, and he appreciates that he has another chance. To me, he sounds ready to give the nFl a legitimate shot. 
The colts seem ready to give him that chance. according to reports, indianapolis views carter as a starting receiver, the kind of player who can take over for reggie wayne and be paired with T.y. hilton as a dynamic receiving duo. he’ll have luck, one of the fastest rising stars and a true technician, to help mold him into that threat all of indy hopes him to be. 
so here are my parting two comments. 
First, now that you’ve heard of him, pay attention going forward. when there is an inter­view halfway through the 2015 season, with luck and carter sitting on folding chairs talking with Jon gruden about carter’s explosion onto the nFl scene and his bond with luck, remem­ber this day. 
secondly, if and when carter takes center stage as a profes­sional, look for interesting im­plications on college football. This is a kid who is bright but better served outside of a class­room setting, where college life limited his growth. on the other hand, an opportunity to play in the cFl as a professional spurred his growth forward. what will this mean for a po­tential amateur football league? what will this mean for the landscape of college football? 
interesting storylines, indeed. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Sharp lifts Blackhawks to win over Penguins 
Associated Press 

chicago — Jonathan Toews and patrick Kane kicked it off for chicago, and patrick sharp finished the job. The star-studded shootout turned into quite a show for the blackhawks. 
sharp scored the decisive goal in the tiebreaker, lifting the blackhawks to a 2-1 vic­tory over sidney crosby and the pittsburgh penguins on sunday. 
Toews and Kane also con­verted their shootout attempts, helping the blackhawks im­prove to 7-2 when the game is tied after overtime. chicago went 6-8 in shootout games last season. 
“i mean Jonny and Kaner, that’s a 1-2 punch that’s as good as any team in the league, and then sharpy ends up finishing it,” blackhawks coach Joel Quenneville said. “so it was necessary today, and it’s been effective for us this year.” 
nick spaling scored in the third period for pittsburgh, which had won four of five. marc-andre Fleury made 31 saves through overtime, but was unable to stop any of chicago’s shootout attempts. 
Thanks to david perron and crosby, the penguins still had a chance for a big road win be­fore sharp skated in and beat Fleury into the right side for the victory. Fleury slammed his stick into the post in dis­gust after the final play. 
“it’s almost unfortunate that it wasn’t a playoff game where i guess you could see a real winner and win,” perron said. “They got the two points today, but i thought we were satisfied with how we played the whole 65 minutes.” 
niklas hjalmarsson scored in the second period for chicago, which also posted a shootout win at pittsburgh on Jan. 21 in their only other scheduled meeting this sea­son. corey crawford finished with 36 stops. 
The blackhawks have cap­tured six of a possible eight points through the first half of a season-high eight-game homestand. 
“we can’t be giving up any points,” crawford said. “Teams below us in our division are starting to play really good hockey. especially at home, we’ve got to get as many as we can.” 
chicago jumped in front when hjalmarsson beat Fleury with a long slap shot early in the second. Following a fa­ceoff in the pittsburgh zone, brandon saad played the puck back to hjalmarsson to set up the second goal of the season for the steady defenseman. 
The penguins responded in the third period. beau bennett got free for a shot that was stopped by crawford, but spaling sent the rebound into the upper left corner for his ninth of the season. 
perron  was  stopped  by  
crawford  on  a  prime  op­ 
portunity  midway  through  

overtime, and Fleury made a nice save on marian hossa to help the send the game to the shootout. 
“That’s two games we’ve played against this team and we’ve played well defensive­ly,” pittsburgh coach mike Johnston said. “we had our scoring chances and we didn’t convert. i thought our power play looked good, too.” 

nCaa men’S baSketbaLL | ariZona 86, washingTon sTaTe 59 
No. 7 Arizona routs Washington State 
Associated Press 

pullman, wash. — brandon ashley, rondae hollis-Jefferson and Kaleb Tarczewski each scored 17 points as no. 7 arizona routed washington state 86-59 on sunday night. 
T.J. mcconnell added 14 points for arizona (22­3, 10-2 pacific 12), which plays wsu only once this season. The wildcats led by 34 points after the first half. 
dexter Kernick-drew scored 20 points and davonte lacy scored 18 for washington state (11-14, 5-8), which was coming off a win over arizona state on Thursday. The cougars 

FOR SALE 

Well maintained ranch in Granger. 3BR, 2BA, beauti­ful sunroom. Open House Feb 15, 2-4. Call Janessa Traylor 574-340-1651 
were done in by woeful shooting in the first half. 
arizona has won two straight after being upset by arizona state. arizona won the rebound battle 44-23 and outscored the cougars in the paint 46-12. 
The wildcats came out strong in the first half and took control early. 
mcconnell had five points as the wildcats jumped to an 18-8 lead over the cold-shooting cougars. 
consecutive dunks by ashley put arizona up 26­12 at the midpoint of the first. washington state made only 6 of 17 shots to open the game, and then got worse. 
hollis-Jefferson had three baskets and Tarczewski scored a basket and three free throws during a 15-0 run that put arizona ahead 41-13. washington state was scoreless for more than six minutes and its shoot­ing percentage dropped into the 20s. 
washington state went more than eight minutes without a field goal before Que Johnson hit a short jumper to cut arizona’s lead to 44-16. but ashley, who had 13 points in the first, replied with a basket im­mediately to push arizona’s lead to 30 points. 
arizona led 53-19 at half­time, after shooting 60 per­cent and out-rebounding the cougars 30-9. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Coeur de Jésus sauvez le monde/ 
FOR RENT 

Que l’univers vous soit soumis/En Vous seul notre espoir se fonde/ Nice house for rent. Seigneur, Seigneur, Vous nous 905 Stanfield. 3 beds, 2 baths. l’avez promis./Vous l’avez dit: Sun porch, rec room. Votre promesse/Fait notr’espoir, Available now.  Call:608-658-6910 notre bonheur/Je bénirai dans ma 
tendresse 



bouts 
conTinued From page 13 
higgins onto the ropes where he delivered a strong combination of punches to the head and body. The two fighters traded punch­es just before the final bell, but nadar did just enough to win by split decision. 
edward “binks” Leppert def. robert Pak “eeh-ow” 
The fight started with some scrappy punches traded at the center of the ring, and both fight­ers threw a flurry of body blows and headshots. The fighters danced around one another for much of the second round with sporadic periods of intensity. Though the fight was neck-and­neck, even through the third and final round, the junior leppert did enough to separate himself from the senior in the minds of the judges and secured a unani­mous victory to advance to the next round. 
albert “I am So Lone” Lee def. Chris “angry elf” dethlefs 
both fighters’ quickness was on display early, as dethlefs, a freshman and sorin college resident, and lee, a sopho­more from Keenan hall, glided around the ring, neither able to land many decisive punch­es. dethlefs landed a couple of solid blows on lee and gained momentum by the conclusion of the second round. dethlefs forced his opponent against the ropes in the middle of the third round, but lee rallied and fought back with strong punch­es to gain back the fight’s mo­mentum. lee was declared the winner in a closely contested matchup by a split decision. 
Cullen “the fishtown Hound” mcnamee def. ray Zhao 
The first bout of the day in the 135-pound division pitted Zhao, a junior from duncan hall, against mcnamee, a senior also from duncan. in the first round, both fighters opened with a se­ries of flurries with neither fight­er gaining a clear advantage. The second round resembled the first as both fighters attempted to land blows to each other’s head. in the final round, Zhao managed to dodge a couple of mcnamee’s blows, but mcnamee eventu­ally landed a few body shots. at one point, mcnamee had Zhao on the ropes, but Zhao was able to quickly leap away before mcnamee could land a big strike. mcnamee was declared the win­ner by unanimous decision. 
145-pounds: 
robert “r kelly” devine def. austin “Superman” Cartier 
The fight started very de­fensively, with the two fighters keeping their distance from each other. even when both boxers attempted to land some punch­es, most of their efforts were blocked. The senior devine even­tually broke through cartier’s defenses and landed a quick combination. cartier, a sopho­more, fought back and landed multiple right hooks late in the first. The second round started defensively again, with cartier’s parries and devine’s footwork making landing punches diffi­cult. devine forced cartier onto the ropes late in the second, however, and landed some big punches. devine took control of the third round, forcing cartier onto the ropes again and landing a quick combination of blows to end the fight and secure his win 

paid adverTisemenT 


by unanimous decision. 
danny “nacho tigre” espinoza def. Steven Penny 
both juniors started slowly until espinoza landed a strong punch to penny’s head, causing him to lose footing. From there, espinoza took control, landing a quick flurry of blows to penny’s body soon after. penny, though, began to block most of espinoza’s efforts and fight back late in the first. espinoza appeared to be in control for most of the second round, but penny did enough to block or dodge his punches. penny then counterattacked as the second round came to an end. both fighters started the third round more aggressively, but it was espinoza who landed more of his early punches in the round and continued to appear on top through the round, even­tually winning by unanimous decision. 
Pete “the Wild Irish rose” mcGinley def. Joshua “I Swear these are Pecs” kolb 
both fighters came out spir­ited, attempting numerous punches but demonstrating strong defense to block their opponent’s efforts. mcginley soon appeared on top, though, and although Kolb continued to block most of his punches, the duncan hall senior was even­tually able to land a blow that knocked Kolb, a freshman, down late in the first. Kolb looked to have made his way back into the fight and landed some punches of his own, only to be knocked down by another of mcginley’s punches. mcginley was able to keep Kolb at the end of his reach for most of the third round while landing well-timed punches to ensure his victory by unanimous decision. 
Connor “mJ” Chelsky def. dennis “the Hidden dragon” Zheng 
both fighters came out aggres­sively with quick, wild swings. Zheng’s footwork was enough to dodge most of chelsky’s flailing early punches, while he man­aged to land a quick flurry of his own to chelsky’s body. however, chelsky, a senior, landed a strong left hook to Zheng’s head and fol­lowed up with a combination of body shots. The freshman Zheng forced chelsky onto the ropes late in the first, but chelsky fought his way out with more strikes to Zheng’s head. The second round started as offensively as the first, but few punches from either fighter actually landed. chelsky struck Zheng with repeated left hooks to the head in the third, and Zheng’s attempts to fight back regularly left him exposed, which chelsky took advantage of on his way to taking the victory by unanimous decision. 
e.J. “armageddon” Smith def. alexander “Highway to the” dang “-er zone” 
The second bout of the day featured smith, a sophomore from Knott hall, fighting against dang, an off-campus senior. This fast-paced match began with dang controlling the ring, but smith managed to halt dang’s advance and briefly pin dang on the ropes. in the second round, the match slowed down with both fighters taking more cau­tion. The final round unfolded similarly to the second, but the slow pace was briefly interrupted by smith landing a series of body blows. smith was declared the winner by a split decision. 
matthew “Scruffy” yoder “I barely know Her” def. ned Vara 
yoder, an o’neill hall fresh­man, opened the fight trying to land a big punch, while vara, a junior from sorin college, at­tempted to answer with jabs. yoder began the second round by landing two powerful blows to vara’s head, keeping vara on his toes for the rest of the round after another strong right hook. yoder kept applying the pressure in the third round, enough to earn him the win by unanimous decision. 
“G.I.” Joe deLuca def. thomas “Chuck” yaeger 
in an all-duncan matchup, sophomore deluca squared off against freshman yaeger. yaeger fought tactically in the first round, only closing in for quick jabs to the head and then backing out again. deluca had trouble adapting to this style and had to fight defensively. in the second round, deluca bounced back by adopting the same strat­egy of quick jabs. near the end of the round both fighters land­ed a flurry of blows. in the final round, both fighters opened up and tried to win the match by landing a big blow, but neither fighter managed to connect on his hooks. ultimately, deluca was declared the winner by unanimous decision. 
“Sloppy” Joe Guilfoile def. thomas “the tank engine” tran 
guilfoile, a morrissey manor sophomore, landed two power­ful blows to the head to begin the match, keeping Tran, an off-campus senior, off-balance for the first round. The second round saw guilfoile continue his offen­sive fighting, as Tran was forced back for the whole round. in the final round, guilfoile opened up offensively and forced Tran to get medical attention for a cut on his face. guilfoile was declared the winner by unanimous decision. 
149-pounds: 
Luke “Lobos” kiefer def. dennis “Stretch” miller 
both fighters came out strong in the first round, with the fresh­man miller having the slight edge. Kiefer, a junior, got the best of miller in the next round, throw­ing multiple jabs to push miller back to the ropes. The match was stopped for a brief period in the third round, and Kiefer came out strongly from the pause. he land­ed multiple punches to the head, pushing miller from corner to corner en route to a unanimous decision victory. 
briggs “drop It Like It’s” 
Hoyt  def.  James  “Work  
Horse” mcCaffrey  
The  first  round  between  

mccaffrey and hoyt was fairly even, with the tempo a little slow­er than most bouts. The graduate student mccaffrey, who is also a southpaw, came out firing mul­tiple blows in the second round 
see bouTs PaGe 14 


The observer | monday, february 16, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


not hold back, fighting back with latter held fast, though, deliv­a series of punches to the abdo-ering body blows in quick suc­men, forcing Flanagan into a cession towards the end of hold. in the third round, the bout the closing frame, countering continued at a slower pace with mccaffery’s late-match aggres­both fighters taking a more con-sion. Thanks to his early match servative strategy. in the final efforts, as well as his impressive moments of the bout, Flanagan second wind in the latter half of finished strong to secure the vic-the fight, “The squirrel” scam­tory by unanimous decision. pered to a split-decision victory. 
ryan “attila” dunn def. mike flanigan def. Chris adam Haydel “the Quiet man” Powers 
dunn, a junior from Knott powers came out strong in hall, got the bout to a quick start the opening moments of the by forcing stanford hall junior bout, delivering a series of rapid haydel against the edge of the body shots to Flanigan and forc­ring within the first minute of ing him against the ropes early. the first round. haydel fought Flanigan powered back, though, back with hooks to the face but using a deft dodge to deliver a landed only a small proportion pair of strong headshots of his of his punches, unable to match own. Flanigan carried this mo­dunn’s speed moving across the mentum into the second round, ring. early in the second round, holding a steady advantage dunn forced haydel to the edge over a beleaguered powers for of the ring once more, landing jab the duration of the round. The after jab. dunn’s clear advantage third round started tentatively, was evident as the referee cut the with each fighter waiting for the 
tactics. This pattern contin-left hook to mccutcheon’s head bout short in the second round, other to make the opening move. bouts ued through the last round to close the round. The third giving the contest to dunn. eventually, Flanigan saw an op­conTinued From page 13 until yerkes started throwing round was again back and forth. portunity, delivering a series of 
uppercuts and jabs. late in mccutcheon used his long reach Garrity mcosker def. dean punishing blows to powers and before things evened out. both the third round, yerkes broke to continually jab himel in the “the machine” Swan forcing a stoppage for a bloodied boxers traded body shots for the out to finish strong, giving stomach, but himel landed a few Fisher hall senior mcosker and nose. Flanigan continued his as-balance, with the senior hoyt him the victory by unanimous punches himself, taking the fight dillon hall freshman swan both sault after the break, resulting in getting the best of mccaffrey at decision. by unanimous decision. held back in the first round of a victory by unanimous decision the end. The third round was a the bout, throwing relatively few for the st. edward’s hall senior. fury of punches from both par-158-pounds: Chip blood def. Stuart punches and opting instead to ties, with neither taking control Swartz focus on defensive tactics. while Chris “double diesel” of the fight. in the end, hoyt pre-Joey Quinones def. Jim The sophomore blood landed swan hit first, mcosker answered, Clarke def. Calvin “bender” vailed by unanimous decision. “boyler room” boyle an impressive number of body landing multiple jabs, forcing him Campopiano 
both boxers landed a flurry shots on the junior in a fairly across the ring and against the The bout featured contrasting Paul “the Shake” rudnicki of punches off the bat, with the even first round and clearly won ropes. There, mcosker connected styles, as the quick-striking ag­def. John “Juicy” malin junior from Knott, boyle, land-the frame by sheer volume. The on several punches to swan’s ab-gression of clarke had trouble 
This contest between two ing more jabs to the stomach second round saw much of the domen, ending the first round. in cracking campopiano’s rock-sophomores started off with a while Quinones, a freshman, same, as blood forced swartz the second round, mcosker threw solid defense. neither fighter bang as rudnicki landed early was able to get three blows to to the ropes several times while the first punch but swan quickly was willing to give a great deal blows to the head, which malin the head. in the second, boyle also mixing in a few hard head-retaliated. however, swan’s up-of room to the other early. still, countered with some strong was backed into a corner before shots, but swartz held his own by percuts and jabs were no match campapiano’s suffocating de­jabs to the stomach. The first he landed a strong uppercut to landing a number of punches as for mcosker’s aggressive defense. fensive stance afforded him a round ended with malin con-free himself. neither seemed to well. The third and final round in the third round, swan was able few opportunities for strong necting with rudnicki’s head. have a decided advantage while was also relatively even before to get a foothold but it was not body shots before the bell. as the in the second round, rudnicki they continued to trade blows. blood seized control and pulled enough, as mcosker took the vic-fight went on, clarke found ways bounced back with a series Quinones opened the third away near the end, earning a vic-tory by unanimous decision. around his opponent’s gloves, as of combination punches to round landing jabs to the head tory by unanimous decision and he managed to sneak in a pair of the face and abdomen, while and stomach of boyle, knocking a spot in the next round. 167-pounds: left hooks, forcing campopiano malin fought back with quick him back to the ropes as he re-to respond with a series of body jabs. rudnicki took the edge in fused to tire. behind his strong Joe “Sully” Sulentic def. Gage “american Psycho” blows. both fighters found of-the second round after man-finish, Quinones took the fight alex “the aztec” Cervantez o’Connell def. Chris “black fensive openings in the middle aging a series of jab and up-by unanimous decision. The high-paced first round dog” bertini round, though campopiano had percut combinations, forcing started with cervantez, a fresh-both fought hard in the first trouble countering the reach malin against the ropes. by the Patrick burkett def. Chris man from st. edward’s hall, round, with the law student of the taller, lankier clarke. third round, the bout was at a “the ruff rider” ruflin throwing a series of jabs, while o’connell landing some inside ultimately, campopiano had no standstill. malin attempted the The sophomore burkett morrissey manor sophomore jabs and bertini fighting back answer for this range, as clarke majority of the punches while seemed to set the tempo early, sulentic responded with quick with body shots. o’connell cor-earned a victory by unanimous rudnicki exhibited strong de-landing a huge hook to ruflin’s uppercuts. The second round nered the junior bertini early in decision. fensive tactics, only to finish by head. burkett again came out exhibited a slower pace, and the second, with bertini fighting landing a series of hooks that strong in the second round, sulentic landed combination him off with a series of combi-Paddy “el Canelo” Lawler was enough to give rudnicki landing a few combinations to after combination with agility, nations. o’connell did well to def. ryan “Wait for it” the split-decision victory. stifle the freshman ruflin. “The despite cervantez’s defensive dodge bertini’s punches in the majsak 
ruff rider” wouldn’t go away, efforts. The round ended with third round and landed a few The longer-limbed majsak Patrick “Payday” yerkes however, putting up a strong cervantez on the ropes, but he hooks to the head. o’connell seemed more than willing to en-def. brenden “my mom fight with some inside punches bounced back in the last round. knocked bertini to the ground gage in an all-out offensive brawl doesn’t know I’m doing to finish the round. both box-however, he was no match for as he dominated the final round early in the match, but strong de­this” forte ers fought a strong third, with sultentic’s speed and mobil-to take the match by unanimous fense by majsak gave him ample 
The junior Forte had quick ruflin on the offensive early be-ity across the ring, and sulentic decision. room for counterattack. The two start in the bout, beginning fore burkett fired back with some took the bout by unanimous fighters traded blows early and the first round with combi-hooks to the stomach. in the end, decision. eric “the Squirrel” often in the opening rounds. nation punches to the abdo-it was burkett who prevailed by tommarello def. Casey majsak seemed to falter in mid-men and sides of yerkes. The unanimous decision. eoghan flanagan def. “Pork Chop” mcCaffery dle of the fight, however, and was sophomore from st. edward’s Phillip “the thrill” Stenger both fighters appeared evenly pushed against the ropes by a hall had a slow start but even-Sean “el Huron Loco” Zahm house sophomore matched, but Tommarello took sudden flurry of blows. majsak’s tually retaliated with a series Himel def. a.J. mcCutcheon Flanagan exhibited a burst of an early edge in the opening left hook started to miss towards of powerful body shots, push-neither mccutcheon, a gradu-energy in the first round, throw-rounds. The baldwinsville, new the end of the fight, giving lawler ing Forte against the edge ate student, nor himel, a junior, ing uppercut after uppercut york, senior utilized a series of room to dodge and counter with of the ring to end the first separated himself in the first at siegfried hall sophomore looping hooks and jabs around a series of shots to the body. in round. once again, Forte got round. himel went on the of-stenger and targeting his right a beleaguered defense from the hotly contested fight, lawler the quicker start in the sec-fensive in the second though, side. The first round was an up-mccaffery. The junior fought was awarded the victory by split ond round, throwing hooks driving mccutcheon back with a beat affair, with both fighters back as time went on, though, decision. to the face while yerkes fo-flurry of combinations. he con-actively circling around the ring. taking advantage of his more cused primarily on defensive tinued to fight hard, landing a in the second round, stenger did energy-efficient fight style. The see bouTs PaGe 15 


quickly recovered. however, brendan “rainman” Lesch recovered to halt any further dam-on a few solid punches in the fight’s bouts clarkin could not seem to land a def. ryan macdonald age and did just enough to advance opening round. white gathered 
conTinued From page 14 

punch on shea as the round end-The fighters opened the first by unanimous decision. more momentum as the second 
ed. shea began to seize control of round aggressively, trading body round progressed and landed Scott “bootstrap” rousseau the fight in the third round, and blows in the center of the ring eric “P-rex” Palutsis def. a series of punches that forced def. Sean “never Learned he landed two big headshots that before graduate student lesch Patrick Wieland macdougal, a senior, against the How to” reed dazed clarkin. clarkin attempted landed a strong headshot that sent both fighters came out with en-ropes. macdougal was able to re-
This fight was intense from the to go back on the offensive but his opponent to the canvas. once ergy following the opening bell, bound slightly in the third round start, and reed, an off-campus se-was never able to land anything macdonald got back to his feet, but neither was able to land any but could not take the momentum nior, was the aggressor, attempt-more than a glancing blow. his lesch backed him into a corner, decisive blows in the first round. from white. neither fighter ap­ing to land some devastating early defense was not enough, and shea landing blow after blow and forc-palutsis, a senior, landed a couple peared to win this round decisively, combinations.however,rousseau, advanced in the tournament by ing the senior to fight defensively. solid blows with his right jab in the as both landed a few punches, but a Fisher hall senior, showed off his unanimous decision. as the second round opened, lesch opening seconds of round two and white was ruled the winner by a bobbing and weaving skills to avoid danced around macdonald before captured the momentum of the split-decision ruling. any significant blows. in the sec-178-pounds: forcing him to the ropes once more. fight during this round. palutsis ond round, the referee had to split mcdonald came out strong in the came out with fire in the conclud-Heavyweight the fighters, which allowed reed to brian “rowdy” roddy def. third round, but lesch was simply ing round and backed the junior recover from a flurry of rousseau Henry adame too much for him to handle. The wieland up against the ropes erich Jegier def. Gabe “the punches. reed came out strong in adame spent much of the first referee stopped the fight midway with a series of punches. This was devil Wears” Prado Correa the third, but rousseau knocked round looking for an opening as through the round, giving lesch enough to solidify a unanimous Jegier, a sophomore and sorin his headgear off. reed kept tak-“rowdy” roddy stayed true to his the victory. decision for palutsis. college resident, landed a few ing blows to end the round but nickname, keeping adame off bal-hard punches on prado correa landed some parting shots himself. ance with a flurry of headshots and matthew “Hands” bedell def. Jason “downtown” ellinwood during the fight’s opening sec­rousseau was awarded the victory leaving little room for response. brian “the Weatherman” def. Chris Stepien onds. Jegier was able to knock by unanimous decision. however, adame remained stal-Hartnett ellinwood, a junior from Fisher down his opponent, a junior and 
wart in his defense, taking advan-both fighters showed off impres-hall, was able to use his height alumni hall resident, and capture michael “Greasy” Grasso tage of openings where he found sive defensive skills in an evenly advantage against stepien, a ju-the fight’s momentum by the end def. Jack Shepard them in the second round to deliv-matched bout. This resulted in nior from sorin college, landing of the first round. Jegier’s strong 
The two juniors wasted no er a number of strong body blows few hard blows hitting their target, a series of punches in the open-opening round forced the official time setting the tone in an action-between the gaps in roddy’s at-and because it was so even, each ing round thanks to his reach ad-to stop the fight early and declare packed first round. grasso dis-tack. ultimately, though, roddy’s punch had the power to swing the vantage over stepien. ellinwood him the victor over prado correa. played a powerful right hook, and reach and persistent connections fight. after the first two rounds fea-maintained control of the fight at the end of the round, grasso left adame on the defensive for too tured many blocked punches and in its second round and pushed Gerry “Jarreigh” kelliher had pinned shepard against the long, particularly towards the end parries, the senior bedell began his opponent against the ropes def. John “Little John” ropes and landed multiple com-of the final round, when he began to outlast fellow senior hartnett. several times during the round. Sontag binations. The second round was to struggle with fatigue. roddy’s he landed a hard body blow on ellinwood forced the official to The off-campus senior Kelliher, even more intense than the first, furious attack earned him a vic-hartnett to culminate a fiery open-pause the fight a number of times although yielding a bit to his fel­as grasso began to wear shepard tory by unanimous decision. ing to the third and managed to in the second and third rounds, low senior sontag in terms of down. shepard was pinned against avoid being hit hard again to take which earned him a unanimous height, came out with energy the ropes again, and grasso landed brent breslau def. Peter the fight in a split decision. decision over stepien. and captured the fight’s momen­a flurry of punches, most notably “the bull” Janiw tum early. The two boxers traded two hard headshots that dazed both combatants came out ryan “Cerry boppins” James “Iceman” Hodgens blows during the concluding shepard. shepard completed an strong, trading punches at Chestnut def. Joel “the def. david Lee seconds of round one, and both eight count, but grasso was re-the center of the ring. breslau Zamboni” Zimbrick lee, a sturdy southpaw, came landed some punches on the lentless and forced another a few seemed to take control early chestnut started the fight as the out swinging in the first round other. sontag displayed strong seconds later. as a result of this, though, forcing the referee to aggressor and landed solid body and landed some punches on jabs, but Kelliher was able to land the referee stopped the fight and pause the fight after an intense shots on Zimbrick to begin the hodgens, a graduate student, some punishing hooks on his op-handed the victory to grasso. right hook connected with first round. however, Zimbrick early. it appeared, however, ponent’s midsection and then 
Janiw. as the bell sounded to responded with some combina-that lee lost some energy as the head. Kelliher found his target Patrick “Pattycake” Shea start the second round, breslau tions to end the round. The second round progressed, and hodgens with strong punches on sontag in def. Sean Clarkin continued to separate himself frame featured little hard contact was able to turn the tables on his the fight’s concluding round and 
in the first round, both fight-from the freshman, though between the two freshmen, and opponent. hodgens seemed to forced sontag against the ropes a ers tested the other. nothing more Janiw still managed to land a the fight’s result was still in the air have the advantage in the sec-couple times in the third round. than little jabs were landed, and few body shots. The third round at the start of the third. both fight-ond round, as he landed punches This strong final round was both fighters showed off nimble featured more of the same, with ers turned it up a notch and con-on lee and forced the official to enough to earn Kelliher a win by footwork. in the second round, the fighters trading punches, but nected with the other multiple pause the fight. in the fight’s third unanimous decision over sontag. the junior shea landed some hard breslau held on to his advantage, times. right after chestnut con-round, lee again came out with punches and eventually drew and the judges awarded him the nected with Zimbrick hard in the fire and energy but was unable kyle “Hot Crossed” munns blood. The referee stopped the unanimous decision victory over head, he was knocked off balance to maintain this pace throughout def. devon “buffalo fight, and clarkin, a freshman, Janiw. by a Zimbrick punch. chestnut the duration of the round. This Soldier” Chenelle 
enabled hodgens to land several in a matchup between a law unblocked punches on his op-student and a freshman, the ponent and win the fight with a first round was fairly even. The referee-stopped contest. freshman chenelle, with an ad­
vantage in height and wingspan, 196-pounds: started to take some control in 
the second period. at the start Joe “the dirty bubble” of the third round, however, Stevens def. david munns landed a number of im­“mav’erick” o’Connor pressive headshots to get himself 
both fighters opened the round back into the fight. The fighters with impressive footwork and walked around each other for intensity, yet neither seemed to most of the final moments with have any sort of advantage early. sporadic moments of fighting, Through the second round, both leading to a split decision victory fighters evenly traded punches. in favor of munns. once the third round started, a flurry of fists from the freshman Contact Benjamin Horvath stevens tilted the bout in his favor, at bhorvat1@nd.edu, Sean despite the fact that o’connor did Kilmer at skilmer@nd.edu, more damage with the punches he Christine Mayuga at  managed to land. ultimately the cmayuga@nd.edu, Marek fight came down to a split decision, Mazurek at  with the judges awarding the vic-mmazurek@nd.edu, Hunter tory to stevens. McDaniel at hmcdani1@ 
nd.edu, Daniel O’Boyle at  Ian White def. Gordon doboyle1@nd.edu, Brett “fleetwood” macdougal O’Connell at  
despite being at a height dis-boconne1@nd.edu and Brian advantage, white, a senior and Plamondon at Zahm house resident, connected bplamond@nd.edu 


The observer | monday, february 16, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

nd Women’S LaCroSSe | nd 14, cincinnaTi 5; nd 17, deTroiT 5 
Notre Dame rolls through opening weekend 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
no. 9 notre dame began its sea­son on a pair of high notes over the weekend, defeating cincinnati, 14-5,  on the road Friday and fol­lowing that up with a 17-5 win against detroit on sunday at loftus sports center. 
The irish (2-0) took control using an early offensive out­burst against cincinnati (0-2). after falling behind 1-0 to start the game, notre dame scored eight straight goals in a 12:45 stretch to put the bearcats away. sophomore attack/midfielder cortney Fortunato and senior at­tack rachel sexton each had a pair of goals during the stretch. 
Fortunato’s six points on four goals and two assists paced notre dame offensively in the game. Junior attack Kiera mcmullan added four points on a goal and a trio of assists to follow Fortunato, while sophomore attack grace muller and sexton registered a hat trick apiece. 
notre dame’s high-pressure defense forced 24 cincinnati turnovers, while its offense coughed the ball up only 10 times, something that is a hallmark of its aggressive style of play, senior de­fenseman leah gallagher said. 
“we really like to attack the ball, go get it,” gallagher said. “we like to dictate a lot. That’s the main word i would use to describe out defense: dictative.” 
in the team’s home opener sunday, notre dame overcame a sluggish first half to pull away from the Titans (0-2). Tied 4-4 with 7:35 remaining in the first stanza, the irish came out of a timeout, won control off a draw, and Fortunato immediately passed to a streaking muller deep in the detroit end. muller put her shot past senior goalkeeper lexie mccormick to put the irish up 5-4. That sparked a 13-1 notre dame run to finish the game. 
“it’s tied 4-4, we’re letting the girls work it out, we’re letting our on-field leadership work it out, but after that timeout we kind of hit that nail in the door,” irish coach christine halfpenny said. “That’s where the game changed.” 
detroit’s lone goal of the stretch came with just 1:34 remaining in the game, by which time notre dame’s starters were all on the bench. The irish forced 22 Titan turnovers, 13 of which came in the second half. 
“we were starting to get the draws in the second half and that really changed the momentum and put it in our favor,” gallagher said of her team’s defensive effort in the second half. “in practice the defense has it going from the first minute, but we just have to find a way to carry that over into games.” 
muller recorded a hat trick in the first half on her way to finish­ing with four scores in the game. The sophomore recorded 10 goals all of last season, but has found the back of the net seven times The weekend’s performances this year, a stat muller was quick gave the irish a hot start, but they to credit to her teammates. are still looking to improve over 

“it goes back to the whole team the next couple practices be-mentality, and everyone setting fore flying out west in a few days, each other up for success and halfpenny said. what’s working in a game and “we have to continue to control what’s not,” muller said. “Today, the controllables, and we have to it was a day where it worked well come out a lot quicker,” halfpenny for my position, whereas the next said. “we can’t wait to get adjust-game it might work for [Fortunato, ed, so we’re going to address that. mcmullan or sexton].” we’re going to continue to address 
early-season confidence boost-the hustle stat categories.” ers like muller’s production will notre dame is back in action be essential for the team’s success, next weekend when it makes a halfpenny said. swing out to the west coast. The 
“For still having a lot of sopho-irish will meet up with no. 18 mores out on the field, that’s a stanford on Friday at 10:30 p.m., good thing for us,” halfpenny and then face off with california said. “it’s building more confi-at 2 p.m. sunday. dence that we need. it’s building more swag that we need, so we’re Contact Zach Klonsinski at really excited.” zklonsin@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




men’S LaCroSSe | nd 14, georgeTown 12 
wynne leads irish with six scores in first career game 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
no. 2 notre dame survived a scare from georgetown on saturday, holding off the hoyas, 14-12, at loftus sports center en route to earning its 13th straight season-opening victory. 
notre dame (1-0) was led by an unlikely source in fresh­man attack mikey wynne, who scored six goals in his first col­legiate game. 
“[mikey’s] terrific. … he’s a crease guy,” irish coach Kevin corrigan said. “Those guys need other people to get them the ball. you can tell the confi­dence our guys already have in mikey because they keep giv­ing it there to him.” 
georgetown (0-1) opened the scoring, with senior attack bo stafford finding the net just seconds after an irish penalty released. 
wynne would record the next three goals to give the irish some breathing room in the first quarter. his first of the game was keyed by a pass from sophomore midfielder sergio perkovic, tying the game with 
9:07 left in the first quarter. 
“i think we were ready when the game started,” wynne said. “i think mentally i was ready for the game — coach prepared us well.” 
notre dame would go up 4-1, adding a goal from perkovic, before georgetown fought back to tie things up at five. 
The teams traded goals in the second quarter, with stafford eventually knotting things up at six on a fake that fooled Kelly. stafford led all georgetown scorers with four goals. 
The irish responded with scores from wynne and ju­nior attack matt Kavanagh to take an 8-6 lead into the half. Kavanagh, a preseason all­american, ripped one from the top right corner of the box with just four seconds left in the half. 
“i liked that we kept coming back when they kept coming back,” corrigan said. “we just kept making plays when we had to, and it’s nice to know our guys have the ability to do that.” 
notre dame added goals from two seniors, attack conor doyle and midfielder Jack near, to go up 10-7 less than five minutes into the third quarter. after georgetown sophomore midfielder devon lewis scored to keep the game 

paid adverTisemenT 


within reach, corrigan pulled Kelly in favor of sophomore goalie shane doss. Kelly exited with five saves. 
“we had great confidence in [both] of them,” corrigan said. “i wasn’t going to hesitate if i didn’t think one of the guys was on his game. not because i don’t have confidence in the guy who’s in there, but i have so much confidence in the guy that’s coming in behind him.” 
The irish scored first after the change, as senior midfield­er nick ossello found the net while falling over far out from the goal. with his tally, seven players scored for the irish. 
“i mean we have some depth, and we’re going to use that depth,” corrigan said. [it’s] going to serve us well over the course of the year.” 
notre dame’s victory was still very much in doubt as the fourth quarter began. georgetown scored on two fast breaks, tying the game at 11 with 14:23 to go. but two goals in eight seconds for the irish, courtesy of perkovic and wynne, put the game out of reach for the hoyas. 
“lacrosse is a momentum game, and you have to make some plays like that,” corrigan said. 
wynne would complete the scoring for notre dame with 29 seconds left. 
corrigan said he was pleased overall with his team’s effort, but there would be things to improve upon before the team next hits the field. 
“we’d like to think defen­sively, we can put the clamps on somebody when we’re up by three in the second half,” corrigan said. 
notre dame returns to ac­tion saturday when it travels to ann arbor, michigan, taking on the wolverines at 1 p.m. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 

nd SoftbaLL | Tiger inviTaTional 
ND drops three of four at LSU 
Observer Staff Report 

after splitting their first two games over the weekend, the no. 19 irish closed out their time at the Tiger invitational in baton rouge, louisiana, by drop­ping games against hofstra and no. 16 lsu. 
The weekend’s first game, a matchup against central arkansas, featured an of­fensive explosion for the irish (5-4), as they cruised to a 4-1 victory despite be­ing outhit, 7-6. senior in­fielder Jenna simon was perfect at the plate, going four-for-four with two runs scored and an rbi against the bears (6-5). Junior in­fielder micaela arizmendi was also strong at the plate throughout the two games, going three-for-six with an rbi double and a solo home run. Junior allie rhodes went the distance on the mound, pitching a complete game of seven in­nings with five strikeouts and only one earned run allowed. 
The irish faced a tougher test in the second game of the day, in which they faced lsu. sophomore right-hander rachel nasland was solid on the mound, shak­ing off a three-run first in­ning to shut out the Tigers over the rest of the night. arizmendi and junior designated hitter casey africano each added an rbi to make it close, but in the end the irish were unable to crack Tiger freshman pitcher carley hoover, who only allowed two runs over five innings to pick up the 3-2 victory. 
The second day of games sunday was a matter of missed opportunities for the irish, as they were un­able to hang on against ei­ther hofstra (2-3) or lsu (10-0). 
hofstra jumped out to an early lead in the first inning against the irish, blasting a three-run home run off irish freshman starter Katie beriont. That was the last run hofstra would score, as the irish made a call to the bullpen for nasland. against hofstra, nasland once again was strong on the mound with six in­nings of no-hit ball and six strikeouts. arizmendi and senior catcher cassidy whidden were hit by pitches in back-to-back at-bats while the bases were loaded, cutting the deficit down to 3-2. however, the best chance for the irish to take the lead ended there, as hofstra reliever Taylor pirone snagged a hard line drive hit by irish senior in­fielder Katey haus out of the air before tossing the ball to first to double up whidden to end the inning. From there, hofstra would hang on to win 3-2. 
against lsu, the irish once again staked out a quick 1-0 lead when arizmendi drove sopho­more outfielder Karley wester home on a sacri­fice fly. nasland was once more strong on the mound, holding the Tigers score­less through four innings. however, the lsu offense woke up in the fifth in­ning by jumping on irish reliever allie rhodes for three runs, and eventually ended the frame with a 4-1 lead. From there, the Tigers were never threatened, adding on three more runs later to make their victory by a comfortable six-run margin. 
The irish return to the diamond Thursday in cathedral city, california, where they face Tennessee in the mary nutter classic. First pitch is scheduled for 10 a.m. 



The observer | monday, february 16, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


baseball 
conTinued From page 20 
sophomore pitcher Jake elliott. elliott threw seven shutout in­nings, giving up only two hits and two walks. 
“[elliott] was able to slow our bats down early in the game.” aoki said. “he was showing a re­ally good quality change-up, we swung through it a few times, and then later on once he slowed our bats down, he sped us back up again with a solid fastball. we were stuck in the middle. we were out in front of the change-up but behind the fastball, and he was able command that fastball. we were just never able to get back into it.” 
The irish bounced back  the next day with an explosion of 20 hits over the next two games against oklahoma. 
“i was happy to see that we adjusted over the weekend,” aoki said. “we told the guys we want to be efficient against the fastball, and if we were made to look bad sometimes with the off-speed stuff early in the count, that’s okay, and if we find ourselves in two-strike counts, we’re just go­ing to battle and compete. and that’s what we did.” 

The irish took a 10-2 lead after a six-run fourth inning in the first game and was able to hold on for a 10-9 win. sophomore second baseman cavan biggio led the irish with a near cycle, missing out only a home run. he finished with three hits, an rbi and two runs. 
Freshman starting pitcher brandon bielak threw five in­nings, allowing two runs (one earned) on two hits and two walks. 
sunday, junior starting pitcher nick mccarty tossed seven-and­two-thirds innings, giving up only one run on four hits, leading the irish to a 5-1 victory. aoki said he was pleased with his pitch­ing staff’s performance over the weekend. 
“i thought our four starting pitchers did a phenomenal job for us, and in relief roles, we had guys who came in and looked great,” aoki said. “They went out there to go get outs and compete. i feel good about where our pitching is.” 
cavan biggio again almost hit for the cycle sunday, again only missing the home run to com­plete the set. 
notre dame will next compete this weekend in the irish alamo invitational in san antonio, Texas, against incarnate word, villanova and northwestern. First pitch is set for 6:05 p.m. Friday. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at           ilorton@nd.edu 
W bball 
conTinued From page 20 

days off at the beginning of the week, and we really, mentally, needed a break, so that was good for us. and then we got to work on some new things offensively. we just worked a little bit more on our fundamentals really. we’ve been breaking things down and had a great chance to go back and review the fundamentals.” 
The break was also good for ju­nior guard Jewell loyd, mcgraw said. loyd, notre dame’s lead­ing scorer, has put up 17 or fewer points in four of the past five games, below her season average (20.7). during the break, how­ever, she has begun to regain her rythym, mcgraw said. 
“she’s really ready for this game,” mcgraw said. “she’s been shooting really well this week. her practices have been really good, so i think she’s ready.” 
both loyd and Turner were named to the watch lists of the wooden award and naismith Trophy, given to the nation’s top players, last week. only three other teams in the coun­try — no. 1 south carolina, no. 2 connecticut and california — had multiple players named on each list. 
with only five games left in the regular season, the irish sit half a game ahead of duke, no. 7 Florida state and no. 9 louisville for first place in the acc. The top four teams all earn double byes in the conference tournament into the quarterfinals, and be­cause of that, mcgraw said she is not emphasizing this matchup anymore than usual. 
“every game is important,” mcgraw said. “The next five are all important, and they all have equal importance. we’re in the driver’s seat right now.” 
notre dame and duke face off tonight in purcell pavilion at 9 p.m. 
Contact Greg Hadley at    ghadley@nd.edu 


efforts from providence (18-10­
Hockey 

2, 10-7-1). after the game, Friars conTinued From page 20 coach nate leaman praised the 
irish defensive unit. Jackson said. “i’m sure we were “i thought it was a good team fortunate with bounces at times shutout [for notre dame],” but … he made some big saves.” leaman said. “i thought they 
petersen successfully weath-did a better job around their net ered a barrage of last-minute with their sticks, winning a lot of battles.” 

hinostroza put the game on ice for the irish in the final two minutes, scoring an insurance goal off a rebound. Freshman forward anders bjork’s shot was saved by gillies, but the puck bounced back out to hinostroza, who put it past the Friars goaltender for the 2-0 lead. 
The irish took Friday’s game despite being outshot by a 38-19 margin. 
saturday was another solid night for the notre dame power play — the unit is 13-for-40 in its last 11 outings — however, its two goals with a man advantage were not enough to push the irish past providence. 
after a scoreless first period where the teams combined for 27 shots, the second stanza saw five goals go on the board. 
The Friars got on the scoresheet first, as junior forward Kevin rooney ended petersen’s 137 minute, 53 second-long shutout streak by redirecting a shot past him at the 5:16 mark. 
but just 2:16 later, senior de­fenseman robbie russo tied the game up. The goal was russo’s 12th of the season, a mark that leads all ncaa defensemen. 
The deadlock did not last long, however, as the Friars re-took the lead just 1:49 later when se­nior forward ross mauermann tapped the puck into a mostly-empty net. rooney then doubled the lead a few minutes later, scor­ing the eventual game-winner to put providence up 3-1. 
“at the end of the day, we’re a team that scores at the net more than we do at the perimeter,” leaman said. “i thought last night we didn’t win any of those battles around their net and to­night, we won three.” 
The irish made things inter­esting in the second period when senior forward sam herr scored a fluke power-play goal with two seconds remaining. right when it looked as though the second period would end quietly, herr got around a defender to gain the zone. with time dwindling, he threw a centering pass towards hinostroza. however, the puck hit a providence defender’s stick and beat gillies to cut the deficit to one. 
however, none of notre dame’s momentum carried over into the third — the offense managed just five shots and was unable to find a tying goal. 
“This one hurts real bad,” russo said. “a lot of guys worked hard, a lot of guys did their job and usually when that happens, we’re a good team and we’ll come out on top, and that didn’t happen tonight.” 
The irish took three penalties in the third period, including two in the final 10 minutes, but Jackson said he was fine with his team’s discipline. 
“i’d probably rather talk to the supervisor of officials,” Jackson said. 
The split left notre dame tied with northeastern for fifth in hockey east with four games left to play. The top four teams at the end of the season receive a bye and will host a quarterfinal series, while the fifth- through eighth-seeded teams will host a first-round series. 
The irish head east to take on no. 3 boston university next weekend in a pair of games Friday and saturday. 
Contact Alex Carson at       acarson1@nd.edu 



CroSSWord | will shorTZ 


HIGHLy PunLIkeLy | chrisTopher brucKer 

dome nutS | alexandria wellman 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Sudoku | The mepham group 

HoroSCoPe | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: prepare to take advantage of opportunities. look for the route that promises to bring you the highest returns. Take control and be the one to make the first move. don’t give in to demands when you should be the one making them. what you do and say will set a standard and send a strong message to any competitors you encounter. your numbers are 8, 13, 19, 23, 26, 32, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t feel bad. an emotional response will not make you look good. Focus on the present, not the past or the future. do whatever job you are given to the best of your abilities. perseverance will pay off. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Travel and interact with others, and you will gain experience, knowledge and insight into how you can improve your life and balance your budget. love is in the stars, making this an ideal time to improve important relationships. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): overconfidence can be just as damaging as a lack of self-worth. Find a common denominator and do your best to cultivate an image that can help you gain popularity, improve your reputation and bring you closer to the goals you want to achieve. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): do something exciting. be adventurous and you will meet someone who has plenty to offer in return. don’t be afraid to explore and discover the possibilities that exist. opportunity will knock, but it’s up to you to open the door. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): an enthusiastic approach and bold commitment to your plans will draw attention. a trip will not run smoothly, but could result in an important change of heart. you will win support if you step up and take on a challenge. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): make plans to spend time with the people who motivate and inspire you. a partnership will help you complete your professional goals. don’t make alterations that are costly and unnecessary. practicality is one of your assets. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): put your problems on the back burner and enjoy spending time with a friend who listens without criticizing. Focusing on what you can do to contribute to your community will help you block out distractions. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): make personal changes that will raise your self-esteem and encourage you to reach your goals. an energetic approach to any challenge you face will ensure that you reap the rewards you deserve. celebrate with someone you love. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you’ll face a stalemate if you try to resolve a problem you have with a friend, relative or neighbor. Take a step back and work on self-improvements, not on trying to change others. discipline will bring good results. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): dedicate more time to the people and things you enjoy. Take the opportunity to fulfill your dreams. someone from your past will show interest in something you want to pursue. share memories and you will come up with the perfect plan. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Face problems openly. skirting an issue or ignoring facts will lead to a bigger challenge. a change to the way you conduct business will bring about a workable solution and put you in a good position for future opportunities. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): don’t waste time when you should be taking advantage of whatever comes your way. love is on the rise, but must not be allowed to interfere with your responsibilities. your timing must be impeccable if you plan to meet expectations. 


Birthday Baby: you are caring, expressive and clever. you are curious and helpful. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
HACTB  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
AIHKK  

BIRCAF HEELAX  
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

Answer here: 


(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: BLEND IMPEL STATIC EASILY Saturday’s 
Answer: People from Bangor who get carried awaywith their state pride are – “MAINE-IACS” 

make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer  
p.o. box 779  
notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year  
enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 

city      state Zip 

The observer | monday, february 16, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
benGaL boutS 

85th Bengal Bouts begin 
By BENJAMIN HORVATH, SEAN KILMER, CHRISTINE MAYUGA, MAREK MAZUREK, HUNTER McDANIEL, DANIEL O’BOYLE, BRETT O’CONNELL and BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writers 
135-pounds: 
arun “bollywood basher” nadar def. Conor “Chiggins” Higgins 
nadar started aggressive­ly, landing big combinations straight from the starting bell. graduate student higgins fought back, but nadar was able to dodge most of his efforts and responded with strong coun­terpunches. higgins started the second round stronger, keeping nadar at the end of his longer reach while landing blows to the morrissey junior’s head. as nadar began to tire early in the third, higgins connected some well-timed punches past nadar’s defense. nadar soon regained his energy, however, and forced 
see bouTs PaGe 13 


baSebaLL 

nd wins three in opening weekend 
By ISAAC LORTON 
assistant managing editor 
notre dame opened its sea­son with a packed schedule in norman, oklahoma, this week­end and came home with a 3-1 record. 
The irish defeated southern illinois-edwardsville (siu-e), 7-6, in a comeback win Friday after­noon to open their season, before going on to lose to oklahoma, 6-1, later that evening. 
notre dame bounced back in the next two games against the sooners (3-2) to earn a 10-9 win saturday and a 5-1 win sunday to take the series. 
“it was a really great weekend for us going in there facing a quality opponent like oklahoma, and fac­ing [senior pitcher ryan daniels] of siu-e, who was 7-0 last year, and being able to come out with three out of four was outstanding” irish coach mik aoki said. 
Throughout all of last season, the irish were unable to capture a road series victory. aoki said the irish are not focused on last year’s road woes at all, and their play this weekend demonstrated just that. 
“They did a really good job executing our season’s mantra, ‘Take every single game just one pitch at a time,’” aoki said. “don’t get caught up in the past, don’t get forward looking and trying to be as good as we can on the pitch that we’re about to play.” 
although the irish jumped to a 5-1 lead over the cougars (0-3), notre dame had to make a come­back Friday night, and it came from the bat of sophomore catcher ryan lidge. 
in the bottom of the seventh, down 6-5 with two outs and senior center fielder mac hudgins on first, lidge roped a two-run homer over the right field fence to put the irish up 7-6 and clinch the game. 
in the second game Friday night, notre dame was unable to get much going against sooners 
see baseball PaGe 18 
nd Women’S baSketbaLL 

blue devils to test irish on boards 
By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 
it’s been more than a month since any team has out-rebounded no. 4 notre dame, but the irish will face their biggest obstacle of the year tonight against no. 11 duke at purcell pavilion. 
The blue devils (19-6, 10-2 acc) lead the nation in rebounding mar­gin and are fourth in defensive re­bounds per game. They grab 13.8 more boards per game than their opponents, and the frontcourt duo of senior forward/center elizabeth williams (8.4) and freshman for­ward azurá stevens (8.2) both av­erage more rebounds than notre dame’s leader, freshman forward brianna Turner (7.5). 
“They’re so big and strong, and they rebound so well,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said. “and their guards rebound well, too. so we’ve got to do a better job boxing out than we have all season long. This is a real challenge for us.” 
eight duke players stand taller than 6-feet, and redshirt freshman guard rebecca greenwell puts up six boards per night, better than any irish guard. and while mcgraw said she is confident that her pair of forwards, Turner and sophomore Taya reimer, can match up against williams and stevens, she said she wants to see more from her backcourt. 
“we have a good frontcourt, but it’s a team rebounding thing that i’m worried about,” mcgraw said. “[Junior guard] michaela [mabrey]’s got to rebound, [sopho­more guard] lindsay [allen]’s got to rebound, we’ve got to get everyone on the boards.” 
mabrey and allen combine to collect 5.4 rebounds per game for the irish (23-2, 10-1 acc), but they were both shut out completely in notre dame’s last game Feb. 8 against boston college. 
in that game, mabrey set a ca-reer-high in points (20) and shot 50 percent from the field, but the blue devils will present a tougher challenge on defense for notre dame. They have limited their op­ponents to 33.7 percent from the field this season, good for fifth in the country. 
The eagles were the last team to defeat duke, topping the blue devils, 60-56, on Jan. 22. since then, they have won six straight, most recently beating virginia, 71­45, last Thursday. The irish, on the other hand, have had a full week to rest since besting the eagles. 
“it’s been really good for us to rest,” mcgraw said. “we had two 
see w bball PaGe 18 

HoCkey | nd 2, providence 0; providence 3, nd 2 
Notre Dame splits series with No. 10 Providence 

MONICA VILLAGOMEZ MENDEZ | The Observer 

Irish senior defenseman Robbie Russo pushes the puck up the ice in Notre Dame’s 2-0 win against Providence on Friday. 
By ALEX CARSON 
sports writer 
in its penultimate home se­ries of the season, notre dame settled for a split with no. 10 providence, winning Friday’s game, 2-0, before falling to the Friars, 3-2, on saturday. 
despite being outshot 10-1 in the early stages of Friday’s game, the irish (13-15-4, 8-6-4 hockey east) took the lead just past the midway point of the first peri­od when junior center Thomas dipauli fired a shot from the slot past providence junior goalten­der Jon gillies for a power-play goal. after freshman defense-man Jordan gross fed sopho­more forward vince hinostroza, he set dipauli up with the scor­ing chance. The assists — gross’ 19th and hinostroza’s 26th — continued points streaks for both players. 
but despite notre dame’s early lead, it was freshman goaltender cal petersen’s night to shine. he made 38 saves en route to his third shutout of the year. 
“[cal’s] feeling pretty good right now, and he’s seeing the puck pretty well, and that’s half the battle,” irish coach Jeff 
see hocKey PaGe 18 





