The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 107 | TUESDAY, MARCH 24, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
SMC annual conference promotes diversity 
Keynote speaker discusses womens’ rights in Pakistan 
By REBECCA O’NEIL 
news writer 
saint mary’s students, faculty and staff gathered in carroll auditorium on monday to hear pakistani entrepreneur and social or­ganizer shiza shahid share her life’s trajectory towards her position as the co-found­er and global ambassador of the malala Fund. shahid was the closing keynote speaker 
see paKisTan PAGE 5 



Professors reflect on history of GWS program at SMC 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
saint mary’s editor 
The saint mary’s student diversity board (sdb) cele­brated its 10th annual diverse studentleadershipconference (dslc) monday with work­shops, keynote speakers and panel discussions. 
sdb secretary, junior angela bukur said the speakers and workshop presenters offer powerful and insightful advice 
see gws PAGE 5 



Men’s lacrosse team wins ‘Game Changers’ award 
By MATTHEW McKENNA 
news writer 
The atlantic coast conference (acc), in part­nership with the united way, honored the men’s lacrosse team with the inaugural ‘game changers’ award for their service in the commu­nity at the dickinson Fine corrigan said the award is a new honor the acc has cre­ated to recognize the various teams in the conference who are particularly involved in service work in their respec­tive communities. 
arts  academy  and  other  
locations.  
irish  head  coach  Kevin  

“we’re proud to be recog­nized for what we’re doing, but it’s not a thing where we were trying to come in first,” corrigan said. “everybody is doing good work.” 
“we do a lot of different things,” he said. “The par­ticular work we are being recognized for is an ongoing mentorship program that we’ve had for almost a decade now at a local middle school. it’s been a constant strand over the years for our guys.” 
corrigan said the team has recently made an effort to get involved in long-term proj­ects where the team can have 
see lacrosse PAGE 4 


professor asks the question ‘can liberty be conserved?’ 
By JP GSCHWIND 
news writer 
claremont mcKenna pro­fessor and former federal gov­ernment administrator mark blitz explored the question, “can liberty be conserved?” on monday afternoon in geddes hall. 
To begin his talk, blitz said it is crucial to understand pre­cisely what liberty is before we can start to find a way of preserving it. 
“liberty is the authority to direct oneself and to not be constrained in directing one­self,” blitz said. 
in order to fully compre­hend this definition, it is im­portant to note that liberty is both natural and equal, blitz said. The equality of liberty means everyone has an equal authority to direct them­selves. he said that by nature, liberty is not a manifestation of arbitrary cultural prefer­ences formed by humans but instead a fundamental, natu­ral fact of life independent of other factors. 
“it’s not a throwaway term; it’s not a meaningless term. it’s really a fundamental term,” blitz said, in reference to natural rights. 
blitz said that the inde­pendence essence of natural rights is crucial to the concept of liberty. 
“we don’t make them, 
see liberTy PAGE 4 


GRC celebrates 10th anniversary with alumni panel 

By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
last night, the gender relations center (grc), along with shades of ebony, hosted an alumni panel to celebrate the 10th anniversary of the grc. The five panelists were crucial to the founding of the grc and included Kaitlyn redfield ortiz ‘06, Zach ortiz ‘06, John corker ‘07, lizzi shappell ‘07 and heather rakoczy russell ‘93. christine gebhardt, director of the grc, served as the moderator. 
The panel began with a dis­cussion of what prompted the panelists to realize an orga­nization such as the grc was necessary. redfield ortiz said the behavior of a male class­mate made her realize what a problem gender relations were at notre dame. 
“i was sitting in my fresh­men writing class, and this guy had a shirt on like one of those old snickers commer­cials, except it said ‘hungry? grab a smcer,” she said. “i was 
see grc PAGE 4 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 FooTball PAGE 16 men’s basKeTball PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: lesley stevenson Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 

Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: brian lach Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu lsteven1@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
What quality do you most admire in your female role model? 

Mary Hermann 
sophomore 
walsh hall 
“compassion.” 
Jen Lee 
senior mcglinn hall 
“ambition.” 
Mike Vitek 
senior 
off campus 
“independence.” 

Jenn Cha 
sophomore 
welsh Family hall 
“awesome sense of humor.” 
Charles Shinaver 
sophomore 
dillon hall 
“perseverance.” 
Chizo Ekechukwu 
senior 
walsh hall 
“determination.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Kayla mullen Zach Klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: Katie galioto rachel o’grady selena ponio christine mayuga 
Graphics Scene 
Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
Keri o’mara John darr 
Photo Viewpoint 
Vespers “Is Immigration Art Battle LGBT Retreat Holy Half Marathon 

emmet Farnan Tabitha ricketts 
Geddes Hall Reform Dead?” LaFortune Student Off campus Campus-wide 
5:15 p.m. - 5:45 p.m. LaFortune Ballroom Center All day 9 a.m. - 12 p.m. Reflection service 7 p.m. - 8 p.m. All day PRISM ND student-Benefits the South 
Corrections 
open to the public. Participate in dialogue. Student competition. organized retreat. Bend community. 
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and 
Memorial Mass for “Two Priests and a “The BIble, Narrative Men’s Baseball Film: Inherent Vice 

strives for the highest standards 
Lisa Yang Nun Walk into a Bar” and Modernity” Eck Baseball Stadium (2014) 

of journalism at all times. we do, 
Basilica of the Sacred Legends of Notre McKenna Hall 6:05 p.m. - 8:05 p.m. DeBartolo Performing 

however, recognize that we will make 
Heart Dame All day The Irish take on Arts Center 

mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
9 p.m.- 10 p.m. 7 p.m.- 8 p.m. Interdisciplinary Virginia. 6:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. 

please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Fr. John Jenkins to Panel discussion. conference. Open to the public. 
we can correct our error. 
preside. 


ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, MARCH 24, 2015 | The observer 


smc alum shares music teaching experiences 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 
saint mary’s welcomed alum­na anne pugliese Kasprzak and her neuqua valley high school chamber singers on monday. 
Zae munn from the department of music introduced Kasprzak, who graduated with a music edu­cation degree and high honors in 1994. Kasprzak also received de­partment awards in both music and education during her time at saint mary’s. 
Kasprzak is currently the di­rector of the chamber singers at neuqua valley high school in naperville, illinois, and serves as the piano accompanist at the holy spirit catholic community, also in naperville, munn said in her introduction. Kasprzak has been a member of the young naperville singers’ artistic staff for 11 years as their director, munn said. 
Kasprzak said her all-women choir is preparing for a multicul­tural concert and previewed their selections for the saint mary's community. Kasprzak said she has worked at a number of schools, in­cluding elementary, middle and high schools, with different levels of choral performances. 
“my first teaching job was at an all-girls high school outside of chicago,” Kasprzak said. “i walked into a pro­gram that had five different teachers in six years. There was no curricu­lum, there was no piano. … That year was a big growing year for me. i had to explore and find my own skills.” 
Kasprzak said she arrived at neuqua valley high school when she realized she needed to be around colleagues from whom she could learn more and who could help her grow as a teacher. 
“learning only begins the day you graduate from saint mary’s,” she said. “There is so much out there that you will learn in your field as you do it. i thought being in this school where i am the only music teacher, i’m not going to grow as a professional.” 
Kasprzak saidt the degree she earned at the college has enabled her to have various jobs, all of which she was passionate about. 
“one of the things i never realized 21 years ago was how many oppor­tunities are available to someone with a degree in music education,” Kasprzak said. “i’ve been able to find work during all phases of my life. From days when i was single and my whole life revolved around my job to now, when i have two young children and a newborn at home, i feel so lucky to have been able to adapt my career to my different life situations and circumstances. 

“not every field works that way,” she said. “it truly is a rewarding ca­reer with many opportunities. you just have to look for them.” 
Teaching is a challenging but hugely rewarding career, Kasprzak said. 
“Teaching is an art form that continually develops through the years,” Kasprzak said. “The more you do it, the better you get at it. you will make mistakes. own them, and learn from them. 
“grow from the challenges you will face inside and outside the classroom. Teaching is a career that requires a lot of energy, pas­sion and commitment. Find joy in your students and remember that learning never ends.” 
Contact Nicole Caratas at  ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 

Expert emphasizes interfaith dialogue 
— all of our lives — are going to be and expression in a certain society in commonalities rather than encouraging coexistence through 
By CLARE KOSSLER 

news writer worse for it.” indeed, he said, history provides differences.” a meaningful dialogue is par-during the talk, which is part of examples of religious exclusivists “we need the kinds of relations ticularly important in combat­
miroslav  volf, the henry b. a three-day conference celebrat-who also supported toleration of between religions in which they ting nihilism, which asserts that wright professor of systematic ing the 50th anniversary of the other belief systems. would be able to adjust their own values and value systems have no Theology at yale university, de-vatican ii document “gaudium “it’s not just that religious exclu-expectations from each other in foundation. livered a keynote address for et spes,” volf said that religious ex-sivists can be political pluralists, the context of living in the com-in contrast to nihilism, he said, the catholic social Tradition clusivism — which he explained but as a matter of fact, historically, mon space while staying true to many world religions actually conference on monday in as a religion’s belief in its exclusive they have invented political plu-their own identity and true to their support many commonly held mcKenna hall auditorium. in the access to the ultimate truth — ini-ralism out of their own interests.” own vocation,” he said. democratic values. address, he emphasized the im-tially seems to present an obstacle Furthermore, in some cases, ex-while these relations might “each world religion will have portance of interfaith dialogue in to the peaceful coexistence of dif-clusivism even encourages tolera-initially seem difficult to develop, and can have resources within achieving peace and happiness in ferent religions.  The problem, par-tion, he said. volt said they are actually very itself to embrace, say, freedom of an increasingly global world. ticularly, is that all world religions “you can be a religious exclusiv-natural to humans.  he gave the religion, to embrace equality of 
“world religions have an im-are fundamentally exclusive to ist, and just because of your exclu-example of family life, in which others,” he said. portant contribution to make as varying degrees. sivist religious convictions, you family members must take into lectures and panels will con-repositories of significant visions “There is no non-exclusivist po-can embrace pluralism as a politi-account the needs and desires of tinue throughout the day today of human flourishing, significant sition,” he said. “i don’t think there cal project,” volf said. each other in order to live together as part of the catholic social visions of the good life,” he said. are non-exclusivists in this room.” unfortunately, exclusivism in harmony. Tradition conference hosted by 
“if we don’t find ways to live, however, volf said religious does not always engender plu-“you don’t make decisions with-the center for social concerns. plural that we are, in peace within exclusivism does not necessarily ralism, but requires certain out thinking how your teenage the common political space under lead to political exclusivism or the conditions, volf said. one such son’s going to react,” he said. Contact Clare Kossler at  a common political roof, our lives restriction of freedom of beliefs condition, he said, is an “interest volf said this approach to ckossler@nd.edu 
AROUND CAMPUS 
Purple Week 
This week, notre dame’s relay for life will host “purple week,” a series of events to raise awareness and funds for the an­nual american cancer society fundraiser. 
“purple week gives the cam­pus community an opportunity to join in the fight against can­cer,” relay for life student co-chair amanda romeros said. 
The week includes $5 boot camp classes at rolfs, a “why do you relay?” event on south Quad on wednesday and a blood drive Friday. on Thursday, the dining halls will serve purple desserts, and students can register for the relay for life, which takes place in the compton Family ice arena on april 17. 
For more information, visit relay.nd.edu 
Cavanaugh Coin Wars 
cavanaugh hall’s new sig­nature event, cavanaugh coin wars, will take place this week. The fundraiser will benefit st. margaret’s house, a south bend day center for women and children. 
Through Friday, each dorm will have a jar in the dining halls and laFortune student center. coins put in the jar count for positive points, whereas dollar bills are negative. The dorm with the most positive points at the end receives a doughnut party. 
“all you have to do is go to the dining hall or go to [laFortune student center], and most people are already there, so it’s a great way to make an impact without re­ally having to do anything,” cavanaugh signature event commissioner gracie linus said. 
Black Cultural Arts Council Fashion Show 
The black cultural arts council at notre dame will host its annual fashion show saturday at 8 p.m. at the century center in south bend. The show, “risque,” will feature 30 stu­dents modeling in name-brand clothes as well as clothes from a variety of south bend boutiques. 
“it is far from what people would deem a ‘normal’ fashion show,” fashion show coordinator olivia mitchell said. “included in our show are choreographed scenes where our models por­tray characters, perform rou­tines and generally just have a lot of fun while on stage.” 
Tickets are available for $10 at the laFortune box office, and buses to the century center will be provided. 
WWI and Graphic Novels 
The nanovic institute of european studies will sponsor a performance and live-drawing of several texts related to world war i on wednesday. 
The event, titled “wwi in the graphic novels: a drawing cabaret,” will feature graphic novel artists chloe cruchaudet ivan petrus and Kris & maël. nanovic fellow and event mod­erator olivier morel said artists play an important role in under­standing the great war. 
“as creators, their art involves a lot of writing and storytelling, a strong relationship to the artistic and literary traditions, but also to photography, sociology and, of course, cinema,” morel said. 
morel said each of the artists chose a wwi-related text that inspired their work, which Film, Television and Theatre students dylan parent, austin hagwood, anthony murphy and guillermo alonso will act out. during their performances, the artists will draw the scene, and cameras will project the drawings for the audience to see. There will then be a discussion between the art­ists and the audience. 
“everyone should be aware that this first world war of the 20th century has profoundly changed our world in so many ways: its geography, its society and of course, its culture, its art history,” morel said. 
The event is free but ticketed. Tickets are available by contact­ing nanovic@nd.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 24, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Lacrosse 
conTinued From page 1 
a longer lasting impact than they have at one-time events. 
“every once in a while, there’s something great you can accomplish at one of those events, but there were too many of those events where i felt we weren’t getting the best return for our time,” corrigan said. 
corrigan said he believes recurring service creates a lasting impact on not just students but the community around them as well. 
“short of the time it takes us to get to the school, every minute that they’re there, they’re helping someone be­cause they’re forming a re­lationship with those kids,” corrigan said. 
corrigan said the mentor­ing program at dickinson pro­vided just what he was looking for in a service opportunity for his team. 
“because we’ve maintained this program for a while now, i think it becomes impactful not just on the kid you’re talk­ing to, but to the community of the school,” he said. “now the kids know that if you don’t do the things you’re supposed to do, you can’t be a part of the program. i think we’ve found a program that provides ser­vice to more people than just the ones we’re able to spend time with.” 
The mentoring the team does at dickinson is varied, corrigan said. 
“our guys do some tutoring and academic work, but some­times, it’s just hanging out and shooting baskets, and some­times it’s playing Jenga and battleship,” corrigan said. “what [the program] is try­ing to do is form an impactful relationship with someone, many of whom may not have strong male role models.” 
corrigan said he believes the program has been very beneficial for the students at dickinson, but even more so for his players. 
“one of the important things to us is that the culture of our team is one of gratitude here, they know that’s part of the program,” he said. “if the guys go through the program here and leave and all they did was play games, then we defi­nitely missed something.” 

Contact Matthew McKenna at mmcken12@nd.edu 
Liberty 
conTinued From page 1 
create them, or invent them, but that, in some sense, they are permanently there to be seen and discovered,” blitz said. 
however, blitz said, natu­ral rights are often ignored and trampled by man-made prejudices. 
“as with many self-evident things, you can’t see them if you are somehow blinded or wearing masks or looking through gauze,” blitz said. “you can see them clearly only if the blinders of class pref­erence or ethnic preference or group preference or tradi­tional ways or mysticism or unquestionably obedient re­ligious views are taken away.” 
according to blitz, the enlightenment was respon­sible for removing many of these blinders and espousing the cause of natural rights. despite the fact that the origi­nal backing of natural rights transcended partisan lines, it has became far more of a one-sided issue than it should be today, blitz said. 
individual liberty has be­come more strongly associat­ed with modern conservatism than liberalism, at least in the united states, but natural rights should draw its support from common ground, blitz said.
 “conservatism should con­serve liberalism, properly un­derstood,” blitz said. 
after defining natural rights, blitz examined the ways in which a society can protect and promote liberty. 
citing aristotle, blitz said that good character and a proper set of virtues are the foundations of successful liberty. 
“you can’t use your liberty effectively and therefore not and humility,” corrigan said. “Through service, you help guys 18-22 years old recognize how lucky they are, how for­tunate their situation is, and how easy it is to impact some­one’s life. That’s all part of the development process that we want our guys to go through, 
well, if you don’t have good character,” he said. 
in particular, blitz said, responsibility is one of the greatest virtues and character traits in this regard because it balances the potential mis­uses of liberty. 
“responsibility is taking charge and seeing things through to a successful con­clusion,” he said. 
while a free society re­quires responsibility, it par­adoxically produces it, as well, because liberty encour­ages citizens to remain true to their commitments and duties. 
blitz concluded his lecture by saying that liberal democ­racies are not morally lost, as some claim, but help develop the human soul. Following the lecture, he opened the floor up to questions. 
Contact JP Gschwind at  jgschwin@nd.edu 
and its part of what the mis­sion of any college athletic program should be about.” 
service work is integral to the notre dame student-ath­lete experience, corrigan said. 
“The guys knew that service was going to be part of the deal when they were recruited 
GRC 
conTinued From page 1 
shocked that this was accept­able, so it seemed kind of nat­ural that this is what we would work for.” 
The panelists then talked about the issues they faced when building up the grc. rakoczy russell said it was she said. 
ortiz, one of the founders of men against violence (mav), said another goal was to get men more involved in issues that males did not associate as “men’s issues.” 
“we were still at a time where sexual assault was still considered to be a women’s is­sue,” he said. “it was very in­teresting to see how different 
“I was sitting in my freshmen writing class, and this guy had a shirt on like one of those old Snickers commercials, except it said ‘Hungry? Grab a SMCer.’ I was shocked that this was acceptable, so it seemed kind of natural that this is what 
we would work for.” 
Kaitlyn Redfield Ortiz class of ‘06 
hard to collaborate with other groups because they had pre­conceived notions about what they were standing for. 
“The gender relation center, and probably me spe­cifically, were regarded with suspicion by pretty much ev­eryone,” she said. “gender was a really loaded term at the time and it was really hard to get anyone to sign on as a panel.” 
They also talked about their early goals for the grc and the primary issues they were try­ing to combat. shappell said they tried to emphasize reach­ing as broad an audience as possible. 
“one thing that i found was really important was trying to bring the gender relations center, for all of its impres­sions and and people’s stereo­types about whether we were left or we were right, or what we were doing, was to make the grc more mainstream,” groups within campus would try to work together with these different ideologies.” 
corker, another founder of mav, said there was a problem with men simply ignoring is­sues pertaining to gender. 
“There was a tacit, cop-out view of ‘that sort of stuff doesn’t happen at notre dame’ and ‘i don’t do that kind of stuff so i don’t need to take a stand against it,’” he said. 
To close, corker encouraged students to be proactive about finding and creating dialogue about gender issues. he said students need to challenge their own ideas. 
“don’t just be open to, but seek out conversations with other people for the express purpose of challenging the beliefs that you may have, that you may feel are right or are valuable,” he said. 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, MARCH 24, 2015 | The observer 


groups is a large part of the professor of political science “i remember taking a
Pakistan 

GWS intro to gws course, wagman and gws, said she works hard [pakistani woman to a doc­
conTinued From page 1 conTinued From page 1 

said. The course includes an in her classes to debunk ste­
tor because her] breast milk experiential learning com-reotypes of women as victims 
froze inside her from the to women in leadership. ponent, which requires stu-of their circumstances. 
for the college’s 10th annual cold,” shahid said. “i would “we are so fortunate to have dents to complete 15 hours of “The way women’s rights 
diverse student leadership spend the day talking to them on campus to share service at a local nonprofit, play out in morocco and 
conference (dslc). young girl in hot tents know-their stories with us and open she said. nonprofits at which egypt, Tunisia and Jordan, it 
despite shahid’s strong ing we couldn’t go outside up conversations about top-students have worked in-varies,” she said. “The middle 
family structure, she “knew because their mothers and ics that need to be changed clude hannah’s house and st. east is not some monolith.” 
all around [her] that things fathers did not want them to within the world,” bukur said. margaret’s house, she said. her class also studies the 
were broken.” be seen.” bukur said the aim of stacy davis, associate pro-way in which women’s rights 
shahid said she sought an-she said the gender dy­the conference is to inspire fessor of religious studies and are used as a justification for 
swers as terrorism and radi-namics of the relief center students. chair of the gws department, military intervention, espe­
calization grew during her informed her of a reality she “i hope the students take said the first women’s studies cially in media images, she 
post-9/11 childhood, lived had not witness before. away a new outlook on diver-class was taught in 1972 and said. 
under military dictatorship “i understood then what sity and confidence to go out titled psychology of women. “The way that muslim 
in pakistan. it meant to be a woman fac­into the world,” she said. The class promoted under-women are depicted in ad­
“Things like suicide at-ing harsh circumstances in as part of the conference, standing of women and diver-vertisements, the images do 
tacks, terrorist attacks were the world,” shahid said. “To three gender and women’s sity, she said. a disservice to women and 
becoming commonplace,” have your very body, your studies (gws) professors “There is a connection be-don’t afford them any agen­
shahid said. “i needed to un-very existence, as a source of presented a panel discussion tween gws long before di-cy,” sapra said. 
derstand what was happen-shame.” titled “gender and women’s versity was a code word on “advertisements [and other 
ing to my society, so i decided The activist said the learn-studies and diversity at saint campus,” she said. media images] create false 
to understand it through the ing experience was as inspir­mary’s college: past, present The department began dichotomies ... our women 
lens of women and girls who ing as it was saddening. and Future.” on a soccer field, davis said, are so empowered here in the 
lived the issues that i only “i also learned the power it is important to address when female professors at u.s. and [the images] create 
saw from afar.” of being an advocate,” she the contrasts between social the college began a faculty this ‘us and them’ mentality, 
shahid said she began to said. “i learned that i could justice and multiculturalism team and began to talk with instead of a solidarity mental-
take up roles that would al-multiply the influence that i and ideas of race, class differ-one another about women’s ity,” she said. 
low her to help the very wom-had as a grassroots volunteer ences and sexual orientation, issues. sapra said her students ex-
en she sought to learn from. if i could mobilize people, assistant professor of his-“in addition to being ex-plore the social movements 
tell stories effectively and tory and gws Jamie wagman cellent soccer players, they led by women who are often 
get people to act.” 
“I learned that I 

said. got to know each other and seen as marginalized by other shahid said her volunteer-
could multiply 

her introduction to gender eventually worked with sr. socities. For example, muslim ing experiences allowed her 
the influence 

and women’s studies course eva hooker to get a grant for women in some parts of the 
to understand her own role discusses the positive side of course development,” she world have converted the 
that I had as in the world around her. 

feminism, wagman said, but said. headscarf into an empower-
a grassroots “all of us have the power to the class also discusses criti-a 14-credit minor in gws ing icon, instead of a symbol 
create change,” she said. 
volunteer if I 

cism of feminism as a “segre-was approved in march 1985 of oppression. 
empowered, shahid said 
could mobilize 

gated sisterhood.” by the college, davis said. interest and work in femi­
she applied to some of the wagman said it is important This year marks the 30-year nist activity on campus ebbs 
people, tell stories top schools in the united 

to talk about how sometimes anniversary of gws, she said. and flows, based on the stu­effectively and get states with a personal state-early feminists movements in 1994, davis said the dent population, but the gws ment that read: “my society 
people to act.” 

were flawed. she said white introduction to gws course faculty searches to find ways 
is like a moth, drawn to the feminists and black femi-was taught for the first time to keep feminist activity a 
Shiza Shahid 

flame of its own destruction nists both protested the miss by volunteer faculty. davis sustained dialogue among 
co-founder … i want to get a scholarship america pageant in 1968. said she believes this fact in-students, sapra said. 
Malala Fund so that i can help my society, “They were working for the dicates the dedication of the davis urged students to 
so that i can help other girls.” same cause, but they weren’t interdisciplinary gws faculty look at the gws department 
“when i was 13, i began shahid said her full-ride working together; they to what the gws department as a model for change. 
volunteering in a women’s to stanford helped her un­weren’t talking to each other,” represents. “change does take time. it 
prison,” shahid said. “in derstand her country’s wagman said. in 2013, the joint gws fac-look 12 years to get a major, 
the prison, there were not problems in a much more in an introductory course ulty submitted a major pro-eight years to get a minor,” 
any real female doctors, so academic way. her deeper to gws, understanding the spectus and it was approved she said. “if you want to get 
i offered to set up medical intellectual comprehension, achievements of feminism is in 2014. currently, there are something done, particularly 
counsel along with a local paired with stanford’s entre­just as important as under-five students majoring in gws something that’s hard, it takes 
ngo [non-governmental or-preneurial brightest, primed standing the downfalls of ear-and the program expects to time, and some of the faculty 
ganization]. i would spend her to think about construc­ly feminist methods, wagman expand, she said. that started this program 
time with women who tive solutions for contentious said. davis said the gws faculty aren’t here to see it finish. 
were in deeply vulnerable issues. “gender and women’s is the most diverse staff on “inherent in any gws pro­
positions.” as terrorism in pakistan studies is a large and very campus, other than modern gram is activism. For the most 
shahid said observing grew, shahid said she “felt much growing discipline,” languages faculty. part, we are feminists and 
these women, and their in-the social fabric of [her] so-she said. “we talk about the “long before the sophia part of being a feminist is that 
carcerations’ effects on their ciety growing.” with its fray, way the movement wasn’t program, [gws staff] was you work for justice for other 
families, was tragic, particu-shahid felt beckoned to her unified in working for the teaching diversity classes that people.” 
larly for their children. homeland to apply what she rights of all women.” have stuck around and are 
“children at the site were had learned to those in need building empathy for the still taught today,” davis said Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at 
born while their mothers — girls who were forbidden experiences of marginalized sonalini sapra, assistant hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
were in captivity,” shahid to attend school, she said. said. “i understood what it shahid said she heard meant then to be discarded how the Taliban threatened before you were born for young girls who wanted those who were born be-to attend school just three hind bars and then raised hours north of pakistan’s behind bars along side their capital and felt compelled to mothers.” do something. 
her role as a grassroots or-at 20 years old, shahid ganizer would be something was inspired by a little girl she would practice repeat-named malala to help cre­edly throughout her lifetime. ate an environment for girls 
shahid said when she was where their education would 16, her best friend died in not be destroyed. an earthquake because the “discover beyond the life building he was in was built you were born into,” shahid with faulty materials. shahid said. “understanding who said she was the only regular you are is not only an incred­female volunteer at the local ible responsibility but an im­relief center, which meant mense joy.” all the women and girls with medical problems came to Contact Rebecca O’Neil at her. roneil01@saintmarys.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 

Make it happen 
Manuel De Jesus 
sports writer 

until you make an effort to see the rest of the world, you can’t fully understand the beauty of what life has to offer. everyone i have ever talked to has agreed with me when i tell them traveling is a remarkable experience. i don’t mean traveling from south bend to chicago or even boston to los angeles. i’m talking about traveling the world and really involving yourself in the different cultures and environments. 
it’s easy to say you understand the way other countries differ from ours, but do you really understand the difference if you’ve never traveled outside the united states? i don’t think you can. i’ve been on several trips to countries like puerto rico and honduras since i was eight years old, but i never really understood how special it is to travel until i was given the opportu­nity to go to italy when i was 17. 
i didn’t think much of the trip before actually getting on the plane, but once i landed in rome, i realized how special that particular trip was going to be. 
i knew i wasn’t in my comfort zone be­cause of how unfamiliar i was with where i traveled, but that’s the whole point. The adventure of walking in the unknown is what really opened my eyes. being in the presence of historical locations really put into perspective how amazing travel­ing really is for me. walking inside of the crumbling colosseum, staring up at the leaning Tower of pisa and standing in the middle of vatican city were some of the most surreal moments of my life. i went from reading about these places to sharing the same space with them. 
in addition to viewing historical sites, talking to native italians was one of my fa­vorite parts about being abroad. listening to some of their incredible stories about what they struggled with in terms of the country’s political and economic struggles and what they are enjoying about living in italy was another surreal experience. These were people living on the other side of the world willing to share personal stories with me, a stranger from the u.s. i also had the chance to learn a bit of italian, and although i didn’t actually learn how to speak it fluently, it was fun being able to learn some of the basic aspects of the lan­guage while sounding like a child when­ever i spoke it on the streets. 
i don’t have a lot of space to go into the specific details of my trip, but i was hoping to give those of you who haven’t traveled to other parts of the world a small glimpse of why it’s such an amazing and sometimes life-changing experience. make the ef­fort to get out of your comfort zone and go somewhere you’d never expect to visit, or even somewhere you never knew even existed. don’t let life go by without going on your dream trip. make it happen. 
Contact Manuel De Jesus at       mdejesus@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
lead, kindly light 

Dan Sehlhorst 
we’ve lost our Quorum 
early in the morning of Feb. 27, i found myself unable to sleep. as i tossed and turned, i made the typically uneventful decision to check my email, during which i discovered one of the most heart-wrenching moments in my lifetime. on a small screen, i read through fuzzy, half asleep eyes the saddest message ever to come to my inbox. 
i learned that university president emeritus Fr. Theodore hesburgh had been called home late on the night of Feb. 26. 
Fr. hesburgh was undoubtedly the most incredible man that i have ever met. he is one of the few individuals i would dare call a hero. after the initial shock, the first decision i made on Friday morning was to visit the grotto and pay my respects to my hero. 
as the sun rose behind the clouds over a frozen, snow-covered st. mary’s lake, i was greeted by an arrangement of candles spelling “Ted.” i was touched by the thought­fulness of the anonymous individual that left a sign of the enormous love this community felt for Fr. Ted in a sacred space that so fittingly represented his dedication to his faith and our lady’s university. 
i noticed some of the candles in the “Ted” display had been extinguished after running out of wax. i felt called to replace them, knowing that any memo­rial to Fr. hesburgh, even a temporary one, deserved to be complete. as i lit the first candle, i noticed that the flame stayed very small, only lighting the tip of the wick. it flickered weakly in the sub-zero degree wind. i hoped that it would not be smothered by the cold, harsh darkness. 
slowly, ever so slowly, the minuscule flame worked its way down the wick, flickering near the point of disap­pearing several times. when it reached the body of the wax, the flame grew. at first slowly, then faster, the flame erupted into a bright, beautiful glow. 
i felt, in that moment, under the gaze of our lady, that i had received a blessing. i saw in this small flame the story of faith and the story of leadership. alone, our light shines dimly, flickering near the point of passing away. when we connect to our faith, the source of our life and our spirit, and engage in building community that lives faith in its relationships, we receive strength, hope and love that em­power each individual to shine with their full potential. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Fr. hesburgh was a courageous leader in faith, calling for civil and human rights, international peace and gen­der equality, making enormous progress in eradicating injustice and building community. Fr. Ted was truly a titan of a man, but also a man of startling humility and devoted faith who asked simply to be known as a priest. 
as a man of god, there is no doubt in my mind that Fr. hesburgh was exemplary. in the days following his death, i have heard many stories about his deeply personal prayer. it has been described as something so profound that it left those who witnessed his words feeling as something of a spectator to an intimate, extraordinarily significant conversation. 
it is clear to me that Fr. Ted led this university from a place of faith, knowing that our faith called us to pursue truth, fight injustice and attain excellence. it is also clear to me that our path to stronger community and justice is a continued expression of the faith that leads us toward truth. 
one of my favorite songs is “lead, Kindly light,” as sung by the notre dame Folk choir. every time i hear its beautiful words, i feel a sharp tug deep in my soul. Just as the lord once said, “come, follow me,” the lyrics are calling me to take a step beyond that request and actively follow the light, my faith. 
Fr. Ted has often been called visionary. i found this term to be insufficient to describe the depth of a once-in-a-generation mind paired with a heart that everyone knew to be so full of love and devotion. when i read the back of my ticket to the memorial tribute, i was struck by the relevance of the quote from Fr. hesburgh, “vision alone gives us only a visionary, in the pejorative sense of the word. but join vision and faith, and mountains begin.” 
with being an inspiration comes a massive and irre­movable responsibility to show the ultimate example of maturity and moral leadership. i cannot express my grati­tude to Fr. hesburgh for exercising this leadership for our community and building the place that has instilled in me a love of truth, a love of community and a love of justice. 
Dan Sehlhorst is a junior studying economics and political science. Hailing from Troy, Ohio, and a resident of Zahm House, he looks forward to conversation about his columns and can be contacted at dsehlhor@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Why difficult conversations are impossible 
JC Sullivan 
prologue to Farce 

last week, senate majority leader mitch mcconnell announced his intention to delay a vote on loretta lynch’s confirmation as united states attorney general until the senate considers a bill aimed at fighting human trafficking. This bill has met democratic opposition because of certain anti­abortion provisions. The entire mess demonstrates washington’s propensity to value political bickering and point scoring over functional governance and policy making. such a storyline is simply the latest plot twist in washington’s political theater. 
however, some democrats have asserted that the confirmation hold up derives from a more insidi­ous motive than “politics as usual.” representative corrine brown commented, “there is hidden racism rampant in the house and the senate.” potential presidential candidate hilary clinton tweeted that the hold-up was one third of a “congressional trifecta against women.” senator dick durbin de­clared, “loretta lynch, the first african-american woman nominated to be attorney general, is asked to sit in the back of the bus when it comes to the senate calendar.” 
i have no interest in defending congressional republicans’ decision to stall the confirmation of ms. lynch. however, the claim that these ac­tions come from a place of racism or sexism is idi­otic. as president obama iterated, “this is purely about politics.” perhaps the most dumbfounding aspect of such claims is that eric holder, the man loretta lynch will eventually replace, is an african­american who was confirmed with bipartisan support. or maybe more dumbfounding is that senator durbin filibustered Janice rogers brown’s nomination to the u.s. court of appeals for the d.c. circuit, considering ms. rogers brown was the first african-american woman nominated to serve the position. 
even though these accusations are clearly un­supported, these types of comments have become commonplace in political rhetoric. Further, i think they represent a dangerous trend that has emerged among national discourse on topics of race and sex. 
one’s identity and adherence to an ever-growing standard of political correctness supersede reason and evidence as the standard by which arguments are evaluated and ultimately accepted or rejected. usually on the basis of toleration, debate on topics of race or sex is intensely regulated by those who feel any opposing viewpoint is inherently biased, bigoted, hateful, offensive or any of the growing list of “isms.” This standard maintains that your iden­tity fundamentally incorporates a bias or inability, ranging from subconscious ignorance to ingrained hatred, when discussing such topics. The logical basis or evidential support of one’s contribution is at least qualified and often dismissed based on such a standard. 
This new standard is evident in the claims of rac­ism and sexism in the lynch confirmation. while it is blatantly obvious that the confirmation hold up is a political maneuverer, the mere fact that loretta lynch is a black female allows outrageous claims of sexism and racism against senate republicans to not only be entertained but embraced. 
The irony of such a standard of political discourse is that it is inherently intolerant and exacerbates racism and sexism. it is, without qualification, intolerant that one’s viewpoint is discredited or written off from a discussion because of his or her identity or the identity of his or her opponent. To assume that any disagreement with an individual is motivated by racism or sexism utterly destroys meaningful conversation, especially regarding race or sex. it also manipulates our understanding of racism or sexism in the united states because such claims are recognized without any due consider­ation of evidence or reasoning. 
consider the post on salon titled 10 ways white people are more racist than they realize. The article claims to elevate a national conversation about ra­cial tolerance. yet, it does so by describing ways in which an entire race is inherently biased and there­fore unqualified to discuss this topic. recall that the definition of racism is the belief that all members of each race possess characteristics or abilities spe­cific to that race. 
identity and a logically inconsistent notion of “tolerance” is the standard in our contemporary discourse, not reason or evidence. This incorrect ordering creates a misguided understanding of an individual’s contribution as singularly motivated by his or her own identity or the identity of his or her opponent. This is perhaps the worst way to carry out a national dialogue on these fragile yet vital topics. 
if we want to have a real conversation about race or sex, which is what you hear in the ironically constant conversations about these topics, i would start by examining what contributions we value in this conversation and why. we already are hav­ing a conversation about race and sex in the united states, but when claims of sexism or racism are even entertained in circumstances like the confirmation of loretta lynch, i understand why many are disap­pointed with the results. 
JC Sullivan is a junior living in Keenan Hall. He can be contacted at jsulli18@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
The violence in our time 

every morning i wake up and read an email from The week detailing a short paragraph on each of the top 10 news stories of the day. i love reading this daily email. but all too often i cringe when i read it because so many of the news items report of violence. here are some headlines just from the past week: “suicide bombers kill more than 130 people at yemen mosques,” “attackers kill 19 people at Tunisian museum,” “isis used chemical weapons.” 
To read these news stories day after day, it is not difficult to become cynical about the state of our world and the awful things that are happening in it. and even in our country, the item that most pops up on these daily email alerts is the execution of criminals on death row in the united states. is the state of violence in our country as bad as in the middle east? clearly not. but it is not ideal, and the presence of the death penalty in our country is not a part of the peaceful world we want to live in. 
The reason to oppose the death penalty is not because we think that the heinous crimes that one commits (such as a husband murdering his wife and one-and-a-half-year-old baby) aren’t heinous. They are. The reason to oppose the death penalty is not to give mercy to those who have committed these crimes. The reason to oppose the death pen­alty is not because it’s cheaper to hold a prisoner for life than to have him executed on death row (even though it is). The reason to oppose the death penalty is not because some innocent members of society will be executed (even though they already have been). The reason to oppose the death penalty is not because the usa is currently the only west­ern country that still practices the death penalty. The reason to oppose the death penalty is not be­cause the catholic church and pope Francis have repeatedly called for its worldwide abolition, call­ing it “inadmissible.” 
These are all good reasons. but the primary and the best reason to oppose the death penalty is that every time a criminal is executed by the state, that criminal is executed by the government, and the government as an agent of the people. That per­son is executed in our name and in the name of every citizen in this country. we are sanctioning this killing — it is happening in our name. all citi­zens need to be cognizant of this and that this is happening. we need to be aware that members of our society are being killed for us. is this what we want? 
last month, captured Jordanian pilot mudah al-Kasabeh was burnt alive by isis. The next day before dawn, Jordan executed two prisoners by hanging in retaliation for the murder of their pilot. both were guilty of horrifying acts. but it should not have happened. it is a shame that it had to hap­pen. violence begets violence. murder gives way for more murder. in the case of capital execution, this is clearly true. is this what we want? 
in steven pinker’s landmark book The better angels of our nature, pinker writes that, contrary to what reading the news might tempt us to believe, world violence is actually at the lowest point it ever has been in human history. The world is getting better. pinker writes that this shift did not happen by accident: “we enjoy the peace we find today be­cause people in past generations were appalled by the violence in their time and worked to reduce it, and so we should work to reduce the violence that remains in our time.” 
capital execution is still legal in 32 states in the united states (including indiana). This is the violence that remains in our time that can be abolished and will be abolished in our lifetimes. we want a world of peace. we want a world where every person can go to school without fear of be­ing kidnapped, where every human can worship as they please without fear of being crucified. we want to be able to enjoy our lives peacefully. 
The death penalty is wrong. it is so clearly, un­equivocally, obviously wrong. abolishing the death penalty in the state of indiana will not eradicate vi­olence from our world. it will not stop isis or boko haram from doing what they do. but it is progress toward the world that we most want to live in. 
if you are interested in learning more about this issue, please consider attending sr. helen prejean’s talk “abolition of capital punishment” on Tuesday, march 31 at 7:00 p.m. at our lady of the road (744 
s. main street, south bend, indiana). 
Pat Boduch 
senior stanford hall march 22 



By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

The dream of six seasons and a movie lives on. in a move that would have shocked abed and have him rack­ing his brain for any predecessors in the history of tele­vision, “community” has risen from cancellation (and several prior near-cancellations) to find a new home on yahoo’s streaming service for its sixth season. 
of course, with this new home come a number of new developments. with the move to yahoo, one of the biggest changes for “community” is the cast shuffling. donald glover, who was a recurring cast member in season five, is still gone after his character Troy barnes departed from the show at the end of last season. chevy chase seems unlikely to reappear as pierce hawthorne after his guest role in season 5 (although his hologram is referenced). The newest and probably biggest change for this season, however, is the departure of yvette nicole brown (shirley bennett in the show), who has moved on to nbc’s “The odd couple” and taking care of her elderly father as the demands of a single-camera comedy show became too big of a commitment. 
with so many departures finalized, fans had plen­ty to worry about with the rebirth of “community.” There is nothing to fear though — the new season of 
Miko Malabute 
scene writer 

when your team plays for something as big as the conference championship, blood starts to boil over. Temperatures start to flare and pride starts to take over as fans become part of their team, part of the game. nowadays especially, we take to the Twitter-sphere to live-tweet our support to our team as well as occasionally dropping a bit of trash-talk to the opposition, all in the nature of good fun. This was exactly what ashley Judd — actress, political activist and proud member of the university of Kentucky’s big blue nation — was doing when Kentucky faced the university of arkansas in the sec conference championship. 
“@arkrazorbacks dirty play can kiss my team’s free throw making a-- @Kysportsradio @marchmadness @espn bloodied 3 players so far,” Judd tweeted from her Twitter account during the game. 
This is what it means in today’s culture when one is an active consumer in the entertainment business, be it sports, theater, music or anything else: they live-tweet it. instant reaction: raw emotion, unfiltered reactions. communicating an experience to hundreds of thousands of followers that is as unique to you as “community” is everything it should be: quirky, innova­tive and radically hilarious. 
in one of the first scenes of the first episode, “community” addresses the cast changes in the straightforward manner sprinkled with all the meta humor we’ve all come to know and love. The remaining members of the study group sit around their study table and discuss how empty it is. abed wonders about shirley spinning off into her own show, while ben chang (Ken Jeong) becomes paranoid about the growing whiteness in the group. 
with perfect comedic time, dean pelton (Jim rash) breaks the discussion to introduce Frankie (paget brewster), a consultant who will help fix up greendale after the roof collapses due to a Frisbee overload, and who, to ben’s dismay, is white. 
Throughout the first episode, Frankie plays the role of villain to the group. The study group fears that Frankie’s ideas for greendale community college will kill the heart of it, much like the fans feared yahoo would kill the heart of “community.” abed, to the dismay of the rest of the study group, quickly becomes friends with Frankie because she represents everything that he isn’t: ground­ed in reality, no-nonsense and boring. her character quickly develops though, and the dynamics between Frankie and the rest of “community” progress as well. 
your 140 characters will allow. Judd was tweeting her experience, how she saw the game and what she be­lieved was happening out there on the court. 
what happened in response to Judd’s sharing of her game experience is one that is horrible, yet unfor­tunately very predictable in today’s online-culture. vulgar, vile tweets from anonymous Twitter accounts masking countless people’s cowardice were sent to her, ranging from a variety of hateful insults to her as a person, disgusting comments to her as a woman and even threats to her, her livelihood and her family. This paragraph alone doesn’t do justice to how horrible these comments were. yet, should any of these Twitter users be hypothetically asked, it would be far too easy to imagine that they would say it was a “joke,” that it was all “trash-talk” in response to Judd’s own com­ments about the game. 
as a response to all of the hate, Judd took to mic — a website designated to reach the millennials genera­tion — to write an open letter to all of these people. she discusses how far-reaching the effects of the hor­rible tweets have been, and how those responsible justified such hateful, hurtful speech. 
“The themes are predictable,” she muses about the hate-tweets she has since received. “i brought it on myself. i deserved it. i’m whiny. i’m no fun. i can’t take a joke. There are more serious issues in the world. 
as before, the cast of “community” continues to be the cornerstone of the show, and in season 6 they continue to be absolutely brilliant. Jeff winger (Joel mchale) is still an alcoholic jerk whose blunt attitude sharply cuts through dean pelton’s strange behavior, while britta perry (gillian Jacobs) is still unhinged and melodramatic, coming into conflict with anyone and anything that stands in her way. 
in the second episode of this season, britta is forced to deal with the reality that her parents, whom she ran away from years ago, have actually been keeping close tabs on her through her friends and tries run­ning away again, albeit on a children’s bicycle this time. 
all of these characters are still absolutely ridicu­lous, but the situations they place themselves in, filled with bizarre pop culture references, ups the comedy even more. strange incidents involving speakeasies in greendale’s basement, the lamest virtual reality ever and the portuguese knockoff of “gremlins” show that the creative team behind community hasn’t lost its touch. six seasons and a movie seems like an incred­ibly attainable goal right now, but hopefully we, like Jeff winger, are never allowed to leave greendale. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
“grow thicker skin, sweetheart. i’m famous. it’s part of my job description.” 
if this is truly the stance that Twitter users are tak­ing to justify the hateful comments spewed in Judd’s direction, then it is truly unfortunate and a pity. Twitter, and social media as a whole, is constantly lauded as a means for the public to stay close and con­nect with their favorite celebrities and public figures. instead, instances like the one seen above is a con­stant example of how these platforms can be misused. 
The good thing, however, is that this is not an ac­curate reflection of people in our generation, the millennials with the power of mass communication literally in the palm of our hands. rather, this is just an unfortunate misguided cross-section of our fel­low men and women. perhaps it’s because they don’t realize the weight behind their words, or perhaps it’s due to the seemingly inconsequential manner of their one-sided interactions. but these things do carry weight, and there are consequences, even if they’re not immediate. 
Judd was a woman voicing her opinion, a fan show­ing her support for and doing a bit of trash-talking on behalf of her team. she shouldn’t get attacked for that. no one should. 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu 


KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene editor 

melbourne artist courtney barnett’s debut album, “sometimes i sit and Think, and sometimes i Just Think,” has been much anticipated by fans and music critics alike after her success with “The double ep: a sea of split peas,” her u.s. tour and appearances at festivals like bonnaroo and glastonbury. The album, which has been streaming on iTunes’s “First play” and was released today, has been put on a pedestal — and it won’t disap­point you. 
barnett’s lyrics hone in on eccentric yet relatable ex­periences. barnett focuses on incidents that are not nec­essarily overlooked but rather reflected on during one moment or another before being filed away into the back of one’s mind. 
her keen annunciation is marked by her australian ac­cent, which remains noticeable in all her songs and col­ors her spoken, conversational delivery. 
during a session at australian radio station Triple J, barnett covered Kanye west’s “black skinhead.” she dis­cussed how she is frequently asked to rap, as her lyrics are “wordy.” at first, this may seem like an inane way to describe lyrics — yes they’re wordy, they are words — however, in context of her lucid but rambling storytell­ing, “wordy” sums up barnett’s style. 
her droning and circuitous lyrics and instrumen­tals on her longest tracks, “small poppies” and “Kim’s caravan,” emulate the mundane routines of life. “i drank ‘til i was sinking / sank ‘til i was thinking” croons barnett on “Kim’s caravan,” crafting a rhythmic lyrical pattern reminiscent of falling into the sort of whirlpool she describes. 
she combines quirky happenings with angst and the mundane to create relatable, humorous scenes through her lyrics. her songs have a storytelling aspect, yet they don’t attempt to impose meaning on the listener. 
This idea aligns her with the anti-folk genre: raw but unassuming. 
although many, such as rolling stone, reflect on barnett’s “chill,” i would argue that although her music has an under-processed charm. her 10-song album was recorded in 11 days; she is about as chill as an anxious insomniac hoarder. 
barnett never stops being a songwriter: collecting mo­ments, jotting them down, coming back to them and formulating lyrics from what she has recorded. it is this mindset that allows her to produce such seemingly bi­zarre yet inherently realistic situations in her songs. 
“when i see something that interests me or hear some­one say something interesting, i try to make a copy of it on whatever piece of paper is close by,” she told the new york Times. “a simple line about that moment can jog my memory of the other things around it pretty well.” 
she shoots with a polaroid camera to accomplish the same effect: “you can carry it around with you for the rest of your life and remember that one moment,” she said. 
Thankfully for us, we can also experience that laugh­able (“give me all your money and i’ll make some ori­gami, honey — “pedestrian at best”), dark (“i dreamt i stabbed you with a coat hanger wire” — “small poppies”) or putrescent (“a possum Jackson pollock is painted on the tar” — “dead Fox”) moment through her songs. 
This lyrical style, built on taut and vivid description, is on show during “elevator operator”, a track that un­folds like a short story. a man with “a thick head of hair who worries he’s going bald” decides to skip work, gift­ing his tie to a homeless man as he heads to a tall build­ing and tripping in a pothole on the way. in the elevator he reaches for the rooftop button at the same time as an overly botox-ed woman. The lyrics transition into dialogue: the woman urges him not to commit suicide and he says that he just likes to look at people from the roof to “imagine he’s playing sim city.” This humorous, nostalgic response is contrasted with another: the idea that the woman is projecting her feelings onto him. The man goes on to admit that while not suicidal, he is “idling insignificantly.” 
“idling” and “insignificance” are recurring themes throughout the album. barnett addresses her own insig­nificance, settling on her zodiac sign as a good indicator of who she is — “i’m a fake, i’m a phoney, i’m awake, i’m alone, i’m homely, i’m a scorpio” — on gritty lead single “pedestrian at best.” she describes the time she spends idling “awake at four, staring at the wall, counting all the cracks backwards in my best French” in all too relatable “an illustration of lonelieness.” 
she also addresses society’s insignificance due to idling on “Kim’s caravan.” upon noticing a dead seal on the beach, she goes into society’s, and her own, failed ef­forts to support the great barrier reef: “i would wanna die too, with people pouring oil into my air, but to be fair i’ve done my share, guess everybody’s got their different point of view.” 
barnett’s reflections on waiting room books and or­ganic vegetables may sound mundane, but when paired with her garage-esque guitar interludes, distinct capti­vating croon and vivid lyricism, you will be yearning to just sit and listen to them. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaul@nd.edu 
“Sometimes I Sit and Think, Sometimes I Just Think” 
Courtney Barnett 
Label: Mom + Pop Music Tracks: “Depreston”m “Elevator Operator”, “Dead Fox” If you like: Sharon van Etten, Laura Marling 



KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Looking at March in a new way 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
march madness is here, but it isn’t the ncaa variety. This is the march madness of nFl free agency. 
The past two weeks nFl teams around the league have been trying to improve their rosters, whether it be the search for a franchise quarterback, a top notch skill position player or a few defensive role players to put them over the edge. 
with all of that in mind, here is a look at some of the win­ners and losers after a week of free agency starting with the winners. 
New York Jets 
The biggest winners from the first week of free agency are undoubtedly the Jets. First year general manager michael maccagnan has proven he is serious about taking the Jets back to an aFc championship game by signing cornerbacks darrelle revis and antonio cromartie, quarterback ryan Fitzpatrick and trading for wide receiver brandon marshall. First, revis is the best cor­nerback in the game (sorry richard sherman), and he and cromartie both played for the Jets defense that led the team to its second-consecutive aFc championship game in 2010. Though Fitzpatrick is not a top-tier quarterback by any means, he is an improvement over geno smith, and with a sparse quarterback free-agent pool, he is the best the Jets could have realistically hoped for. Technically marshall wasn’t a free agent, but his coming to new york is still a major boon for the organization, especially considering they only had to give up a fifth-round pick for him. Things just may be look­ing up for new york. 
Indianapolis Colts 
The colts also had a sub­lime week on the free-agent market. Their acquisition of running back Frank gore and wide receiver andre Johnson now has indianapolis as the odds on favorite to win super bowl 50. a consistent run­ning back has been the miss­ing piece for the colts for two years now. The team tried to address this need last season by giving up a first-round pick for Trent richardson, a move which didn’t pan out, but with gore, they’ve found the right man for the job. gore has been the model of consistency over the past few years with san Francisco, and his downhill rushing style and pass protec­tion abilities are exactly what the colts need. while it’s true he’s 31, with andrew luck and the passing game being the focal point of the colts’ offense, gore won’t be expected to carry too heavy a load. 
speaking of the passing game, Johnson adds another top notch receiver to work the middle of the field while 
T.y. hilton runs deep routes. Johnson is experienced and can become a valuable leader for the colts as they look to make it to their first super bowl since peyton manning left the team. 
while there have been defi­nite winners so far this offsea­son, there has also been a clear loser. 
Philadelphia Eagles 
The eagles came out of the blocks surprising people this offseason by trading their star running back lesean mccoy to buffalo for linebacker Kiko alonso, who is coming off of an acl injury. mccoy has been the motor of chip Kelly’s of­fense the last two years and trading him for a recently injured — albeit very promis­ing — inside linebacker is not something i agree with. Fans of the eagles can rest a little more easily since they replaced mccoy with the rushing cham­pion from last season, demarco murray. murray should be able to give Kelly the same produc­tion mccoy did, but the kicker of the whole situation is alonso. if alonso remains healthy he can be a huge asset and im­prove an already strong de­fense. however, the more likely outcome is alonso comes back as an average linebacker, and while that’s all well and good, an average linebacker is not worth mccoy. in addition, the eagles failed to keep their best receiver when Jeremy maclin went to the chiefs. This means philadelphia will most likely have to shell out more money to keep the wide receiver position viable. 
yet another shock to eagles fans came when the team traded starting quarterback, nick Foles, for st. louis’ starter, sam bradford. bradford has a history of injuries, and it is unlikely he will be able to stay on the field for an entire sea­son. even when he is on the field, bradford’s performance is nothing to write home about. bradford has only one season in which he has higher than a 60 percent completion rate. with that in mind, it seems unnecessary to trade bradford for Foles. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | maryland 85, princeTon 70 
Undefeated Princeton falls to Maryland 
Associated Press 
college parK, md.  — laurin mincy scored 27 points, and top-seeded maryland used a second-half blitz to knock off previously unbeaten princeton 85-70 monday night and advance to the sweet 16 of the women’s ncaa Tournament. 
after leading by only 42-38 at the break, the Terrapins used a 17-2 run immediately after halftime to turn a surprisingly tight game into a rout. 
The Terrapins (32-2) will bring a 26-game winning streak into a matchup with duke on saturday in spokane, washington. maryland and duke were longtime rivals in the atlantic coast conference before the Terps moved to the big Ten this season. 
lexie brown scored 23 for the Terrapins, who will be making their fourth con­secutive trip to the sweet 16. maryland reached the Final Four last year. 
eighth-seeded princeton (31-1) was coming off the program’s first-ever win in the ncaa Tournament, on saturday against wisconsin­green bay. The ivy league champions hoped to make a statement against one of the nation’s elite teams, and for a half, the Tigers hung right in there with the big Ten titlists. 
blake dietrick led princeton with 26 points and vanessa smith added 15. 
princeton made 10 of its first 13 field-goal tries and led 28­24 on the Terrapins’ own floor before an enthusiastic crowd that clearly favored the home team. 
outscoring maryland 28-6 in the paint while holding center brionna Jones without a point in the first half, princeton had several leads before falling be­hind at the break. Jones had 22 points and 12 rebounds in the tournament opener against new mexico state, but she was not a factor in this one until the second half. 
with Jones struggling against the suffocating cover­age of alex wheatley, the Terps opted to fire from the outside before halftime. despite con­necting on five 3s, maryland was outrebounded 15-12 and allowed the Tigers to shoot at a 59 percent clip. 
in the second half, however, maryland proved to be too fast, too big and, most impor­tantly, too talented. 
after the teams exchanged baskets, mincy scored in the lane and Jones sank two free throws. Jones and shatori walker-Kimbrough then made successive baskets be­fore mincy drilled a 3-point­er. Field goals by brown and malina howard completed the run, making it 59-40 with just under 14 minutes to play. 
Jones finished with 10 points and 10 rebounds. mincy, in her final home game, went 9 for 11 from field, including 6 for 7 from beyond the arc. 
despite coming up short in this one, the Tigers proved they have big-time draw­ing power. president barack obama attended the opener (his niece is a backup for­ward) and this game attracted supreme court justices elena Kagan and sonia sotomayor, both of whom graduated from princeton. 
NBA | celTics 101, neTs 91 
Turner drops triple-double, celtics beat nets 
Associated Press 
new yorK — evan Turner had 19 points, 12 assists and 10 rebounds, and the boston celtics beat the brooklyn nets 110-91 on monday night to snap a three-game los­ing streak that had dropped them out of playoff position. 
avery bradley scored 20 points to lead the celtics, who entered a half-game 
behind  charlotte  for  the  
no. 8 seed in the  eastern  
conference.  They  had  a  

chance to be right back in the final east spot if the hornets lost in chicago. 
Tyler Zeller and Kelly olynyk each had 18 points for boston, which bounced back from a 105-97 overtime loss to detroit at home on sunday. coach brad stevens said he felt his players tight­ened up in that game, but 

WANTED 
TRIPLE DOMER NEEDS NANNY--SUMMER ONLY, P/T, or F/T: ND family needs an energetic, 
they had a mostly stress-free second half monday af­ter quickly pulling away in the third quarter. 
brook lopez scored 31 points for the nets, who had won two in a row to give themselves renewed play­off hopes. but they endured bad nights all over the ros­ter, from Joe Johnson (3 for 
11) to Jarrett Jack (1 for 9) to alan anderson (2 for 9). 
boston claimed the tie­breaker by winning the sea­son series, 3-1 and moves on to another important game wednesday at home against miami. The nets head to charlotte and probably wel­come another key game on the road after falling to 12­20 in their home arena. 
boston scored nine straight to open a 71-57 cushion midway through the third quarter, and when the nets trimmed it to five, the celtics responded by pushing it back to double digits in the final minute of the period before taking an 83-74 lead into the fourth. 
Zeller made all five shots for 10 points in 10 min­utes of the third quarter, then olynyk scored seven straight early in the fourth to give the celtics their larg­est lead at 96-80 with 8:19 to play. 
marcus smart was back for boston after being suspend­ed one game for punching san antonio’s matt bonner in the groin, which stevens called an “unacceptable play.” smart started but was replaced by Jae crowder to open the third quarter. 
deron williams had 10 points, 10 assists and nine rebounds for the nets. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
outdoor-loving, reliable gal to trav­el to beautiful Jackson Hole WY from end of May/early June to early August as our live-in nanny. Email: info@greymattersintl.com 
“It sure was exciting to watch your rockets go up,” Name that movie for free food of your choice from Reckers! Email rogrady@nd.edu with the answer 


NBA 

paul george close to playing shape 
Associated Press 
indianapolis — paul george might be close to playing shape. 
he’s still not there yet. 
The pacers’ two-time all-star told reporters monday that although he’s eager to clear the final hurdle in his 7-month recovery from a broken right leg by return­ing to game action, he’s not going to push himself to go too soon. 
“we want to make sure i’m as close to 100 (percent) as possible,” george said. “it’s not coming down to you know, ‘paul’s feeling good, let’s get him out there.’ it’s about making sure every­thing’s where i’m comfort­able, where the medical staff is comfortable, where the front office is comfortable.” 
The temptation, of course, is to make it back now. 
indiana (30-39) has lost five straight and has slid from the no. 6 spot in the east into a tie for ninth, which would keep them out of the playoffs. 

meanwhile, george has been looking and sounding more comfortable since re­turning to full practice in late February. he said he’s moving better, feeling more confident and has become a more regular part of pre­game warmups and post-practice shooting drills. 
but it’s unclear when fans should expect to see him suit up in his new no. 13 jersey. 
“we’ve had conversations all year about many differ­ent (target) dates, and it all comes down to he’s not go­ing to play before he’s ready and larry (bird) will make the final call on that,” coach Frank vogel said, referring to the pacers president of basketball operations. “but the medical team is advis­ing it, the coaching staff is watching how he’s play­ing and we’ll make a group decision.” 
paid adverTisemenT 
george was one of the league’s brightest young stars before running into a basketball stanchion during a u.s. national team scrim­mage aug. 1 in las vegas. he had surgery to repair the leg within hours of the in­jury and most expected the 24-year-old to miss the en­tire season. 
Team doctors told the pacers the bone should be fully healed by march 1. 
after returning to prac­tice three days sooner than expected, george acknowl­edged his target for a return was march 14 or march 16 — even though team officials never established an official timeline. he’s still hoping to make it back this season. 
“you know if it gets to a point where i’m feeling great consistently, then yeah, i do feel comfortable and confi­dent in my abilities now and 
more  important  playing,  
hopefully  during  the  sea­ 
son,” george said.  

NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | n.c. 86, ohio sTaTe 84 
UNC women reach Sweet 16 
Associated Pres 
chapel hill, n.c.  — Jamie cherry has been at her best lately with the clock winding down. 
she beat another buzzer — and sent north carolina back to the sweet 16. 
cherry’s jumper with 0.6 sec­onds left sent the Tar heels past ohio state 86-84 on monday night in the second round of the ncaa Tournament. 
“Taking the big shot, it’s a big shot and everybody dreams of hitting the shot,” cherry said. “i just wanted us to move on to the sweet 16, especially for our seniors. ... i didn’t want it to end here for them.” 
stephanie mavunga had a career-high 27 points and 14 re­bounds, allisha gray added 20 points and brittany rountree had 15 for the fourth-seeded Tar heels (26-8). 
They blew a 23-point lead be­fore cherry’s latest big shot sent them into a greensboro regional semifinal matchup against top-seeded south carolina (32-2) on Friday night. 
ameryst alston had 30 points for the fifth-seeded buckeyes (24-11), who never led but tied it twice during a frantic final minute — the last coming when Kelsey mitchell’s free throws made it 84-all with 5.1 seconds left. 
“i never thought that we were out of the game,” mitchell said, “but i did think when we buckled down and played defense like we’re supposed to, we can make something happen.” 
The Tar heels brought in cherry in place of 6-foot guard n’dea bryant because of what coach sylvia hatchell called “di­vine intervention”. 
“i knew she could make it,” hatchell said. 
gray inbounded to cherry, who raced down the right side­line through the ohio state pressure and pulled up for an 18-footer that swished through. 
it was the second clutch shot this month for the freshman, who hit a 40-footer at the regu­lation buzzer to force overtime in an eventual loss to louisville on march 6 in an atlantic coast conference quarterfinal. 
“it was the same feeling,” cherry said. “i still was nervous.” 
several members of north carolina’s bench ran onto the court in celebration before the buzzer sounded. 
according to rule 10, sect. 4, article 7 of the ncaa rulebook, such a delay in a game shall be ignored “when the delay does not interfere with play.” 
The buckeyes didn’t get a shot off before the horn. 
mitchell, the nation’s leading scorer, finished with 25 points and alexa hart added 15 points and 10 rebounds for ohio state. 
The buckeyes spent the entire second half chipping away at the Tar heels’ big lead. mitchell hit a 3 with 40.4 seconds remaining. 
MLB | phillies 3, Twins 0 
buchanan allows 2 hits in 5 innings 
Associated Press 
clearwaTer, Fla. (ap) 
— david buchanan knows what it feels like to not make philadelphia’s opening-day roster, and he has no plans to repeat last year’s experience. 
buchanan allowed two hits in five innings, cody asche hit a two-run homer and the phillies beat the minnesota Twins 3-0. 
expected to be the phillies’ no. 4 starter, buchanan struck out three and walked none. he has given up one run over 12 innings in his last three games. b 
buchanan said he’s been focused on throwing strikes. 
“it’s exciting, honestly, but i’m not really trying to get caught up in that,” buchanan said. “i haven’t heard any­thing. i don’t know anything. The first two outings i was really trying to prove myself because of last year and what happened and ended the year on the team. i was really stressing to try and prove my­self to get another spot, and i think that’s why i wasn’t throwing well, because i was worrying about things i didn’t need to worry about.” 
asche put the phillies ahead in the second with his third home run in five games. The drive came off mike pelfrey, who gave up two runs — one earned — and seven hits in 4 2-3 innings. 
“i think he got a little spent near the end, so that was good to extend him,” Twins manager paul molitor said of pelfrey. 
carlos ruiz had reached leading off the inning on shortstop eduardo nunez’s throwing error. 
dan rohlfing’s passed ball allowed darin ruf to score in the eighth. 




ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | nd 4, Fsu 3; nd 3, georgia Tech 4 
Irish beat FSU, fall to Ga. Tech 
Observer Staff Report 
no. 32 notre dame hit the road this weekend, swinging through the deep south for a pair of acc matches, defeating Florida state and falling to georgia Tech by a pair of 4-3 final scores. 
after spending time in Florida over spring break preparing for the outdoor portion of their schedule, the irish (10-6, 4-3 acc) returned to the sunshine state to take on the seminoles (10-6, 3-4 acc). 
They were victorious in Tallahassee, Florida, on Friday afternoon by the closest of mar­gins, securing of 4-3 victory. 
The irish staked an early lead by claiming the doubles point before beginning the singles portion of the afternoon. The no. 21 combination of junior Quinn gleason and sophomore monica robinson shut out their first-position doubles counter­parts from Florida state, seniors daneika borthwick and Kerrie cartwright, 8-0. at third-posi­tion doubles, sophomores mary closs and Jane Fennelly clinched their match over seminoles senior mia vriens and junior yukako noi, 8-3, good enough to give the irish their early lead. Freshman allison miller and ju­nior Julie vrabel dropped their match, 8-3. 
The doubles point turned out to be the deciding factor after the irish split singles with the seminoles. Florida state won the first three singles matches to take a 3-1 lead, but miller, robinson and closs followed to complete the comeback for notre dame. 
after earning their victory against Florida state on Friday, the irish traveled north to atlanta to meet up with yet an­other acc opponent in georgia Tech on sunday. 
The yellow Jackets (6-6, 3-3 acc) squeaked by the irish by just a single point, winning by the score of 4-3. 
like they did against Florida state, the irish came out on top during the doubles portion of the match. while gleason and robinson were defeated in a tight 8-6 matchup at no. 1 dou­bles, both no. 2 and no. 3 dou­bles were able to secure victories. 
at no. 2 doubles, miller and vrabel cruised to an 8-4 win over freshman alexis prokopuik and junior natasha prokhnevska, and at no. 3 doubles closs and Fennelly pulled out an 8-7(4) tie­breaker over freshman Johnnise renaud and sophomore rasheeda mcadoo. 
in the singles portion of the af­ternoon, notre dame did not fair as well against the yellow Jackets as it did against the seminoles on Friday. 
robinson came away with a point at no. 2 singles by de­feating no. 64 freshman paige hourigan, 6-3, 4-6, 6-1. likewise, vrabel defeated pokhnevska at no. 3 singles, 6-3, 6-2. other than those two bright spots, the irish found no luck against georgia Tech, with closs, miller and Fennelly all falling in the third set. 
after splitting their weekend slate against acc opponents Florida state and georgia Tech, the irish will have the week to rest, recover and prepare for an­other action-filled weekend back at notre dame. 
The irish return to action on Friday at 3:00 p.m. when they welcome north carolina state to campus, and they will also take on non-conference foe marquette on sunday at noon. both matches will take place in­side eck Tennis pavilion or out­side at courtney Tennis center. 


SMC TENNIS | smc 6, alma 3 
belles swing past scots in conference match 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 
saint mary’s defeated alma by a score of 6-3 in an miaa conference match saturday at angela athletic center. The vic­tory improved the belles to 6-6 on the season and 1-1 in confer­ence play. 
in singles competition, the play was fierce and decisive. not a single match went to a third set, instead they were decided in straight sets. belles junior andrea Fetters ended up on the wrong side of her match, losing 6-4, 6-2, at the top of the singles lineup. in the next match, senior Kayle sexton was victorious in straight sets, beating her opponent 6-0, 6-4. senior Jackie Kjohlede domi­nated, winning her match in straight sets 6-0, 6-0. senior shannon elliot was narrowly edged out in straight sets, 7-5, 6-1, at the fourth spot, but ju­nior margaret Faller controlled her match from the onset, win­ning 6-1, 6-0, while freshman bailey oppman finished off the singles matches with a 6-1, 6-1, victory. 
“i was happy with our sin­gles play because we are play­ing with a bit more patience in some situations,” belles head coach dale campbell said. “Jackie Kjolhede at no. 3 [sin­gles] had an impressive 6-0, 6-0 victory. most all of our singles players had good matches, however shannon is battling through some injuries at no. 4 and our no. 1 andrea Fetters played a tough, experienced opponent.” 
The day’s doubles action featured hard-fought perfor­mances from both sides. saint mary’s top doubles team of sexton and Faller ended up on the wrong side of a closely con­tested match, losing by a score of 8-6. The team of elliott and Fetters cruised to an 8-2 vic­tory in their match. sophomore sam setterblad and freshman maddie minaudo rounded out doubles play for the belles with an 8-3 victory. 
“we still need to come out with more energy for doubles, basically being more asser­tive,” campbell said. “There are opportunities to take the net, and opportunities to pick off volleys that we are not taking. we can increase those chances by at least 30 percent, so that is a focal point. getting two out of three doubles is important, and we actually have not done that enough. it was nice to win at least two (saturday), but i thought we had the potential to sweep them.” 
saint mary’s next match is against conference foe no. 14 indiana wesleyan at angela athletic center on wednesday at 4:00 p.m. The match was originally scheduled to be played today but was post­poned due to monday’s inclem­ent weather. 
“[indiana wesleyan is] a strong non-conference op­ponent with a lot of talent and power,” campbell said. “we will have to adjust the best we can in a short amount of time, but we have played a few strong teams like them.” 
Contact Michael Ivey at  mivey@hcc-nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, MARCH 24, 2015 | The observer 



Fencing 
conTinued From page 16 
indeed, four of the six athletes to compete in the first day of the tournament were freshmen with no championship experience. Kvaratskhelia’s team took the aftermath of the first day as an opportunity, though, and used it as motivation for a stellar conclu­sion to the bouts, he said. 
“after the first day we knew that we would only get better, knowing that we had an experi­ence accomplished team in the women ready to start the climb,” Kvaratskhelia said. 
The success of that climb had a lot to do with the team’s senior leadership, Kvaratskhelia said. graduate student and former national champion ariel desmet paced the irish men’s squad with an impressive 16 wins in 23 bouts, earning him a share of the bronze medal in men’s foil. senior madison Zeiss, competing in the same class as teammate and eventual champion, irish ju­nior lee Kiefer, won 16 bouts of her own. 
Kvaratskhelia sung the praises of Zeiss’ senior leadership as well as her tandem record with Kiefer over the past three years — an ef­fort so dominant that it prompt­ed a “huge thank you” from her coach following the tournament. 
“The last three years they have been the most dominant duo on the national scene,” he said. “madison and lee over the last three years as a duo together won more bouts than any other weap­ons in either gender together on average. what she has done, alongside lee, has been unprec­edented on the national scale.” 
Kiefer herself earned her third individual national champi­onship in as many years for the irish with a 15-13 victory over columbia’s margaret yu. according to Kvaratskhelia, she plans to take the coming academ­ic year off to prepare for qualify­ing to represent the united states in the 2016 olympics in rio de Janiero, brazil. 
“you know, when you have someone [like lee] — we expect all of our star fencers to give us 15 wins. she averages 20,” Kvaratskhelia said. “she has won 98 percent of her bouts for three years. There’s no higher value than having that superstar who contributes every year to the maximum and gives us that con­fidence moving forward.” 



as bright as lee’s career with the irish has been thus far, fresh­man Francesca russo has only just begun to establish herself as an irish fencing mainstay. This past weekend, the new Jersey na­tive upset two higher-seeded op­ponents to win her first national championship in women’s sabre. after the tournament, russo de­scribed her first year as an irish fencer. 
“it’s been a difficult year,” russo said. “between trying to balance fencing for notre dame, the u.s. and my grades, nothing was easy and nothing was handed to me. however, fencing for notre dame has been a tremendous help and there’s nothing like the support that comes out of this school, whether it being on the strip or in the classroom. it’s an honor to fight for such an amazing group of people as well.” 
russo admitted she did not an­ticipate being in the final round at all. 
“To be honest, i didn’t even think i’d make it to the top four today,” she said. “i was just happy to be there. when i fenced [penn state freshman] Karen chang [in the final], who is an ex-student of [irish sabre and assistant] coach samir ibrighimov, my mind was calm and clear and i knew exactly what i needed to do.” 
To even get to chang, though, russo had to face top-seeded women’s sabreuse and defend­ing champion adrienne Jarocki of harvard. russo advanced to the championship with a 15-12 victo­ry over the defending champion, where she defeated chang 15-5. 
“i felt confident facing adrienne despite the fact that she was the no. 1 seed,” she said. “i just felt like i had nothing to lose. i was just excited to be representing the irish for the first time at ncaas and tried to do my best to make up for our [team] loss that day.” 
in the aftermath of the tour­nament, the irish are left dis­appointed but nonetheless determined; Kvaratskhelia said he knows that this is a young squad, and there is a great deal of work left to be done. For a program as prolific as notre dame’s, the notion of an offseason does not exist, Kvaratskhelia said. 
“a few of our athletes will be representing us at the world ju­nior championships next week and will continue training as is,” coach Kvaratskhelia said of the team’s plans in the coming days. “we’ll move more towards conditioning practices towards the end of the semester.” 
Kvaratskhelia smiled as he reflected on the season, his first at the helm of an irish fencing program that has grown a great deal over the course of the past few years and looks to be on an even loftier trajectory in future seasons. 
“we are really proud of our athletes. we always have a standard of high performance – that standard is still there, and we will continue to push the envelope for years to come.” 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 
MEN’S TENNIS | nd 6, georgia Tech 1; nd 6, ipFw 1 
Irish post back-to-back wins 
by CHRISTINE MAYUGA 
sports writer 
no. 36 notre dame domi­nated with back-to-back 6-1 wins in a doubleheader against georgia Tech and purdue university Fort wayne (ipFw) on sunday at eck Tennis pavilion. 
coming off a 4-3 loss Tuesday to Texas Tech and a 6-1 loss on Friday to no. 9 virginia, the irish (10-7, 2-3 acc) rebounded with many strong performances, irish head coach ryan sachire said. 
“we had a pretty busy week, playing Texas Tech on st. patrick’s day and virginia, who is perennially one of the top teams in the country, on Friday. The entire week was a huge process; we had some disappointments but did a lot of good things towards the end of it,” sachire said. “it was fun to see everything come together. we were certainly happy with yesterday’s win.” 
in the match against the yellow Jackets, the no. 8 duo nationally of junior alex lawson and senior billy pecor snagged an 8-6 win against georgia Tech’s pair of sopho­more carlos benito and se­nior eduardo segura. The no. 14 pair of irish sophomores eddy covalschi and Josh hagar earned another victory over yellow Jacket freshmen michael Kay and christopher eubanks, 8-4. in the sin­gles round, hagar, pecor and junior no. 22 Quentin monaghanall scored wins for the irish against benito, sophomore cole Fiegel and eubanks, respectively. covalschi also topped junior nathan rakitt, 6-4, 6-2. 
The match against ipFw saw a change in the irish line­up as other members of the team stepped on to the court. 
seniors dougie barnard and michael Fredericka clinched a 7-5 win over mastondons’ senior andres cobos and freshman daniel cardenas while the irish duo consisting of freshman drew dawson and senior wyatt mccoy topped seniors connor andrews and derek romer. notre dame took five of the six matches in the singles round with victories from hagar, junior nicolas montoya, Fredericka, and freshman brendon Kempin. monaghan completed a weekend sweep after defeat­ing junior gerard guell, 6-1, 6-2. 
“it was definitely the most complete match of the year [since] we played everyone on the roster,” sachire said. “we played at a great level at every spot in the lineup. a lot of the guys had been working hard individually but weren’t see­ing the result. yesterday was a great day to see us come to­gether as a team.” 
with only a month until the acc championships, the irish hope to use the upcom­ing matches to come out as 
strong  contenders,  sachire  
said.  
“it’s  all  about  staying  

healthy, getting players 100 percent physically ready to go as well as preparing men­tally,” sachire said. “The acc is a competitive conference, but we are excited to be in it and hopeful to have a great experience.” 
The irish will travel to Florida for an action-packed weekend with conference matches against miami on Friday at 2 p.m. and Florida state on sunday at noon. 
“every weekend is difficult, but we are looking forward to this one in particular,” sachire said. “The weather is a lot different, a lot hotter, but hopefully our physical condi­tioning will help us prepare.” 
Contact Christine Mayuga at cmayuga@nd.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 24, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Te’von coney, creating a log-Fast forward to this spring, Football jam of players fighting for and morgan is once again conTinued From page 16 three spots. below other players on the 
“we show up here to com-depth chart. but thanks combined 51 games played pete every day. The best play-to last year’s experience, between them in their ca-ers play, and we’re going to vangorder said he expects reers at notre dame. since get the best three lineback-to use morgan often this manti Te’o’s final season in ers on the field, however they season. 2012, both have played at the line up,” vangorder said. “going into his second center of notre dame’s de-“That’s just the way we do it.” year, we feel much better fense, the “mike” linebacker with so many players hav-with him,” vangorder said. position. now that both are ing starting experience, both “ ... so i expect all three of healthy, vangorder said he vangorder and elston said them [schmidt, grace and is eager to use both inter-they hoped to cross-train morgan] to play a lot. … he changeably in his defensive smith, morgan and schmidt looks a lot better here in the scheme. to play different lineback-spring.” 
“between Joe and Jarrett, er positions later on in the in addition to morgan, we’ve got great leadership spring season or beyond. the irish also have another that can manage and run a smith could potentially move young linebacker develop-defense with both of them,” to the strong side, or “sam” ing quickly. The freshman vangorder said. position, morgan could coney, who enrolled in the 
but beyond the most senior move away from “mike” to university a semester ear-linebackers, smith has also get more playing time, and ly, has impressed elston in stepped up in practice after the hope is schmidt can play practice so far, he said. starting for his first two sea-whatever position necessary, “he’s added some good sons, elston said. vangorder said. depth,” elston said. “he’s a 
“Jaylon, a year ago, was re-developing youngsters very instinctual player, and ally worried about himself when schmidt went down he’s doing a nice job. … he’s 
— getting lined up, knowing with an injury in the latter strong enough to compete, reminiscent of vasturia’s late 

the defense, knowing what half of last season, morgan and he doesn’t get physically Men’s Bball 3-pointer to seal an irish vic­
coverage he was in,” elston filled in at “stuck,” thrust overwhelmed. he seems to conTinued From page 16 tory over duke on Jan. 28 at 
said. “now he’s directing into a position he struggled be handling it mentally pret­purcell pavilion. 

traffic, talking to the people to learn on the fly. ty well, so we’re excited to see “i pulled [auguste] aside “i said to [vasturia], ‘look, 
in front of him, talking to the “i never imagined go-where he’s taking his game.” [after regulation], and i said, it’s going to come back 
people behind him. Jaylon’s ing into training camp that smith said coney’s perfor­‘look, no matter what hap-around. you’ve hit some dag-
doing a really good job with he’d be playing last year,” mance has impressed him pens, i’m going to have the ut-gers of shots, and it’s going to 
that.” vangorder said. “he just early on as well. most faith that you’re going to come back around. be ready 
Fighting for spots wasn’t ready. but he’s tough. “i found out the first day, come back and do something to shoot,’” he said. “steve’s 
The irish also have three it’s so important to him. he he truly is a notre dame important for this team,’” one of the toughest kids i 
other linebackers who start-wanted to do right, but he guy,” smith said. “he’s all connaughton said. “if you know … he’s one of the most 
ed games last season — had to suffer through that about team and getting bet-look at it, he had three mas-competitive kids i know and 
sophomores nyles morgan freshman year. There were ter, and he’s very coachable.” sive rebounds in overtime when you add those things 
and greer martini and junior some tough tough times for that helped seal the deal.” together, there’s only success 
James onwualu — as well him, and he stayed right with Contact Greg Hadley at   auguste wasn’t the only that can come out of it when 
as early-enrollee freshman it.” ghadley@nd.edu irish player seeking and later you put all that you’ve got on finding redemption in over-the line.” time saturday. connaughton, as the irish prepare to face who had missed all five of his seventh-seeded wichita state attempts from beyond the in the sweet 16 at Quicken 3-point line on the day, sunk loans arena in cleveland on a 3-pointer with 3:08 left in Thursday, the prospect of an-overtime to break a 59-59 tie. other overtime might not be 
“we knew he was coming; far-fetched. but the irish feel he had struggled kind of all they are prepared for what-game,” notre dame senior ever happens because of the guard Jerian grant said of team’s calm nature, grant connaughton. “but eventu-said. ally, he was going to make it “we really don’t have a happen, and he did.” roller coaster [of highs and 
irish sophomore guard steve lows],” he said. “we’ve been in vasturia, who had turned games like [saturday night’s] the ball over with 45 seconds all season. we really still stay left in regulation, helped ice even-keeled, and it shows.” the game with a 3-pointer to make it 65-61 with 1:22 left, Contact Brian Hartnett at a play connaughton said was bhartnet@nd.edu 





ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, MARCH 24, 2015 | The observer 


CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

DOME NUTS | alexandria wellman SUDOKU | The mepham group 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to: 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: read between the lines and take action. This is the year to set goals, show some discipline and make things happen. you will learn as you go and develop the skills needed to achieve what you set out to do. Focus on your destination and don’t lose sight of the results you want to see unfold. your numbers are 8, 12, 15, 23, 30, 38, 46. 
Birthday Baby:you are generous, sympathetic and insightful. you have vision and a good imagination. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): crank up the volume and make your move. now is not the time to be a bystander. Jump at any opportunity to secure your position, sign a contract or improve your standard of living, remembering at all times to stay within your budget. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don’t engage in a debate that has the potential to turn into an argument. regret is likely if you aren’t willing to compromise. overreacting and overspending will be what stands between you and victory. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): plan your investment strategy before you go on a spending spree. don’t donate or give too much to someone asking for a handout. don’t believe everything you hear. put your money into self-improvement, your career or your home. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take the initiative and make a commitment to follow through with a plan. Join an organization that you can offer your time and experience to, but don’t make a cash contribution. getting involved physically will lead to a new friendship. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take control, come up with a plan and follow through. don’t be deterred by someone using emotional blackmail. Focus on what you want to accomplish and don’t look back. you’ve got what it takes to be successful. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): you can have some fun and still accomplish what you set out to do. self-improvement projects will pay off and draw attention from someone special. gather information and use your powers of persuasion to get others to do things for you. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t share personal financial matters. an unusual investment will grab your attention. a project you can develop and distribute from home looks promising, but will turn out best if you move forward in small and precise increments. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): don’t go overboard. use your intuition, intelligence and creative drive to help you get where you want to go. love is on the rise, and discussing your intentions and plans for the future will add to your intrigue and improve your personal life. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Focus on home, family and friends. Taking time to get to know someone better will enrich your life. you don’t have to spend money to impress someone. don’t give in to someone offering something that is too good to be true. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t follow the crowd or make an impulsive move or decision. make sure to take a quiet moment to mull over the past, present and future before embarking on a fast-cash scheme. put home and family first. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): push for progress in work-related matters. look for job opportunities, set up meetings and send out your resume. There is plenty to gain if you stay on top of your professional situation. advancement is within reach. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): don’t be fooled by an offer someone makes. you won’t be given the information you require to make a wise choice. Focus more on yourself and improving what you have to offer. romance will improve your personal life.w 

JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 
address 
city      state Zip 


FOOTBALL 

Linebackers healthy, ready to anchor ND defense 
Returning Jarrett Grace joins host of players competing for playing time, limited spaces 
By GREG HADLEY 
editor-in-chief 
after a 2014 campaign marred by injuries and inexperience, notre dame’s defense entered the off­season in need of leadership and stability. 
Just a few days into spring prac­tice, the irish defense still features a heavy mix of underclassmen, but it has also found a solid veteran line-backing core to build around. 
one of the leaders of that core group is graduate student Jarrett grace, who missed all of last season due to a broken leg suffered in 2013. however, he used his time off the field well, irish defensive coordina­tor brian vangorder said. 
“all he did was sit there and study, study, study,” vangorder said. “he knows our defense. he’s way ahead of guys that have played because of that. he’s an amazing, amazing guy. There was a point in time that i didn’t know if he’d ever play football again. i had my doubts, so to see him out there says everything about who he is.” 
grace’s injury was severe enough to warrant multiple surgeries and cause him to limp for more than a year, but his return to the playing field has largely been a smooth one, vangorder said. 
“The most amazing thing is, he’s got no fear,” vangorder said. “most guys coming off something like that would go out there and be a lit­tle bit apprehensive. not him. not him. he’s been through the contact and hasn’t slowed down a bit.” 
irish linebackers coach mike elston agreed. 
“grace looks great. i see the Jarrett grace of old, with how he’s moving,” elston said. “a few in­stances here and there, you might catch a glimpse of something that resonates from the injury, but over­all, very few issues with him.” 
with the middle of the irish de­fense finally getting back to full strength, junior all-american line­backer Jaylon smith said the unit has massive potential. 
“aw man, it’s tremendous. we’ve got a great group of guys there,” smith said. “when everyone gets back healthy, the core is gonna be 
— it’s gonna be tremendous, and 
i’m looking forward to it.” 
leading the defense 
graduate student linebacker 
Joe schmidt and grace have a 
see FooTball PAGE 14 

FENCING 

Irish finish 3rd at NCAA Champs 
By BRETT O’CONNELL  By BRIAN HARTNETT  
sports writer afte“ r sunday’s events. overall we’re disappoint- senior sports writer  
Though the irish did not re­ed  with the [team] result,”  with all the close games notre  
turn to south bend with the Kva ratskhelia said, “but we are  dame has played this season,  
championship trophy they de­ver y proud and very happy with  it’s no surprise the irish are well  
sired, they did bring home a the  quality of the fencing and the  acquainted with overtime.  
number of individual accolades cha racter and resilience that our  The irish (31-5, 14-4 acc) have  
as well as a renewed confidence team displayed.”  finished the 40-minute regula­ 
in their program’s place along-T hat resilience proved par­ tion period tied four times this  
side the blue bloods of collegiate ticu larly valuable this past  season. all four of those games  
fencing. wee kend, when the irish found  have resulted in victories.  
notre dame concluded its the mselves paced for an out­ notre dame’s latest meeting  
weekend at the ncaa Fencing of-c haracter eighth place finish  with overtime came saturday  
championships in columbus, half way through the four-day­ at consol energy center in  
ohio, a mere nine points behind lon g competition. Two days of  pittsburgh, where the irish de­ 
first-place columbia, which exc eptional fencing, including  feated butler, 67-64, in ncaa  
brought home its 14th national abo ve .500 records for five of the  tournament third-round action.  
title in the program’s long his-six  irish fencers competing in  This time, the overtime came  
tory. Though the irish did not the  latter half of the tournament,  after a flurry of late-game ac- 
manage to claim the top team roc keted the irish into third  tivity, even though neither the  
honor, they made waves with a place.  third-seeded irish nor the sixth- 
number of impressive perfor­“ The first day was a surprise  seeded bulldogs (23-11, 12-6 big  
mances – some expected, some when  we underperformed,”  east) scored for the last 2:58 of  
surprising – during their time at Kva ratskhelia said. “on the other  regulation. notre dame junior  
ohio state this past weekend. han d, when you analyze broadly  forward Zach auguste snared a  
irish head coach gia whe re we were after the first day,  rebound with five seconds left,  
Kvaratskhelia led the team that  outcome could have been  but double-dribbled to give the  
to a third-place overall finish pos sible due to inexperience.”  ball right back to butler with  
in his first year at the helm of  two seconds remaining. The  
the program. he spoke to the  see Fencing PAGE 13  bulldogs inbounded the ball to  

tenacity of his combined squads 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
extra time proves the right time for notre dame 
junior guard Kellen dunham, who launched a corner 3-point­er, but his attempt was swatted away by irish senior guard pat connaughton as time expired. 
notre dame sophomore guard demetrius Jackson said the team gained some confi­dence as the game went into an extra five-minute period. 
“[i was thinking], ‘how can we win?” he said. “i was a little nervous, but we’ve been in those situations before where we have to get a stop with our defense. 
“Then when we get into over­time, i don’t think we’ve lost an overtime game this year … we really feel like that’s our time.” 
it had been the time for the irish before. notre dame topped a pair of teams now also in the sweet 16 in overtime, defeating michigan state, 79-78, on dec. 3 and north carolina state, 81-78, on Jan. 25. The irish needed 10 extra minutes to beat georgia Tech on Jan. 3, earning an 83-76 win over the yellow Jackets in double overtime. 
while four games might be too small of a sample size to say that the irish are a great over­time team, the team’s success in the extra period mirrors its men­tality of “survive and advance,” according to connaughton. 
“i compare [overtime] to hav­ing a second chance at life; it’s a little less drastic than that, how­ever, when you get that second chance, you’re going to do any­thing to survive and advance,” he said. “when you get into overtime, a lot of times you feel like you didn’t make the plays you needed to win in the first 40 minutes, so you get a sec­ond wind, like we have another chance to prove that we’re not going to go home tonight.” 
connaughton was firmly in­tent on making sure his college basketball career didn’t come to a close, but he said he first need­ed to make sure auguste, who had committed the potentially costly turnover in the game’s waning seconds, was ready to play on for a few more minutes. 
see men’s bball PAGE 14 




