The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 76 | tuesday, january 27, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
nd community debates ‘China Policy’ 
Students, faculty voice concerns at open panel 

By ALYSSA LYON 
news writer 
notre dame’s worker participation committee held an open forum monday in mcKenna hall to allow students and faculty to pose questions regarding the is­sue of freedom of association in the chinese factories that could produce notre dame apparel and goods if the com­mittee’s proposed pilot pro­gram receives approval. 
university executive 
see panel PaGe 5 




Committee weighs options during Labor Café 
By MERCEDES de la ROSA 
news writer 
students, professors, ad­ministrators and concerned individuals gathered Friday for the higgins labor café conversation entitled “The notre dame licensing codes of conduct,” a continuation of the ongoing conversation surrounding the possibility of allowing certain chinese factories to begin produc­ing official notre dame merchandise. 
see labor PaGe 5 



speaker relates impact of nazis on polish academics 
By JEREMY CAPELLO LEE 
news writer 
dr. Zofia golab-meyer, pro­fessor emerita of physics at the Jagiellonian university in Krakow, poland, gave a histori­cal account of nazi and soviet persecution of academics in poland during world war ii in a lecture entitled “Freedom, Tyranny and the pursuit of science: The case of poland EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 
In a lecture Monday, Dr. Zofia Golab-Meyer discusses the history of see poland PaGe 4 Nazi persecution of Polish academics during World War II. 





ND Food Services begins offering halal meat 
undergraduate level and 
By SAMUEL CHAN 
news writer many more at the graduate 
level, in addition to muslim 
muslim students on cam-faculty and staff, accord-pus have been benefiting ing to rosemary max, di­from a new student-led ini-rector of international tiative that brought halal programs for notre dame meat to south dining hall international (ndi). in september 2014. however, according 
The notre dame commu-to an ndi press release, nity includes “a handful” of muslim students at the see halal PaGe 3 


SnowBelles promote skiing, snowboarding 
By MARTHA REILLY 
news writer 
although some students keep warm with hot chocolate and blankets, saint mary’s new snowbelles club embrac­es the midwestern cold as its 24 members ski and snow­board every Friday at swiss valley ski resort in Jones, michigan. 
Junior lissa stachnik found­ed snowbelles this semester as a way to stay active during the winter months while bonding with friends. 
“after a week of classes, i needed something fun and exciting to start off the week­end,” stachnik said. “also, i figured if i’d be making the forty minute drive to swiss valley, why not see if other girls were interested?” 
stachnik grew up near a ski resort in northern michigan, and she uses her past 
see snowbelles PaGe 4 



news PaGe 3 viewpoinT PaGe 7 scene PaGe 8 men’s lacrosse PaGe 16 baseball PaGe 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is Notre Dame’s best kept secret? 

Anna Kennedy 
junior 
mcglinn hall 
“The design department.” 
Erin Richards 
junior 
pangborn hall 
“nd fight club ... oh wait.” 
Rickey Ruehlmann 
freshman 
duncan hall 
“The tunnels.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Cecelia Allison 
freshman 
welsh Family hall 
“The free coffee at coleman- morse.” 
Mara Staines 
freshman 
cavanaugh hall 
“Keough mass with Fr. pat.” 
Therese Germain 
senior 
mcglinn hall 
“The ace lounge is a great study spot.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

lesley stevenson alex carson Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: Katie galioto manny deJesus selena ponio hunter mcdaniel 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
Keri o’mara erin mcauliffe 
Photo Viewpoint 

Snite Salon Series Wellness Winter Career and Men’s and Women’s Men’s Lacrosse vs. 
Jodi lo Tabitha ricketts 
Snite Museum of Art Wednesday: Tai Chi Internship Fair Swimming Air Force 5 p.m. - 5:45 p.m. and Chai Tea Joyce Center Rolfs Aquatic Center Loftus/Sports Center A collegial exchange Rockne Memorial 109 4 p.m. - 8 p.m. 5 p.m. - 7 p.m. 12 p.m. - 2 p.m. 
Corrections 

of ideas about a great 3:30 p.m. - 5 p.m. All colleges and majors Shamrock Invitational. Exhibition game. 
The observer regards itself as work of art. Chai Tea provided. are welcome. Free admission. a professional publication and 
Saturday Vigil Mass 

strives for the highest standards 
Film: “Rashomon” Men’s Basketball Notre Dame Student Men’s Hockey Basilica of the Sacred 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
DeBartolo Performing Purcell Pavilion Film Festival Compton Family Ice Heart 
however, recognize that we will make 
Arts Center 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. DeBartolo Performing Arena 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
8 p.m. - 10 p.m. Notre Dame vs. Duke. Arts Center 7:35 p.m. - 9:35 p.m. Worship service. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Classic Japanese film. 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Notre Dame vs. New 
we can correct our error. 
$4 for students. Hampshire. 



student government launches ‘coffee hours’ 
By PAUL STEVENSON 
news writer 
The student government is starting a new initiative this semester called “coffee hours,” in which students can invite their professors to starbucks and the student government will pay for their coffee. 
student body president lauren vidal said that this initiative was on her mind even before she was elected to office. 
“when matt and i ran for office, we included an idea for ‘happy hours’ with professors and coffee. we truly value the out-of-classroom experience and conversation between student and faculty, and we wanted to find an active and meaningful way to encourage just that,” said vidal. 
coffee hours will not take the place of already existing and office hours. however, coffee hours will provide a more different and unique 
setter  for  students  to  ask  
teachers  questions  about  
course  material  or  simply  
talk about their lives.  

“coffee hours and office hours can definitely coex­ist with one another,” said director of academic affairs michelle lacouture, who headed the initiative. “coffee hours is a more intimate and relaxed meeting that you can schedule at a time that fits for you.” 
coffee hours is also unique from traditional office hours in that the conversation is not strictly on academics. 
“we hope that students use the meetings to continue working on language pro­ficiency, discuss with their 
“We truly value the out-of-classroom experience and conversation between student and faculty, and we wanted to find an active and meaningful way to encourage that.” 
Lauern Vidal 
student body president 
professor various intern­ships, grow closer to their professor as a mentor…it’s an open conversation,” said lacouture. 
vidal said that she hopes the informal nature of coffee hours will appeal to students and make them more willing to meet outside of class with their teachers. 
“it will give some structure to what students may other­wise be somewhat hesitate to initiate, especially as un­derclassmen. we also hope it will allow students capitalize on the knowledge that can be gained from one on one con­versations with professors,” said vidal. 
lacouture said that she hopes coffee hours will provide a new method for professors to mentor stu­dents outside of a classroom setting. 
“we talk a lot about men­toring, and we have lots of mentoring programs, but that’s not always super ef­fective for everyone. in cof­fee hours, the conversation is organic and can grow, con­necting students and pro­fessors in a different matter than is already offered,” said lacouture. 
students can sign up for coffee hours online at the student government web­site. registering your coffee hours earns you a $10 vouch­er to starbucks, which you can pick up from the student government office on the second floor of laFortune. 
“it takes the financial re­sponsibility off of you and your professor, making it easier to invite them,” said lacouture. 
Contact Paul Stevenson at psteven4@nd.edu 
Halal 
conTinued From page 1 
undergraduate students pri­marily drove this change, as they were the ones who pri­marily made use of the din-campus instead. according to the press release, “halal” means “allowed” in arabic and refers to meat taken from an animal sacrificed by a human “in the name of god, and without the use of 
max cited university president Fr. John Jenkins, who welcomed interna­tional students to campus by saying, “it is part of our catholic character to invite students to practice their faith on campus.” 
be accessible to all of notre dame’s diverse student body. 
“when it comes to making our students feel at home, 
“One of the 
important reasons 
The halal meat comes from their primary vendor, gordon Food service, based in grand rapids, michigan, abayasinghe said. 
although ndFs encoun­tered problems sourcing the meat initially, abayasinghe 
said, on the day-to-day op-

ing halls. 
sophomore hind ourahou 
said she “never” made full 
use of her meal plan, mainly 
because of the lack of halal 
options. meanwhile, Faisal 
shariff, also a sophomore, 
frequently opted for grab max said the university 
hopes this move will also 
why we wanted 
erational front, staff were 
encourage “other muslim 
familiar with customizing 
halal food is to 
graduate students and fac­
meals and were able to fol-
attract Muslim 
ulty and staff who may not 
typically think of the dining low the same protocol as 
students to apply 
they do for students with di­
halls as an option for them” 
and attend.” 
etary allergies. halal meat is 
to eat there as well. 
individually labelled, han-
Faisal Shariff 
“now more of us are look-
and go. 
dled with separate utensils 
sophomore 
ing forward to going to the 

ourahou, one of the key machines.” pork and most and contained in designated 
students initiating the move, said this gesture by the university “makes us feel more welcome.” 
prior to serving halal meat, muslim students’ dining hall meal options were lim­ited to a mix of vegetables, pasta and other non-meat products, or students ate off carnivorous animals are not allowed under halal rules. 
“one of the important rea­sons why we wanted halal food is to attract muslim stu­dents to apply and attend,” shariff, who also met with university administrators, said. he said the university shares this opinion. 
dining hall — not just be­cause our food is available, but also because the meat came with a feeling of rec­ognition,” ourahou said in the ndi press release. 
chris abayasinghe, di­rector of notre dame Food services (ndFs), said he wants the dining halls to we want to make the expe­rience as inclusive as pos­sible,” he said, pointing out that south dining hall of­fers halal turkey and beef options at the stir-fry sta­tion with approximately two requests per meal on an av­erage day. 

paid adverTisemenT 
storage areas. 
as for now, halal meat is limited to the stir-fry station at south dining hall but “may be expanded to north dining hall” if demand sup­ports it, abayasinghe said. 
Contact Samuel Chan at schan3@nd.edu 





The observer | tuesday, january 27, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Poland 
conTinued From page 1 
1918-1950.” 
Following the german occu­pation of poland, nazi forces targeted polish scientists and mathematicians as part of a plan to eliminate the intel­ligentsia class. in november 1939, the nazi party required nearly 200 academics to convene at the Jagiellonian university under the pretense of discussing education re­form, golab-meyer said. 
“The rector of [Jagiellonian university] invited these pro­fessors to a meeting thinking that they could achieve good relations with the nazis,” golab-meyer said. “what hap­pened was 183 professors were imprisoned ... 144 were from [Jagellonian university].” 
at the same time, the soviet invasion of poland claimed the lives of thousands of educated poles, golab-meyer said. 
“on the other side, the soviets took 17,000 polish of­ficers,” she said. “it was the crème de la crème of intelli­gentsia. ... among those killed by the soviets was my uncle.” 
despite the repression of both nazi and soviet regimes, polish academicians main­tained their research, she said. 
“in dachau [concentration camp], there were a large num­ber of physicists and mathe­maticians,” golab-meyer said. “… They organized a variety of lectures among them. From these lectures, there have ap­peared textbooks.” 
additionally, some academ­ics who had not been deported to concentration camps built a secret network of underground universities in poland, of­ten held informally in private houses, golab-meyer said. 
“we had this oppression, but we managed to do some­thing,” she said. “in Krakow, in vilnius, there were clandestine universities supported by the polish government in exile.” 
golab-meyer said the ef­forts of many dedicated teach­ers working to keep education accessible was a reason why poland was able to sustain its academic progress. 
“it’s not enough to have physics and mathematics,” she said. “it must be a whole atmosphere. people should have good influences, and not only concentrate on narrow problems.” 
“The most important thing to survive oppression are good teachers, and i think morals and culture,” she said. 
influenced by the prolonged occupation of nazi and soviet regimes in poland, golab­meyer said intellectual free­dom should not be taken for granted. 
“culture and country can collapse,” she said. “nothing is … forever. if we have freedom, we should care about it.” 
Contact Jeremy Capello Lee at jcappell@nd.edu 
snowBelles 
conTinued From page 1 

experience to assist the other club members. 
“we do not have an official coach, but i am the president and am there to help any­one who needs it,” stachnik said. “swiss also has many resources, including les­sons and instructors, that are available to snowbelles. as a member of the club, you receive seven ski passes and two free lessons with rental equipment included if needed.” 
The club is open to any belle who wishes to join, re­gardless of skill level. 
“snowbelles is perfect for anyone who’s interested in making the polar vortex months a lot more enjoyable,” stachnik said. “who wants to ride a chairlift alone?” 
sophomore maggie williams said this club grants her the opportunity to practice at a non-competitive level. 
“it’s actually the perfect amount of time commit­ment if you want to be with a group to ski or snowboard,” williams said. “The leaving times are pretty flexible on Friday, and we usually spend only three or four hours at swiss valley. it’s not really an overbearing amount of time at all.” 
with no winners or losers in snowbelles, the girls band together to cheer on one an­other as everyone tries her best to improve, according to williams. she said the other club members act as a sup­port system and urge her to take risks. 
“my friends have encour­aged me to try different ter­rains,” williams said. “we usually end up laughing with each other when one of us has a pretty hard fall. we just all enjoy skiing or snow­boarding, and we get to do it together.” 
The community aspect of snowbelles goes beyond the slopes, though, stachnik said. she hopes to organize events 
“SnowBelles is perfect for anyone who’s interested in making the polar vortex months a lot more enjoyable.” 
Lissa Stachnik 
president 
SnowBelles 
such as fundraisers, movie nights and monthly dinners to encourage club bonding. 
“in my opinion, the best part about snowbelles is get­ting to know girls who share the same interests,” stachnik said. “i’m a junior, but i wish i would’ve started this club earlier because i remember being a freshman and want­ing to belong to something and to make friends. This is the perfect opportunity to do that.” 
williams, too, considers this club to be the perfect balance of socializing and exercising. 
“i’m definitely not the most competitive snowboarder, but i do enjoy being out on the slopes with my friends,” williams said. “snowbelles is a great way both to recuper­ate from a busy week and to have fun, even if the condi­tions aren’t always the best. so far, there have definitely been a lot of laughs and may­be a fall or two, but they were worth it.” 
Contact Martha Reilly at mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 






Panel 
conTinued From page 1 
vice-president John affleck­graves said the recent work within the worker participation committee studied the impact, or lack thereof, of “the university’s recommendation in the late ’90s not to have products manufactured with the notre dame logo in any country that didn’t give full freedom of association.” 
The forum centered around the idea of worker participa­tion, which mike low, direc­tor of licensing and worker participation committee member, defined as “a set of 

“China is the cheap manufacturing capital of the world. ... If we go to China — if we do establish an operation with China — is there really any chance that we would ever leave China if conditions would deviate from our standards?” 
Kevin Christiano 
associate professor 
sociology 
systems where workers can actively engage with manage­ment in terms of their benefits, their working hours, and have a place to file a grievance and know that there will be worker committees to ... ensure their grievances are met.” 
Kevin christiano, associate professor of sociology, said he was unsure of the feasibility of ensuring a lasting freedom of association in the factories that produce licensed notre dame goods. 
“china is the cheap manufacturing capital of the world,” christiano said. “… if we go to china — if we do establish an operation with china — is there really a chance that we would ever leave china if conditions [within the factories] would deviate from our standards?” christiano later questioned how the committee would de­termine or measure success in its goal of ensuring work­ers’ rights to freely associate. 
The basic level of success, affleck-graves said, “is that we as a university commu­nity can feel confident that wherever notre dame ap­parel or goods are manufac­tured, … we have a sound process to assist all of those factories.” 
even still, “we are more ambitious than that,” affleck­graves said. 
“we can encourage lots of institutions both academic and non-academic to join us and make [the worker par­ticipation assessment plan] something that is a tool that everyone can use,” he said. 
Kevin barry, director of the Kaneb center for Teaching and learning, said many oth­er factors that needed to be assessed within these facto­ries in accordance with notre dame’s licensing code of con­duct, not just the freedom of association. 
“we are going to enforce ev­ery other part of the licensing code of conduct with these factories, so no children [workers] under 14, no prison labor, environmental practic­es,” he said. “all those things are going to be enforced, and [worker participation] is the only part that there is go­ing to be any wavelength on? That is the plan?” 
affleck-graves and lowe said eventually those factors will receive consideration, but for now, the assessments only focus on freedom of as­sociation, per the recommen­dation from the 1990s. 
change. 
“i believe a lot in the hu­man spirit,” he said. “… i believe some day china will change. … i would love peo­ple to look back and say that notre dame was part of their change.” 
Contact Alyssa Lyon at  alyon@nd.edu 
Labor 
conTinued From page 1 
The labor café, a biweekly event hosted by the higgins labor studies program of the center of social concerns (csc), looks to start “casual yet critical conversation on 
The discussion weighed the pros and cons of beginning production in china, partic­ularly because the chinese government does not legally 
“You’re not going to get a trade union in China 
Three students spoke at the forum and expressed their concerns about student involvement. 
“if the committee does cre­ate the pilot program, how will you involve the students during the duration of the program?” junior madeline inglis asked. 
affleck-graves said he has 
barbara Fick, associate pro­fessor of law, said. 
“you’re not going to get a trade union in china because they’re not going to allow an independent trade union that’s separate from the gov­ernment because that’s going to pose a threat to the gov­ernment,” Fick said. 
plans for greater student par­ticipation in the program, and “maybe form a student advisory group” that would elect representatives to serve on the committee. 
although the chinese gov­ernment does not guarantee the freedom of association, affleck-graves said he has faith in china’s ability to 
it may be a beneficial to use notre dame’s buying power for good. 
“notre dame has lever­age on china, not if we don’t engage, but notre dame has leverage on chinese compa­nies if they do engage,” he said. 
both sides of the discus­purcell, associate director of catholic social tradition and practice at the csc, asked the final question to open the labor café’s initial discus­sion, “do students care?” 
many of those who at­tended the conversation expressed disappointment that there were not more stu­dents involved in the worker contemporary issues related 
on the other hand, china 
because they’re 

to work, equity and social 
justice,” according to the is one of the fastest growing 
producers in the world, notre participation committee and 
the events to present their 
findings. Those in atten­
dance questioned whether 
this was due to students’ lack 
not going to allow 

an independent dame law school 2014 gradu­
program’s website. 
ate Xin he said. china has a 
daniel graff, director of 
trade union that’s 
huge amount of investment 
the higgins labor studies 
seperate from the 
program, 
said the discus­
sion attracted a wide array 
government.” 
and production in the tex­of knowledge of the panels 
tile industry so notre dame and discussions. 
cannot completely boycott 
of backgrounds, and all who 
after the meeting, student 
Barbara Fick 

china. at least some part wished to participate in the body president lauren vidal 
associate professor of law 

of the electronics in notre sion wish to see notre dame held a short brainstorming so. dame-licensed products acting true to its character session with present students 
“There are folks [here] from guarantee workers the right must be made in china, he and as a “powerful source for about to how to improve the csc, folks from the li-to freely associate. because said. good in the world,” university communication on this issue censing program, folks on the of that, china does not, nor since a complete boycott of executive vice president with the student body. workers’ rights board, from likely will have, any work-chinese products is already John affleck-graves said. the panels and those simply ers’ unions by the time an impossible, he said an ar-student participation was Contact Mercedes de la Rosas interested,” graff said. agreement can be arranged, gument could be made that also a topic of discussion. bill at mdelaro5@nd.edu 
conversation were free to do 

The observer | tuesday, january 27, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Is Obama giving away the store? 

InsIde CoLumn 

Time for knitting 
Caelin Miltko 
scene writer 

over the break, i taught myself to knit a hat. it was a bit of a strange decision — certainly, i’d knit before, but only scarves, and i stopped about halfway through middle school. i’m not really sure what inspired me to start again over this winter break. but i did, and i taught myself to knit a hat. 
i think my family members would likely tell you that’s about all i did over break. anytime i had a moment of free time or if i was just sitting with my hands idle, i’d grab my knitting and return to the somewhat onerous process of teaching myself. it was fun, some of the time, and frustrating the rest of the time but by the end of break, i’d accomplished my goal. i’d made myself a hat. 
returning to school, i brought yarn, needles and some patterns i’d like to try in the future, but i’ve found a bit of a roadblock. it seems that between class, homework and extracurricu­lars, i had very little free time (which, i suppose, i sort of already knew). what i didn’t realize is that when i do have free time, i very rarely want to use it to knit. i’d much rather mara­thon a new netflix show or scroll through buzzfeed when i have down time. even after only two weeks of the semester, i can already feel myself slipping into these habits. 
still, i find myself missing the act of knitting. There was something calm­ing about it that i don’t get when i’m just mindlessly watching television or taking buzzfeed quizzes. There’s something nice about the rhythm you can find when you’re knitting, and it keeps my mind a bit more active than just watching netflix does. plus, at the end of day, i think i have just a little bit more to show from an hour spent knitting than i do from an hour spent scrolling through the internet. 
i suppose all of this is really just to say that i think that i personally, and possibly college students in general, can find better uses for our time than simply binging on netflix. certainly, this shouldn’t mean we never mara­thon an entire season in one night but maybe we can find hobbies that we can do while we watch them. 
i’ve started to wonder if the way i use my free time is actually making me more relaxed or if i just end up feeling guilty for the time i spend do­ing nothing on the internet. i think, perhaps, if i turn to more “useful” crafts, i might be able to get more out of my free time and end up feeling more relaxed as well. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Dan Sehlhorst 
we’ve lost our Quorum 

when it comes to foreign policy, president obama is charting some new roads since his party took a thrashing in november of last year. in the past few months, there has been a surge in alarmism and hand-wringing among conservatives regarding recent foreign policy moves he has made. if this panic were appropriate, it would seem our great nation has taken a nosedive and will soon be plum­meting to its blazing, explosive demise. 
Taking a closer look at the issues brought up by conserva­tives, i believe that a more nuanced approach is warranted. 
Following the state of the union address last week, a barrage of criticism was hurled at the president from con­servative circles about his decision not to use the terms “al Qaeda” or “islamic extremism.” according to every Fox news pundit who could find a microphone or camera, it’s the first time that the name “al Qaeda” has been omitted from the address since 2001. This is concerning consider­ing the role the group has played in the recent turmoil in yemen. evidently, al Qaeda is still relevant in that they are capable of toppling a u.s. ally in the middle east. it would be wise to continue informing the american public about the threat that al Qaeda poses. 
i was troubled to hear the president declare that american air strikes have stopped the advance of isis. This, undoubtedly, is no success. carefully crafted phrases like that conceal darker truths, such as the fact that isis remains in control of huge swaths of territory, key trans­port routes, massive oil reserves and thousands of innocent people. 
most concerning to me during the state of the union was the president’s narrow issue selection. certainly, i appreci­ate a spirit of optimism about our economic growth and stability in recent years, but i also reject false optimism utilized for advancing a domestic political legacy. many americans still remain out of work, especially those who left the workforce and are uncounted from the traditional unemployment statistic, and many also don’t feel safe in the world of charlie hebdo. 
when it comes to the terms “islamic extremism” or “isis,” i’m open to the concept of denying extremists the claim to the authority of islam, one of the world’s great religions. if moderate muslim imams condemn extremist violence and the west denies these groups the satisfaction of knowing americans associate islam with such barbaric acts, that certainly would be a success. 
The president is needed to serve as a proactive, visionary leader in enacting a strategy to, alongside our allies, defeat isis. when a terrorist group is mastering slick, modern re­cruiting techniques that prey upon vulnerable westerners by convincing them to fight against fellow westerners, our country requires strong leadership to send a clarion mes­sage for freedom and peace. 
republicans are also calling for stronger sanctions to “crack down” on the iranians’ refusal to come to an accord on nuclear program. The suspected connections between iran and terrorist groups across the middle east are raising more immediate concerns, as well. however, the interna­tional system is, by its nature, anarchic. There is little that the united states can do to force iran’s hand short of an in­vasion, because it seems highly unlikely that the supreme leader of iran will relent even under the crushing pressure of sanctions. 
regarding cuba, the jeers take a whole new form. rather than decry the president for taking little action (as in ukraine) or being too willing to help (ebola in west africa), now the president is simultaneously said to be encouraging brutal repression while angling to close the guantanamo bay detention camp. rather, obama has decided to partial­ly normalize relations with cuba because we clearly have had little impact in undermining the castro stronghold for the past 50 years. 
i would argue that isolating dictatorial regimes bolsters their stability by reducing outside contacts that might inspire hope for freedom. imagine how the cubans feel knowing that some of the freest individuals on hispaniola live on guantanamo naval base, where they were effective­ly granted asylum by president Kennedy during the cuban revolution. 
in iran, for example, demographics are on our side be­cause the younger generations, partly as a result of the soft power in western movies and other media, desire basic freedoms from a moderate government. perhaps greater interaction with cuba can produce similar changes with time. 
during his address, the president declared, “Tonight, we turn the page.” president obama believes that we are turning the page on the sept. 11 attacks, the 2008 finan­cial crisis and two wars in the middle east. as discussed, though, the world is not as secure as was implied during the president’s address. Foreign policy threats loom large and require a strategy forged by a strong leader that can form global partnerships for peace and security. with that said, many good steps are being made with the aid of the president’s national security team and the world’s best military. and we shouldn’t neglect to applaud that. 
Dan Sehlhorst is a junior studying economics and political science. Hailing from Troy, Ohio, and a resident of Zahm House, he looks forward to conversation about his columns and can be contacted at dsehlhor@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

edItorIaL Cartoon 


The observer | tuesday, january 27, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Letters to tHe edItor 

In support of the faculty letter 
dear notre dame student of color, 
when i read the letter from the faculty members, “on hearing you might Transfer,” i cried. yes, me, a 23-year-old graduate cried in front of my computer screen as i was taken back through the tough times of my undergraduate years. 
it seems that each year, there is an incident that happens and reinforces how racism still exists on campus. upperclassmen can remember the chicken incident of 2012, and most of the current student body was present for ann coulter’s visit and the surrounding controversies last spring. each inci­dent hit the core of my being, and reminded me of how very few students of color are on campus. i felt isolated, that “us” vs “them” vibe in my core. at times, i felt inadequate. all the insecurities about whether i deserved to be there resurfaced. i ques­tioned if the stereotypes made about the people of the same ethnicity as me were really true. no mat­ter how hard i had managed to fight the imposter syndrome up to this point, i returned back to day 0, and had to convince myself of my abilities all over again. 
The hard reality for me, at the time, was that i could not break stride. no matter the time, nature or gravity of the incident, the engine had to keep rolling. The 10-page problem set needed to be turned in, the research paper needed to be written and that test was not going to take itself. i never considered transferring; changing direction was not an option because there was a widowed mother in dayton, ohio, who had spent her life working hard to give me the opportunity to be where i was. i am not sure about the situation of each of you, but i suspect that you have various sources of pressure in addition to the casual, “i don’t want to fail my class­es.” For those who find themselves in a situation close to mine, i want to share with you the steps i took. i hope they are of some sort of service to you. 
First, find a way to express your anger. after each of the incidents i noted occurred, i was always fu­rious, enraged and confused. These emotions are not the kind that i liked holding around, nor would i feel better by just letting time pass by. i figured out early on that i needed an outlet to express them, and for me this was working out in the rock. There was something about lifting weights that was therapeutic. i would lift heavy, grunt louder than usual and drop weights just so that i would hear them make noise. i would have shouted if i could, but i think gym personnel would have been a bit alarmed. That was my way of letting the anger out of my body. lifting weights is not necessarily the best outlet for everybody, but it served that purpose for me. Find a healthy outlet anger that best work for you. 
Then, talk about it. discussing the incidents is the best way to figure out how else you feel about them. however, discussing the events when anger still clouds your judgment doesn’t often lead to great conversations. relieving yourself of the anger is es­sential to have a better understanding of how these incidents made you feel, and allows you to come to discussions often less defensive, more vulnerable and more honest than you might have been oth­erwise. i often had these discussions with my best friends because i felt most safe talking about it with them. once, i wrote an anonymous monologue and submitted it to show some skin right after an inci­dent unfolded in class because i could not believe what i had heard. The key is to talk to whomever you feel most comfortable with about the topic, be they friends, professors or parents. 
lastly, and perhaps the most important of all, re­member that you can get through this all. you were chosen among several thousands of students who applied from all over the country. you were picked because you proved to the administration that the efforts you put forth up until this point deserve the same considerations as those of your peers. your application was not lesser than theirs, and theirs not more than yours: all of you were accepted. 
The last point i will drive home is to remember that your being at notre dame means a lot to many people. it means the world to your family, and for the next generation of students of color, it means hope and bigger dreams. They can look up to you and say, “i, too, can make it to notre dame.” let’s keep fueling their ability to dream big. 
Irere Romeo Kwihangana 
class of 2014 Jan. 25 

gay student responds to alumnus’ questions 
i write in response to mr. gregory bergman’s letter, “alumnus Questions campus,” published in the dec. 10 issue of The observer. let me start off by thanking you for your letter to the notre dame community. i am still amazed by how involved our alumni remain and truly respect your questions. i hope my answers will help you out. Quotations from the initial letter are in bold; my responses follow each question. 
“are there organizations on campus in sup­port of GLBtQ community walking a fine line on Church teaching? are they doing just enough to not be antithetical to Church teaching, but somehow promoting ideas against the Church’s teachings?” 
This seems more like a rumor proposal than a question, but i assume that you are referring to prismnd. while i am not very involved in the orga­nization this year, i can assure you that prismnd follows the standards set forth in “beloved Friends and allies.” however, you must realize that while prismnd is bound by that pastoral document, indi­vidual students are not. 
notre dame is a catholic institution, but we are not all catholic. we are a diverse community made up of numerous religions, denominations and politi­cal beliefs. if a student has an opinion, he or she has the right to share it, even if it is against the church’s teaching. 
you have the right to hold all of your beliefs, and i fully support that right. however, when that belief turns into an action that seeks to take away my hu­man rights, we begin to have an issue. as a compari­son, i do not believe that the eucharist is the body and blood of christ. however, regardless of how unusual i think that belief is, i will continually fight for your right to celebrate it. (note: i’m only using the word “unusual” because many use that term to describe my sexuality; i do not mean to come off as offensive). 
“Is there somewhere a hidden agenda exist­ing that promotes a lifestyle that counters what the Church considers to be God’s natu­ral law?” 
if by “hidden agenda,” you are referring to the fact that i am an openly gay student, the fact that i am unashamed of my sexuality, the fact that i completely support a sexual relationship between two individu­als who love each other (regardless of sex or gender), the fact that i strive to make fellow gay students comfortable with who they are or the fact that i try to fight against homosexual stereotypes on campus, i can assure you that my agenda in these regards is by no means “hidden.” 
“[does sCoP provide a natural balance] to the notre dame community, or is sCoP merely a right-wing extremist group?” 
This is a question that will get you many different answers. There are students who fully believe in the mission of scop. There are students unsure of their feelings towards scop. and there are students, such as myself, that are deeply skeptical of its mission and utterly disgusted by the speakers it has brought to campus, including those from the Family research council, an organization that links my sexuality to pedophilia. 
i fully support scop in their mission to promote policy-making that places primary emphasis on how any particular policy will affect children, but i don’t support their quest to take away my right to marry or their demeaning of gay relationships. 
“For two years now, students have been walk­ing through rainbow doorways on campus to come out as whoever they want to be.” 
while this isn’t a question, you have this one wrong. students have been walking through rain­bow doorways to come out as whoever they are, not whoever they want to be. i have only been able to come out as gay because that is who i am. i can’t walk through the door and come out as bill gates. 
overall, these issues should not be taken lightly. when you refer to the lgbTQ community, be aware that you are referring to millions of children, teen­agers and adults attempting to be their true selves. humans across the world are being bullied, beaten and killed for their attractions, and in the united states, many teenagers have turned to suicide. These deaths are 100 percent preventable. 
if i can offer you one piece of advice, it is to seek out those in the lgbTQ community and have actual con­versations with them. i, like many other gay students on campus, am always willing to offer myself as a resource to those who have true questions. 
Jake Bebar 
senior 
off-campus 
Jan. 19 



By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

it’s oscar season again, so like any other hipster who claims to be “well-cultured” and “up-to-date,” i’ve spent the time since i saw the academy award nominations list cramming in all those movies that i probably should have seen instead of watching “Top gun” for the 10,000th time. 
so far “birdman” is the film that has piqued my interest the most. it also seems to have impressed the real critics, as it won best picture on saturday at both the producers guild awards (pgas) and the screen actors guild awards (sag), much to the surprise of everyone who swore that “boyhood” would be a shoo-in. Furthermore, the past seven pga best picture winners went on to grab the oscar. 
“birdman” not only introduces a revolutionary, one­of-a-kind filmography technique in the same vein as “boyhood,” but “birdman” also has a great cast, a fantas­tic script and nine academy award nominations, as op­posed to “boyhood’s” five. 
one of the biggest arguments in “boyhood’s” favor is 
By ALLEGRA WALLINGFORD 
scene writer 

as a biracial student at a predominately white university, i was intrigued when i first heard about “dear white people,” and read reviews and articles in anticipation of what i hoped would be a discussion-spurring movie. something i read in The new yorker really stuck with me: 
“as a black student, if you’re politically involved, you become a target for racists; if you’re looking to fit in, you invite condescension; if you’re pursuing success, you risk sacrificing your values; if you’re merely searching for your own path, you seem to belong nowhere and are even more vulnerable.” 
This quote captures exactly what the film aims to ex­amine, and director Justin simien does a wonderful job blending these issues with satire to create a great storyline. 
before we go any further, i want to clarify that while i loved this movie, it is the epitome of a tongue-in-cheek soapbox and should be regarded as such. it’s not oscar­worthy, but simien raises serious questions that should get people talking about race in america. with that being the insane efforts the cast and crew made for this movie. Filming a movie over the course of 12 years is an out­standing achievement that absolutely deserves recog­nition, but that alone does not warrant “boyhood” the title of best picture. while “boyhood” focused on being expansive, “birdman” focused on the intimate details to create a film that looks like it was filmed in a single shot. it’s amazing an, honestly, a bit underrated by main­stream press. 
speaking of underrated, if i had any idea what birdman was actually about before i had seen it, i probably would have ignored the film entirely. based on the movie post­ers and michael Keaton’s age, i honestly thought it was going to be about Keaton’s return to the realm of super­heroes, a la “The dark Knight returns.” boy, was i wrong. Keaton plays a washed out, ex-superhero actor who puts everything he has into a broadway play that he is writ­ing, directing and starring in. “birdman” is a film about making films, the role of critics, life after the big role and simply the bigger picture. michael Keaton also experi­ences a number of hallucinations involving flying, explo­sions and telekinesis, which alone are worth the price of admission. 
said: 

“dear white people” takes place at winchester university, a fictional ivy-esque institution with a largely white student body. each of the main characters struggles with his or her individuality, and they must carve out their respective places in society. 
sam white, Tessa Thompson, is a wickedly intelligent biracial girl with a hilarious determination to make a point about the social scene at winchester through ra­dio and film. Troy Fairbanks, brandon p. bell, has always been striving for goals that his father, the college dean, set for him and realizes that he’s living someone else’s life. colandrea “coco” connors, Teyonah parris, is from the south side of chicago and doesn’t want anyone to know and, as such, tries to distance herself from the black community. Finally, the most lovable character is lionel higgins, Tyler James williams of “everybody hates chris.” lionel is black, gay and a social outcast, until he is asked to write an article about sam for the school’s newspaper. 
The film begins with a head of house election for armstrong/parker, an all black residence in danger of be­ing “randomized” by administration. Troy seems to be the 
a solid story cannot stand on its own though, which is why the excellent cast of “birdman” is so vital to its best picture run. who better to play the role of an old super­hero star than michael Keaton, aka batman himself? add to this the fact that Keaton’s co-stars edward norton and emma stone have also been indispensable elements of solid superhero movies and incredible chemistry ensues. as great as all of these actors were in their previous works, the daring roles that they took for “birdman” were far out of their comfort zone, and they all were magnificent. 
despite the overwhelming belief i have in “birdman,” no one really knows what’s going to happen at the oscars. “The grand budapest hotel” also pulled off nine nomi­nations but for some reason is totally out of the conversa­tion on most of the web, probably because it has not fared well at the shows leading up to the academy awards. moreover, i still haven’t looked into “whiplash,” “The imitation game” or “The Theory of everything,” so any one of those could very well be the best movie on the list. probably not though, because “birdman” absolutely soared. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
shoo-in, as he is the reigning head of house, but sam de­feats him in a surprising victory. 
after the election, the drama shifts to the upcoming “unleash your inner negro” party being thrown by white students. sam is appalled and the school’s administra­tion orders to cancel the party. of course, the party does happen, and when it does sam is there to record it all for her next film. The themed party, while horrific in the film, is not an uncommon occurrence on college campuses. They’re definitely not called “unleash your inner negro,” but may be somewhere along the lines of “gangsta” or “hip hop” themed. nonetheless, students get dressed up for these parties in wigs, egregious outfits and blackface, making a mockery of african-americans, whether they mean to or not. 
hopefully “dear white people” serves as a starting point for future films to discuss race in america. it is edgy, pro­vocative, funny and got me thinking about what it means to be a student of color in america right now. if nothing else, it is an entertaining look at a very real social issue. 
Contact Allegra Wallingford at awalling@nd.edu 


KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


The observer | tuesday, january 27, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
By MIKO MALABUTE 
scene writer 

Things that are “homemade” or “handmade” are al­ways interesting, paradoxical in their intrigue. The con­sumer is usually after a product that doesn’t go through all of the processing and insincerity that comes with “re­fined” products. meanwhile, the artist looks at that same product under a completely different light. To him, that product is raw, and because he knows it inside and out, he knows all of its flaws — or what he perceives as flaws, anyway. 
yet therein lies the beauty in the homegrown, home­made product. what one sees as a potential flaw, the others clamor for, the raw emotion in art that constantly eludes them. everyone wants to see and appreciate the beauty in the blemishes — the same blemishes that the self-conscious artist knows the story behind. 
This interesting, paradoxical nature seems to sum up my friend mitchell abraham, who — under the oxymo­ronic name “retro youth” — is releasing his own hand­made ep, “out of Touch ep,” on Tuesday. 
“personally, ‘retro youth’ refers to the youth of another time ... the kids in the 60s and 70s and how they perceived the world around them and dealt with it,” abraham said. “retro youth refers to finding yourself in the midst of great change. it’s about feeling out of place in the present in mu­sic but also in a time’s culture and society.” 
living in the same dorm as mitch for the past couple of years, i’ve always found him an interesting, if not an enigmatic, character. Though very friendly, there always seemed to be multiple facets to his personality — at times outstanding bravado, other times a bit more reserved and, when trying to get a deeper understanding of his project, self-critical and never complacent. and this is very in­dicative of retro youth’s style, a bit nu-disco but with “too many guitars for the leads,” or, as he would much rather put it, “Foster The people combined with daft punk but sh*ttier.” 
as all great things come about, “out of Touch ep” hap­pened because of a girl. after a breakup with his longtime-girlfriend, abraham invested in ableton live, a digital audio workstation, to occupy his time. and what started as a hobby quickly evolved into a full-fledged project, one that he envisioned his ex-girlfriend could take part in and sing over his instrumentals. when that idea did not come to fruition, abraham took the entire production of his project into his own hands — and thus, retro youth came to life. 
abraham writes, composes, produces and sings his own songs, all things that he has an innate talent in, though he didn’t have innate knowledge of the entire process. 
“i took a 6-week online class covering the technical side of ableton, but other than that, i’ve never had help,” abraham said. “i was learning on the fly though, so there was quite a bit of trial and error, which is why it took so long.” 
“so long,” in fact, meant about a six-month process to finally finish the four-song-long ep. if anyone ever won­dered how difficult it must be to carefully make an ep from out of your dorm room: it’s very difficult. abraham admits that he still has a bit of wavering confidence in his vocals and drumming. 
“i think i improved my singing a bit as time went on, but it’s hard not to be self-conscious about it,” abraham explained. “it’s like watching yourself on camera, which is excruciating by the way. at some point i stopped caring though.” 
This constant self-critiquing creative process was not the only difficulty in producing his ep. For example, in putting together his first single “Freaks,” he had to build the entire song around this piano riff he found from when he was 5 years old. Then, on his way back to his room, he’s singing bass lines and parts of his chorus into his phone, saving them as voice memos for a later reference. and of course, all of these challenges and tasks came with the other responsibilities mitch has to pay attention to as a student at notre dame. after all, just like the rest of us, he still had assignments and projects due. 
as i’ve mentioned, full-disclosure i am a friend to mitchell abraham, and therefore i might be predisposed to a bit of bias when i say that “out of Touch ep” was a very solid project. however, what i believe anyone can be objec­tive about is how impressive it is to put together a project such as this while still maintaining the rigors of daily stu­dent life. The classes, the grades, the various relationships and heartbreaks, all of these played a huge role in develop­ing this handmade, quite literally homemade project. 
homemade things are often sought after, for their im­perfections as much as for their perfections. yet, the artist will be self-critical, knowing his craft inside-and-out after working with it intimately for so long. 
“it’s hard to stay confident about a track once you’ve heard it 500 times,” abraham said. “i think about going back and rescuing those [old] remixes daily. Just tweak­ing them a bit, improving the drums. The struggle is very real.” 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu 
KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


sPorts autHorIty 

Goodbye and thanks to Mr. Cub 
Michael Ivey 
sports writer 
The chicago cubs are mostly known throughout the sports world for their futility. They haven’t won a world series championship in 106 years, and have fin­ished near the bottom of the standings in recent years. 
despite all of this, there was always one person you could see with a huge smile on his face at wrigley Field, no matter what. a former player, he retired from the cubs in 1971, but was still considered the face of the franchise. his last name and jersey number can be seen hanging from a flag on the left-field foul pole at wrigley. The cubs erected a statue of him that stands just outside of the stadium. 
This man was ernie banks, or, as he was more affection­ately known, “mr. cub.” 
you don’t get to have all these honors and distinctions just by putting on a cubs uni­form. you have to earn them. and that’s exactly what ernie banks did. Through hard work and determination, in spite of many discriminating against him because of the color of his skin, he became not only the greatest player to ever put on a cubs uniform, but one of the greatest base­ball players of all time. and he did it all with a smile on his face. 
banks was born on Jan. 31, 1931, in dallas. The second-oldest of 12 children born to eddie and essie banks, ernie was not very interested in baseball growing up, and preferred playing sports like football and basketball. his father still bought him a baseball glove and would often bribe him with nickels and dimes to play catch. 
banks attended booker 
T. washington high school and played for the football, basketball and track teams. The school did not have a baseball team, so during the summer he would play for his church’s softball team. his talents were noticed by bill blair, a family friend who was a scout for the Kansas city monarchs of the negro leagues. 
after graduating from high school in 1950, he played one year for the monarchs, before being drafted by the army to serve during the Korean war. after two years, he was dis­charged and returned to the monarchs. after a stellar sea­son, he signed a contract with the cubs in the fall of 1953. 
banks made his mlb debut on sept. 17, 1953, at the age of 
22. he was the first african­american player in chicago cubs history. after several successful seasons, banks won back-to-back national league mvps in 1958 and 1959, becoming the first play­er in national league history to achieve that feat. he had 47 home runs and a .313 bat­ting average in 1958, then 45 home runs and .304 batting average in 1959. 
in 1969, banks came his closest to ever playing in the postseason, but the cubs could not hold on to an eight-and-a-half-game lead in august. The next season, banks hit his 500th career home run on may 12, 1970, and retired the year after. 
banks finished his career with a .274 batting average, 2,583 hits, 512 home runs and 1,636 rbis. he was a 14-time all-star, two-time national league mvp, two-time national league home run champion and two-time national league rbi champion. he won a gold glove award in 1960. he was elected to the baseball hall of Fame in 1977. 
banks was popular among cubs players and fans for his warm personality and his bright outlook on life. after games he often could be heard saying, “let’s play two!” a phrase that became popular with cubs fans of all ages. he would always inter­act kindly with cubs fans, signing many autographs. 
after his playing days, he would stay with the cubs organization as an ambas­sador. he was awarded the presidential medal of Freedom by president barack obama in 2013. 
on the night of Jan. 23, 2015, ernie banks died at his home in chicago. he was 83 years old. The news hit cubs fans hard, and memorials soon started appearing near wrigley Field and beyond. 
it’s a shame that ernie will never be able to witness a cubs world series victory in person, but when it does fi­nally happen, i know wherev­er he is he will see it, and the smile on his face is going to be bigger than the one cubs fans are so accustomed to seeing from him. ernie banks will forever be the face of the chicago cubs. rest in peace mr. cub, and thank you for the memories. 
Contact Michael Ivey at mivey@hcc-nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
IndyCar 
Scott Dixon shines at 
Associated Press 
scott dixon’s teammates spent the final three hours of the rolex 24 at daytona raving about his talent while watch­ing him seal a victory in one of the most prestigious endur­ance races in the world. 
The three-time indycar champion would take none of the credit. 
dixon, who carried the heaviest load for chip ganassi racing’s four-driver lineup, in­sisted sunday’s win was a team effort that included many people from ganassi’s sprawl­ing organization. but there’s a reason daytona 500 champion Jamie mcmurray, indianapolis 500 winner Tony Kanaan and nascar’s newest hotshot, Kyle larson, didn’t spend too much time worrying about the out­come during dixon’s lengthy final stint in the car. 
They knew The iceman would get the job done. 
“it’s really hard to appreciate the talent that guys have from other series until you race with them,” mcmurray said. “it’s crazy the pace that scott is able to have in the car. i think scott is one of the most talented guys in the field. he’s an incredible driver.” 
The praise also came from larson, who improved from his underwhelming debut last season by learning from dixon, and Kanaan, who has raced against dixon for 14 seasons. 
“i got beaten by scott for a 
Daytona  
long time,” Kanaan said. “he’s  ganassi its record sixth victory  
a very, very smart and com- in the race.  
plete race car driver. he can  he did it with what appeared  
adapt to anything. it’s unbe­ to be ease, and seemed fresh  
lievable how he can make a  and ready to drive another  
bad car still be fast, and i think  three hours as he celebrated in  
that’s something that i try to  victory lane.  
learn from him every time i  “it’s not easy whatsoever.  
watch him.”  i feel the load just as much as  
There was no need for  any of these guys,” dixon said.  
dixon to carry the team in the  “pressure is what you make of  
twice-round-the-clock race  it, and as long as you get out of  
around daytona international  the car and you know you’ve  
speedway. The ganassi group  done the best that you could,  
brought a pair of strong cars to  you should be happy with that.  
the race and both set the pace  i think for all of us here this  
early.  weekend, the best that we did  
had the clutch not broken in  was good enough to get the  
the homestretch on the no. 01,  victory.”  
that scott pruett-led car might  dixon, so selfless and so  
have been racing for the win in  content for so many years in  
the final hour.  the shadow of famous former  
The dixon-led no. 02 “star  teammate dario Franchitti,  
car” had no major issues, and,  cares far more about final re- 
still in contention after day­ sults than accolades.  
break, it became clear they’d  but dixon has earned  
use the new Zealander to close  any praise heaped his way  
out the race. larson drove an  for steadily building one of  
abbreviated stint and stayed  the most prolific careers in  
in the car only long enough to  open-wheel history. he’s won  
make dixon eligible to finish  three indycar titles, the 2008  
the race.  indianapolis 500 and his 35  
imsa rules state a driver can  career victories tie him for fifth  
only be in the car for a total of  on the all-time list with bobby  
four total hours in a six-hour  unser. The only drivers ahead  
period, and dixon climbed  of dixon are named Foyt,  
in with 3 hours, 32 minutes  andretti and unser.  
remaining.  he’s won the rolex twice, and  
it was a long final stint for  as he begins his 14th season  
dixon, who drove three times  with ganassi, he’s the longest  
for more than seven hours dur­ tenured driver in the tempera­ 
ing the 24-hour race. his task  mental owner’s history.  
in that final stretch was to con­ dixon is also the only active  
serve fuel, maintain the pace  driver to finish in the top three  
and follow strategy to give  in points every year since 2006.  

nFL 
border protection to help with super bowl security 
glendale, ariz. — black hawk helicopters and truck-sized X-ray machines that are typically deployed along the u.s.-mexico border have been brought to the super bowl venue to assist with the security effort. 
u.s. customs and border protection showed off the tech­nology monday as it helps with super bowl security. 
commissioner r. gil Kerlikowske was on hand for a demonstration of the agency’s black hawks and large mo­bile X-ray machines that are used to detect contraband and explosives. The helicopters and X-ray machines are from Tucson and nogales, some of the busiest spots in the nation for the smuggling of drugs and immigrants. 
Kerlikowske said arizona’s border with mexico still has adequate security while some equipment is used in glendale for the super bowl. 
he said it’s not just the tech­nology that will help keep the big game safe, but the expertise behind it. 
“The real key about this equip­ment is the people who operate them,” Kerlikowske said. 
The cbp is also deploying about 100 officers who will assist other federal and local law en­forcement agencies. 
The X-ray machines are mo­bile and the size of a large truck. 
They slowly pan outside a semi-truck while operators in­side the X-ray machine look for anomalies. The X-ray machines are in heavy use at the mariposa port of entry in nogales, one of the busiest ports of entry for commerce in the country. 
within a few minutes, the X-ray machines will have scanned an entire semi-trailer, looking for contraband and explosives. 
The cbp also will use its Tucson-based helicopters and black hawks to monitor the air during the game, when other air­crafts are not allowed to fly near­by. The black hawks are used by the cbp and the border patrol for a variety of missions, including for rescuing border crossers who become sick or injured. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 



nCaa men’s BasketBaLL 

Krzyzewski hints at end of coaching career 
Associated Press 
new yorK — make no mistake: mike Krzyzewski is proud of his 1,000 wins. Just don’t expect him to keep chas­ing milestones much longer. 
“There’s an end in sight. i’m going to be 68 next month. it’ll end sooner than later,” he said. 
Krzyzewski became the first ncaa division i men’s coach to get 1,000 wins when no. 5 duke surged past st. John’s late in the second half sunday for a 77-68 victory at madison square garden. 
Tyus Jones scored 22 points and the blue devils (17-2) went on an 18-2 run down the stretch to put coach K in four figures on his first try. 
“There will be others that win more, but it is kind of neat to be the first one to 1,000,” he said. 
coach 1K. how grand, indeed. 
Krzyzewski shared the mo­ment with his family, point­ing out that two of his three daughters and seven of his nine grandchildren were in attendance as he spoke in the postgame interview room. 
but he could do without all the recent hoopla and indi­vidual adulation. 
“i’m glad it’s over,” Krzyzewski said. “There have been so many articles writ­ten. There were things written that i didn’t even know about me. 
“now, no more stories about my past or whatever,” he pleaded. “enough is enough.” 
Jahlil okafor had 17 points and 10 rebounds, combining with Jones and Quinn cook (17 points) to fuel the decisive spurt after duke trailed by 10 with 8:15 remaining. 
That’s when the blue devils finally began to look like a Krzyzewski-coached team, picking up their defense and hustling to loose balls as he urged them on from one knee in front of the bench. duke outworked the red storm (13­
6) on the glass and held them without a field goal for 6 piv­otal minutes. 
“it just, boom! it was great,” Krzyzewski said. “it was beau­tiful, really, to see them fight 
today and win.”  
when  the  final  horn  
sounded,  blue  devils  play­ 
ers  engulfed  Krzyzewski  

and he received a bear hug from top assistant Jeff capel. photographers swarmed the coach on the court, and players were given T-shirts that read “1,000 wins and Kounting.” 
“it’s a great feeling. winning in the fashion that we did for coach’s big game, it’s re­ally special,” junior guard rasheed sulaimon said. 

nCaa women’s BasketBaLL | souTh carolina 79, TeXas a&m 61 
Wilson leads Gamecocks’ balanced attack in win 
Associated Press 
columbia, s.c. — south carolina showed again how those waiting for the gamecocks to crack under the pressure of no. 1 might have a while to go. 
Freshman a’ja wilson scored 18 points, defending southeastern conference player of the year Tiffany mitchell added 16 points and alaina coates had 12 points and 11 rebounds as south carolina remained unbeat­en with a 79-61 victory over 12th-ranked Texas a&m on monday night. 
The gamecocks (19-0, 7-0 sec), who remained on top of the rankings for a 10th straight poll earlier monday, put away the aggies with a 27-8 run in the second half after seeing their double-digit lead shrink to 40-38. That’s when mitchell made four consecutive free throws to start the run. she added four more points and coates scored six points as south carolina took control. 
it was the gamecocks fourth win over a ranked opponent this season and second against another pow­erhouse program in the sec after a 68-60 win over then 10th-ranked Kentucky on Jan. 11. 
“i don’t think we get too caught up in all of that,” mitchell said. “we know at the end of the day we want to be the top team in the coun­try. if we just keep going, we know that’s going to happen.” 
The gamecocks showed that against the aggies (16-5, 4-3) with runs of 14-0 in the first half to take control and a 27-8 run after Texas a&m had rallied to get within 40-38 with almost 17 minutes to go. 
“when everyone executes their role, that’s what hap­pens,” mitchell said. 
south carolina had been 0-3 all-time against the aggies, including a 50-48 loss here two years ago that was the gamecocks last loss at the colonial life arena. but the aggies struggled shoot­ing as 14-point-a-game scor­er courtney williams was 3 of 21 from the field. 
Texas a&m coach gary blair said williams faded when she didn’t get some early foul calls on missed shots. “but she’s got to quit whining and make those shots,” blair said of his junior forward. “you’ve got to play big girl basketball when you play in the sec.” 
achiri ade led Texas a&m with 15 points. courtney walker, the sec’s fifth-lead­ing scorer, had 10 points, nearly five fewer than her average. 
aleighsa welch was south carolina’s fourth player in double figures, the senior starter scoring 12 before foul­ing out in the second half. 
coates, last year’s sec freshman of the year, had her eighth game this season with double figure points and rebounds. wilson, the 6-foot-5 forward, had nine rebounds and two blocks for the gamecocks. 
south carolina hasn’t had too many problems in sec play, winning its six previ­ous games by an average of 21 points and just once let­ting the opponent reach 60 points. 
The aggies opened the used a 7-1 run at the start of the second half to cut the lead to 40-38 before south carolina’s back-breaking run. 
teCH tIme 
Texas a&m coach gary blair said he clearly broke the rules late in the game when he walked way out on the court to talk with an of­ficial and was called for his first technical in three years. “i wanted some attention,” he joked. 
Potent BenCH 
south carolina’s bench outscored the reserves of Texas a&m 41-8. of course, it helps when the gamecocks can bring 6-foot-5 wilson and the 6-4 coates, last year’s sec freshman of the year, in as subs. wilson says they’ve embraced their roles as the gamecocks chase a championship. 
nCaa FootBaLL 
Former Vanderbilt players testify 
Associated Press 
nashville, Tenn. — The rape trial of two former vanderbilt football players began wrapping up monday with a prosecutor telling ju­rors that video evidence and photographs taken of the crime would be enough to convict them on most of the charges. 
beyond the video foot­age and photographs, testi­mony from several athletes shows the players are guilty, assistant district attorney Jan norman told jurors dur­ing closing arguments. 
The proceedings capped off a day of dramatic testi­mony during which one of the former players took the stand and testified that he was so drunk he could not remember what happened. 
Former players brandon vandenburg and cory batey are standing trial on five counts of aggravated rape and two counts of aggra­vated sexual battery. Two other former players are facing the same charges. vandenburg additionally faces a charge of unlawful photography and tampering with evidence. 
all have pleaded not guilty. 
Throughout the trial, ju­rors have seen graphic im­ages of the alleged sexual assault that police recov­ered from cellphones and a laptop. prosecutors said players took pictures of the assault and one even sent videos to his friends as it was happening. 
“This is normally the part of the trial where we might say that if we had this on photo or if we had it on video, then it would make the state’s job a lot easier,” norman told jurors in her closing. “but we actually have this uncontradicted proof in this case,” the pros­ecutor said of one of the rape charges. 
defense attorneys have claimed that the players were drunk, one of them saying his client had an al­coholic blackout. 
“ladies and gentleman, i submit to you that the only person who was uncon­scious and didn’t know what was going on was (the vic­tim),” norman told jurors in her closing arguments. 
a defense attorney for batey responded by telling jurors that they would not see video or photographic evidence of his client having sex with the coed. 
“The testimony was he was crazy drunk and didn’t know what he was doing,” robinson told jurors of batey. robinson also blamed a college culture that en­couraged binge drinking and sex and said it wasn’t just limited to vanderbilt. 
The closing arguments came after batey took the stand and testified that he can’t remember the alleged sexual assault that prosecu­tors say he and three players carried out. 
“i was just drunk out of my mind,” batey testified. “This is something i would never do in my right state of mind. i’m just sorry.” 
batey told jurors that he was horrified when he saw on his cellphone explicit pictures of a woman he’d never met. 
“i didn’t know how they got there,” batey said. “i didn’t know what happened to the young lady in the pic­tures. i immediately deleted them.” 
batey was a 19-year-old who had just come out of his freshman year when he and three of his teammates were charged with raping an un­conscious student in a dorm in June 2013. 
The alleged victim in the case was doubled over and crying in her seat in the courtroom and appeared to be vomiting while batey was on the stand. she testified last week she had no recol­lection of being sexually assaulted. The associated press generally does not identify alleged victims of sex crimes. 
vandenburg’s defense did not get a chance to make a closing argument and is set to do so on Tuesday morning. 
vandenburg is not ac­cused of having sex with the woman or penetrating her in any way. but he has been charged with aggravated rape because he is accused of encouraging other play­ers to have sex with her. 
vandenburg and the woman had gone out earlier in the evening, and he can be seen on university sur­veillance video carrying the unconscious woman back to his dorm room. 
“he didn’t put her in the bed,” norman said of vandenburg in her closing arguments. “he wasn’t try­ing to care for her. he put her on the floor.” 
norman said that over and over vandenburg en­couraged the others to vio­late the woman. she said the only reason he didn’t was because he couldn’t perform. 



smC BasketBaLL | scoTs 81, belles 70 
Belles’ comeback falls short 
By TYLER WOJCIAK 
sports writer 
The belles’ woes contin­ued as they lost to confer­ence opponent alma 81-70 on the road saturday night. 
both teams came out fir­ing, and through just four minutes of play, alma (7-11, 2-7 miaa) held a slim 13-8 lead. but after a timeout, the scots went on a 26-5 run and never looked back, leading the rest of the way. 
while saint mary’s (3-15, 1-8) was able to scrap and score some points before the half, the scots still held a comfortable 47-26 lead going into halftime. 
both teams traded baskets for the first eight minutes of the second half until saint mary’s went on a little run of its own to bring the score to 60-49 with 10 minutes to go. 
The belles cut the deficit to eight twice in the final 10 minutes, but on each oc­casion, the scots quickly stretched their lead back to double digits. 
despite the loss, belles coach Jennifer henley thought her team showed some improvements that could help the team down the stretch; saint mary’s outscored the alma 44-34 in the second half, and other than the 26-5 run in the first half, the scoring went back and forth between the two teams throughout the game. 
going into the next game, henley wants to see a full body of work from her team in order to get a win to turn the season around. 
“we need to put two halves together and play 40 minutes of strong defense,” henley said. “we played a great sec­ond half against alma, but the damage was done in the first half. regardless of who our next opponent is, we have to find a way to defend.” 
senior guard ariana paul led the belles with a double-double, scoring 21 points and grabbing 12 rebounds in 32 minutes of play. The belles shot well over 50 per­cent from the free-throw line, going 32-47; junior for­ward eleni shea’s 12-13 ef­fort led saint mary’s from the charity strike. 
The belles (3-16, 1-9 miaa) return to action tomorrow when they host Trine at the angela athletic Facility; tip­off is slated for 7:30 p.m. 
Contact Tyler Wojciak at twojciak@hcc-nd.edu 



FenCInG | women 8-2, men 4-5 
Irish women collect eight wins in New York 

Observer Staff Report 
notre dame began its 2015 campaign in earnest this weekend with a pair of new york-area meets; the top-ranked irish women went 8-2 over the two days while the no. 2-ranked men struggled, posting a 4-5 mark. 
The irish competed on back-to-back days, first traveling to the st. John’s invitational on saturday be­fore heading south to Jersey city, new Jersey, to compete in the nyu invitational on sunday. 
saturday yielded mixed results for the irish squad with the women’s team (13-2) posting a 4-1 record while the men’s squad (8-6) struggled to a record of 1-4 on the day. 
The men dropped their first three rounds before finally pulling out a 15-12 win against host squad st. John’s in the fourth round of the meet. They faltered once more in the fifth round, however, losing to columbia 16-11. 
The women’s results proved far more favor­able, winning the first four matches before drop­
ping  the  final  contest  
to  columbia  by  an  11-7  
margin.  

The women found suc­cess in the foil matches and posted a 27-18 record over the course of the day with their only team loss com­ing against columbia in a 6-3 decision. Their largest margin of victory on the weapon came against penn state’s squad, where the irish claimed a 7-2 decision. 
The men’s epee squad struggled throughout the day, falling in all five of their matches. 
sunday’s meet proved to be a far more consis­tent outing for the irish lineup as both teams re­corded one-loss days. The women’s side continued their winning ways, claim­ing a 4-1 record on the day, while the men reversed the previous day’s trend, going 3-1 in the meet. The irish were joined there by yale, columbia, northwestern, st. John’s and nyu, how­ever, the wildcats did not field a men’s team. 
The women dispatched yale by a healthy 22-5 mar­gin to start the afternoon, but that success was fol­lowed by a tight, 14-13 defeat at the hands of a columbia team that hand­ed the irish foil squad its first loss of the season. The women’s squad rallied to claim the final three bouts of the afternoon in wins against northwestern, st. John’s and columbia. 
The irish men started the day strong on the strips with a 21-6 victory over yale, posting even 7-2 vic­tories in each weapon cat­egory. They followed this performance with a 17-10 win over columbia before heading into a bye round. The irish went 1-1 follow­ing the break, taking their only loss of the day against st. John’s before claiming a 19-8 victory against nyu where the irish made up for a 4-5 loss in epee with 7-2 and 8-1 wins in foil and sabre, respectively. 
notre dame resumes its season this weekend at the northwestern duals in evanston, illinois. Team competing include ohio state, pennsylvania and princeton, a trio of schools whose men’s and women’s teams are both in the top 10. 
paid adverTisemenT 




m Lacrosse 
conTinued From page 16 
 it could be … so far because of the injuries. 
“hopefully we’ll start get­ting people back in the next few weeks and that will help us fill out some of our roles with guys, but also just com­pete at a higher level every day.” 
Kavanagh jump-started the irish on the first posses­sion of the second quarter, scoring again from outside to give notre dame a lead it would never relinquish. in the second period alone, the irish outscored the Knights 7-0, led by multiple goals from Kavanagh, ossello and sophomore midfielder sergio perkovic. 
“[The] game was good for the guys who were there,” corrigan said. “we needed that. That’s a great day of work for us, in terms of hav­ing the chance to compete against someone else and having to figure out what we needed to do. … That’s one of the better days we’ve had.” 
senior goalie conor Kelly collected three saves and allowed two goals for the irish in 30 minutes of play. he earned the start after anchoring the irish defense during its run to the ncaa championship game last sea­son, but the position is far from settled, corrigan said. 
sophomore shane doss played the second two quar­ters of the game, and fresh­man owen molloy saw action in the last period. 


“i don’t think i’m really in a situation to reevaluate anyone based on where we are now, so much as assess the strengths of the guys we have,” corrigan said. “we’re still figuring out the goalie position. we have tremen­dous depth there. all three guys are giving us a great effort right now. They’re all great talented guys with dif­ferent strengths in goal.” 
Throughout the game, the irish rotated through three faceoff specialists — ossello, sophomore p.J. Finley and freshman John Travisano, Jr. 
—
 and corrigan said he was not completely satisfied with any of them. 

“we’ve got to continue to work on our faceoff game to make sure that all [three] of our guys — not just our fa­ceoff guys but our wing guys 

—
 that they’re all working together and doing a good job,” corrigan said. “so if we win faceoffs, that’s great. if we can make some plays out of the faceoff and score in transition, that’s great, and if we can learn how to survive on the days we’re struggling there, that’s great too.” 


The irish still have three weeks before they take the field at arlotta stadium against georgetown on Feb. 14 to kick off their regular season, but they have one more exhibition match this saturday at noon against air Force at loftus sports center. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 


MICHAEL YU | The Observer 

Irish freshman attack Pierre Byrne moves the ball in Notre Dame’s exhibition against Bellarmine on Sunday at Loftus Sports Center. 


Baseball  he was able to play profes­sionally, but it was ulti­ season  of get that comfort level. … i think as they are like, ‘hey,  first-team all-americans or first-round type of guys this  
conTinued From page 16  mately  family  that  made  conTinued From page 16  we belong, and we’re o.K. in  year. but i feel like every guy  
biggio retire.  this thing,’ we’ll continue to  on the team can help us win  
biggio’s two sons, senior  “i  could  have  probably  season.  progress, and so i think year  a game, and  i  don’t know  
outfielder conor and soph­ played a couple more years,  “i’m  …  excited about the  two will be  great.  i  think  that i’ve ever felt that way  
omore  second  baseman  but  the  most  important  fact that we’re not going to  year three will be that much  since i’ve been here.”  
cavan, watched their father  thing to me was retiring for  have to travel 45 minutes or  better.”  as the season approaches,  
address  their  teammates  connor and getting to know  two hours for a home game,”  aoki  highlighted  notre  cavan biggio said the meet  
and season ticket holders  him,”  biggio said. “i  had  aoki  said.  “That’s  pretty  dame’s mix of experienced  the Team dinner helps play- 
from the podium  monday  four  years  to  spend  time  cool. i’m really looking for- and young talent for the  ers start their season by giv­ 
night as the keynote speak- with him and get to know  ward to this season.”  2015 season. The irish will  ing them the perspective of  
er. irish coach mik aoki said  him before he went on his  last season, however, did  field a majority upperclass­ an mlb veteran.  
that an address like this is  own way. we’re enjoying it.  end on a high note, aoki said,  man  squad  but  have  14  “it’s a good event to get the  
not a rare occurrence for  we’ve been through a lot  as notre dame won five of six  freshmen  and  sophomores  season  going,” biggio said.  
the seven-time all star, just  as a family, and we’re ex- games on their new turf at  on the roster.  “everyone  comes  together.  
more formal than usual.  cited about the path they’re  Frank eck stadium on cam­ “we’ve  got  some  older  we get a special speaker,  
“it’s awesome,”  aoki said  on here and we’re excited  pus. Two of those wins came  guys that are going to be  who’s like my dad or some  
about biggio being elected.  about the direction they’re  against no. 22 clemson, and  able to help, but we’ve got  other baseball player that’s  
“but i think what makes it  going in their lives.”  in their final game, the irish  some really, really talented,  been through all this, been  
more awesome is that the  biggio, who was three se­ defeated pittsburgh, 5-4, on  young players that, if they  through college and made it  
biggios are so inclusive with  mesters short of a degree  a walk-off home run from  can pitch to who they are or  to the big leagues, which we  
the whole thing. it’s not like  from seton hall, said it was  then-junior  outfielder/first  play to who they are, i think  all dream about, and kind  
craig is a guy our players are  important for him and his  baseman ryan bull.  we’ve  got  a  chance  to  be  of motivates us to our goal  
not familiar with. They’re  wife their two sons went  This  upcoming  season,  pretty good.”  to win a championship this  
really familiar with him and  to college and got  an  edu­ notre  dame has 25 home  aoki also said he antici­ year.”  
he’s here a lot. [The biggios]  cation.  biggio said  notre  games scheduled. it will be  pates notre dame’s top-to- The irish start their sea- 
are just like another family  dame was the perfect fit.  the first full season on the  bottom strength playing a  son Feb. 13 at oklahoma and  
in our program, and this one  “my wife and i, we believe  new turf for notre dame and  key role this season.  will play their first home  
just happens to be going into  in the college route,” biggio  its second in the acc.  “i  think this team is as  game  march  17  against  
the hall of Fame.”  said. “we believe that soon­ “Thinking back to my ex- talented a team as we’ve  bethel.  
biggio  was  voted  into  er  or  later  you’re going  to  perience at [boston college  had since we’ve been here  “we’re really itching to get  
cooperstown on Jan. 6 in  need an education. i under- moving from the big east to  in terms of its depth, one  it going,” aoki said. “i think  
his third year of eligibility  stand. i’ve seen guys come  the acc], i think that’s defi­ through 35,” aoki said. “…  that our kids feel like they’re  
alongside three other play- to  the big leagues, they’re  nitely the case,” aoki said of  i don’t know if we have — i  ready.”  
ers,  randy Johnson, pedro  there for a year or two year  the learning curve in a new  don’t know that we don’t —  
martinez and John smoltz,  and that’s it. we understand  conference. “i think it took  but i don’t know if we have  Contact Samantha Zuba at      
all of whom were pitchers in  the importance of having  us two or three years to sort  any kids that are going to be  szuba@nd.edu  
their first year of eligibility.  an education, and getting  
“i’m just glad we’re in and that’s all that matters,”  an education at one of the greatest institutions in the  
biggio said about making into the hall. “we’re excited  country is kind of hard to say not to.”  
for all of the obvious rea­ biggio said he has had a  
sons. whether it’s the first  lot of time to reflect on his  
time  or  third  time,  we’re  career since his retirement  
just glad that we’re in. it’s a  in 2007.  
pretty small group of guys.  “i guess when you retire  
only 214 [players] plus four  you start reflecting on a  paid adverTisemenT  
now, and that’s pretty darn  lot of things,” biggio said.  
special. That’s why we are  “you reflect on the rela­ 
so humbled by it.”  tionship you had with the  
biggio spent all 20 of his  fans, you reflect on the re- 
seasons  in  professional  lationships you had with  
baseball  with the  houston  your teammates, the guys in  
astros, playing a myriad of  the opposing uniforms, the  
positions. biggio broke into  clubhouse guys, the train- 
baseball as a catcher, moved  ers, just everybody involved  
to second base and eventu­ your life. Twenty years in  
ally played in the outfield  the big leagues is a long time  
for houston. he is the only  and that’s a lot of reflection  
player in mlb history to be  and people to be grateful for  
named an all star at both  and thankful for. but that’s  
catcher and second base.  what makes playing in the  
“i take a lot of pride in do- big leagues a really special  
ing everything the organiza­ thing  because  of  the  rela­ 
tion asked me to do,” biggio  tionships you have.”  
said. “it was always about  although notre dame had  
the team and it was always  no involvement with craig  
about the organization.”  biggio’s career,  aoki said  
biggio —  known  for his  it was special for biggio to  
unrelinquishing work ethic,  share his  momentous  hon- 
consistency as a player and  or with the  notre  dame  
team spirit — said he passed  community.  aoki said he  
his baseball advice and ex- hopes his players will learn  
perience on to his two sons.  something  from  biggio’s  
“The  game  doesn’t  re- presence.  
ally care what your name  “he did every little thing  
or number is, it’s how you  that you could possible do  
handle it,” biggio said. “and  in  the  game,”  aoki  said.  
you’re going to have good  “he’s one of those team guys  
times  and  bad  times  and  that did everything he could  
you have to understand that  possibly do to promote the  
humility is part of the game.  success of the team.”  
big leaguers always say it’s  biggio will give his induc­ 
about remaining even keel  tion speech at the mlb hall  
and it’s always about the  of Fame in  cooperstown,  
team.”  new york, on July 26.  
The  five-time  silver  
slugger winner said he is  Contact Isaac Lorton at                          
thankful for all of the years  ilorton@nd.edu  





Crossword | will shorTZ 


HIGHLy PunLIkeLy | chrisTopher brucKer 

dome nuts | aleXandria wellman 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
sudoku | The mepham group 

HorosCoPe | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: Jyou are ready to take action and bring about the changes that will lead to a better standard of living or a higher profile. much can be accomplished if you work as a team player and try to be an attentive partner. The sky is the limit if you stick to the truth and strive to reach your goals. your numbers are 6, 14, 22, 27, 32, 37, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): secretive actions will bring the highest and most unusual rewards. volunteer work will give you greater insight into what you want to do in the future. romance is on the rise, and sharing ideas and plans will bring about better personal living conditions. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): your ability to find unique ways to overcome difficult situations will put you in a good position. Try not to take on too much or you will suffer from exhaustion, defeating your attempts to complete what you start. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): use past experiences to get ahead now. don’t trust anyone to do as good a job as you when it comes to taking care of your responsibilities. romance will bring about a positive change in your living arrangements. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): do something you’ve never done before. express your thoughts to someone you want to form a partnership with. colleagues you have worked with in the past will have something unique to offer you. a business trip looks promising. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take a short trip or gather information about someone you want to get to know better. re-evaluate your current situation and set up goals for the upcoming year. your heart will rule your head, so don’t act too impulsively. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): emotions will arise regarding a partnership that you have lost faith in. Talk matters through until you come up with a workable solution. letting the situation fester will cause undue stress. Take control and make a practical decision. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): when it comes to your professional goals, don’t confide in anyone. someone will twist your words or use the information you share against you. concentrate on having fun, networking and sizing up what everyone else plans to do. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): creative ventures and using your imagination to get things done will ease stress. a change in the way you feel about someone is likely to develop. consider whether you want to walk away or make a commitment. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): look for the positives. do your best to display honesty, but don’t expect others to do the same. prepare to redirect your goals if you feel you need to make changes in order to improve your professional life. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): refuse to let anyone coerce you into something you don’t want to do. emotional pressure will be applied, leaving you in an awkward position. strive to do the best job possible or check out new professional opportunities. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): size up all the changes you want to implement, and get the ball rolling. a partnership or work-related opportunity will lead to new beginnings and a chance to raise your standard of living. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): an energy boost will help you get things done as long as you don’t engage in a disagreement. don’t waste your time trying to convince others to follow you. do your own thing and present your work only when you are ready. 

Birthday Baby: you are innovative, independent and adaptable. you are outgoing and popular. 
jumBLe | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 
city      state Zip 


The observer | tuesday, january 27, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
BaseBaLL 

Biggio visits team event 
Recently-elected Hall of Famer chats about his baseball career; Aoki looks ahead to season 
By ISAAC LORTON 


By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
assistant managing editor assistant managing editor 
notre dame had a little 

excitement for the upcoming help kicking off the season 
season was on display monday at its annual meet the Team 
as the irish hosted their annual dinner from recently-named 
meet the Team dinner featur­major league baseball hall of 
ing guest speaker craig biggio. Fame inductee, craig biggio. 
“i’m really excited about this “it’s still a little overwhelm-
team,” irish head coach mik ing and humbling, and we’re 
aoki said. “last year obviously taking it all in … we’re really 
was challenging at a lot of dif­excited,” biggio said about the 
ferent levels, but this team has recent news of his induction. 
been great. we’ve had a phe­“The people in houston are 
nomenal fall. i like where they excited, the fans, the organiza­
are in terms of their attitude, tion and obviously my family 
and their outlook is really, re-and i. we’re very honored and 
ally good.” humbled. 
The team — including two “i owe everything to the game 
of biggio’s sons, sophomore in-of baseball. everything i have 
fielder cavan biggio and senior because of baseball. i love the 
outfielder conor biggio — faced game, i respect the game and 
weather-related obstacles last i appreciate the game for all of 
season. The delayed melting the right reasons. and i’ll never 
of layers of snow postponed forget it. i was a very lucky man 
installation of new field turf, to be able to put on a big league 
forcing the team to travel as far uniform on for 20 years. i just 
as gary and chicago for home love to play, it was always en-
games. joyable. i would have played it 
aoki said he looks forward for free.” MICHAEL YU | The Observer to avoiding that problem this 
Irish sophomore infielder Cavan Biggio, son of Hall of Famer Craig Biggio, awaits a pitch during a 2-1 win see baseball PaGe 14 against Clemson at Eck Stadium on May 9. see season PaGe 14 
men’s LaCrosse 

Kavanagh leads irish in exhibition matchup 
By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 
after a slow start, no. 2 notre dame pulled away in the second quarter of its exhibition match with bellarmine at loftus sports center this sunday, showing some of the competitive fire irish coach Kevin corrigan said he wanted to see head­ing into the matchup. 
“in the second quarter and third quarters, we played re­ally well, we controlled the game, we rode really well all day,” corrigan said. “That was encouraging because that’s something that’s im­portant to us. we had a lot of different people contribute, which should be a strength for us.” 
while no official statistics were kept for the preseason affair, the irish outscored the Knights 19-4 through a full 60 minutes of play. The two teams also played an ad­ditional 15-minute quarter. 
early on, however, notre dame’s starting lineup had trouble cracking the bellarmine defense, which warded off each irish attack by packing the inside of the field near the crease. 
“i thought we started slowly,” corrigan said. “we didn’t have or give ourselves a lot of opportunities in the first quarter to make plays. it took a while to get into the rhythm of the game.” 
The irish offense — led by junior attack matt Kavanagh, preseason all-american and program record-holder for most points in a season — could not find the net for the first 10 minutes of the con­test. Finally, with 4:56 left in the period, senior midfielder nick ossello scored to cap off a long possession and break the ice. 
The first quarter ended with the squads tied, 2-2, thanks to a last-minute blast from Kavanagh from the out­side. however, with several players sidelined due to in­jury, the early troubles were not unexpected, corrigan said. 
“we’re not crying. we had enough good players out there to play good lacrosse,” corrigan said. “but i think the level of competitiveness in practice hasn’t been what 
see m lacrosse PaGe 13 






