The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 65 | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Grant to fund SMC summer institute 
$527,000 from Lilly Endowment Inc. will support week-long theology institute for high school girls 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
associate saint mary’s editor 
The lilly endowment incorporation has made a near­ly $527,000 gift to saint mary’s division for mission, which will be used to fund a week-long the­ology summer institute for high school girls on the college’s cam­pus. The pilot program will run summer 2016, vice president for mission Judy Fean said. 
according to the lilly endowment incorporation web­site, 82 private, four-year col­leges and universities located in 29 states and the district of columbia received grants. The four-year grant is specifically in­tended to help young women in high school develop leadership in their churches and assist in the area of vocations, Fean said. Fean will be the program direc­tor of the institute. 
“The first goal is to provide an opportunity for high school girls to encounter their beauty within a contemporary theology of cre­ation,” she said. “also, to assist high school girls to understand and articulate how their gifts and talents relate to others and reveal their desire for communion with god … and to help high school students realize that faith is a gift both deeply personal and inher­ently social, meant to be shared for the common good.” 
attendees of the summer in­stitute will use scripture, reflec­tion and service to examine the moral and ethical dimensions of challenges faced by young wom­en today, Fean said. 
“we see this as an opportu­nity for young women to be able to find their voice,” she said. “we also have opportunity for inter-religious dialogue and en­gagement with other religious traditions, and seeing what that means as our openness to ecu­menical relationships.” 
Fean said the voices of 
see granT PAGE 3 




Basilica to close for organ installation 
Observer Staff Report 
The basilica of the sacred heart will close for three weeks this winter break for the next phase of the murdy Family organ installation, the university announced in a press release monday morning. The basilica will close dec. 28 through Jan. 15, reopening for the 5 p.m. vigil mass on Jan. 16. all liturgies will be celebrated in the sacred heart parish crypt while the basilica is closed. 
“The new murdy Family organ, to be fully opera­tional by christmas 2016, will replace the current holtkamp organ,” the re­lease stated. “in 2013-14, the basilica closed for renova­tions including the removal of carpeting and the instal­lation of slate tile flooring to aid acoustics. This year’s closure will allow for work­ers to make space for the new murdy Family organ.” 
andrew mcshane, associate director for mu­sic and liturgy in the office of campus ministry, said the holtkamp organ cannot sustain all the activities for which the basilica needs it. 
“The current holtkamp 

organ was not designed to be played as frequently as it is now, and the sound qual­ity has continued to suffer,” mcshane said in the release. “Two masses each day along with choir rehearsals and ongoing student practice sessions have created seri­ous operating issues. The basilica has simply out­grown the current organ and 
see organ PAGE 3 


week spreads message of love 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
associate news editor 
despite busy days filled with final exams and essays, the notre dame right to life club is working to spread uncondi­tional love through its “you are loved” campaign. 
senior club president Janelle wanzek said in an email that her and right to life secretary junior aly cox’s experiences with summer service learning programs (sslps) inspired the campaign, which aims to share love with the entire community.
 “we both worked at disability homes, we learned from the resi­dents that loving unconditionally 
see love PAGE 3 

news PAGE 3 scene PAGE 5 viewpoinT PAGE 7 men’s baskeTball PAGE 12 Track PAGE 12 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                        Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green 
Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 

News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 
What was your favorite part of the biology nature walk? 

Cara Givens 
first year 
mccandless hall 
“being near the water, and how peaceful it was.” 
Carmela LaGambina-Lockwitz 
sophomore 
le mans hall 
“seeing the organisms in their natural habitat.” 
Nicole Nemeth 
first year 
mccandless hall 
“observing the peacefulness of nature, the river and the shells found there.” 


Libby Lockwood 
first year 
regina hall 
“observing the st. Joseph river’s current flow from south to north.” 
Mary Gelder 
first year 
mccandless hall 
“being able to walk around the woods and seeing the river.” 
Marie McCusker 
first year 
mccandless hall 
“The class got so wrapped up in nature that we got lost for a bit.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 
catherine owers kit loughran 

Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

andrea vale rachel o’grady kathryn marshall 
Graphics Scene 

eric richelsen miko malabute Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
Photo Viewpoint 

chris collins austin Taliaferro 
“Do You Hear What I Auditions: “The Bear” Mindful Meditation Elite Athletes in the Mass 
sarah olson 

Hear?” and “Afterplay” Coleman-Morse Cold War Basilica of the Sacred Lewis Hall DeBartolo Performing Center McKenna Hall Heart 8 p.m.-9 p.m. Arts Center 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 2:00 p.m.-3:30 p.m. 5:00 p.m.-6:00 p.m. 
Corrections 

Unchained Melodies’ 6 p.m.-7:30 p.m. All students, faculty Three former athletes Music by the Women’s 
The observer regards itself as winter concert. All students welcome. and staff are welcome. discuss life and politics. Liturgical Choir. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Men’s Basketball vs. ND Women’s Business Major Reading Day What and When Was 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Stony Brook Basketball vs. DePaul Showcase Campus-wide the Christmas Star? 
however, recognize that we will make 
Purcell Pavilion Joyce Center Jordan Auditorium All day Jordan Hall of Science 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
9 p.m.-11 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 5:00 p.m.-7:30 p.m. No classes in session. 7:00 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
The Irish take on The Irish take on the Keynote by Mark Astrophysics lecture 
we can correct our error. 

the Seawolves. Blue Demons. Gottfredson. by Professor Mathews. 

ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2015 | The observer 

A cappella group to perform concert 
By SELENA PONIO 
news writer 
unchained melodies, notre dame’s only christian a cap­pella group, will perform a winter concert Tuesday night at 8 p.m. in the chapel of st. Teresa of avila in lewis hall. The group, which sings both christian hymns and contem­porary songs, was formed in 2003 and consists of 14 mem­bers, senior and president sofia piecuch said. 
“we have usually one big concert every year at the end of the semester,” piecuch said. “during the year we sing at nursing homes, at elementary schools, and we do some sing­ing at tailgates as well.” 
The concert is free to the public, piecuch said, and it provides the perfect opportu­nity for unchained melodies to showcase their most recent work. she said the group usu­ally sings hymns, but they also take some pop songs and change the lyrics to make them their own. 

“our mission is to sing for christ, and so we try to end every practice in prayer to re­member that when we’re sing­ing, we’re singing for him,” piecuch said. 
she said musical talent and strong relationships between members are vital to the suc­cess of the a cappella group. 
“something that i’ve been focusing on as president is really fostering friendships,” piecuch said. “i think people become a lot more invested in the group when they’re friends with one another, and so we try to keep the group small be­cause we think that helps with group communication.” 
according to piecuch, this year’s winter concert is split up in two parts. The first part consists of a christian music set, and the second part is a christmas set. 
“in the christmas set we’re doing ‘carol of the bells,’ but we’re singing the pentatonix version, and ‘run to you,’ which is an original pentatonix song,” she said. 
with the recent heightened interest in a cappella groups, 
“Our mission is to 
sing for Christ, 
and so we try 
to end every 
practice in prayer 
to remember 
that when we’re 
singing, we’re 
singing for him.” 
Sofia Piecuch 
president 
Unchained Melodies 
popularized by movies such as “pitch perfect,” piecuch said unchained melodies has re­ceived much greater interest. 
“This year we got a lot more people auditioning than we have in the past, and that was really nice to see that. half of our group is new this year … most of them are freshmen,” she said. 
piecuch said in the recent years she has also witnessed more collaboration between a cappella groups, and she said this camaraderie is vital to members in a cappella groups because it shows members what their strengths are and what they need to work on. she says a cappella allows musi­cians the opportunity to trade off solos and discover new tal­ents that emerge by placing themselves in new situations. 
“i think there’s a lot of as­pects to a cappella that are re­ally appealing,” she said. “it’s nice to see a variety, and it’s also really cool to make the noises the instruments would normally make, and to do that with our voices makes it a lot more interesting.” 
Contact Selena Ponio at  sponio@nd.edu 

Man suffers cardiac arrest 
Observer Staff Report 
a 77-year-old pennsylvania man went into cardiac arrest monday at 8:15 a.m.at the bus stop by the university’s main gate, university spokesman dennis brown said in an email to local me­dia that morning. 
“The notre dame police and the notre dame and south bend fire depart­ments responded immedi­ately. The south bend Fire department transported the man to memorial hospital. notre dame has no other details to report,” the email stated. 
Organ 
conTinued From page 1 
there is a need for a larger, better functioning organ to occupy the space and sus­tain the basilica for years to come.” 
while the basilica is closed, the holtkamp organ will be removed and work to reinforce the balcony from the base­ment to the loft will begin. 
“reinforcement is neces­sary as the murdy Family organ is substantially heavier than the existing organ,” the release stated. “in addition, all of the pews in the west transept will be removed to make room for the choirs that will begin singing near the interim organ in January. The choirs will be relocated back to the choir loft once the murdy Family organ is functional.” 
The murdy Family organ will arrive in august 2016 from Tacoma, washington, where paul Fritts and co. organ builders are designing and constructing it, accord­ing to the press release. 
“The entire assembly and voicing process will take ap­proximately four months to complete and will be accom­plished by the Fritts team at night and during off hours,” the release stated. 


Love 
conTinued From page 1 
is the purest, most genuine love,” she said. “we had been trying to brainstorm ways to share this idea of unconditional love with the student body, then a friend of the right to life club suggested we do an event for foster kids. Thus, the first event of the week was born — making care back­packs for children being placed into foster care. The backpacks will include stuffed animals, col­oring books, fleece blankets and a note from the students who put them together with the you are loved picture.” 
other events for the week include tutoring south bend children with slice of life, partic­ipating in discussions on climate change with greend and ugly christmas sweater spirit day, sponsored by the Junior class council. wozniak said the right to life officers realized “almost every club here at notre dame is in someway telling some group of people that they are loved.” 

more than 20 university clubs have joined the campaign. 
“This is why we created a week where all the student groups can pitch in and host their own events,” she said. “meanwhile, on the Facebook page, we are featuring the clubs that have reached out to us, ‘humans of new york’-style.” 
The campaign fits into the right to life mission of respect­ing life from conception to natu­ral death, she said. 
“... we are telling all groups of life, that no matter what their cir­cumstance, that they are loved,” she said. 
wozniak said feedback for the campaign has so far been positive. 
“i am amazed at how great the responses have been for this week so far, and this is only the first year,” she said. “i can’t wait to come back after graduation and see how much it has grown.” 
News Editor Margaret Hynds also contributed to this story. 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 
Grant 
conTinued From page 1 
young catholic women project last year, in which the college sponsored a campaign for young wom­en to send letters to pope Francis, brought to light ideas about women’s lead­ership in the church, and how society impacts young women today. 
“There was the question of, ‘what can that leader­ship do to support women in the church? ’, and i think that was a reason why this grant seemed like a really good idea,” she said. 
The application for the summer institute came together through the col­laborative efforts of a wide range of disciplines, in­cluding the dean of Faculty, the provost, members of the department of religious studies, campus ministry, the center for spirituality and the office of social and civic engagement, Fean said. 

For the pilot program during summer 2016, mem­bers of the religious studies faculty, campus ministry, the center for women’s intercultural leadership, the office of social and civic engagement, student mentors and possibly com­munity members will serve around 30 high school girls from across the country, she said. 
“we will select saint mary’s students to be men­tors for the week,” Fean said. “we’re preparing lead­ers through the institute but also offering our saint mary’s women the opportu­nity to be a leader.” 
saint mary’s has a his­tory of strengthening the leadership of women in the church, she said. 
Fean said saint mary’s was one of the first col­leges to provide women with graduate degrees in t heolog y. 
“when master’s degrees and ph.d.s were being giv­en in theology, and wom­en were not able to earn one, saint mary’s opened a graduate school in the­ology,” she “we also had what was called a spiritual leadership institute in the 1990s and early 2000s with a holistic approach of edu­cating the heart and the mind, and what it means to be engaged in seeking the truth and seeking beauty and embodying our faith.” 
The college educates women to support their passions and make a differ­ence in the world through embracing their vocations, Fean said. 
“i think the excitement behind the institute is in providing an opportunity to grow in one’s faith and to respond to what’s going on in our culture now,” she said. 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 

The observer | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By ADAM RAMOS 
scene writer 

Throughout the television series “The office” and its emmy award-winning nine-season run, one character, creed bratton, remained shrouded in mys­tery. whether he’s stealing from chil­dren, avoiding police or musing about his time spent both following and leading cults, there seems to be a pre­vailing sense of unpredictability when­ever creed enters the scene. luckily for adrian mark lore and i, it is mystery no longer. we had a chance to sit down and talk with the man, the actor and musician bratton and gain a little more insight into his life before his show at legends of notre dame this saturday 
— a show that tastefully captured the many tumultuously wonderful steps bratton has taken in a career that can only be described as eclectic. 
bratton’s love for music began at a young age — he was already playing professionally at the age of 17. after 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
scene writer 

it’s christmastime, and that means decking the halls, getting the tree and most importantly, binge watching the christmas episodes of all the shows on television. There is no show that single handedly absolutely crushes the christmas episode category quite like “The office,” so of course, that calls for a definitive ranking of the best ones. note that this is only the top five, as the others really just don’t stack up to these. beyond that, i want to make it perfectly clear that none of these are the true best episode of “The office” (for what it’s worth, that’s “stress relief,” no ques­tions asked). 
5. “Dwight Christmas” 

cheer or fear? belsnickel is here! when the dunder mifflin party planning com­mittee fails to come up with a theme for the christmas party, dwight schrute saves the day with a traditional schrute Family christmas. while dwight’s ter­rifying game of “impish or admirable,” dressed as the belsnickel “the dirty, and well, worse version of santa,” leaving college and touring europe with a band called The young californians, bratton found himself in israel where he met future band mate warren entner. The two returned to the u.s. and The grass roots was born, lead­ing to a string of successful hits, and tours, opening for the likes of “cream, The beach boys, Janis Joplin and The doors,” he explained. 
Today, bratton continues to create music and has been producing a se­ries of solo albums. musically, though, bratton has expanded past the ’60’s folk rock of The grass roots, experimenting with genres like pop, blues and rocka­billy. Throughout saturday’s show bratton impressed, switching styles while singing and masterly playing the guitar. while much of the audience may not have been familiar with his music, bratton’s exuberance and talent were enough to keep things interesting. 
yet, despite his rock stardom, acting always remained a passion for bratton. “[acting] really just started as a way to 
provided the laughs for the episode, erin hannon’s tender moments with pete miller while watching “die hard” pro­vided the necessary sentimentality for the final christmas episode of the series. 
4. “Classy Christmas” 
The two-part season seven christmas feature showcased what is perhaps the best snowball fight in the history of all snowball fights. Jim halpert, in retro­spect rather foolishly, agrees to a snow­ball fight with dwight, which turns into an all-out, no rules massacre and ends in a black eye for Jim. all the while, michael scott is desperately trying to impress holly Flax, who’s in town replacing Toby Flenderson while he’s on jury duty for the scranton strangler case. michael’s attempts are arguably fruitless, but nev­ertheless, watching him fall head over heels for holly all over again is a little bit heartwarming. plus, “The office” is so far from classy that it’s adorable watch­ing them attempt some degree of high society. 
3. “Benihana Christmas” 
i’m already getting major push-back for putting “benihana christmas” at the conquer a fear and i found a talent,” bratton said. he acted in a myriad of small projects throughout most of his life, but it wasn’t until finding “The office” before getting his big break — a break he never saw coming. 
“The whole thing is surprising; i mean no one was prepared for this phe­nomenon. i didn’t prepare to be on this show that would become ‘The office,’ none of us did,” bratton recalled. 
and while the meteoric rise of “The office” may have surprised bratton, for many of us it’s no surprise at all. every character on “The office” seemed to be expertly crafted to play a role in what was a hilariously dysfunctional office “work family.” 
bratton described how his character is an extension from his own past: “i’m a rock star, so i party-hardy-ed and i did all that stuff,” he said. “so my char­acter i wrote was, what would happen if i stayed that way and hadn’t grown up? … The character has a black-out period on a bus and wakes up in a dumpster in 
no. three spot. let’s be very clear: it’s an excellent episode, perhaps one of the best in the series, but it doesn’t stack up to my number one or two. still, michael’s sharpie-marked “date” to the office christmas party, a waitress he picked up at the preceding benihana outing is worth a top three spot in and of it­self.  meanwhile, pam beesly and karen Filippelli plan a rival christmas party after angela kinsey kicks them off the official party-planning committee, forc­ing the rest of the office to chose sides before eventually merging parties in the spirit of compromise at christmastime. dwight is also briefly convinced he has been recruited for the cia, as part of an elaborate prank pam is executing as a present for Jim. The episode is nothing short of fantastic, and sets the bar high for later christmas episodes. 
2. “Moroccan Christmas” 
meredith palmer catches on fire, angela is outed for her affair with dwight and, after buying them out of all the toy stores in town, dwight makes a profit selling “princess unicorn” dolls at more than market value. This episode covers every base and features perhaps the best scranton outside dunder mifflin.” 

The concept is great, but it’s bratton comedic sensibility and quirky nature that truly solidified his character as the show’s unsung hero. everyone at legends on saturday seemed to think so as well, roaring with laughter as creed interjected with oddball quips and references to some of his signature lines. To watch a 72-year-old ex-rock star entertain a room full of millen­nial college students with both music and comedy was absolutely surreal, a true testament to bratton’s skill as a performer. 
despite enough time in the public eye for two lives, bratton is far from leaving the limelight. once he ends his comedy/music tour, bratton will be­gin recording a new ep and will also continue to seek new acting roles and further explore further avenues in his already-successful career. 
Contact Adam Ramos at  aramos6@nd.edu 
intervention in television history after meredith gets too drunk at the party. michael learns shortly after this inter­vention that “you actually can’t check someone into rehab against their will.” 
1. “The Christmas Party” 
The inaugural christmas episode (there was no christmas episode in the first season) is by far the best. Though the office engages in a secret santa, michael introduces the idea of a “yankee swap” (also known as a “white elephant gas exchange”) when he receives a hand­made oven mitt from phyllis vance. The office fights over the video ipod michael bought for ryan howard, while Jim does his best to secure the teapot he got for pam filled with personal items, as well as a handwritten letter. he ends up pocket­ing the letter confessing his feelings for pam, but it appears again in the season nine when he finally gives it to her with a video of their relationship. The episode is both adorable and hilarious, but the recurring teapot reaffirms that pam and Jim are in fact relationship goals. 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at  rogrady@nd.edu 
ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 


Stephen Raab 
let’s Talk smart 

november 19th, the united states Food and drug administration made the historic decision to ap­prove america’s first genetically modified animal for sale. The aquadvantage atlantic salmon, pro­duced by aquabounty Technologies, inc., contains a gene from the chinook salmon that codes for a growth hormone and a “promoter” from an ocean pout to activate the gene. The resulting fish grow to market size faster than unmodified variet­ies, meaning they can be sold to consumers more cheaply. now that’s a cause i can get behind — bet­ter living through chemistry. 
despite the Fda’s approval, many are still wary of genetically modified organisms (gmos). one common argument is that genetic engineers are “playing god” or otherwise interfering with what is “natural.” These protests tend to increase in volume when the genetic modification involves introducing foreign dna like that of the chinook and the pout, as opposed to the selective breeding humans have been doing ever since we invented agriculture. 
i wholeheartedly disagree with such concerns. at its heart, genetic engineering simply means creating a synthetic chemical. sure, the transgenic dna is millions of atoms in size, but it’s still just a chemical. in that respect, it’s no different than the 
GMO? OMG! 
thousands of pharmaceuticals we’ve designed this century that don’t occur in nature. even a material as ubiquitous as nylon didn’t exist before 1935. how did the environment respond to this “unnatural” material? bacteria evolved enzymes to digest it. 
now, it’s true that most introductions of new species — even unmodified ones — into other eco­systems are not benign; look at what a few genera­tions of dogs, pigs and sailors did to the dodo bird. Transgenic animals are particularly susceptible to this because their modifications may make them fitter to survive or more effective at consuming resources than unmodified varieties. The Fda is aware of this and has implemented strict regula­tions to prevent any escapes. all aquadvantage salmon must be bred in land-based tanks in canada or panama, miles from the nearest ocean. even if they could escape containment and survive, the salmon are designed to be sterile. 
in fact, the aquadvantage salmon could be a sig­nificant benefit to the worldwide atlantic salmon population. This delicious fish has been on the decline for years due to overharvesting. it’s taken strict regulations to put atlantic salmon on the re­bound. if aquadvantage becomes cheap enough, it could relieve pressure on wild-caught populations and accelerate the recovery. 
if we let history be our guide, genetically modi­fied food has the potential to be one of the greatest boons humanity has ever seen. consider the 20th century’s advancements in genetically modified food. Through carefully controlled breeding, american biologist norman borlaug modified wheat to boost yields and increase its resistance to disease. For his efforts, he won the nobel prize; it is conservatively estimated that one billion people are currently alive due to this supposedly “taboo” technology. imagine how many more will be saved from starvation when we can directly edit the ge­netic code of whatever organism we choose. 

at the turn of the century, borlaug put the costs and benefits of gmos in stark terms. he said while rich countries like the united states could afford to pay for organic food, “the one billion chroni­cally undernourished people of the low income, food-deficit nations cannot.” For the populations of entire countries every single day, gmo or organic never enters into the equation. Food is food, and we’re going to need a lot of it one way or another. 
and that’s why, more than ever, i am excited to see aquadvantage salmon coming to market. after a generation of genetically modified animals being sold and eaten with no effect other than increased wallet size and diminishing famine worldwide, it will be gratifying to see the world once again pat science on the back for a job well done. 
Stephen Raab is a senior studying chemical engineering. He resides in Alumni Hall and welcomes discourse at sraab@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
growing in appreciation 
Scott Boyle 
The sincere seeker 

over the past couple of weeks, i enjoyed aziz ansari’s “master of none” on netflix. 
initially, “master of none” didn’t capture my atten­tion. but in the end, i enjoyed the series mostly be­cause its plotlines made me think. The show tackled many subjects, from racial stereotypes to parenting roles. but above all, i think the romantic relation­ship between aziz ansari’s dev and noël wells’ rachel was the lens through which the show most succeeded. 
at its heart, the show challenges the traditional conceptions and language that influence our deci­sion-making. The show succeeds not by telling us what to do, but by thoughtfully re-framing the things we tell ourselves will make us happy. 
one of the show’s strongest points occurs near the end of the first season as dev and rachel attend a wedding. There we watch the exchange of vows be­tween two of their acquaintances, andrea and larry. Two particularly memorable lines emerge: 
“andrea…i’ve never had any doubts, fears or re­grets ever since [we met].” 
“larry…every time i see your face, i feel this rush of happiness and excitement that this is the person to spend my life with. i can’t wait to have that feeling for the rest of my life.” 
if these lines made you cringe, you are not alone. a panning camera captured other wedding guests’ half-smiles and forced gazes that illuminated their own fear, disbelief and doubt. andrea and larry’s wedding bliss had clearly exposed the tenuous states of their own relationships. 
in his subsequent narration, dev gives voice to these emotions: “That exists? no doubts, no fears, nothing? come on!” 
given the course of his relationship with rachel throughout the season, dev’s comments are not sur­prising. Their relationship had many moments of joy. but these moments did not exclude petty fights, hurt­ful words and disappointment. 
in contrast to andrea and larry’s stated vows, disagreements over cleanliness or the challenges of distance give dev and rachel fears and doubts about their commitment and attraction to one another. The real stresses and challenges of their relationship lead them to realize that their commitment to one another is not always a rush of excitement and happiness. 
speaking to his dad later about his future with rachel, dev says, “it’s intense, you know? … whoever you’re dating now could be who you end up with. it’s a big decision, it’s hard!” 
of course, it would be unfair to discount the real pressure dev feels in this situation. relationships are a big commitment. but what becomes clear is that dev has difficulty accepting rachel’s vulnerabilities and imperfections. it scares him to think he will make an eternal commitment to another person who may not be perfect or able to give him a constant rush of emotion and feeling. 
how many times have we, too, been deceived into thinking that happiness and passionate feelings should last forever and that the loss of those feel­ings means it is time to search for greener pastures? struggles create these very real temptations in our jobs, in our friendships, in marriages and in life. 
despite how many times we are reminded to the contrary, we sometimes deceive ourselves into thinking that struggle and doubt are markers of the fact that the wrong people are in our lives. This is not to suggest, of course, that struggle and doubt are inherently good or should be enthusiastically embraced. 

rather, perhaps situations like these should invite us to look holistically, not just at others’ weaknesses but also at our own shortcomings. what or when do we not see rightly? what if we thought about how much others choose to be with us despite our own shortcomings? what if we thought about how much god chooses to be with us? 
This, i would like to suggest, might lead to a deeper appreciation for what we have already been given 
— in our lives, relationships and our faith. This grati­tude may not be the final solution, but it may be a start. 
at the recent canonization mass of Fr. Junipero serra, pope Francis remarked, “mission is always the fruit of a life which knows what it is to be found and healed, encountered and forgiven.” at the beginning of this year of mercy, i would submit that our mission is to forgive others of the responsibility for determin­ing our happiness. 
but this doesn’t mean lowering our standards to­ward life or other people. perhaps we just need to use different standards. 
what if we were to judge our actions, relationships and lives by whether they draw us deeper into holi­ness? we might finally rely not on our own misin­formed desires, but grow in appreciation for the ways in which god’s actions through others invite us into a reality we could have never dreamed for ourselves. 
A 2012 and 2015 graduate of Notre Dame, Scott currently serves as the assistant director for Notre Dame Vision in the Institute for Church Life. He can be reached at sboyle2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


More than decorated lattes 
Katherine Smart 
guest column 

even though it’s only the start of december, the first “war on christmas” controversy has already infected my Facebook page. This particular battle is over starbucks’ decision to remove christmas decorations from their red holiday cups. The grav­ity both sides of the argument are putting on this issue is pure insanity and the very definition of a first world problem. if your christmas season is truly defined by whether or not some of your favor­ite companies include reindeer and christmas trees on their products, you’ve clearly missed the point of dr. seuss’ children’s book, “how the grinch stole christmas.” 
“and the grinch, with his grinch-feet ice cold in the snow, stood puzzling and puzzling, how could it be so? it came without ribbons. it came without tags. it came without packages, boxes or bags. and he puzzled and puzzled ’til his puzzler was sore. Then the grinch thought of something he hadn’t before. what if christmas, he thought, doesn’t come from a store? what if christmas, perhaps, means a little bit more?” 
while this quote might arouse fond memories of from our childhood, dr. seuss’ 1957 words foreshad­ow a real problem that has exponentially increased over the past two decades. This problem is that the focus of the christmas season has shifted from time spent with loved ones to who has the newest “floofloovers or whohoopers.” with the rise of black Friday and numerous holiday commercials, the term “christmas” is becoming synced with catchy icons such as santa and Frosty the snowman. Therefore, it is no surprise that many groups are taking offense to starbucks’ removal of these de­signs. however, as the grinch discovers, christmas “means a little bit more” than just some childish icons. 
The origin of christmas is rooted in the christian celebration of the birth of Jesus christ, a man who first and foremost preached a message of humil­ity, social justice and love for the unlovable. it is also the celebration of the fearless woman, whom we now honor on top of our dome, for accepting her call to motherhood without regard for social stereotypes. 
how can a story as powerful as this one possibly be affected by removing some holiday graphics from a starbucks cup? 

instead of focusing on the “war on christmas,” we should be actively seeking to bring joy to those around us. instead of spending time and energy complaining when companies don’t write “merry christmas” on their products, go out as wish ev­eryone you see a “merry christmas!” i guarantee these human-to-human interactions reveal the true meaning of the season more than any product label ever could. 
so, please, resist the urge to jump on the band­wagon and repost or retweet angry videos or pic­tures regarding starbucks’ new cups. instead, use your “puzzler” and bring the true spirit of christmas by tipping your overworked starbucks barista or by covering the bill for the random person behind you in line. These small acts of kindness are what define our christmas season, not some com­mercialized decorations on a disposable cup. 
Katherine Smart is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters. She can be reached at ksmart@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

diversity council in the wrong? 
“Through collaborative research, programming and service, diversity council of notre dame ex­plores issues of diversity at the university of notre dame in an effort to promote awareness, under­standing, and acceptance of all differences that make up the notre dame community.” 
last monday, the diversity council of notre dame voted to force its elected secretary to re­sign. diversity council is a branch of student government consisting of representatives from thirty different diversity-related clubs on campus. lauren hill, diversity council’s former secretary, had served as an executive member of diversity council for the entirety of this semester, and also acts as an officer of native american student association of notre dame and as an intern for multicultural student programs and services (msps). she devoted the entirety of her time outside of schoolwork to diversity-related issues. one might wonder why hill could be ousted from a club that she so deeply cares for. 
on nov. 16, hill published a viewpoint, “perfect place to grow.” This article described her per­sonal disagreement toward the “nd for mizzou” rally, which transpired on nov. 11, the previous wednesday. This rally had been meant to show notre dame students in solidarity with the mizzou demonstrations. 
immediately, notre dame students who felt targeted by the article filled various social media outlets with upset, angry and disappointed posts. This reaction was at least partially warranted; hill’s article certainly could have been written better and made better points. The subjects of racial inequali­ties and discrimination are, for good reasons, very sensitive for many students at notre dame. 
hill’s article was put up for discussion at the first diversity council meeting following its publish­ing. at the beginning of this discussion, hill read a statement to all 30 members of the general as­sembly, stating, among other things, that if any of them wished to discuss her article, she would gladly meet with them immediately. however, at no point during the entire next week did anyone reach out to her. several motions were made at this meeting, including the demand that hill resign. 
a week later, diversity council assembled again for its general meeting. There were several votes throughout this meeting, two of which addressed the previous week’s motion for hill to resign. after much discussion, hill called for a vote over whether her article violated the diversity council mission statement. of those who voted, 67 percent said the article did indeed contradict it. immediately after, a vote to force hill to resign was called. hill left the room. To force her resignation, a two-thirds major­ity was required — 66 percent. hill is now no longer on diversity council. 
This is unacceptable. 
hill’s errors in her article and the sensitivity of the subject which she wrote about do not forgive diversity council for its ousting of hill. its reason­ing for removing hill from not only its executive council but also its general meetings is that her article violated diversity council’s mission state­ment, as written above. This could not be further from the truth. 
hill’s article explicitly makes no mention of race; she solely focuses on her problems with the singular nd for mizzou rally. in fact, the only time race was brought into the discussion was by the response article, “we are seeds,” which made assumptions about hill’s race and was signed by many mem­bers of diversity council. hill makes no mention of her agreement or disagreement with the central missouri protests, no mention of her opinions on topic such as white privilege or racial oppression. hill should absolutely be allowed to disagree with one rally while agreeing with the overall message that the rally is attempting to promote. 
her article was shared by many on social media and accused of undermining racial relations and the good that the rally was attempting to do. can hill not disagree with a rally while agreeing with the overall message that the rally intends to pro­mote? do we live in a society where we must agree with every aspect of a message, including its means of spreading that message, to agree with that over­all message? 
Further, the event hill’s article addressed was not endorsed by diversity council or msps. if the event was run by clubs hill was responsible for represent­ing, a highly public observer article disagreeing with the nd for mizzou rally would have been inap­propriate action. The reality is that her disagreeing with an event completely independent of her clubs should be entirely fine, but diversity council still punished her in the worst way possible for writing the article. 
Finally, hill was given little real chance to defend herself; members of diversity council attacked hill and her article on the basis of the offense it caused and the assumption that her opinions were wrong because they contradicted the majority. while hill could have defended herself more vigorously in the meeting and against members of diversity council, nothing she said would have mattered. The council was unwilling to accept a difference of opinion in their community without suppression. diversity council was not interested in understanding what hill meant in her article, but more interested in punishment for what they saw as a blatant disre­gard for their mission statement. 

before voting for her resignation, not one of the thirty members of diversity council directly con­fronted hill in person, even when she offered to explain her beliefs to each one of them at any point. hill was subjected to a guilty-until-proven-inno­cent mentality in which her guiltiness was based on her difference of opinion. 
For a move as meaningful as forcing an officer to resign, one would like to imagine that hill would have at least been given the benefit of the doubt that she agrees with the overall message of the nd for mizzou rally because she is involved in so many extracurricular activities involving diversity. no matter how much hill explained herself, nothing would have changed that diversity council mem­bers saw her article as wrong and therefore must vote her off the council. 
hill was voted into her officer position and was voted into that position for good reasons. if mem­bers of diversity council wished not to elect her in the next officer election cycle, they were absolutely free to do that without controversy. if every politi­cian was impeached or ousted from their job the moment they said a controversial opinion, there would be few politicians. The way diversity council acted is an absolute mockery on any form of proper political process. 
at the end of the day, hill was free to write her article. diversity council was free to force her to resign. Just because you can do something, however, does not make it the right thing to do. unfortunately, diversity council did not do the right thing. 
Andrew Pott 
sophomore alumni hall 


CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 


Happy Birthday: keep moving forward and don’t look back. change can be good as long as you stay within your means and keep your intentions honorable. protect your health, your heart and your emotional wellness from those trying to bring you down. make decisions based on facts, not hearsay, and express your plans clearly to avoid misunderstandings. creative solutions will lead to recognition. your numbers are 8, 14, 23, 27, 32, 36, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): learn through observation, communication and exploration of unfamiliar territory. expand your interests and plans. Traveling to new places will help you discover what you want to do next and help you secure a foothold in reaching your destination. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): a break will come your way via an unlikely source. intensity regarding personal matters will surface. don’t be shy when it comes to love. share your feelings and plans, but don’t pay for someone else’s mistakes. you can’t buy love. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t leave anything to chance. live within your means no matter what others do with their money. Joint ventures will not turn out well. Time is money, so don’t waste any time implementing the changes you want to make. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): nothing is worth getting too upset about. let things unfold naturally without complaints or negative thoughts. love is on the rise and positive changes can be made. make new developments work in your favor. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take care of your home, your family and your emotional and physical well-being. you will discover something interesting if you attend a lecture or networking function. be cautious while traveling and avoid disputes with colleagues. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): problems will surface at home or with someone you are in a partnership with if you aren’t specific about how you present or gather information. put more time and effort into personal changes that will improve your appearance. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): plan a road trip or initiate talks with people you want to collaborate with in order to bring about positive change to your community. Take action by standing up for those who cannot speak for themselves. you will gain recognition for your efforts. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): make alterations at home or to your personality that will bring you greater joy. don’t let someone from your past disrupt your plans or your life. information will be revealed that will help you make a decision. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): keep moving forward and don’t look back. use your energy wisely and make a point to bring about the changes necessary to gain clear passage to pursue your dreams. don’t wait for someone else to make the first move. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you’ll have a handle on whatever comes your way. your ability to mix and match and wheel and deal will draw positive attention and the opportunity to get ahead. romance is highlighted, and a celebration should be planned. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): consider what you would like to do and forge ahead. don’t let fear of failure or other limitations stand between you and your goals. a unique way of doing something will catch on and make you look good. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): put your efforts into something you believe in. don’t let a challenge stop you. not everyone will be on your side, but if you do your best to avoid the opposition, you will prove that you are a force to be reckoned with. 


Birthday Baby: you are creative and a troubleshooter. you are complex and passionate. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 




The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

To
 receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable to and mail to: The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 
address 

city     state Zip 

ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2015 | The observer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

How to beat the unbeatable 

Daniel O’Boyle 
sports writer 
at 10 games, it was a special start. 
at 16, it was record-breaking. 
now with 22 wins to begin the 2015-16 nba regular sea­son, the golden state warriors’ start is something else entirely. 
maybe some people will tell you that the warriors won’t go 82-0 this year. That in today’s nba, a team just can’t win every single game in a season. but really, can any team right now stop golden state? 
maybe, just maybe, someone at some point this season will knock off stephen curry and co., but what will it take to do it? Few teams so far have even come close, with many games this year already decided by the end of the third quarter. and when they don’t control a game from start to finish, they can still come from behind and earn the win, as shown against the clippers twice this year. 
so exactly what is it a team needs if it wants to beat golden state? it takes a lot of talent and a lot of luck, but these five things couldn’t hurt either: 
Beat Them with Small Ball 
The warriors’ small-ball line­up of curry, klay Thompson, andre iguodala, harrison barnes and draymond green at center — known ominously as the “death lineup” — has completely dominated oppo­nents this year. so could an­other team match the warriors’ unit with perfect personnel who have spent two years per­fecting the “five smalls” sys­tem? probably not, but that’s not what i’m suggesting. you’re going to have to keep pace with the warriors from three-point range to beat them, but under normal circumstances that isn’t easy. so what if the ball were roughly the size of a baseball when you’re shooting? Tampering with the balls is a tried method in the nFl with a record that speaks for itself, so why not try it in the nba? surely it would be significantly easier to get it into the hoop from the perimeter. of course, you’ll have to stop the warriors from taking advantage of the new ball when they have it, so all you’ll have to do is switch the ball out without anyone noticing and give warriors a regulation-sized ball so under-inflated that it’s basically just a blob of rubber. 
Limit Curry to his Worst Shots 
if you’re going to stop golden state, you’re obviously going to have to stop its best player. steph curry is easily the best shooter — and the best player 
— in the league. despite leading the league in three-point at­tempts, he’s sinking nearly half of them and is on course for over 400 threes this year, shattering his own record. under pretty much every situation, curry’s shooting percentage is incred­ible. except one. From half-court and beyond this year, curry is 0-for-2 shooting. That’s pretty pedestrian. give me or deandre Jordan two halfcourt shots, and on a good day we might be able to match curry’s season aver­age. so what does this mean for the warriors’ opponents? well, all you have to do is make sure curry never gets a shot within halfcourt. Try building a large wall to stop him, or offering him $50 to stay back. 
Utilize Brock Lesnar 
The pro wrestling star, ex-uFc fighter and former-nFl prac­tice squad member ended the greatest streak of all time when he defeated The undertaker at wrestlemania XXX. if anyone knows how to end a streak, it’s him. is he good at basketball? i don’t really know, but the fact is he’s got experience in break­ing streaks. alternatively, brock osweiler defeated the patriots to hand them their first loss of the season, so maybe the key is be­ing named brock? brock motum played for the Jazz during the summer league and currently plays in lithuania — is he the answer? 
Keep the Warriors Starters on the Bench 
The warriors’ starters’ stats, especially curry’s, have taken a big hit in the fourth quarter several times this year. was it because they were all sitting out because of blowout wins? yes. but what if you could convince them to sit out every quarter? what if you could make a game appear to be an obvious blowout before it even started? it’s the classic long-con. in a strategy i call the “76ers approach,” a team just has to play poorly for mul­tiple seasons before eventually delivering the performance of a lifetime against the warriors back-ups in a relatively mean­ingless game. if it executes the strategy to perfection, philadelphia could lose by as little as 30 or 40 points. 
Score 136 or More Points: 
golden state has yet to eclipse 135 points this year. if you can score 136, a win might be within reach. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Boston College students get sick after eating Chipotle 
Associated Press 
bosTon — Thirty boston college students, including at least eight members of the men’s basketball team, com­plained of gastrointestinal symptoms after eating at a chipotle restaurant, school of­ficials said monday. 
it was not immediately known if the illnesses were part of a national outbreak of 
e. coli that has been linked to the denver-based chain. 
boston college said several students came to the school’s health services center and the “common factor” among all 30 students was that they had eaten at the chipotle res­taurant in the cleveland circle neighborhood near the bc campus. 
The school said it notified the massachusetts department of public health, which is investigating. 

“we cannot confirm a cause of the illness at this time, but we are coordinating with boston public health officials to determine the cause,” said scott Zoback, a spokesman for the public health agency. 
chris arnold, a spokesman for chipotle mexican grill inc., said in an email that the boston restaurant has been closed temporarily while the company works with local health officials to investigate the illnesses. 
The company has no evi­dence to suggest that the in­cident is related to previous cases, arnold said, noting that there have been no confirmed cases of e. coli connected to chipotle in massachusetts. 
chris cameron, a spokes­man for the school’s athletics department, said at least eight basketball players reported gastrointestinal symptoms overnight saturday. 
head coach Jim christian said he got a call from two players sunday morning say­ing they had food poisoning. one was dennis clifford, the team’s leading rebounder, who did not play in the eagles’ 68-66 loss sunday to umass-lowell. 
The u.s. centers for disease control and prevention says the outbreak has sickened 52 people in nine states so far, but the ingredient that made people sick has not been identified. 
chipotle, which has more than 1,900 locations, has said it is adopting stricter food safety standards. 
NFL 

colts expect hasselbeck to return with injured rib 
Associated Press 
indianapolis (ap) — 
First,  andrew  luck  went  
down.  
now  backup  matt  
hasselbeck is hurting.  

less than 24 hours after the 40-year-old colts quar­terback left a blowout loss in pittsburgh with neck and shoulder pain, coach chuck pagano said hasselbeck was diagnosed with a stiff neck and a mild rib separation. 
however, those inju­ries should not keep him out of sunday’s game at Jacksonville. 
“he was at the doc and in the scanner when we met, so i haven’t had a conversa­tion with him yet,” pagano said monday. “They tell me he’ll be on the practice field wednesday. if we have to monitor his reps, we’ll do that, but he should be all right.” 
That’s better news than initially feared. 
after sunday’s embarrass­ing 45-10 defeat, hasselbeck had X-rays on his neck and shoulder area and was mov­ing slowly around the locker room. he said he was ini­tially hurt on a hit in the first quarter and then was hurt again after taking another big shot in the fourth. 
only then did hasselbeck leave the game, giving way to backup charlie whitehurst who finished 4 of 8 with 51 yards in his first action since being claimed off waivers by indy on nov. 12. 

neither hasselbeck nor whitehurst spoke with re­porters monday. 
but the colts have been short at quarterback for more than a month. 
luck hasn’t played since suffering a lacerated kidney and partially torn abdomi­nal muscle in a victory over denver on nov. 8. at the time, the colts said luck was expected to miss two to six weeks. 
while he began throw­ing at practice last week, he hasn’t yet been cleared to go full throttle. 
in a Twitter post last week, team owner Jim irsay in­dicated the target date for luck’s return was dec. 20 when houston visits lucas oil stadium in a matchup between the aFc south’s co-leaders. 
hasselbeck has been one of the best backups this sea­son. he started and won two games earlier this season when luck was out with an injured throwing shoulder. 
he then won his first two starts after luck went out for the second time this season to become the third quarter­back in the super bowl era to win four straight games at age 40 or older. 
against pittsburgh, though, hasselbeck looked every bit his age. he was 16 of 26 with 169 yards, one touch­down and two interceptions. he was sacked twice and took two big hits that put him on an already long in­jury list. 
“i got hit on the top of the head and kind of just got my head compressed into my neck, or into my, you know, whatever,” hasselbeck said after the game in describing the second hit. 
The good news is that if the colts do need whitehurst, he has some knowledge of the Jaguars’ defense. 
whitehurst started five games last season with Tennessee and went 1-1 against Jacksonville. in 10 seasons, whitehurst is just 193 of 348 with 2,179 yards, 10 touchdowns and six interceptions. 
indy has only three quar­terbacks on its active ros­ter — luck, hasselbeck and whitehurst — with another, alex Tanney, on the practice squad. it still doesn’t sound as if the colts are looking for another short-term solution. 
and hasselbeck’s team­mates don’t expect him to miss much time, if any. 
“matt’s a tough guy, he fought through e. coli or whatever,” tight end dwayne allen said, recalling hasselbeck’s performance at houston in october. “if there is a quarterback change, which i don’t expect, we’ll all have to pick up our game.” 

The observer | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M Bball 
conTinued From page 12 
recent close games early in the year will help the irish find their identity as the sea­son progresses. 
“we were in game situa­tions three nights, we were in position against i think three pretty darn good teams,” brey said. “i love the fact that we got into those situations. 
“now how do we close them out? how do we do a better job with a key defen­sive stop, which i think was the number on thing to talk about. and then how do we help ourselves offensively when we need a key posses­sion? That’s still something that’s developing with us.” 
auguste echoed brey’s point on the importance of defense and said executing in key situations is some­thing the team needs to improve. 
“we have to be able to ex­ecute down the stretch. we have to have a defensive presence. 
“we have to be resilient in that case, and we hadn’t dis­played that this past week so we have to build off that.” 
brey also touched on the beachem’s emergence as a key factor for the irish go­ing forward. The junior is averaging career-highs of 12 points and 5.3 rebounds per game, but brey said beachem’s defense has seen the most improvement. 
“[beachem is] in a stance, being alert,” brey said. “Team defense, sliding, he used to get beat off the drib­ble so easy. he stays in front of guys now. he certainly uses his length to get out. he talks better defensively. i think that’s an area where he’s made great progress. 
“he’s a better passer when he takes a couple dribbles and makes a play. i’m not as nervous as i was before. Just getting better, getting more confident.” 
with that growing con­fidence, brey and the irish tip off at 9 p.m. tonight at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Marek Mazurek mmazurek@nd.edu 





ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2015 | The observer 

Track 
conTinued From page 12 
with pat o’connell running very well 151 for his first meet, that’s a very good sign. we think he can cut a few seconds off of that by the time we get to the acc championships.” 
The irish also had a strong day in the field events with ju­nior nathan richartz winning the men’s pole vault, sopho­more hunter holton winning the men’s high jump, junior anthony shivers winning the men’s weight throw and senior lena madison winning the women’s weight throw. Turner keyed in on shivers perfor­mance as being an important one for the team. 
“we were going to get a little bit more success in the field,” Turner said. “specifically in the field on the men’s side, anthony shivers in the weight throw had a huge personal best. he threw over two me­ters, six and a half feet more than his [personal record] before and he threw 63 feet and one a half inch, which is second best all-time in school history for us in the weight throw. so that was a very pleasant surprise right there for us. and that’s an area, in the last couple of years, i think we could have done better. but those guys seem to be turning the corner.” 
Though the team does not compete again for six weeks, Turner said the key moment in the season is right now as training begins in earnest. 
“This break is critical,” Turner said. “it’s not a time to rest. it’s a time to really build upon what you did this fall, because once we get back from break, we have meet ev­ery weekend and it’s more dif­ficult to get in shape. now we can really hammer and train and get in condition that’s go­ing to carry us through the in­door season. This part [of the season] is very, very critical.” 
The irish return to action on Jan. 16 at the wisconsin open. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 


SMC BASKETBALL | calvin 91, smc 45 
Belles fall to Knights in road matchup 
By R.J. STEMPAK 
sports writer 

saint mary’s recorded its eighth loss of the season on the road against no. 11 calvin on saturday at van noord arena. 
The belles (0-8, 0-2 miaa) fell, 91-45, to the knights. Their second conference game got off to a strong start, as the belles took a 10-9 lead in the middle of the first quarter that forced a calvin (6-1, 2-0) timeout. strong of­fensive rebounding and 4-of­5 free throw shooting kept the belles, who were down 18-11 at the end of the first in the game. 
but the knights’ full-court press defense started taking control of the game in the second quarter. The knights caused 13 turnovers and only allowed the belles 11 points, while putting up 28 points of their own. The half end­ed with saint mary’s down 46-22. 
“i think that walking into the gym at calvin, we knew we were going to struggle against [the knights’] strong press,” sophomore forward gabby diamond said. “They average over 20 steals a game [in conference play] with that defense and, as a smaller team, it was difficult playing against that for forty straight minutes.” 
continuing its high-pres­sure defense and efficient scoring after halftime, calvin kept the lead above 24 for the entirety of the last two periods, giving the belles no chance for a comeback. 16 points in the fourth quarter confirmed calvin’s victory and pushed its streak of scor­ing 80 or more points to four consecutive games. 
belles senior captain and forward eleni shea put in a strong effort, dropping in 18 points, 12 boards and five steals to secure her second double-double of the season. she also went 10-for-13 from the line. diamond was the second-leading scorer with eight points, while freshman guard erin maloney and se­nior guard maddie kohler each chipped in six points. overall, though, the belles shot just below 22 percent from the floor and coughed up 30 turnovers. 
“i did think that we did a good job of pushing the ball to the basket to draw the foul,” diamond said. “eleni really took advantage of this and went to the foul line quite a few times, which gave us some time to regroup and do our best to lessen the score gap with a stopped clock. 
“i think that moving for­ward it is obvious that our team struggles with getting into foul trouble, and i attri­bute this a lot to our tenden­cy to go directly for the foul when someone drives the ball to the hoop. we have a good amount of height and speed this year, and i don’t think we recognize this when defend­ing someone who is taking it to the basket and sending them to the line for a shot they most likely would not have made.” 
on the other side, calvin had three players in double figures — sophomore guard ali spayde hit four 3-point­ers en route to 18 points while junior guards anna Timmer and lauren goldthorpe each chipped in 12. Freshman point guard rachel warners added six points and a ca-reer-high 11 rebounds off the bench. 
with two conference games under their belt, the belles now prepare to host confer­ence foe alma on wednesday. 
“i think that we view [alma] as a very beatable team, and with some changes to our de­fense, specifically with mov­ing our feet and keeping our hands up on the drive, i think that we will be in much bet­ter shape as we host our first conference game at home,” diamond said. 
“we have faced a lot of chal­lenges this season with inju­ries, but i think that the size of our team is actually used to the greatest advantage and our chemistry as a team will only serve us more on the court wednesday,” she said. 
The belles look to get their first win when they return home for a conference game against alma on wednesday at 7:30 p.m. 
Contact R.J. Stempak at  rstempak@nd.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Notre Dame prepares to take on Stony Brook 

By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 

The irish return to ac­tion Tuesday against stony brook after a road- win over illinois on wednesday. 
notre dame (5-2) and stony brook (4-2) will meet for the third time in the two programs’ histories, with the irish having won the pre­vious two meetings. notre dame stands 15-0 against america east teams, includ­ing one 83-57 win this sea­son over umass lowell on nov. 21. despite the impres­sive record against america east foes, irish head coach mike brey said his team will not overlook the seawolves. 
“The team we play [today] is really good,” brey said. “stony brook is monmouth, let me put it that way.” 
stony brook boasts an of­fense averaging 83.2 points per game. Four stony brook players are averag­ing more than 10 points per game, led by senior forward Jameel warney who is aver­aging 18.2 points and 13.2 
rebounds per game. The seawolves head to purcell pavilion after off a 91-77 win at home against princeton on saturday. 
meanwhile, notre dame is attempting to right the ship after losing two out of three games in the advocare invitational tournament over the Thanksgiving holi­day. The irish rebounded with wednesday’s 84-79 vic­tory over the illini in the team’s first true road game of the year. 
Junior guards demetrius Jackson and steve vasturia led the irish with 21 points apiece against illinois. senior forward Zach auguste scored 16 points and matched a career-high 14 rebounds to earn his fifth double-double of the season and 10th of his career, while junior forward v.J. beachem chipped in nine points. 
The irish overcame an eight-point halftime deficit to beat the illini, and brey said the adversity of 
see m bball PAGE 10 
ND TRACK 

irish open season with strong performance at home 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
The irish opened their sea­son with 14 wins at the blue and gold invitational on Friday at loftus sports center. 
host notre dame’s 14 wins earned the irish nine qualify­ing marks for the 2016 atlantic 
coast  conference  indoor  
championships.  
“overall, yes it  was a  suc­ 

cessful meet for us,” irish head coach alan Turner said. “all in all, i was very positive with the outcome of the meet. and there’s some people that could have done a little bit better, but i’m ok with it at this point in the year.” 
one of the biggest perfor­mances for the irish came from sophomore Jessica harris who won the mile event with a personal best time of 4:54.97. harris sat out during last year’s outdoor season, and Turner said he is glad to see her back competing. 
“she’s hungry,” Turner said. “she missed all of last outdoor [season] with an injury, and i had to redshirt her. 
“she’s anxious, she’s ready to go. and last year, believe it or not, she was just touching the surface of what she can do. she set three school records for us. we think she’s even going to be better this year.” 
The irish also swept the mid-distance events, win­ning the men’s and women’s 400- and 800-meter dashes and 4x400-meter relays. 
sophomores eric ways and Jordan shead won the men’s and women’s 400-me­ter dashes with times of 
48.20 and 56.39, respec­tively. sophomore alexis daugherty tallied a 2:12.35 mark to win the women’s 800-meters, while junior patrick o’connell won the men’s 800-meters with a 
1:51.66. Turner said he was not surprised by the results and pointed to o’connell as a key member of the men’s 800-meter group. 
“i wasn’t surprised that we ran well in those events, especially on the 400-meter side,” Turner said. “we’ve been strong with women in the 400 in the past. my 800 group could be better and they’re definitely turning the corner, especially the men’s 800 group. They’ve shown flashes the last cou­ple of years of promise and 
see Track PAGE 11 





