THE iNDEpENDENT To UNCovER NEWSpApER SERviNg THE TRUTH NoTRE DAME AND AND REpoRT SAiNT MARY’S iT ACCURATElY 

volUME 49, iSSUE 4 | thursday, august 27, 2015 | NDSMCoBSERvER.CoM 
First Year of Studies rolls out Moreau Experience 
New program focuses on holistic growth for freshmen 
By MATTHEW McKENNA 
News Writer 
All Notre Dame fresh­men will take the new Moreau First-Year Experience course dur­ing this school year. The course places an empha­sis on the holistic growth of the student and aims to ensure a seamless transi­tion for incoming students into every facet of the Notre Dame community, especially experiences in the classroom and resi­dence hall. 
Maureen Dawson, as­sociate professional spe­cialist for the First Year of Studies, said the weekly course of about 19 or 20 students is meant to cre­ate a platform for conver­sation about the college experience. 
“The long term goals for the course are actually coincident with the short term goals for the course: 


see FiRST-YEAR PagE 5 LUCY DU | The Observer 



University adds clause to du Lac 

Observer Staff Report 
in an email to students early Wednesday morning, the office of Community Standards announced a large addition to du lac, the University’s code of conduct. 
The addition to the handbook is comprised of the Expectation of Responsibility clause, which outlines new policies regard­ing underage drinking on campus as it relates to stu­dent safety and wellbeing. 
Du lac outlines the new ex­pectations as the following: 
“in situations where some­one requires medical atten­tion due to an alcohol and/ or drug-related incident, students are expected to: 
proactively contact an ap­propriate authority (e.g. Notre Dame Security police, residence hall staff, 911, etc.) to seek medical attention, and 
remain with the individual requiring medical attention and 
cooperate with responding emergency officials.” 
According to du lac, students who fail to act “in the spirit of the Expectation of Responsibility in an emer­gency situation where action is clearly warranted” may be referred to the University conduct process. 

The office of Community Standards cited students’ concerns for disciplinary ac­tion when deciding whether or not to seek help for stu­dents who may have imbibed an unsafe amount of alcohol as a key reason behind the changes to University policy. 
Students  who  help  oth­ 
ers  will  be  exempt  from  
disciplinary  status  out­ 

comes (disciplinary proba­tion and dismissal from the University with/without the opportunity to reapply) even if they had been acting in violation of the University’s alcohol or controlled sub­stance policies, the clause outlines. 
Students who help others may, however, be subject to “formative and/or profes­sional outcomes,” including workshops, meetings with 
see DU lAC PagE 5 

Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s induct new Trustees 
By SELENA PONIO 


By ALAINA ANDERSON 
News Writer 
News Writer 
This past May, Notre 
The Saint Mary’s Board of 
Dame’s Board of Fellows and 
Trustees welcomed six new 
Board of Trustees both added 
members to its ranks July 17, 
new members, as Fr. Austin 

including one student trustee 
Collins joined both organiza­
with full voting powers. 
tions and Clare Stack Richer 

Michael Schmitt, Mary 
and Byron Spruell joined the 

pat Seurkamp, Delia garcia, 
Board of Trustees. 
class of 1993, Sister veronique 
The Board of Fellows con-
Wiedower, class of 1970, and 
sists of six members of the 
Stacy Davis will each serve 
Congregation of the Holy 
three-year terms, while senior 
Cross and six laypeople whose 

Allison Danhof will be on the 
duties include amending 

board for the 2015-2016 aca­
the bylaws of the University 
demic year. 
and electing new trustees. 

As the students’ representa-
According to its website, the 
tive to the Board, Danhof said 
Board’s purpose is to “ensure 
she is able to provide a unique 
that the University maintains 
perspective on the College. 
its essential character as a 
“i hope that i will represent 

see TRUSTEES PagE 3 LUCY DU | The Observer see SMC BoARD PagE 5 

NEWS PagE 3 SCENE PagE 8 viEWpoiNT PagE 7 FooTBAll PagE 16 WoMEN’S SoCCER PagE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. Box 779, Notre Dame, iN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, iN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg Hadley 

Managing Editor Business Manager
 Jack Rooney Christina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: Mary green Asst. Managing Editor: Wei lin 

News Editor: Margaret Hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha Ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: Erin McAuliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: Haleigh Ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: Erin Rice Multimedia Editor: Brian lach Online Editor: Michael Yu Advertising Manager: Mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: Marisa Aguayo Controller: Emily Reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

What is your favorite place to eat off campus? 

Lolita Avaios 

Yasmin Lord 
first-year 
first-year 
Regina Hall 
Regina Hall 
“Steak n’ Shake.” 
“Dairy Queen.” 
Devin Redmond 

Kelsey Kirbie 
senior 
senior 
le Mans Hall 
off-campus 
“Fiddler’s Hearth.” 
“Uptown Kitchen.” 
Katie Burton 

Gwen Bolhuis 
graduate student 
graduate student 
off-campus 
off-campus 
“Chipotle.” 
“Chipotle.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the University of Notre 
Dame du lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant 
Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (USpS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

A subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, iN 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices 
poSTMASTER 
Send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. Box 779 
024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, iN 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the Associated press. 
All reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Katie galioto Alex Carson Email news@ndsmcobserver.com Rachel o’grady Kit loughran Alex Winegar Marek Mazurek 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday
lucy Du Kelly Mcgarry 
Photo Viewpoint 

Dante and Blood in ND Women’s Soccer Biathlon Basilica Mass Workshop: Getting
Annmarie Soller Bianca Almada 
the Medieval Context vs. Santa Clara Boat House Basilica of the Sacred Started in Research Hesburgh Library Alumni Stadium 10 a.m. Heart Brownson Hall 
4:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. 7 p.m. Half-mile swim and 10 a.m. and 11:45 a.m. 4 p.m.-5 p.m.
Corrections 

A lecture and Italian The Irish take on Santa two-mile run race for Sunday Mass No sign up is required 
The observer regards itself as research seminar Clara. individuals and teams for this event. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
National Theatre Graduate Student Outdoor Movie ND Women’s Soccer Respect Life Mass 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
Live: “Everyman” Mass South Quad vs. Portland Basilica of the Sacred
however, recognize that we will make 
DeBartolo Performing Basilica of the Sacred 10 p.m. Alumni Stadium Heart 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Arts Center Heart Outdoor screening 1:30 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m.
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
7 p.m.-9:15 p.m. 5:15 p.m. hosted by Student The Irish take on Sponsored by ND
we can correct our error. 

Screening of the play Weekly Mass Activites Office Portland. Right to Life Club. 

NDSMCoBSERvER.CoM | thursday,  august 27, 2015 | THE oBSERvER 

SMC construction to continue throughout year 

By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
News Writer 
This fall, construction con­tinues on the patricia Wiedner purcell Athletic Fields and Science Hall at Saint Mary’s. 
According to the College’s website, both projects are funded through the completed $105 mil­lion Faith Always, Action Now campaign. According to the Saint Mary’s Facebook page, patricia Wiedner purcell and her husband paul are significant benefactors of the new athletic complex. purcell is a 1969 Saint Mary’s graduate and a member of the Board of Trustees. 
After initial planning in 2008­2009, the construction team broke ground on the fields in spring 2015 and plans to have them com­pleted by late october 2015, Austin Stahly, manager of energy and facilities projects, said. 
“The concept for this project arose out of an inherent need to continue to make significant improvements to our athletic complexes while enhancing the experience for our student-ath­letes and fans,” Stahly said. 
Stahly said when construction is completed, there will be new soccer, lacrosse and softball fields, as well as new lighting, score­boards and press boxes for each field. interconnecting sidewalks will lead from entry gates to vari­ous buildings and bleachers. 
“[Students should expect] an increase in the competitive nature and livelihood for all of our ath­letes with a positively correlated experience for the fans and spec­tators,” Stahly said. “This will also allow for multiple practices and games to occur simultaneously.” 
The construction directly impacts the Saint Mary’s soccer team this season. According to the the team’s website, all home games in 2015 will be played at the Jr. irish Soccer Club’s Airport field six, near South Bend Regional Airport 
in communication to College staff, director of Media Relations gwen o’Brien said fourteen maple trees were removed during construction. The timber will be used in a future Angela Athletic and Wellness Complex, for which fundraising is still in progress, o’Brien wrote. 
Construction is also being done on campus to update Science Hall. According to Saint Mary’s website, the renovation for Science Hall was funded by Jennifer Mathile prikkel, a mem­ber of the class of 1995, and her parents Clayton and MaryAnn Mathile. 
plans for Science Hall have been in the works since 2010, with construction beginning in spring 2015. Stahly said the College plans to have the renovations complet­ed by fall 2016. 
“This carefully planned phased renovation to the Science Hall will create new learning and study spaces that encourage collabora­tion between peers, not only in their own department but across disciplines as well,” Stahly said. 
Science Hall was originally built in 1956 and was renovated in 1985. Today, the two-story building houses undergraduate classrooms and research activities for 10 science departments, Stahly said. 
“in both professional and aca­demic settings, scientific inquiry increasingly relies on active col­laboration among colleagues who offer different skill sets and perspectives,” Stahly said. “Yet the majority of science students still learn in traditional classrooms built for isolated, passive student learning.” 
Stahly said collaborative learn­ing will be encouraged with the installment of shared teaching and research areas on the first and second floors. Science Hall will also include multiple classrooms that seat more than 20 students, two research labs and four new faculty offices, in addition to more renovations. 
in the renovated basement of Science Hall, students will ex­perience two new physics labs, a 48-seat classroom, new bath­room facilities, three offices, a lab prep room and a research lab. A three-zone automated controls greenhouse is already completed, he said. 
“We anticipate this design will reflect a highly adaptive facility which will support interactive, collaborative and experimental learning, enhancing the develop­ment of innovative approaches to teaching and learning,” Stahly said. 
“This project, with the right kind of classrooms, will allow students to begin thinking in ways that break down the walls between disciplines and help them understand the integrated nature of what they are studying,” he said. 
Contact Kathryn Marshall kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 
sEnatE 

Student group gathers for first session of the year 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
News Writer 
Wednesday night, the stu­dent senate gathered for its first meeting of the year. The meeting was comprised pri­marily of two workshops, one on celebrating diversity, pre­sented by Diversity Council Representative Ray’von Jones and Africana Studies professor Maria McKenna, and another on parliamentary procedure, presented by Student Union parliamentarian Sara Dugan. 
Jones shared a quote from an anonymous Diversity Council member about the importance of different viewpoints. 
“As a Catholic institution, be­ing welcoming and accepting of all cultures and differences is embedded in our foundation,” the unnamed class of 2017 stu­dent said. “Education and dis­cussion around diversity are so crucial because they create spaces for personal growth and help people better understand the struggles faced by their fel­low brothers and sisters.” 
McKenna also said it was important to be inclusive of all kinds of diversity on campus, not just racial or ethnic. 
“We think about ideological diversity on this campus, and we think about diversity we can’t always see, particularly as it pertains to disability or other types of mental health challenges, different ways that people are seeing the world for all kinds of different rea­sons,” McKenna said. “Diversity doesn’t end with just racial or ethnic diversity.” 
The workshop also refer­enced several responses from Notre Dame students and fac­ulty about the state of inclusion at the University. 
Jones and McKenna specifi­cally highlighted English pro­fessor John Duffy’s letter to the editor entitled “on hear­ing you might transfer,” which was published in The observer in January and signed by more than 150 Notre Dame staff and faculty members, and a Tumblr blog called “i, Too, Am Notre Dame,” which addresses the specific challenges students of color face on campus. 
Jones said discussion was important even though the topic can be uncomfortable for people. 
“i feel a lot of people don’t want to talk about race,” Jones said. “We want to pretend ev­erything’s okay, and when we do this, a lot of people are silent. it makes it easy for us to dis­count people’s experiences and say, ‘There’s no way that’s hap­pening at Notre Dame.’” 

Diversity Council chair Chizo Ekechukwu was also present at the meeting and explained the role of Diversity Council and encouraged senators to come to a meeting. 
“Diversity Council falls under multicultural student programs and services,” she said. “on campus, we have a representa­tive from every cultural club sit­ting on our council. The main role of it is to use programming and collaboration to bring up and discuss issues in regard to diversity on our campus.” 
After the diversity workshop, the meeting ended with a par­liamentary procedure work­shop in which Dugan outlined the basic rules and guidelines for discussion in the senate, in­cluding the role of proxies and different types of motions. 
The student senate meets ev­ery Wednesday at 6 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of laFortune Student Center. All meetings are open to the public. 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 
trustees 
CoNTiNUED FRoM pAgE 1 
Catholic institution of higher learning.” 
The Board of Trustees also includes a mixture of mem­bers from the Congregation of Holy Cross and laypeople. The trustees have a general power of governance excluding the powers listed in the bylaws reserved only for the Board of Fellows. The Board of Trustees consists of twelve specific com­mittees that meet at least three scope, growing research agen­da and its attention at achiev­ing excellent undergraduate and graduate academic pro­grams,” Collins said. 
Richer, a 1980 graduate of Notre Dame, is the chief fi­nancial officer of putnam investments and is also a member of the College of Arts and letters Advisory Council. 
Spruell, a vice chairman of Deloitte, received his under­graduate degree from Notre Dame in 1987 and his MBA in 1989. While he was a student, he earned four monograms as 
“It is an exciting time in Notre Dame’s history to serve in any role at this Holy Cross institution ... with its international scope, growing research agenda and attention at achieving excellent undergraduate and graduate acadmic programs” 
Fr. Austin Collins  
member  
Board of Trustees  
times a year.  an offensive lineman for the  
Collins became the religious  varsity football team.  
superior of Holy Cross priests  phillip B. Rooney has been  
and Brothers at Notre Dame on  a member of the Board of  
July 1 and will replace Fr. James  Trustees since 1993 and was  
King on the Board of Fellows.  elected  to  emeritus  status.  
Collins graduated from Notre  Rooney is the chairman of pri- 
Dame in 1977 and is also a  vate investment firm Claddagh  
professor of sculpture in the  investments and worked in the  
Department of Art, Art History  past with Notre Dame’s advi­ 
and Design.  sory council for the College  
“it is an exciting time in Notre  of Engineering.  
Dame’s history to serve in any  
role at this Holy Cross institu- Contact Selena Ponio at   
tion ... with its international  sponio@nd.edu  




NDSMCoBSERvER.CoM | thursday,  august 27, 2015 | THE oBSERvER 

du Lac CoNTiNUED FRoM pAgE 1  sMC Board CoNTiNUED FRoM pAgE 1  members. … i also hope to work on any initiatives to increase faculty, staff  First-year CoNTiNUED FRoM pAgE 1  “When topics are treated in an iterative fashion, you get into them a little more deep- 
and student diversity on  ly and you get to understand  
University  administrators  the Saint Mary’s communi­ campus.”  to give students a sense that  them a little bit more,” she  
and/or University partners,  ty well as the student trust- Wiedower,  who  is  also  they are entering a support- said.  
written assignments, apolo­ ee,” Danhof said. “i have a  president of the Sisters of  ive community and that they  Dawson said the main focus  
gies,  restitution,  alcohol  variety of experiences and  the Holy Cross, said it has  have the time and space to  of the experience is to inte­ 
assessment  or  counseling,  involvement  throughout  been a joy to have a close  think about their work in a  grate academic life, residen­ 
psychological  assessment  the community that will  connection with her alma  very holistic way, integrating  tial life and everything else  
and random drug screening.  allow me to represent a va­ mater.  their academic and residen­ that happens on campus.  
Students  requiring  medi­ riety of groups throughout  “i  believe  that  Saint  tial  experiences,”  Dawson  “We looked at where stu­ 
cal attention will also be  campus such as the Athletic  Mary’s College’s emphasis  said.  dents lived on campus, and  
exempt  from  disciplinary  Department, the Education  on education of mind and  Dawson said transitions are  we  identified  seven  resi­ 
status outcomes, and will  Department  and  Campus  heart, its undergraduate fo­ always  difficult,  especially  dential  neighborhoods  that  
be subject to formative and/  Ministry.”  cus on education of women  in  institutions  with  deep  were clusters of four or five  
or professional outcomes as  Davis  is  the  associ­ and its core values are dis- traditions.  residence  halls,”  Dawson  
well as “loss of privilege out- ate professor of religious  tinctive gifts needed in to­ “one  of  the  reasons  for  said.  “Sections  of  Moreau  
comes,” according to du lac.  studies and chair of the  day’s  society,”  Wiedower  making the change at this  are  populated  with  stu­ 
loss of privilege outcomes  Department of gender and  said. i hope to use my own  point was a growing con- dents in the same residential  
include “loss of parking and/  Women’s Studies.  enthusiasm for passing on  cern for students’ well-being,  neighborhoods.  
or campus driving privileg­ “i  see one of my tasks  this Holy Cross educational  especially  their  emotional  “Meaning is found in a lot  
es, loss of extracurricular  as bringing a faculty per- heritage and to spread the  health,” Dawson said. “i think  of different experiences, and  
privileges, loss of specific  spective to the Board, par- good news of Saint Mary’s.”  that’s what shifted the para­ this course gives students the  
privileges within a residence  ticularly for those Board  Danhof  said  she  has  digm from the excellent work  opportunity to learn from one  
hall, loss of opportunity to  members who are not em- gained  many  leadership  in  the  physical  education  another and to think about  
live in campus housing, ban  ployed in higher education  qualities that enable her to  department to this current  complex  and  controversial  
from an area of campus and  or have been faculty mem­ be a member of the Board  program.  issues and come to a sense  
no contact orders.”  bers,” Davis said.  over the course of her time  “Students have the choice of  of understanding about their  
The  clause  also  makes  Davis said it is a privilege  at Saint Mary’s.  the activities that are mean- sense of self.”  
clear that exemption from  to be considered trustwor­ “i  have  had  the  most  ingful to them,” she said. “in  Freshman  Kathleen  Ryan  
disciplinary status outcomes  thy enough to represent her  amazing  time  at  Saint  the class they have an aca­ said she liked the idea of get- 
only applies to alcohol and  peers.  Mary’s,”  Danhof  said.  demic framework in which  ting  different  perspectives  
drug-related  violations  of  “Most college  and uni­ “Being on the Board will  to contextualize their experi­ from a wide array of students.  
the student code of conduct  versity boards do not have  allow me to serve and give  ence, the space to share with  “There’s a football player, a  
that are related to the inci­ faculty  representation,”  back to the school that  other students and a chance  soccer player and a volleyball  
dent in question.  Davis said. “My main hope  has given me so much and  to reflect on the choices and  player in my course, so i really  
The entire Expectation of  is to be able to offer faculty  shaped me into the woman  opportunities before them.”  like that diversity,” Ryan said.  
Responsibility can be found  perspectives on issues that  i am today.”  Dawson said the curricu­ “Just getting to hear their per- 
at  http://dulac.nd.edu/  affect the College and to  lum design for the course be­ spectives and what they think  
c o m m u n i t y -s ta n d a r ds /  facilitate  communication  Contact Alaina Anderson at  gan with discussions back in  about  their  experiences  at  
standards/responsibility/  between faculty and Board  aander02@saintmarys.edu  2014 and was approved at that  Notre Dame is a great thing.”  
time. The course is a credit- Ryan said she appreciates  
bearing course graded in the fall and spring.  the sense of unity the Moreau course creates as a required  
“in the course of the fall and spring semester, we are  course for students.  all  freshmen  



pAiD ADvERTiSEMENT 
looking at a series of top­ics spanning 13 weeks each semester,” Dawson said. “The topics were formulated from this originating com­mittee and there are seven broad areas to be covered: orientation to University life, Community Standards, Cultural Competency, Academic Strategies for Success, Health and Wellness, Mindfulness and Wellbeing and Spirituality. 
“it is structured, in our minds, so that for students and teachers it’s consonant with one credit’s worth of work,” she said. “The course is based off a flipped class­room model, so for each week students will prepare by do­ing a reading or watching a video and coming to class in time for a discussion of those materials.” 
Dawson said there is value in the repetition of topics due to the fact that a student in week three has an entirely different outlook than a stu­dent in week eight or week 13. 
“A topic like cultural com­petency is treated early in the semester, at mid-term and at the end of the semester so that students get a sense of what culture is, how identity plays into group dynamics and how to engage with dif­ference on campus. Topics repeat and refer back to each other over the course of the year,” Dawson said. 

“We’re all doing it as one class together,” Ryan said. “You get that in your majors, but i like that we’re now get­ting it as a University.” 
Richard Meland, another freshman, said he enjoyed the portion of the class he has at­tended thus far. 
“i like the way they orga­nized it by neighborhood,” Meland said. “it’s a great op­portunity to meet people in Mod Quad, in my case. The course is going to have a lot of subject matter that is going to spark great conversation.” 
Meland said he believes ev­eryone should learn how to swim, a part of the physical education program that is not replaced by any portion of the Moreau course. 
“it’s a bit disappointing that the physical education course was replaced,” Meland said. “i thought they would have a been fun break from the more academic classes.” 
Maureen Dawson said she and her colleagues in the First Year of Studies are very open to student feedback. 
“We plan to have opportu­nities for students to weigh in on the course as it stands now,” Dawson said. “Student opinions and comments will be taken into consideration as we revisit the course in the future.” 
Contact Matthew McKenna at mmcken12@nd.edu 


InsIdE CoLuMn 

Time to make friends 

Mary Green 
Assistant Managing Editor 

last night, the hallowed 2B section of pangborn Hall gathered, like all on-campus Notre Dame students do every year, to go over the hall and University community standards and discuss what is expected of us as residents and students. 
While i, as an RA, was excited to share with my section the new additions to dulac and beam with pride when they told me they ap­proved of my snack selection (we have high standards in pangborn), i was most excited to get to know the new faces i had only seen around the hall a couple of times so far and to catch up with the friends i have already known for a few years. 
The start of every school year holds a bounty of magical moments like these, when we can create new friendships and strengthen those we already have. of course this is true for all of the freshmen, many of whom first walk these sacred grounds at the start of Welcome Weekend without knowing more than one or two fellow freshmen. 
However, it is also true for the rest of us, no matter what class. And i might be a senior al­ready trying to leave my home here at Notre Dame without regrets, but now the time is ripe to build those types of lasting friendships. 
For sophomores, you may already have friends from your freshman year, but there are still so many more people you do not know, both younger and older than you. Start a con­versation during the first few days of class with the person next to you, and then actually talk to them after the first week. We are all guilty of making those first-day friends and then pretending like we do not see each other by the time the semester ends. get to know that person (or people, if you’re really adventurous) and add another friend to wave hello to on the quad. 
Junior year is naturally a good time to make friends, whether you are going abroad or stay­ing in South Bend. if you are abroad, it is in your best interest to get to know more people because you will be living with them in a for­eign country for an entire semester. And if you are on campus, there is a good chance you will not see some of your best friends for a while, so use this time to get to know other people better or to build further upon the other friendships you already have. 
lastly are my fellow seniors. Yes, we only have two more semesters at Notre Dame (i think i just teared up a bit), but the time is as good as ever to take advantage of the moments we do have left to create friendships that could last for the rest of our lives. So introduce your­self to the person you bumped into at Finni’s (whether they can hear you or not is another question) and take a minute to chat with your neighbor before your professor starts his or her lecture. These new acquaintances might not end up being your lifelong BFFs, but at least you will have tried — and might get another linkedin connection for postgrad networking. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Theo class: A backwards history 
April Feng 
Story Time 
it was the last day of my sophomore year and i was sit­ting in my introduction to Theology professor’s office. it had been a tradition for two years: his office is always the last stop before i leave campus. The conversation went like this: 
“April, have you heard that they want to change the theology requirement,” my professor said. “They say that some international students argue that it is forceful and useless for them to learn about Christianity. Some of the students even say that they do not want to be ‘brain­washed’ by the university. What do you think?” 
“Well, i hold the opposite opinion,” i said. 
“Can you do me a huge favor? Write something about it.” 
i do not intend to write what i think. i will, however, write what i have experienced. i am going to tell the story backward, because in my native Chinese writing, it is a good method to unveil the cause for a phenomenon.
 4 Months Ago 
i went to Easter vigil Mass with my best friend. We watched many students being baptized. 
“April, have you ever thought about converting,” my friend said. 
i said, “Yes, i have, but i don’t think i am ready yet.” 
“What do you mean?” 
“i believe that there is a higher intelligence than hu­man being, but i am not yet sure if it is god or Allah or the Buddha or something else.” 
“i thought you said you love your intro to Theo…” 
“Yeah, i do. it introduced a whole new world to me, but more importantly, it taught me how crucial it is to discov­er the many other worlds still hidden. i want to ‘struggle’ a little bit longer.”
 8 Months Ago 
i was working in the Writing Center and overheard the conversation next to me. A girl was talking in a half-joking, half-serious way: “Sometimes i just cannot un­derstand. Do atheists believe in anything? i mean, if not, how can they even love?” i was offended. After work, i had a conversation with my fellow writing tutors. 
“What do you think love is, April?” one of them asked. 
“A very precious gift only for human beings from … um … god? Still, i never doubt my grandparents’ love for me and they are atheists,” i said. 
“i would not doubt that either,” my colleague said. “i can feel that everybody, regardless of religious be­liefs, nationalities, races and all those things can love. According to my intro to Theo professor, this is precisely what reassures us that we are sent here for a purpose and it must be a good one, since we are all given such an extraordinary ability. For me, the purpose is to seek my faith in god, and for other people it means other things. What does it mean to you, April?” 
“good question,” i said. “i need to think about this.” 
12 Months Ago 
My twin sister and i were back home in China for the first summer since college and over the dinner table, my sister finally decided to tell my parents her decision. 
“Mom, Dad, i made up my mind,” she said. “i want to declare a Theology minor.” 
“Minor in Theology,” they asked. “You sure? Why?” 
“Yes i am sure,” my sister said. “Theology is core to humanity and i think i can know both myself and others better by learning it.” 
20 Months Ago 
By the end of the fall semester of my freshman year, my theology professor wrote me an email, saying that of all the students he had taught, i was the one that gave him the most troubles. i was always challenging his convictions with logical arguments. He said he was not prepared for it, but now he appreciated it more than any­thing. “Seeing someone like you, so eager for knowledge and so ready to embark on an honest truth-seeking jour­ney,” he wrote, “i could see god dwelling in and speaking through you.” 
23 Months Ago 
My theology professor said our first paper would be due after the weekend. The topic was to compare Enuma Elish and the book of genesis on their different accounts of good and evil. i was more frightened than ever, so i went to my professor’s office hours for the first time. i gathered all my courage and made my first rebellious comment on Christianity. 
“Well professor, we learned genesis this week,” i said. “it sounds fantastic, but i just don’t think it is useful…” 
“How so?” my professor asked. 
“in Enuma Elish, it is obvious that good and evil oc­cur when extremes are reached, therefore it provides us a way to control them: do not go for extremes,” i said. “Then in genesis, the tree of the knowledge of good and evil comes into existence before mankind is even cre­ated, so we cannot know how and why good and evil are generated. Then how can we ever know how to control them? Why is god always trying to hide something from human beings?” 
My Theology professor thought for a long time, and smiled. 
“April, great question,” he said. “Allow me some time to think about it. Why not argue for Enuma Elish in this upcoming essay? i am very excited to read it.” 
“But genesis is supposed to be the better one, right?” i asked. 

“oh April, please do not think that you need genesis to get a good grade. There is no right and wrong answer. oh, and last thing, i suggest that you read my favorite sen­tence again. it is on the syllabus.” 
The sentence, from St. Augustine, was “Doubt is but another element of faith.” 
24 Months Ago 

i walked into my first ever theology class. i was holding a famous storybook called the Holy Bible. i sat down and made small talk with the guy sitting next to me, trying to look prepared. 
“i’ve been taking this kind of class since high school,” he said. “i went to a Catholic School, you know.” 
“oh wow,” i said. “So i guess you already know all about god? Can i ask you a question? it has been trou­bling me for a long time.” 
“Yeah of course, go ahead,” he said. 
“Um … who is Jesus and who is Christ?” i asked. “Are they the same person?” 
He burst out laughing. The gate to a whole new world opened in front of me. 
25 Months Ago 
i was in my home in Beijing, checking emails from someone under the title of “First-Year Advisor.” 
“Mom, it seems like we HAvE to take theology classes for two semesters,” i said. 
“What does that mean?” she asked. 
“Study about god, i guess,” i said. 
“And you said it is required,” my mom said. “like every student has to take Marxist philosophy in Chinese uni­versities? Are they trying to brainwash new students?” 
“perhaps,” i said. “i just do not think it is necessary for students like us to learn about that kind of religious stuff.” 
May Notre Dame always be, as Fr. Hesburgh envi­sioned, both a lighthouse and a crossroads where the toughest questions can be asked in the safest commu­nity. May my fellow students never use this campus as a place to escape from doubts, but one to face problems with undying hope. 
Author’s Note: parts of this story belong to my twin sister, Rebecca Yuan Feng, and her introduction to Theology professor, John Betz, whose beautiful stories continue to inspire me. 

Dan (April) Feng is a junior political science and eco­nomics double major. She is from Beijing, China and lives in Lyons Hall. April welcomes all comments (or complaints) and can be reached at dfeng@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Dear Hollywood: Address gender and racial equality 
Jennifer Vosters 
Belleview 

Recently i came across Empire Magazine’s on-line list of “The 100 greatest Movie Characters.” As a self-proclaimed film appreciator, i was pleased to find a good range of performances from a good range of genres in the last 50-plus years, from clas­sically trained theatre giants like ian McKellen to young(ish) whippersnappers like Brad pitt. But i noticed that despite the varying ages, a lot of these “greatest Movie Characters” looked kind of similar. Reading it again, i realized why. out of 100 charac­ters, 88 were men and 94 of the actors were white. 
Just 12 female characters made the list. (14 female actors were listed; two women voiced E.T.) All were white. None of the characters were over 50, and most were younger than 35. Half fell in the bottom quarter of the list. 
of the male characters, only six were non-white (five portrayed by black actors and one by an Asian actor). The majority were in their thirties or older, though there was a wide representation of younger men as well. 
i naturally question a list that places “Fight Club’s” Tyler Durden over icons like Darth vader, Don Corleone and the Joker, but the message is clear: When we think of the performances and characters that have become cultural touchstones, we do not think of women and we rarely think of minorities, but not because we are all misogynist racists and certainly not because there is not a deep pool of non-white-male talent. Empire’s list does not show a failed grading scale so much as a greater systemic failure: the persistent imbalance of representation for women and non-white men in theatre and film. 

There is a scarcity of meaty, award-winning writ­ing for actors in these demographics, especially for women of color and women over forty. And there is a hesitation to give plum roles to the thousands of talented, trained actors who do not fit the traditional image that Hollywood and Broadway hold dear. Women and people of color don’t fill these “greatest” lists because the roles in which they are cast are rarely given the attention or stage/screen time to compare. 
Moreover, positions backstage and behind the camera – the writers and directors who create the work and the casting agents who hunt for the right “look” – also remain largely white and male. 
What’s a girl to do? As a writer and actor myself, i am trying to resist shaking my head in discourage­ment and to view this as a challenge instead. As our generation of artists enters the workforce seeking niches of our own, we may have found a few in lists like these. And with ND’s involvement in the arts – from the Film, Television and Theatre Department to ND’s Shakespeare Festival – many of us can begin right here. 
Directors: find plays written by women and peo­ple of color, starring women and people of color. Consider gender and colorblind casting. 
Actors: pick monologues that showcase you as a performer, not you as a “look” or a stereotype. 
Writers: consider whether your leads really need to be men, or young or Caucasian. Yes, we need to “hon­or the story,” but we also need to admit that “the sto­ry” is informed by those who write it and, therefore, by the subtle prejudices and predispositions that lurk in our instincts and thoughts. Not that these make us bad or racist or sexist, but they arise from some bad 
QuotE oF thE day 
“Friendship ... is not somethingyou can learn in school. Butif you haven’t learned themeaning of friendship, you reallyhaven’t learned anything.” 
— Muhammad Ali      Boxer 
and racist and sexist aspects of our culture that teach us to only value women during their peak reproduc­tive years and to see white people as protagonists with the occasional “token minority” friend. 
So as artists, always priding ourselves as pushing boundaries, we must investigate how we can include and reach a much wider group. All of us – including white men – can take these steps. And as consum­ers of art – which we all are – we must open our eyes to these realities and make conscious decisions forthwith. 

“Fantastic Four” features a black actor as the Human Torch; focus on his outstanding performance rather than gawking at the idea of a black superhero, and make sure there are more to follow. See movies that showcase female leads with three-dimensional strengths and flaws, and keep your eyes sharp for im­bedded stereotypes like sassy black woman or manic pixie dream girl. Support films that choose not to cast white actors as non-white characters (ex: not Rooney Mara as Tiger lily in the upcoming “pan”). During awards season, find out who the directors and screenwriters are and become familiar with names like Kathryn Bigelow and Julie Taymor along with the Nolans and Tarantinos. 
Be an informed audience and let your money tell Hollywood and Broadway what you value. For those of us privileged enough to not encounter double standards every day, the first step to making a differ­ence is acknowledging it. 
Jennifer Vosters is a senior living in Le Mans Hall. She is an English major with minors in theatre and Italian. She can be reached at jvoste01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


LEttEr to thE EdItor 

Combat alcohol abuse to stop sexual assault 
At the end of the school year, we received an email message from vice president for Student Affairs Erin Hoffmann Harding, delivering her State of the Campus address concerning sexual assault. 
Every Notre Dame student has received multi­ple emails like this one, from the mandatory re­porting emails sent out by Notre Dame Security police (NDSp), to messages from student gov­ernment, to post-incident prayer services at the grotto. Everyone can agree on the troubling prevalence of sexual assault on our campus. But the question then becomes, what are we doing about it? 
in my past four years as a Notre Dame stu­dent, some examples of things we have done to combat sexual assault on campus are prayer services, lectures, active bystander intervention training, petition signing and a variety of other awareness-raising initiatives. This seems like quite an extensive list to be sure, but where is the improvement? 
if anything, i would say the sexual assault situ­ation on campus is becoming more severe with each year, culminating in a grand total of 15 sexual assault reports in 2013, according to the University’s 2014 Clery Act statistics. 
i believe we are missing the core issue by a long shot. To me, it would seem obvious that the issue we really need to talk about is alcohol abuse. 
it is no secret that alcohol is involved in al­most every Notre Dame case of sexual assault. our campus is a swampland of alcohol. Yet, our self-deceptive culture seeks to throw this un­der the rug and point the spotlight elsewhere. getting everyone all hyped up about campaign­ing against sexual violence and engaging in superfluous talk, i think, is a perfect plan to un­dermine any real progress towards eliminating sexual violence. 
of course these initiatives are not wrong in and of themselves, but in the current situa­tion, it is putting the cart before the horse. We are hypocrites for uplifting respect and dignity while also complying with the campus culture of drunkenness. 
if we seriously want to combat the ongoing is­sue of sexual assault on this college campus, we need to do a major reality check and realize that Notre Dame has become a campus of two-faced drunks. We need to decide as a community that our culture of alcohol abuse is intolerable, and only then can we expect to start seeing positive change. 

John Sontag graduate student Aug. 26 

LUCY DU and MIKO MALABUTE | The Observer 


By KELLY McGARRY 
Scene Writer 

We remember Method Man from his early days with the highly in­fluential rap collective Wu-Tang Clan, and later for his performance on “The Wire.” After long antici­pation, and almost a decade gap since his last solo album, Meth has finally released “The Meth lab,” whose cover pictures blue crystal in a suspected allusion to “Breaking Bad.” The album has experienced a hushed release but can be expected to permeate the current hip-hop scene, attracting a new generation of followers. 
Above all, this album is a testa­ment to Method Man’s adaptability. The beats are hot, the lyrics are nov­el and above all the album includes fresh names with rhymes to match. This long-awaited solo album is anything but, yet Method Man’s distinctive raps are never lost in the mix. His gravelly voice is accompa­nied by many less recognizable ones, in collaboration reminiscent of clas­sic Wu-Tang tracks. “Meth heads,” as his fans are known, are craving the appearance of Redman, consider­ing the long-standing collaboration of the duo through the “Blackout!” album series. Equally exciting is the return of original Wu-Tang Clan members Raekwon, inspectah Deck and Masta Killa. less famil­iar names accompany the old ones, most notably Hanz on and Street life, who appear in the majority of the album’s tracks. Chemistry be­tween the rappers is obvious by the seamless transition between verses. 
As collaboration and hardcore delivery remain constant, Method Man’s style has evolved as much as his career, maintaining a distinc­tively high level of intensity which sometimes manifests in an old school rap sound, but is also explored in different forms. in “Soundcheck,” aggressive guitar approaches the rap-rock style that has become so prominent in popular hip-hop. in tracks like “What You getting into” heavy basslines and synthesizers also achieve a trap feel. Despite progressive beats, Method Man up­holds the superiority of old school rappers, saying the new ones “don’t really ride, they piggyback.” 
After an entire album of hard-hitting lyric delivery and aggressive beats, we come to an outro in which Method Man says “Crystal Meth is comin’ real soon.” Throughout 2013 Method Man worked on material for the album “Crystal Meth” and an­nounced that it would be released in August 2014, precluded by the mix-tape “The Meth lab.” The hint not only alleviates fans’ impatience, but creates the perspective of “The Meth lab” as a preview for what’s to come. 
The “Meth lab” mixtape does an excellent job of showcasing Method Man’s collaborators. He plays a nominal role in many of its tracks, and maintains his reputation for avoiding solo work. Hopefully the upcoming album will cen­ter more on Method Man himself. 
Contact Kelly McGarry at kmcgarry@nd.edu 
“The Meth Lab” 
Method Man 
Label: Tommy Boy Entertainment 
Tracks: Straight Gutta, Water, The Purple Tape If you like: Wu-Tang Clan, Redman 



LUCY DU | The Observer 

sPorts authorIty 

Give NCAA athletes a voice 

Zach Klonsinski 
Sports Editor 
We all have those moments in life when we come across something that makes us pause, makes us confused for a couple seconds. Something that’s not necessarily wrong per se, but something that’s definitely not right. 
You look at this thing — whatever it is — and you just can’t help but think there’s something terribly inefficient or restrictive about it. But you also notice that in order to replace this thing, you’ll basi­cally have to completely take it apart, rework, rethink or even start from scratch and build it over again, which will call for a lot of effort, creative think­ing and money. So you have to weigh those costs with the costs of just working with this thing as it is. At a certain point though, the thing just needs to go. 
like a piece of dorm furni­ture held together with gener­ous amounts of duct tape. or whatever it is that’s on top of Donald Trump’s head. 
or our current college foot­ball system. 
Even before former Northwestern quarterback Kain Colter and some of his teammates first raised the is­sue of unionizing in college athletics, something hasn’t seemed right with players who bring in millions of dollars to their school having little direct say in, well, anything. 
on Aug. 17, the national branch of the National labor Relations Board (NlRB) dis­missed a unionization request by Northwestern football play­ers. The ruling overturned that of regional NlRB director peter Sung ohr in March 2014, which had originally allowed play­ers on Northwestern’s football team to form a union. 
interestingly enough though, the NlRB’s ruling didn’t fo­cus on whether or not college athletes — particularly those in the big money sports like football and men’s basket­ball — were employees of the university (it actually even appeared to concede the play­ers had a strong case on this point). The board instead said allowing private school football players to union­ize would not have the effect of “promot[ing] uniformity and stability” in labor rela­tions “due to the nature and structure of NCAA Division i Football Subdivision.” 
First off, the irony of the NlRB effectively declaring 
— not denying or failing to deny — “college football” and “labor relations” belong in the same conversation despite the long-standing argument from universities, the NCAA and even state governments saying college athletes are not part of the labor force of their respec­tive universities really jumps out at me. 
Yet what grabs even more of my attention is how it seems most of the country’s leader­ship just keeps trying to add another piece of duct tape to the situation. They are scared of the uncertainty and hard work overhauling an outdated and oppressive system. So in­stead they hide, deny and fur­ther complicate the system. 
in fact, Michigan’s state leg­islature passed a law back in December that preemptively banned student-athletes at the state’s public universities from being able to unionize. 
Michigan House Bill 6074 states “a student participating in intercollegiate athletics on behalf of a public university in this state … is not a public employee entitled to represen­tation or collective bargaining rights under this act.” That’s right. There’s literally a part of a law on the books in Michigan for the singular reason of say­ing student-athletes cannot be considered university em­ployees. ohio also included a similar resolution in a budget package. 
Eventually the tape roll is going to run out, though. And it’s going to be sooner rather than later. 
Colter likened the NlRB’s decision to punting the issue away from them, which seems fair to me. None of the major players in this situation be­sides the actual players have had the initiative to take on the work of doing something about it, either flat out deny­ing the problem or seeking quick fixes (removing some food restraints, à la Shabazz Napier). luckily, the former’s voices have diminished the more we’ve talked about this as a country. 
it’s time for more than talk, however. The players them­selves tried and they’ve found themselves at a dead end, so now this action must come from the NCAA and the univer­sities themselves. A little pres­sure from the fans wouldn’t hurt either, though. 
i’m not saying college ath­letes need to paid millions. i’m just saying we need to fix an outdated system. 
We need to give them a voice. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

MLB | MARiNERS 8; ATHlETiCS 2 
Mariners beat Athletics behind Cruz’s bat 
Associated Press 

SEATTlE — Felix Hernandez made just two mistakes in eight strong innings, Nelson Cruz hit his Al-leading 39th homer and drove in three runs and the Seattle Mariners beat the oakland Athletics 8-2 on Wednesday. 
Seattle closed out its brief homestand with Hernandez rebounding after getting knocked around in his last start against the Chicago White Sox. 
Hernandez (15-8) allowed a homer to Billy Burns on the first pitch of the game and a solo homer to Brett lawrie on the first pitch of the seventh in­ning. oakland’s only other hit off Hernandez was a soft single from Billy Butler in the fifth. 
Hernandez struck out seven, walked one and became the second Al pitcher to reach 15 wins. 
Cruz’s homer came in the eighth, but it was an early of­fensive outburst that backed Hernandez. Seattle sent 10 bat­ters to the plate in the first and scored four times that inning off Chris Bassitt (1-6). 
Cruz had an RBi single in the first to score Ketel Marte and the two teamed up again for another run in the sixth off re­liever pat venditte. 
The Mariners strung togeth­er five straight hits in the first, beginning with Cruz, and got RBi hits from Seth Smith, Mark Trumbo and logan Morrison. it was the first time all season Seattle batted through the lineup in one inning. 
Kyle Seager added a solo homer in the eighth, snapping a 0-for-14 drought. 
Hernandez had lost his previous two decisions while giving up 14 earned runs and 21 hits in losing to the Red Sox and White Sox. Between Burns’ leadoff homer — just the third Hernandez has al­lowed in his career — and Butler’s single in the fifth, the only oakland batter to reach base was Eric Sogard, who was hit by a pitch in the third. Hernandez retired 12 of 13 batters and matched his vic­tory total from last year. rotatIon sWItCh 
Seattle is bumping vidal Nuno from his spot in the rotation and inserting left-hander Roenis Elias begin­ning with Thursday’s series opener in Chicago against the White Sox. But that might not mean Nuno is completely out of the picture. Seattle also an­nounced its Sunday starter in Chicago is “TBA,” a spot that was originally slated for strug­gling rookie Mike Montgomery. 

traInEr’s rooM 

oakland starter Felix Doubront is in line to make his start Saturday against oakland after leaving Monday’s game with a right foot contusion. Doubront had X-rays that came back negative. uP nEXt 
Athletics: After an off day, the A’s open up a series in Arizona with Sonny gray (12­
5) on the mound. gray leads the Al with a 2.10 ERA. 
Mariners: Elias makes his first start in the majors since July 2 as the Mariners open a road trip against the White Sox. Elias (4-6) lost three of four decisions with the Mariners in June and early July before being sent back to Triple-A Tacoma. 
MLB | ASTRoS 6; YANKEES 2 
Astros surpass last year’s win total, beat Yankees 
Associated Press 

NEW YoRK — A green la­ser beam bounced around a fog-filled clubhouse. Music blared from all corners of the darkened room. it’s a post-game party that’s becoming commonplace with these Houston Astros. 
Evan gattis hit two home runs, Collin McHugh ex­celled once again and the Astros exceeded last season’s win total, beating the New York Yankees 6-2 Wednesday. 
The Al West leaders im­proved to 71-57, a year after going 70-92. With almost six weeks left on the sched­ule, the Astros already have achieved their best season since 2010. 
“You could tell the pieces were here,” said gattis, in 

FOR SALE 

CONDO-Mishawaka, Sedgwick House, 3BR 2.5 BA. View of park and riverwalk. Secured entrance with underground parking. $95,900. Call 574-255-3862 
his first year with Houston. “We’re not on an island out there. We could see it.” 
Still, did he expect such a dramatic turnaround? 
“Maybe not this quick,” he said. 
Houston also managed to win a road series for the first time since mid-June at Colorado, taking two of three at Yankee Stadium. 
“We see what we’ve done and haven’t done,” McHugh said. “it’s always there.” 
Following four seasons in which they averaged 104 losses, the Astros now lead the majors in home runs and have the best ERA and most stolen bases in the Al. 
“We have a lot of strengths,” manager A.J. Hinch said. “We can do a lot of damage.” 
The Yankees have lost five of seven, a slide that’s cost them first place in the Al East. The Astros kept them skidding. 

“They pitch very well, good defense and they hit the ball out of the ballpark. That’s a pretty good combination,” Yankees manager Joe girardi said. “And they can steal bases.” 
“They got the best of us,” he said. 
gattis sliced an opposite-field shot to right in the sec­ond inning and launched a long drive into the left field seats in the eighth. His third homer in two days gave him 22 this year and boosted the Astros’ total to 174. 
pineda (9-8) for the second time this year and has al­lowed just seven runs in his last five starts. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

Lost in the sky, clouds roll by and falling, gives new meaning to it all, if I rolll with them. Arrows fly, seas in-not today nor yet tomorrow then some crease and then fall again. this world other day. I’ll take seven lives for one is spinning around me, this world is and then my only father’s son, as sure spinning without me. Every day sends as I did ever love him, I am not afraid. future to past, everyday leaves me one This world is spinning around me, the less to my last. Watch the sparrow whole world keeps spinning  with me. 

NDSMCoBSERvER.CoM | thursday,  august 27, 2015 | THE oBSERvER 

MLB | piRATES 7; MARliNS 2 

pirates, McCutchen best Marlins in Miami 
Associated Press 
MiAMi — Andrew McCutchen homered and drove in four runs to help the pittsburgh pirates to a 7-2 victory over the Miami Marlins on Wednesday night. 
Jeff locke (7-8) pitched seven innings, allowing two runs and five hits for the pirates, who have won four of five. 
pittsburgh (76-49) remains four games behind first-place St. louis (80-45) in the Nl Central race. 
Miami’s Chris Narveson (1­
1) struggled in his first start since April 15, 2012, while with Milwaukee. He allowed seven runs and eight hits in 3 2-3 innings. 
Martin prado homered for the Marlins. 
McCutchen hit an RBi double in the first inning and helped spark a six-run second with 

pAiD ADvERTiSEMENT 

a three-run home run, his 20th. 
McCutchen is 6 for 13 with three doubles, a home run, and six RBis in the first three games of the series. 
Neil Walker’s double start­ed the scoring in the second. Chris Stewart and Starling Marte each had RBi singles before McCutchen’s blast to left field as the pirates sent 10 batters to the plate. 
pirates third baseman Aramis Ramirez made an impressive diving stop to­ward the foul line and threw from his knees to rob Miguel Rojas of a base hit in the eighth inning. 
Miami relievers Erik Cordier and Scott Mcgough combined to pitch 5 1-3 scoreless innings allowing one hit. uP nEXt 
pirates: RHp gerrit Cole (14-7, 2.49 ERA) will start Thursday’s series finale. Cole will be looking to win his first game since July 26 vs. Washington. 


sMC goLF 
SMC to open year in South Bend 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s opens its 2015 season at the Cross Town Rivalry on Friday and Saturday in South Bend. 
The weekend marks the first-ever Cross Town Rivalry. The two-day tour­nament puts the Belles up against two local rivals, Bethel College and Holy Cross College. The Belles will host the first round at Knollwood Country Club, while Saturday’s round will be played at Elbel golf Course. 
The Belles are led by just five upperclassmen. Seniors Sammie Averill and Katie Zielinski, along with juniors Courtney Carlson, Rachel Kim and Ali Mahoney, will help ease their young team into tournament play this weekend. 
Belles head coach Kim Moore is giving her under­classmen a shot right away. Moore said sophomores lydia lorenc and Kaitlyn Cartone and freshman Taylor Kehoe have been named to the Belles’ starting lineup for the event. 
“i’m really looking for some good things out of Ali Manoney, Kaitlyn Cartone, Taylor Kehoe, Courtney Carlson and lydia lorenc — our Top 5 for this event,” Moore said. “We are really looking forward to getting our first event under our belt and to get this season started.” 
The Belles will start their season in their own back­yard, and though the neigh­boring teams will not have to travel far, they will have to adjust their respective games to the tournament’s two courses. Moore said she’s not concerned about the Belles switching courses half-way through the event. 
“The layout will be dif­ferent both days, but the first day we should have a bit of an advantage being that Knollwood is our home course this year,” Moore said. “We play Elbel on Saturday and that is a bit of an unfamiliar course to most of my players, but we have a practice round planned on Thursday out there. 

“We will use that practice to get familiar with the hole layouts, the greens and the length.” 
in addition to practicing on an unfamiliar course, the Belles will need to pre­pare for a rain-filled week­end. Despite the weekend’s inclement weather forecast, Moore said her team is al­ways ready for uncontrol­lable weather while on the course. 
“golf is an outside sport so we are always playing in the elements,” Moore said. “our team is ready to play in whatever weather condi­tion or course condition that may be. The weather will be a condition that every player will have to deal with, so ev­eryone will be in the same boat. The weather is un­controllable so we can only worry about and work on the things we can control.” 
The Cross Town Rivalry also marks the season-opener for the Belles’ com­petition. like Saint Mary’s, Bethel College and Holy Cross College boast young rosters, and Moore said the event will be a fun way for the teams to get an ear­ly look at their hometown competitors. 
”i know that Bethel is bringing in a lot of young tal­ent so they should be com­petitive,” she said. “Holy Cross is a young team and i’m unfamiliar with their roster, but i can guarantee that their head coach, TJ Mannen, will have them playing their best. This is a fun, competitive event against some of the area institutions. it is a great way for me as a coach to get an early look at the players on this year’s team in a com­petitive atmosphere. i’m re­ally looking forward to it. it should be a lot of fun.” 
Friday’s tee time is set for 2 p.m., and round two is sched­uled for Saturday at noon. 
Contact Michael Ivey at mivey@hcc-nd.edu 




griffin 
CoNTiNUED FRoM pAgE 16 
2015. 
of course, among the vet­erans leading the charge are senior defenders and captains Katie Naughton and Cari Roccaro. But they make the most impact on the other end of the field in front of junior goalkeeper Kaela little. 
it will be the newer weap­ons on offense, however, who will need to step up if the team is going to live up to its top-10 ranking and potentially improve on last season’s meager offensive production. 
injuries sidelined junior midfielder Sandra Yu for her first two seasons at Notre Dame, but she has already made her healthy presence known with one goal in each of the first two games. 
Freshman forward Natalie Jacobs, who was ranked No. 3 in the country at her position coming out of high school, has been a welcome addition as well, starting against Toledo and valparaiso and scoring once. 
Still, the current offense is altogether unproven. Fortunately, Notre Dame has some time until its first real test against a ranked opponent, which is a Sept. 19 matchup at Clemson. The irish will have to work to mesh on offense to compete with the best of the best in the ACC. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 




pAiD ADvERTiSEMENT pAiD ADvERTiSEMENT THE oBSERvER | thursday, august 27, 2015 | NDSMCoBSERvER.CoM 





Football 
CoNTiNUED FRoM pAgE 16 
last spring, taught Butler how to watch film and pick up subtle indicators. 
“i’m not just sitting there blindly watching games but paying attention to the de­tails,” Butler said. “What are the receivers doing? Are they getting heavy in their stanc­es before certain plays? Are they fixing their gloves?” 
And not only has Butler changed the way he watches film, he now does it far more often. last year, he said, he did “just enough” to get by, and only with his coaches. Now, he studies on his own and picks out things he can bring to practice. 
“You really have to detail your work with everything,” he said. “Just go out every day and have one thing in mind that you need to get better at.” 
on the practice field, Butler still follows the exam­ple of another experienced cornerback. Russell’s return has challenged everyone in the unit to be better. 
“He’s one of those guys that when you’re around him, you want to do so much bet­ter. You want to do the extra stuff, you want to do the ex­tra reps, you want to match his intensity,” Butler said. “it’s not easy, but that’s the fun part, seeing how much you can do.” 
Russell is not the only mo­tivator for Butler. He has plenty of challengers for his spot at No. 3, and while all the cornerbacks have re­mained friendly, there is still an element of competition, he said. 
“We’re always pushing each other. it’s fun,” Butler said. “They love it when i make plays, i love it when they make plays, and we’re really just getting at it together.” 
There was no exact mo­ment in time when Butler realized he had vastly im­proved this fall, he said. But all the same, he now sees a difference in himself. 
“i just feel a lot more con­fident in myself and in my play,” Butler said. “i have a lot more confidence from my teammates, everyone’s been telling me good things. i just feel as though i’ve matured.” 
That maturation process has taught Butler several les­sons, he said. Among them, he feels the need to “value every snap, every rep,” that he can get. 
Most importantly, how­ever, he has bought in to a team-first mentality that has changed his perspective on the struggles of last season. 
“Being able to get an op­portunity for myself was fun, but not succeeding for my teammates was really disap­pointing for myself,” Butler said. “i just had to take a look within to see what i could do more for these guys, because i never want to let them down. 
“There’s nothing i wouldn’t do to make these guys successful.” 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 




pAiD ADvERTiSEMENT NDSMCoBSERvER.CoM | thursday,  august 27, 2015 | THE oBSERvER 



CrossWord | Will SHoRTZ 
horosCoPE | EUgENiA lAST 
Happy Birthday: Keeping a steady, surefooted pace will be your saving grace. opportunities are plentiful, so choose what you are able to handle and make steady gains as you go. A sudden, unexpected change in your financial situation could come from an unusual source. Keeping a clear head will help you avoid being used. Your numbers are 2, 16, 23, 28, 30, 33, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): initiate changes that will help you feel healthier. love is encouraged, and socializing and sharing your plans will bring you closer to the type of life you want to live. it’s up to you to make things happen. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): get involved, make plans, network or do something special for someone you want to get to know better. Speak from the heart and express an interest in whatever you are dealing with, and you will find out valuable information. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A practical approach to whatever you do is a much better approach than casting your fate to the wind and seeing what unfolds. Take control of the situations you face and harness what you want by using your skills strategically. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Focus on partnerships. Discuss your plans with others and explore your options. Someone you meet through a friend or while traveling will spark your interest in something you might not have previously considered. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can make professional changes, but don’t leave one job until you have found another. it’s important to be responsible and not act impulsively. Collect information and update your skills before you decide to make a move. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Speak up and those around you will listen and take note of what you are proposing. Your intelligence and dedication will be recognized and help you gain respect as well as an interesting position. Think big, but don’t lose sight of reality. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): A transformation is taking place. Facing difficulties will open your eyes and your mind to new opportunities. Don’t allow anyone to steer you away from a course that can bring you happiness. Believe in yourself and do as you please. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Stop and take note of what is going on around you. look for unusual opportunities and search for answers to the unknown. Your curiosity will lead you to more fortunate circumstances. Don’t let the choices others make lead you astray. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Expect to face difficulties if you try to push your ideas on others. if you want to make changes, focus inward and do whatever it takes to improve mentally, physically and emotionally. Do your homework and you’ll get results. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Emotions will be difficult to contain. Don’t hide the way you feel when expressing your opinions. Make a plan to do the things that will help you achieve greater happiness. Nothing ventured, nothing gained. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Abide by the rules and you’ll avoid unexpected headaches. it’s important to put greater effort into the relationships you have with others. A change of attitude will encourage others to strive to improve as well. love is highlighted. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take a trip that will offer you a chance to learn something new or discover what you want to do next. greater involvement in an effort to bring about positive reforms or improvements to your community should be on your agenda. 

Birthday Baby: You are adaptable, creative and precise. You are willful and organized. 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
HEPRY  

 
 
 
 
 

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
CARPH  

 
 
 
 
 

DAWNET  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

PRAMET  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: 


Jumbles:
Yesterday’s 
Answer: 
(Answers tomorrow) LARVA DRILL THROWN BESIDE Their attempt to drill for water didn’t — END WELL 


ACROSS 1 “I didn’t know I was speeding, officer,” e.g. 4 Cover sheet abbr. 
8 Hire 14 A mean Amin 15 Tropical 
food that is poisonous if eaten raw 
16 Kind of solution 17 Pince-___ 18 Girl’s floral 
name 19 ___ Hollywood 20 “Charlotte’s 
Web” actress on a hot day? 23 Like some pickings 
24 Number of weeks in Julius Caesar’s year? 
25 Pickled veggie 28 “A Brief History of Time” author 
doing sales? 33 “Shucks” 34 DVR brand 

35 With 45-Across, conger, e.g. 
36 Like some consonants 
40 Scarce 

42 Bond girl Green of “Casino Royale” 
43 Attorney General Holder 
45 See 35-Across 
46 “Porphyria’s Lover” poet with a pan of ground beef on the stove? 
51 One of the two characters in Dr. Seuss’ “Fox in Socks” 
52 Limbo need 

53 Take ___ from 
55 “Tom Jones” novelist playing baseball? 
60 Most music is played in it 
62 One-volume works of Shakespeare, e.g. 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

63 Ukr., until 1991, e.g. 64 “Same here!” 65 Pollster Roper 66 Not shoot straight 67 Neglects to 68 Official with a list 69 J.D. holder 
DOWN 1 Comes across 2 10s, say 3 Rock’s Limp ___ 4 In a shouting 
match, perhaps 5 Skater Lipinski 6 Little nothing 7 One who’s 
morally flawed 8 “Pardon the Interruption” network 9 Country that’s over 50% 
desert 10 Max of physics 11 Person who 
has a way with words? 12 You, generically 13 “Better ___ …” 21 ___-3 fatty acid 22 Nothing 26 Bender? 27 “Holy moly!” 29 Dwindle, with “out” 
30 Symbol after “I” on many a bumper sticker 
31 “___ to a Kill” 32 Sign on a door 36 Corner office, 
e.g. 37 Sweet Swan of ___ (epithet for Shakespeare) 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  27  
28  29  30  31  32  
33  34  35  
36  37  38  39  40  41  
42  43  44  45  
46  47  48  49  50  
51  52  53  54  
55  56  57  58  59  
60  61  62  63  
64  65  66  
67  68  69  

PUZZLE BY ERiK WENNSTROM 
38 “Musetta’s 49 CBS drama Waltz” opera featuring LL Cool J 
39 Scooter ___, Plame affair 50 Puts the pedal figure to the metal 
41 Poem in which 54 Symbol of Paris plays a the National 
prominent part 

Audubon 44 Handmade Society 
58 Literary matchmaker 
59 Kings of ___ (“Use Somebody” band) 
60 ___ the Kid (N.H.L. nickname) 

47 Applies 56 Loud, as a color 
61 Eastern 48 A.L. East athlete 57 Plant holder? principle 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
sudoku | THE MEpHAM gRoUp 
Level: 



SOLUTION TO WEDNESDAY’S PUZZLE 8/30/12 

Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 

Make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. Box 779 
Notre Dame, iN 46556


 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
Address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
City State Zip 

FootBaLL 

Butler ready to contribute in the secondary 

By GREG HADLEY 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brian Kelly sounds ready to name Devin Butler as Notre Dame’s No. 3 corner­back. But the junior isn’t patting himself on the back just yet. 
“it’s still not sewn up,” Butler said Monday. “You still got to go out and work hard. i’ve got very talented guys behind me. We’re just so deep at the corner po­sition, so every day it’s a challenge.” 
Butler’s caution is hardly surprising. Entering train­ing camp this month, nei­ther the irish head coach nor observers expected him to be so far ahead of his com­petition. Freshmen Shaun Crawford, Nick Watkins and Nick Coleman all showed potential, and with Keivarae Russell returning from sus­pension, Butler appeared to be the odd man out. 
Crawford went down with a torn ACl on Aug. 19, but even if he had stayed healthy, Butler had such a strong camp even Kelly ad­mitted his surprise. 
“if we were handicapping the corners, we would not have thought he’d be our third corner,” Kelly said. “He plays with so much more confidence. Speed. He’s a different player than he was last year.” 

Butler appeared in ev­ery game of the 2014 sea­son, starting twice to fill in for injuries. He grabbed his first career interception and broke up the second most passes on the team. 
But he wasn’t happy. Mistakes stuck in his head. losses frustrated him. By his own admission, he need­ed to mature. 
“it was definitely one of those times when you think about all the things you could have done different­ly,” Butler said. “Now i’m just thankful that i had the opportunity.” 
Since then, Butler said, he has grown and developed into a veteran. Now an up­perclassman in a secondary full of young talent, he wants to mentor the freshmen the same way older players guid­ed him. 
Cody Riggs, who graduated 
see FooTBAll PagE 14 
nd WoMEn’s soCCEr 

Without top scorers, Irish offense rolls on 

Renee Griffin 
Sports Writer 
No. 7 Notre Dame scored nine goals in the first two games of its season last weekend, good for 10th in the nation. But this early in the season, the question remains: Can the irish sus­tain that production when things get tougher? 
it’s always good to domi­nate the opponents you’re expected to dominate — a feat Notre Dame football fans know is easier said than done — but once the ACC calendar gets under­way, the irish offense will face defenses far more staunch than Toledo and valparaiso brought. 
The irish head into the Notre Dame invitational this weekend, where they will face Santa Clara and portland. in the same tour­nament last year, the then-No. 11 irish suffered two momentum-killing home losses to Texas Tech and USC. 
The irish attack aver­aged a mere 1.64 goals per game last season, and 13 of the team’s scores came from the combined efforts of now-graduated forward lauren Bohaboy and now-Trojan midfielder Morgan Andrews. 
Notre Dame’s defense is solid, and a major reason why the team made it to the third round of last year’s NCAA tournament, but it won’t be enough to shut out elite ACC opponents such as No. 1 Florida State and No. 2 virginia. 
And so this task of putting points on the board falls to a mix of veterans and fresh faces. 
Five upperclassmen found the back of the net last weekend, including the fourth and fifth-leading scorers from last year, se­nior forward Anna Maria gilbertson and junior for­ward Kaleigh olmsted. Sophomore midfielder Taylor Klawunder, mean­while, has managed to equal her two-goal tally from her first year of collegiate play in just the two games of 
see gRiFFiN PagE 12 





