The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 92 | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND students selected for Fulbright grants 
Ten undergraduate, graduate students will travel to Europe and Asia for 2014-2015 fellowships 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
news writer 
Ten students from notre dame were awarded Fulbright grants for the 2014-15 program, ranking the university as a top-producing institution of grant recipients. 
Jeffrey Thibert, assistant di­rector of national fellowships in center for undergraduate scholarly engagement (cuse), said placement on the list is a sig­nificant honor for the university, raising its profile even further among u.s. doctoral and research institutions. 
“The grants benefit notre dame by confirming the university’s commitment to internationaliza­tion and expanding our global reputation,” he said. “notre dame Fulbright recipients are not just representing the u.s. abroad; they are representing notre dame abroad as well.” 
Thibert said the Fulbright is a great opportunity for students for three key reasons, the first of which is its ability to allow stu­dents to deepen their engage­ments with a particular part of the world through an immersive aca­demic and cultural experience. 
“second, the Fulbright pro­vides funding for work that can significantly enhance one’s pro­fessional trajectory, whether that work is graduate study, disserta­tion research or classroom teach­ing experience,” he said. “Third, receiving a Fulbright grant opens the door to a vast network of Fulbright recipients around the 
see FulbrighT PAGE 5 

MARY McGRAW | The Observer 



Hypatia Day to promote women in STEM 
By OLIVIA JACKSON 
news writer 
saint mary’s will host the 23rd annual hypatia day this saturday for seventh grade girls from lo­cal south bend schools to fight the stereotype that math and sci­ence are male-dominated fields. with the assistance of current students, professors and high school students, the day will be centered around exposing both young girls and their parents to the many opportunities available in the sTem (science, Technology, engineering and mathematics) fields for women. 
hypatia day was first organized in 1991 by sr. miriam patrick cooney, professor emerita of mathematics, director of media relations gwen o’brien said. 

hypatia day is named for the first known female mathemati­cian, hypatia of alexandria, who was the daughter of ancient greek mathematician and philosopher Theon, o’brien said. according to legend, hypatia’s father taught her mathematics during a period in greek history when young girls were excluded from education. 
according to socrates, hypatia’s home and lecture room were the two favorite gathering places for 
see hypaTia PAGE 5 


Photo courtesy of Gwen O’Brien 
Hypatia Day brings local seventh grade girls to Saint Mary’s to explore the typically male-dominated fields of math and science. 


Team discovers new MRSA treatment 
By ALEX CAO 
news writer 
a team of researches led by professor shahriar mobashery and mayland chang devel­oped an antibiotic to com­bat methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus, or mrsa, a strain of a certain species of bacteria that is re­sistant to a considerable num­ber of conventional modern antibiotics. 

“mrsa is a multi-drug resis­tant version of a very common bacterium called staph au­reus,” mobashery said. “staph aureus grows in our skin, grows in our noses, and has been with humanity for a very long time. however, this version, which is drug resistant, first appeared in 1962 in the u.k. and has be­come a global problem.” 
mobashery said understanding the biochemi­cal properties of mrsa that allow it to resist the effects of conventional antibiotics gave them valuable information and resources to develop an antibi­otic to respond to the problem. 

“how does this organism have these biochemical prop­erties that make it so difficult for treatment? That is a ques­tion my lab concerns itself with,” mobashery said. “we want to understand the ba­sis for the drug resistance this very difficult organism has de­veloped over the many decades after its appearance. 
“when we understand some of the details of the biochemi­cal event, can we subvert them in a way that leads to the de­mise of the organism? The an­swer to that question is yes, 
see anTibioTic PAGE 5 

students elect new class councils 
By KAYLA MULLEN 
associate news editor 
Judicial council released the results of the 2015 class coun­cil elections at midnight this morning. 
First years Jp bruno, molly knapp, matthew ross and henry long were elected to serve as the class of 2018’s sophomore class council, the ticket’s presidential candidate, Jp bruno. The bruno, knapp, ross and long ticket gar­nered 50.73 percent of the vote, while the ticket consisting of greg perenich, Teresa simunich, patrick rodgers and helena Qu won 42.22 percent of the vote. 
bruno said his ticket was excited to begin their term as sophomore class council. 
“we are honored and humbled to have been elected as scc reps. we couldn’t be more grateful to 
see elecTions PAGE 4 


news PAGE 4 viewpoinT PAGE 8 scene PAGE 10 bengal bouTs PAGE 20 women’s baskeTball PAGE 20 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
brian hartnett alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college. editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What do you do to procrastinate? 

Abby Piper 
freshman 
lyons hall 
“read buzzFeed articles.” 
Cristin Pacifico 
senior 
off campus 
“Text friends and go on Facebook.” 
Meg Tucker 
freshman 
pasquerilla west hall 
“eat.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Andrea Bae 
freshman 
lyons hall 
“shop online with my homework tabs open.” 
David Clark 
freshman 
dillon hall 
“listen to phish.” 
Regina Ekaputri 
freshman 
Farley hall 
“Take a nap and browse the internet with friends.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

kelly konya greg hadley Email news@ndsmcobserver.com
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
kayla mullen manny deJesus Jp gschwind brian plamondon 
Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday
mary mcgraw erin mcauliffe 
Photo Viewpoint 

Mindful Meditation Graduate Student Vigil Mass Mass in Spanish Basketball Game
Zach llorens rex shannon 

Coleman-Morse Mass Basilica of the Sacred Dillon Hall Chapel Purcell Pavilion Center Basilica of the Sacred Heart 1:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 
5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Heart 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. Worship service. Women’s basketball
Corrections 

Open to students, 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Worship service. takes on Louisville. 
The observer regards itself as faculty and staff. Worship service. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
“Do I Have OCD?” Film: “Force Majeure” Third Coast “Cloud Tectonics” An Evening of Irish 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

LaFortune Student DeBartolo Performing Percussion DeBartolo Performing Traditional Music
however, recognize that we will make 
Center Arts Center DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Legends 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7 p.m. - 8 p.m. 6:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Arts Center 2:30 p.m. - 4 p.m. 7 p.m. - 9 p.m.
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Lecture by Dr. About a family caught 7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m. Theatrical Free live music.
we can correct our error. 

Christopher Bedosky. in an avalanche. Live concert. performance. 


ndstudents participate in #hackinvTXchallenge 
By SAMUEL CHAN 
news writer 
although the name may give the initial impression of computer crime, notre dame students participating in the three-week #hackinvTX challenge are working for the good of the indiana and Texas governments. each state has presented its resi­dents with two challenges in the hackathon, which comes to a close next monday. 
in the case of indiana, par­ticipants are required to either “create a centralized, stream­lined and secure platform for receiving, tracking and col­laborating on permit applica­tions” for the department of environmental management (idem) or to “develop a method to register and cre­ate a checklist of available/ needed services for [resi­dents] visiting a one stop shop after a disaster” for the department of homeland security, according to a gov­ernment press release. 
The ongoing hackathon will allow “residents of both states to create applications that support and inspire en­trepreneurship and digital government innovation, en­courage government trans­parency and open data and promote interstate collabo­ration and competition,” the press release stated. 
Junior liam chan, an iT managment major, is part of a three-student team work­ing on the permit application platform. 
“currently, people submit permits, documents, updates and such through the idem. it’s basically a paper-based system, quite inefficient,” chan said. “our team is try­ing to streamline that pro­cess so that it’s no longer paper-based, so people can submit digital copies and such. 
“For example, an applica­tion for a landfill that we saw at the office is seven bind­ers full of paper. and that’s for one landfill. so you can imagine if you’re trying to build a factory downtown or even if you’re a farmer, and 

“Currently, people submit permits, documents, updates and such through the IDEM (Indiana Department of Environmental Management). Our team is trying to streamline that process so that it’s no longer paper-based, so people can submit digital copies.” 
Liam Chan 
IT management major 

you get about 600 cattle that create waste. That’s some­thing you need a permit for as well,” chan said. 
The students are “working a lot on their own,” accord­ing to don ginocchio, who is the sap university alliances director assigned to notre dame. gionocchio pointed out there are 10 faculty and staff mentors who have vol­unteered their time to help with the hackathon. 
one of the mentors, matt willmore, a mobilend pro­gram manager, said, “it’s easy to look at a problem and just start coding and not re­ally have an idea about where you’re going to end. but [men­tors are] helping them to un­derstand what’s the scope … and zero in on what to spend our time on.” 
however, ginocchio ad­mitted that the length of the hackathon is not entirely ide­al for full-time students. 
“There’s always a challenge at notre dame, particular­ly something of this nature that’s spread out over three or four weeks, that other things like classwork and other priorities get in the way,” he said. “That’s true of any three-week effort, and i don’t think it’s unique to our situa­tion. and actually, this is part of a series of hackathons. in the future, they’re going to try to do it over a shorter time frame — a day or two — so that people can really focus.” 
chan mentioned his in­volvement in bengal bouts 
this  month  and  Junior  
parents  weekend  starting  
Friday.  
“we’re  definitely  feeling  

the time constraint,” he said. 
nonetheless, there was a general consensus the effort put into the hackathon was well worth it. 
“we hope that whether we take this project to the next stage, or a different team does or if the state finds a com­pany to expand our solution, we wish them the best of luck and hope there are people who would benefit from this,” chan said. 
Contact Samuel Chan at schan3@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT The observer | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 




Senate debates recurring issues with O’SNAP 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer 
student senate met in laFortune student center on wednesday night to dis­cuss potential issues with the revised o’snap program and possible future budget cuts. 
“i think there’s been some concern about the ways that safewalk and o’snap are being utilized. … There have been some issues with dis­patching safewalk; i know it’s not an isolated thing,” st. edward’s hall senator and sophomore Jake wittenberg said. “There have been a few issues with dispatching and a little clarification that we could take back to dorms, or some discussion on the pro­cedures and efficiency of the program would be helpful.” 
while the topic will not enter into a formal discus­sion for a few weeks, other senators shared similar sentiments. 
“i feel like there’s been some discrimination with size and gender,” keenan hall senator and junior ryan rizzuto said. “… a few weeks ago, i called, and i had to keep belaboring a point that i was concerned for a girl who was very intoxicated.” 
rizzuto also said he ex­perienced an issue several weeks ago when he called to be picked up with a few of his friends. he was told there was no danger or reason for o’snap to pick them up if it was a group of six or more. 
“i don’t think they have any right to do that,” rizzuto said. “if o’snap is a shuttle service, then we really need to hone in that message to the student body and fig­ure out why it’s harder to be picked up if you’re a guy than a girl.” 
student body vice presi­dent and senior matt devine brought up the issue of news­paper subscription and dis­tribution on campus. 
according to devine, the university currently spends about $50,000 on newspaper subscriptions annually, but only about 100-150 papers are actually picked up per day. 
“i think we need to reas­sess,” devine said. “… we’re looking to see if we can do individual subscriptions, but that doesn’t necessarily stay true to the purpose of mak­ing it available to everyone.” 
alumni hall senator and sophomore scott moore pro­posed potentially decreasing the order, if possible 
“if we can’t get a smaller quantity, i’d rather see it dis­banded,” moore said. 
The senate will continue the conversation on the topic throughout the remainder of 
“If O’SNAP is a shuttle service, then we really need to hone in that message to the student body and figure out why it’s harder to be picked up if you’re a guy than a girl.” 
Ryan Rizzuto 
senator 
Keenan Hall 
the semester, ultimately decid­ing whether to keep all of the subscriptions for the 2015-2016 school year. 
“it’s going to be contentious, whatever the decision is, so we’re trying to make sure we get the most comprehensive thoughts from everyone,” devine said. 
The senate also unanimously passed a resolution moving off campus council elections to the third week of april, as opposed to april 1. 
“The purpose behind this is essentially is that there can’t be a comprehensive list of all the stu­dents living off campus in about mid-February, when we’re asked for one, which makes it hard to have elections,” Judicial council president and off-campus senior kathryn peruski said. 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at  rogrady@nd.edu 
Elections 
conTinued From page 1 
our opponents for running a clean, fair campaign, and we can’t wait to get to work for the class of 2018,” bruno said. 
neither of the sophomore tickets for Junior class council obtained a majority of the vote, resulting in a run-off elec­tion, conor bradley, one of the sophomore ticket’s candidate for treasurer, said. The run-off will be held on Friday, February 20. both tickets agreed to not release the breakdown of the election vote, bradley said. 

Juniors Thomas shneeman, shannon montague, brian cimons and bridget doyle were elected to serve as the class of 2016’s senior class council, the ticket’s candidate for vice-president, shannon montague, said. both tickets agreed not to release the results of the vote, montague said, but noted that 42 percent of juniors voted. 
shneeman congratulated the other ticket for a well-run campaign. 
“we’d also like to thank the class of 2016 for such a strong voter turnout. we are extremely excited to get to work on mak­ing this next year as memo­rable as possible. go irish!” shneeman said. 
The new class councils will take their positions on april 1. 
News Editor Lesley Stevenson contributed to this report. 
Contact Kayla Mullen at  kmullen2@nd.edu 





Hypatia 
conTinued From page 1 
her scholarly friends, as she was one of the most-loved teachers and well-respected scholars of her time. 
assistant professor of math­ematics kristin kuter said hypatia day is mainly geared towards sev­enth grade girls and their parents. 
some of the participating schools include indiana schools such as boston middle school in la porte, discovery middle school in granger, grissom middle school in mishawaka, lincoln Jr. high in plymouth, new prairie middle school in new carlisle and st. Joseph grade school in south bend. 
“The focus of the event is to en­courage the seventh graders to continue to pursue an education in math and science, while inform­ing their parents on how to support their daughters in that goal,” kuter said. 
kuter said this year’s hypatia day will feature hands-on activities run by sTem-related clubs on campus. 
“This year we have sessions or­ganized by the biology, chemistry, engineering, math and computer science, nursing and physics clubs,” kuter said. “during these sessions, the seventh graders will interact with college women preparing for careers in the sTem fields and will be encouraged to view one another as potential physicians, research scientists, actuaries, engineers, stat­isticians, data analysts, technology experts and the like.” 
beginning at 8:30 a.m. on saturday, students and their parents will arrive in carroll auditorium for a welcome presen­tation by kuter. Then, director of patient logistics at university of chicago medicine emily lowder will deliver the keynote address, “Following Their Footsteps and Tales from the Journey” to all participants. 

kuter said throughout the day, middle school students will have the opportunity to work in the lab with college and high school stu­dents who are preparing for a fu­ture in the sTem fields. kuter said parents will also be able to speak with saint mary’s students about their future careers, attend panel discussions and take part in cam­pus tours. 
“The parents attend a panel discussion focusing on what cur­riculum best prepares a student for college and keeps all of her options open. another session will provide information on financial prepara­tion for a college education,” she said. 
kuter said she believes hypatia day is important not only for young girls at their current age, but for the growth of their interest in the sub­jects over time. 
“This event is important to the community because research has shown that girls of this age greatly benefit from extra attention and encouragement for their interest in studies which require a high degree of training in mathematics and sci­ence,” kuter said. 
senior audrey kiefer said she be­lieves hypatia day to be one of the best ways saint mary’s can engage with the local community. 
“Though i haven’t participated in the day personally, i know some of my fellow classmates who are science majors always say that the young girls truly appreciate the op­portunity to experiment in the labs and make connections with college students,” kiefer said. 
kiefer said she finds it essential to begin empowering young women at an early age in the same way that saint mary’s empowers women throughout their collegiate years. 
“when all of [the current stu­dents] find saint mary’s to be such a great place for expanding our minds and planning to make a difference, it only makes sense that we host a day like this to show young girls that anything is possible, no matter what field of study,” kiefer said. 
Contact Olivia Jackson at  ojacks01@saintmarys.edu 
Antibiotic 
conTinued From page 1 
and we have come up with strategies that lend them­selves to specifically ad­dressing the methods that mrsa has devised for resis­tance,” he said. “we are actu­ally able to take that and turn [them] around to ... kill the organism.” 
mobashery said finding and developing the drug to ex­ploit the weaknesses he and his team found in mrsa was a massive computational un­dertaking, narrowing  over 1.2 million candidates to just 118 compounds. 
“1.2 compounds were so called ‘docked’ and ‘scored’ and ... then, out of a collec­tion of 2,500 compounds that had promise, we did some further analysis on which one of those were worthy of pur­suit because not all of them were easy to synthesize. so we wanted to ideally buy some of these compounds,” he said. 

“we ended up choosing the 118 compounds ... because they were commercially available and synthetically accessible.” 
mobashery said the com­pounds were observed to ef­fectively destroy mrsa in mice infected with the bacte­ria and that he saw a promis­ing future for his work with the organism with the help of 
paid adverTisemenT 

the university and collabora­tion with other researchers,” mobashery said. 
“in principle, the university is very much interested in ex­ploring whether companies will step up and move this class of molecules forward into clinical trials. That is something we won’t be able to do ourselves and we need partners and that’s a possibil­ity. but research is ongoing on mrsa because of our broad interest in this organism and i’ve been at it for something like a dozen years and i trust that in a dozen years i’ll still be at it.” 
Contact Alex Cao at  acao@nd.edu 
Fulbright 
conTinued From page 1 

world, and the prestige associ­ated with the Fulbright has been a marker of outstanding achieve­ment for decades.” 
strong applicants often have experiences in their academic or extracurricular histories that indicate an interest in the wider world and the ability to adapt to an unfamiliar cultural environ­ment, Thibert said. 
“notre dame students are competitive applicants for the Fulbright because the university has prioritized international en­gagement for undergraduates and graduate/professional stu­dents,” he said. 
class of 2014 alumna deanna kolberg, who received a Fulbright grant for the 2014-15 program, is currently working as a teaching assistant in south korea. 
hoping to one day pursue a policy job within the u.s. govern­ment, kolberg said she sees her­self contributing to foreign policy through research or ground work with the department of state. 
“i can’t think of a job in foreign policy over the next 50 years that won’t need knowledge of korea,” she said. 
kolberg said she has benefited in a variety of ways as a result of joining the Fulbright community. 
“you’re in a group of really highly motivated internationally-minded thinkers, with plenty of opportunity to interact,” she said. “i’ve learned a whole new set of skills and patience living with a korean host family in pretty much the middle of nowhere.” 
as a teacher in korea, kolberg said she has experienced both the joys and pains of teaching and her own korean has slowly improved as well. 
“more than anything, i’m one of the few people i graduated with who can honestly say they love their job,” she said. 
even when her mood wasn’t the best, kolberg said she was up­lifted when greeted by students in the hallway shouting, “we love you, deanna!” 
class of 2014 alumnus marcus liddell, another 2014-15 Fulbright recipient, also received an english teaching assistantship, although he currently resides in germany, working at a secondary school teaching grades 7-12. 
liddell said he decided to apply for the Fulbright grant due to his interest in education and his pur­suit of a degree in german and minor in education, schooling and society. 
“my summer jobs had been education-related,” he said. “i had studied abroad in germany for a semester, and i had spent a week while i was there shadowing teachers at a local high school, so i had some evidence that this was the kind of thing i’d like to be do­ing with or without a fellowship.” 
“... it was an easy choice from both the standpoint of improving my german and the standpoint of getting some practical experience as an educator,” he said. 
with about 12 to 14 lessons per week, liddell said, for the most part, he does all the teaching. he said he spends his time outside of the classroom traveling, work­ing in the community with sports and other activities and pursuing a research project. 
liddell said students interested in a Fulbright should consider the application process early and work with an advisor. 
“decide if the things you want to do fit with what the Fulbright is offering,” he said. “if you’re a good fit in your mind, if you’re not just curious, but truly pas­sionate, then you should consider applying.” 
applications for the Fulbright 

u.s. student program are assist­ed in a joint effort between the cuse and the graduate school, Thibert said. undergraduates in­terested in learning more should visit cuse national Fellowships online at http://fellows.nd.edu, and graduate/professional stu­dents and alumni should contact dr. mike westrate at gradgrants@ nd.edu 
“as we send more Fulbright re­cipients around the world, they raise the university’s global pro­file, which will help us to contin­ue to bring the best international students to the university while fostering productive interna­tional academic collaborations,” Thibert said. 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 


The observer | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Egypt leads fight against religious extremism 
Associated Press 
cairo — egypt is making an ambitious bid to place it­self at the center of the fight against extremism across the middle east. beyond fight­ing militants in its own sinai peninsula, it is trying to orga­nize an international coali­tion against the islamic state in libya and helping saudi arabia defend its borders. 
The growing military alli­ance is rooted in a shared be­lief among egypt’s president abdel-Fattah el-sissi and gulf arab leaders that ex­tremism must be confronted region-wide. 
it has been anchored with a quid pro quo: gulf oil pow­erhouses saudi arabia, the united arab emirates and kuwait have given egypt an estimated $30 billion to res­cue its damaged economy in return for egypt providing military manpower along­side its gulf counterparts. 
with the alliance, this na­tion of 90 million people seeks to maneuver itself into a leadership role that has eluded it in recent years, first because of waning influ­ence under former president hosni mubarak, then be­cause of the turmoil that fol­lowed his 2011 ouster. 
a contingent of egyptian troops is already deployed on saudi arabia’s border with iraq to help defend it against jihadi fighters, who earlier this year carried out a deadly cross-border raid, according to egyptian military and se­curity officials. 
on another front, gulf na­tions have said they are con­sidering what action to take in yemen, where shiite rebels known as houthis — widely suspected of links to iran — have taken power in the capi­tal and are fighting to seize more of the country. 
egypt already has military advisers on the saudi-yemeni border tasked mainly with developing a joint strategy with the saudis to confront future hostilities, accord­ing to the officials, who have first-hand knowledge of egypt’s plans. They spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not au­thorized to talk about the deployments. 
plans for the creation of a military alliance with saudi arabia, the united arab emirates, kuwait and pos­sibly Jordan were back on track after a period of hia­tus, said the officials, with France, italy and algeria now viewed as possible additional partners. 
already, saudi arabia and the emirates are bankrolling multibillion dollar arms pur­chases by egypt, including jet fighters and naval pieces from both France and russia. 
a deal with germany to buy two submarines is under dis­cussion, said the officials. 
separately, egypt is trying to persuade the west to open up a new front against the islamic state group in libya, egypt’s western neighbor, and is appealing for “politi­cal and material” support to enable it to contain the threat in libya. 
on Tuesday, el-sissi called on the united nations to ap­prove a new coalition for air­strikes in libya, where the extremists have set up their first major affiliate outside of iraq and syria. he argued in a radio interview that the islamic state group in libya is not just a threat to egypt 
—
 its militants beheaded a group of egyptian christians in a video released this week 

—
 but to europe as well. 


“i want to say human­ity will judge us if we do not fight against terrorism and protect humanity,” el-sissi told France’s europe 1 radio. 
France and italy, directly across the mediterranean from libya, have come out in favor of some form of international action. The u.n. security council holds an emergency session wednesday on the libya crisis. 
The more assertive egyptian-gulf campaign, however, threatens to mire egypt in multiple fights that could further enflame the ongoing conflicts. egypt’s military has been battling ferociously in sinai, but has been unable to suppress ji­hadis who have sworn alle­giance to the islamic state group. They are believed to number in the hundreds or low thousands, bristling with heavy weapons smuggled in from libya. 
striking militants in libya could prompt an even more brutal response from sinai extremists, who previously have carried out high-profile bombings in cairo and other egyptian cities. 
“gulf states want egypt to stand by them in the face of the region’s entire range of crises,” a prominent saudi journalist, abdullah nasser al-otaibi, wrote in monday’s edition of the pan-arab daily al-hayat. “They want to see heavyweight egypt on their side unconditionally to end the syrian crisis. They also want a clear and pragmatic position as well as an ac­tionable plan to intervene in yemen and save it from the control of houthis, who take their orders from the clerical regime in Tehran.” 
in yemen, saudi arabia has already started arm­ing sunni tribesmen to fight back against the houthis. but the saudis and egyptians may have little appetite for ground action in the moun­tainous, chaotic country. 

egyptian columnist abdullah el-sinnawi, who is close to the military, wrote that egypt’s navy could de­ploy if there is any threat to shipping in and out of the red sea. yemen lies on one side of the narrow entrance to the red sea, the only route to egypt’s suez canal from asia. 
but egypt cannot “endure a long war abroad” or the dis­traction of the military from the fighting in the sinai, he wrote monday in the al­shorouk newspaper. 
in recognition of the lim­its, the security officials said egypt was not looking, at least for now, for a ground campaign in libya, but rath­er an air assault similar to that by the u.s. and its allies in iraq and syria. egypt car­ried out two rounds of air­strikes in libya on monday, on top of secret strikes it con­ducted last year along with 
the  united  arab  emirates  
against  libyan  islamist  
militias.  

The officials said egyptian troops briefly crossed the border into libya monday to conduct search-and-destroy missions targeting possible surface-to-air rockets that could threaten warplanes headed back from libya. 
as a precaution against possible retaliation from militants, egyptian naval units in the area and border guards have been placed on high alert. 

egypt is likely to continue launching airstrikes against islamic state positions fo­cusing on arms depots and training camps, the offi­cials said. a second phase of the campaign could involve special forces targeting high-value assets inside libya, they said. 
“This is a war that is as or more crucial than the 1973 war,” said a top egyptian official, alluding to egypt’s last war against israel, when egyptian troops crossed the suez canal to storm fortified israeli positions on the wa­terway’s east bank. 




Derailed train causes fires in West Virginia 
Associated Press 
charlesTon, west virginia — a fire sparked by a train derailment in south­ern west virginia smoldered for a third day wednesday, keeping federal and state in­vestigators at bay and leading residents near the site worry­ing about the long-term wa­ter quality of a nearby river. 
The fire — sparked when a csX train carrying 3 mil­lion gallons of north dakota crude jumped the tracks monday in the unincorpo­rated town of mount carbon 
— was 85 percent contained, said state public safety di­vision spokesman larry messina. 
“There’s a few small fires,” messina said. “until those fires are out and they make sure that site is safe, they’re going to keep folks away from that vicinity.” 
csX and multiple state and federal agencies are inves­tigating. Federal railroad administration spokesman kevin Thompson said some preliminary work has been done, including the retrieval of the train’s data recorder. 
but due to the fire, “we haven’t been able to do our physical investigation on site,” he said wednesday. 
all but two of the train’s 109 cars were tank cars, and 27 of them left the tracks. nineteen tank cars were in­volved in the fire, said csX regional vice president randy cheetham. 
a road running parallel to the train tracks along one side of the kanawha river re­mained closed wednesday. 
The derailment shot fireballs into the sky, leaked oil into a kanawha river trib­utary, burned down a house nearby and forced nearby water treatment plans to temporarily shut down. 

as of wednesday evening, crews had removed cars that did not derail and have started to remove derailed cars that were not involved in the fire, according to a joint statement from several agencies that have respond­ed to the derailment. csX will begin transferring oil from damaged cars to other tanks for removal from the site when conditions become safe, the statement said. 
about 500 feet of contain­ment boom have been de­ployed to lessen the potential environmental impact, the statement said. 
containment trenches also 

are  being  dug,  said  state  
environmental  protection  
spokeswoman  kelley  
gillenwater.  

“we need to make sure no crude oil gets into the kanawha river,” gillenwater said in an email. 
once the rail cars and other debris are removed, soil test­ing and excavation can be­gin, she said. 
water treatment systems were brought back online af­ter initial tests showed no oil in them. residents remain under a boil-water advisory, while bottled water was being distributed at a high school. 
classes at west virginia university institute of Technology were canceled for the rest of the week. students in two residence halls were bused 40 miles to facilities in beckley. 
paid adverTisemenT 

people living away from the wreckage were allowed to re­turn to their homes Tuesday after damaged electrical lines were repaired. 
“we weathered the storm,” said retired montgomery police chief lawrence washington. “every storm in your life isn’t in the forecast.” 
nancy holcomb, who lives in boomer directly across the river from the derailment, was concerned about the possibility of the oil getting into the river. 
“we swim in this river,” she said. “i don’t want to get out in this river now.” 
west virginia has seen other fuel disasters in recent years. 
on Jan. 23, an overturned tanker truck spilled nearly 4,000 gallons of diesel fuel into a tributary of the greenbrier river near lewisburg. 
in december 2012, a natu­ral gas transmission pipe ruptured and exploded in sissonville about 40 miles to the northwest, destroy­ing four homes and melt­ing the asphalt on a section of interstate 77. no one was killed. 
The tap water concerns that followed the derail­ment brought reminders of a January 2014 chemical spill along the elk river in charleston 30 miles to the north. That spill got into west virginia american water’s charleston filtration plant, prompting a tap water ban for 300,000 residents for sev­eral days until the system was flushed out. 
“obvious we’ve had experi­ences with water in the past,” said gov. earl ray Tomblin. 
west virginia’s rail system contains 2,401 miles of track, including 1,113 miles of csX track and 801 miles of norfolk southern track, according to the state department of Transportation. 
chances are, state residents live close enough to hear a train’s whistle. 
“why do people stay af­ter things like this happen?” washington said. “This is home. There’s a lot that goes into this community. i know a lot of people say it’s bad, but there’s good people here.” 


The observer | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

your upvote matters 
John Darr 
scene writer 

“i can’t believe people are upvoting this thing.” it’s winter break and my brother is on his phone, looking at yik yak. yik yak users interact anonymously with each other by writing, commenting on and voting on posts published in their area. The app is simple, straightforward and highly enter­taining in highly populated areas; in a col­lege environment, new posts are constantly being generated by and voted on by local users. at home, the app is far less-lively. i’m surprised that anything at all is happening on yik yak, so i reply to my little brother with a mildly-interested, “what?” 
“i think i know this girl. someone posted about how fat she is and it has, like 14 up-votes.” “oh wow. That’s terrible,” i say. my brother is still in high school. i had heard about yik yak being banned from school zones, but i hadn’t really experienced any­thing at notre dame that made the deci­sion seem like an obvious one. after all, the notre dame yak was fine. nobody person­ally attacked other students on the notre dame yik yak. That’s not true anymore. maybe it never was. since winter break, there have been direct attacks on at least one named student and two unnamed (but otherwise identified) students on the notre dame yik yak. The anonymous nature of yik yak has always made it a forum suscep­tible to such targeting. The only controls against damaging posts are negative votes and reports from users. 
That being said, the notre dame yik yak has been relatively peaceful since the app was launched. Top yaks are usually funny stories, original and unoriginal jokes, uni­versal notre dame sentiments and rallying cries against schools on the football sched­ule. most of the time, it’s absolutely harm­less. after all, yik yak is just a social media app where the most complex thoughts are limited to 200 characters. yik yak, you might say, doesn’t really matter. Tell that to the in­dividuals who have been attacked. Tell that to the groups whose negative stereotypes have been perpetuated. 
Though it may seem trivial, yik yak acts as a powerful embodiment of notre dame student opinion. when a yak is backed with hundreds of upvotes, it asserts that an idea or opinion is popular regardless of whether or not users would stand by it in real life. when a post that antagonizes an individual or group rises to the top of the feed, it be­comes threatening. The truth is, yik yak matters. notre dame students use yik yak every day, and every day users are targeted, hurt and insulted, even if in seemingly small ways. 
it’s easy to think that your anonymous, single vote on any post doesn’t have an im­pact on anyone. The fact is, yik yak is a pow­erful tool that affects every user on campus. 
Think before you tap that arrow. your 
upvote matters. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu

      The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Immigration debate in America 
Kyle Palmer 
reasonably right 

last year on nov. 20, just weeks after suffering a decisive defeat in the midterm elections, president obama decided that he would circumvent congress without giving them a chance to act by putting forth executive actions that would halt deportations of 4 million immigrants who came to the united states illegally. This announcement was met with loud opposition from the republican party, which was just elected to be the majority party in both the u.s. house and senate, and 26 states pressed a u.s. district court judge to stop president obama’s actions. 
on monday, soon before the actions were to take effect in earnest, the request was granted and u.s. district court Judge andrew hanen stopped president obama’s efforts. This means that the administration will have to make its case for whether or not it was stepping outside the bounds of the executive branch. 
all this goes to highlight a perpetual issue that needs to be dealt with and a continuing theme to the current politi­cal dialogue. u.s. immigration policy needs to be reformed; virtually all voices of the political spectrum agree that the policies are not working as they were intended. The prob­lem is that no side seems willing to work with the other. some republicans demand a plan that includes all of their ideas and none from the democrats, and president obama peddles the same attitude when he pushes through im­migration actions without even trying to negotiate with a newly-elected congress. both sides fail to recognize that the other was elected with a mandate. This seems to create a paradox, but instead it should show that americans want the two sides to come together and negotiate so the country can move forward. 
The closest thing we’ve had in the last decade to a com­prehensive solution to the immigration crisis came in 2013 with senate bill 744, a bill crafted by what was called the “gang of eight,” which included democrats chuck schumer, dick durbin, michael bennet and bob menendez, and republicans marco rubio, John mccain, Jeff Flake and lindsey graham. The bill, officially known as the border security, economic opportunity and immigration modernization act of 2013, was 1198 pages long. it satis­fied most of the demands of both parties by offering a path for immigrants to become citizens, securing the border by sending vast resources to the border as well as 40,000 more border patrol agents, and encouraged educated in­dividuals to come to the united states to begin working on becoming citizens. while cost is often cited as an issue, the social security administration reported that if this bill were to take effect, it would only cost $33 billion while raising revenues of $276 billion over the next ten years. The congressional budget office actually estimates enacting this bill would lower the deficit by hundreds of billions. s.b. 744 passed the senate with bipartisan support by a vote of 68-32. it was sent to the house, but was never brought up for consideration. 
since then, no progress has been made in the immigra­tion debate. i had hope that president obama would feel compelled to work with republicans after the midterm election, but before the next congress even began he stifled the debate by implementing his executive actions. mitch mcconnell is one of my favorite senators, not only because he looks like a turtle or that he is a brilliant strategist, but because he is a master negotiator. he has been the voice of reason that was able to bring together president obama, harry reid and John boehner during fiscal cliff or tax ne­gotiations and get a solution pushed through. it would behoove both boehner and obama to listen to mcconnell to find an immigration solution. while the house may be the most responsive to the demands of the people and the president is the elected leader of the nation, the senate re­mains the world’s greatest deliberative body. while it has been slow going under harry reid’s leadership (though to reid’s credit, sb 744 was passed under him), mcconnell may be able to revive its old traditions. 
i hope a solution is found, and i agree with most all of sb 744 and am still disappointed that it wasn’t ultimately implemented. immigration is an issue that has been partic­ularly divisive in this country, and we need a solution that will work long term. i just hope that the next time such a bill comes around, the house is willing to hear it and pass it and the president is willing to sign it. 
Kyle Palmer is an Alumni Hall junior majoring in  accountancy. He welcomes reasonable debate on all his  opinions and can be reached at kpalmer6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The observer | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Political correctness and the Keenan Revue 
This past weekend, the knights of keenan hall took the structurally unsound stepan stage in “revue’s clues: a private investigation.” last year, i implored the student body not to attend for their own good, and i tried to repeat that same message this time around. outdated 90s references and childhood nostalgia, a homage to the over-saturat­ed crime drama market and way too many critiques of notre dame stereotypes, policies and the admin­istration. i ask, where is the appeal? 
well, it is the 39th year of the keenan revue, so there is obviously a desire amongst the student body for good-natured humor. a full house the entire weekend confirmed that desire. This trend reflects the general consensus of the american people. saturday night live is celebrated its 40th year anniversary last sunday evening, so in a way, keenan is the three-night opening act for snl. while the dream is one day for snl to open up for the keenan revue, lorne michaels demands a pretty high salary. This presents a problem as revue tickets are free, due to an outdated indiana state law, (acts 1973, p.l.55, sec.1) which explic­itly implies that any profitable performance which includes erotic dance must be taxed at a 69% rate. rather than bow down to the Tax man, keenan de­cided to go with a free show, of which all of notre dame is a beneficiary. 
notre dame benefits because it is in the cur­rent mission of the keenan revue to provide social commentary through the thinly-veiled disguise of sketch comedy. in no way is keenan hall the moral compass of the notre dame student body. Far from it, to be honest. while some material may be hard-hitting and provocative, most involve absurdist scenarios or the immature sexual jokes that college aged men are naturally inclined to (snl is guilty of this too. see the famous skits “schweddy balls” and “colonel angus”). The revue is, however, a voice. it is an opinion that prompts thought and open discussion on campus. when a voice is silenced and censored, it shows a deeper problem that con­stitutes a society’s lack of confidence in itself. This is an example of a deeper problem — the disap­pearance of open discussion in student unions, intelligentsia and the media, as well as the general partisan attitude of americans. 
in the age of political correctness, Jonathan chait, in his must-read article, “not a very p.c. Thing to say,” in the new yorker, notes how “po­litical correctness makes debate irrelevant and frequently impossible.” afraid to be attacked by both sides, it is becoming increasingly difficult in america to truly speak ones mind. it is not only athletes on social media who have fallen from pub­lic grace for speaking their mind; it is politicians, professors, teachers, the clergy and students who find themselves unable to truly express their be­liefs. Those who speak their mind and are willing to fight for their beliefs now face opposition under the monster of comment boards, blog posts, social me­dia, lawsuit, a society that is drawn to buzzwords such as liberal and bigot and news stories involving allegedly “racist” or “feminist” comments. in the age of overwhelming and drowning opinions, it is through reason, chait notes, that society will tri­umph again: “and that glory [of liberalism] rests in its confidence in the ultimate power of reason, not coercion, to triumph.” 
it is not up to the keenan revue to decide what is right and what is wrong. The revue merely ex­presses its views, whether they be in song, skit or dance form, to the student body. it is then up to the student body to reason what needs to be changed or what needs to be addressed on campus. The policing of the keenan revue by university administration is wrong and further perverts the american liberalism described by chait. does this university truly preach a message of open discus­sion and truths, if the powers that be fall prey to political correctness, and are willing to hide the truth in order to save face or avoid unwelcome con­frontations? censorship does not allow the student body to formulate its own opinions or discuss the content that is provided. it is not the administra­tion who should decide what is right and wrong; it is the students. 
in conclusion, this weekend featured the final bastions of attempts at truly free expression. while it may be under the pretense of comedy, there is a strong, powerful message underneath. snl has changed america with its unrelenting parody of culture and politics, as evidenced by will Ferrell’s dynamite impersonation of george w. bush or Tina Fey’s brilliant portrayal of sarah palin that heav­ily influenced the ’08 election. The revue has had legendary skits (search Flip & Tuck on youTube) and even better performers, yet at the end of the day the revue has strived above all, much like snl, to parody life at notre dame, with all of its bizarre quirks, changes, policies and obsessions. so, in the unlikely event that you attended this weekend, re­member that we are trying to convey a message that is sometimes done best through absurd and what may seem like offensive comedy. The skits should be taken in good humor as a message about life in south bend as a college student. whatever logic or message that is, the revue can leave you to reason what is right, wrong, or just plain funny. 
Seamus Ronan 
junior keenan hall Feb. 18 

give up trays for lent 
still haven’t decided what to give up for lent? with ash wednesday come and gone, the temptation can be to settle for another mediocre, chocolate-less 40 days. but what if this year, your sacrifice had a true impact on your world? what if it battled social ills and the destruction of the planet at the same time as edifying you spiritually? and what if it were also a fairly simple choice? as simple as not using a tray in the dining hall? 
have i lost you? let’s rewind a bit. a few facts and figures for your reading pleasure: 
according to the Food and agriculture organization (Fao), a branch of the united nations, one third of the food produced in the world each year is lost or wasted. one third. That’s 2,600,000,000,000 pounds of waste. each year. 
right, so we waste a lot. but aren’t there more pressing issues in the world? like starvation? like the incredible rate at which we are adding greenhouse gases to the atmosphere? glad you asked, because food waste contributes to both of those and more. 
according to the Fao, nearly one sixth of the world’s citizens are undernourished. This means that they do not even have sufficient amounts of food to lead healthy, active lives. does our wastage problem seem slightly more dramatic now? each year, the world’s farmers far, far exceed the amount of food that would be needed for each human on the planet to thrive. before it can get to them, however, we waste massive amounts of food at every step of production. Then wealthy consumers over-purchase food which eventually simply ends up in waste bins. 
and then there is the environment. in 2013, the production of food waste was beaten out only by the united states and china in the amount of co2 that it contributed to global warming. Food that is pro­duced and then wasted currently occupies around 
1.3 billion hectares, or about 30 percent of the world’s agricultural land area. when the spread of agricul­tural land is one of the biggest contributors to the destruction of rain forests and biodiversity, that’s serious. and we haven’t even mentioned yet the un­fathomable amount of water, a scarce resource these days, that is used, nor the pollution created by the tons and tons of fertilizer dumped on these uneaten crops. 
Then of course, all of this pollution and environ­mental destruction ends up disproportionately af­fecting the poor. poverty makes it nearly impossible for people to distance themselves from areas that are polluted and toxic for their health, and for them to overcome resource scarcity that the better-off of society may not even notice. 
so. we’ve established that we have a problem, and its name is food waste. what now? 
The obvious answer is to waste less food; to be more conscious of how much food we’re taking; to finish all of our food to remind ourselves to take less next time. but it seems that no matter how much i harangue my friends about the issue, i watch their mountains of uneaten French fries, tasted and dis­liked entire meals and whole pieces of fruit pass by me on the conveyor at the end of the next meal. we’re human. our eyes are bigger than our stomachs. and conveniently, our big, empty trays let us indulge them. 
This is my challenge then, regardless of whether you are catholic, christian or just generally fond of your fellow humans and the environment — during the 40 days of lent, go trayless. making wasting just a little bit more difficult for yourself. let’s see if we can’t start big changes in the world with tiny changes in our lives.
 Jessica Peck 
junior Farley hall Feb. 18 


The observer | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Caelin Miltko 
scene writer 

The buzzFeed books newsletters are an interesting mix. most include one article about the harry potter series, a list of funny/inspiring/romantic quotes from the classics, features on some currently relevant best seller *cough* *Fifty shades of grey* and occasionally, at the very bottom, a book recommendation for the month. 
For this article, i chose to read one such recommendation. 
rebecca scherm’s “unbecoming” is billed as a “mystery and Thriller,” but i’d liken it more to a coming­of-age or rite of passage novel. of course, the protagonist is a little twisted and in the end, it’s not clear she’s really matured. so maybe that’s not quite right either. 
The story starts in paris, with an american girl working in an antique repair shop. For some unknown reason, she lied to all of her coworkers — giving them a fake name and no documents. grace from garland, Tennessee, is Julie from california to her parisian colleagues and though her lies are obvious, it becomes clear later on that each of her coworkers have their own reasons for letting 
By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

There’s this great scene in mary shelley’s “Frankenstein” where Frankenstein’s monster, lost and alone in the world, happens upon John milton’s “paradise lost” and starts reading it. he quickly realizes the stark contrast be­tween his creation and that of adam — adam was created lovingly in the image of his creator, god, while he was cobbled together into a wretched, pitiful monster. 
The new imagine dragons album, “smoke + mirrors,” is sort of like that: a tragic monster that should have never been made. “smoke + mirrors” suffers from an identity crisis much like that of Frankenstein’s monster. instead of developing and refining their own sound, imagine dragons sheds all identity, both lyrically and sonically, to create a disturbing monster of an album that bears very little merits other than its ambitious attempt to appeal to as many people as possible. 
imagine dragons has it within its power to create some­thing artistically beautiful; lead singer dan reynolds has such a powerfully unique voice that they could easily carve out a permanent and important place in rock histo­ry for themselves. rather, it seems that imagine dragons are satisfied with being pop rock flavor of the month en­tertainers, creating as large and as dull of a fan base as possible to sell out arena tours and $50 t-shirts. 
her lie to them. everyone, it seems, has their own secrets. 
The novel, told from a third-person limited perspec­tive, only delves into grace’s secrets and past mistakes, leaving the reader to guess at what the others have done from grace’s discoveries. she is the protagonist, so wrapped up in her own worries and stories that the other characters are only tangentially important. 
scherm’s story is compelling and amusing to read. i might be on a bit of a theme here, but like “girl on a Train” and “gone girl,” it attempts to portray some sort of female delinquency. unlike “gone girl” and even “girl on a Train,” “unbecoming” hardly deserves the “mys­tery” moniker if only because the final “solution” is made evident from the beginning. The reader knows that grace isn’t as innocent as she would have anyone believe. The real question is whether she will learn from her past lies or not. 
That said, the end was surprising. That grace might resist all the lessons her life seems to be teaching her and not end up entirely punished, goes against everything literature has tried to teach me for the last twenty years. it’s almost, one might say, unbecoming of scherm to give grace the ending she does. 
still, this is perhaps what is compelling about 
in terms of sound, this identity crisis means listeners are in for a pretty scary time. where Frankenstein had body parts collected from different cadavers that didn’t really fit together, “smoke + mirrors” has instruments and synthesizers that just don’t work. The tracks on this album have influences ranging from folk to blues to hip-hop and everything in between. so we’ll get lumineers­esque whistles and claps, of monsters and men’s “heys!” and “ohs!” and the beginnings of a kanye-sounding beat. and guess what? That’s all on the same track, “gold.” it’s like imagine dragons went flipping through radio stations, found the most annoying elements of popular songs and stuck them all into one unholy body. it didn’t work for dr. Frankenstein, and it certainly doesn’t work for imagine dragons. 
These flaws are just symptoms of that ever-present iden­tity crisis. if you were to ask me what imagine dragons sounded like, i couldn’t tell you. sure, it’s vaguely arena rock and all of the songs embrace generic angst, but be­yond that, i couldn’t tell you much about a uniting sound. 
speaking of generic angst, the lyrics suffer from being basic. if you thought “demons” was lacking any real per­sonality, then you haven’t heard “polaroid” yet. reynolds swings from cliché to cliché without break in this lack­luster headache of a song. reynolds claims he’s a reckless mistake, a rolling freight train and a guy who lives in the fast lane all in the span of about a minute. bleh. at least “unbecoming.” it’s not a story of punishment or redemp­tion; it’s not a story of deep, spiritual change. it’s a story of art and the value of things and it’s a story of growing up in a small town where family means everything. it’s a story of escaping and reliving the past. it’s the story of a flawed girl who looks for love wherever she can find it and of the boys with whom she tries to find it. 
To that end, “unbecoming” was a rather fantastic read. as grace flits from place to place, in her memories and in reality, scherm has the opportunity to recreate her char­acter to fit any society. grace, it seems, is whatever she needs to be given her place and time; her reality is what­ever lie she’s told her most recent companions. perhaps this is why scherm gives grace a “happy ending,” though the finale hardly deserves the term. grace continues on, adaptable as ever. 
For my first attempt at a buzzFeed recommended book, i’d say it was rather successful. “unbecoming” was compelling, light and fun — exactly what i want (and expect) from my favorite procrastination website. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
here reynolds tried to include some variation. in lead single “i bet my life,” reynolds tells you that about 20 dif­ferent times. 
my problem with imagine dragons isn’t in who they are, they’re talented musicians with a charismatic stage presence, my problem is that they’ve bastardized alter­native rock and created this strange, angsty monster of a sound that isn’t trying to make better music, but rather just pick and choose the best parts of what’s already out there and hope for the best. 
“smoke + mirrors” is a pretty bad album, but i hope imagine dragons can learn from this mess and put the pieces together better next time. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
“Smoke + Mirrors” 
Imagine Dragons 
Label: Kidinacorner Tracks: None of them. Don’t listen to this album. If you like: Nails on a chalkboard, your 13-year-old 
brother’s garage band 


MARY MCGRAW | The Observer 

The observer | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene writer 

They say don’t judge a book by its cover, but what do they say about judging music by its album cover? 
“vestiges and claws,” José gonzález’s new album re­leased Tuesday, features a simple white sketch of an eye surrounded by foliage for its album art. it is reminiscent of his past album covers, simple and pleasant. 
This is also the aesthetic i would attribute to the al­bum itself: true to gonzález but nothing new or experi­mental — overly safe. 
despite features on a few soundtracks, including “The secret life of walter mitty,” and work on albums with Junip, the swedish folk-rock band he has fronted since 1998, this is the first work gonzález has released since 2007’s “in our nature.” one would assume that an art­ist’s sound would evolve and change during this length of time, and he would come back rearing to experiment and implement new techniques. however, this was not the case with José gonzález and “vestiges and claws.” 
The dictionary definition of vestige is, “a mark, trace, or visible evidence of something that is no longer pres­ent or in existence.” This album is almost a direct trans­lation of gonzález’s sound on past work, making for an ironic title. perhaps a vestige mentality, initiating risks and evolving his stylings while keeping traces of his known sound, would have made this a more exciting return for gonzález. 
The self-produced album features three ethereal lay­ers, percussion, guitar and vocals, that recess or take precedence harmoniously. in a time of music with ump­teen electronic components and involved instrumental and vocal arrangements, it is the welcome, relaxing reprieve you need while traversing across campus in a snowstorm. 
case in point, “let it carry you,” will do just that on a trek from north dining hall to debartolo. The repeat­ing downbeats lull you into a march, while the upbeat plucking combined with gonzález’s sputtering vocals channel the snow falling around you — turning the dusting into something more sublime than a hassle. 
“stories we build, stories we Tell” sums up the idea behind gonzález’s lyricism on this album. what he simplifies in production and composition, he elabo­rates in songwriting. “The stories we tell / oh, they’ll get to you,” gonzález croons in a way that does just that. The lyrics evoke emotion but do so without conforma­tion, sometimes without you even realizing it — a more subliminal, circuitous approach to “getting to you.” 
however it is hard for these lyrics to so lazily reach you when they compete with guitar fingerpicking that sounds, with input from my #dad who introduced me to José, “like the white man’s overbite clap, when someone has no beat but is trying to clap on time so they are over­ly focused” and “guitar that sounds like a cheap record­ing — or maybe it is my free beats — not the headset.” 
gonzález’s laid-back, catch-it-if-you-can style is at­tuned to gonzález’s album as a whole. his enunciation, although improved from past work, still tapers at times to the point of being uninterpretable. 
The sound and appeal of the album is true to gonzález, however, it proves less haunting in its third iteration. after eight years of anticipation, filled with replaying gonzález’s past albums to exhaustion, his new work does not bring a reprieve — just ten new, non-distinct songs to throw onto my “sleep” playlist. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
“Vestiges and Claws” 
José González 
Label: Mute Tracks: “Let It Carry You,” “Leaf Off/The Cave” If you like: Ben Howard, James Vincent McMorrow 

WEEKEND AT A GLANCE 
THURSDAY 


What: Cloud Tectonics When: 7:30 p.m. Where: DPAC How Much: $7 for students 
The opposite of the Tlc  hit “i didn’t know i was pregnant,” what happens if you’ve known you were pregnant for two years? José rivera’s poetic love story explores human relationships, the impermanence of time and the possibility of miracles. 
FRIDAY 

What: The Second City  What: “Force Majeure”  Weekly Watch is a series in which a  
When: 9:00 p.m.  When: 6:30 p.m.  scene writer picks a movie or show  
Where: Washington Hall  Where: DPAC  available on instant streaming ser- 
How Much: Free  How Much:  $4 for students  vice, then writes a review.  
The second city comedy improv  a favorite at this year’s cannes  if you just got into study abroad or  
group kickstarted the careers of Tina  Festival, this wickedly funny and  are missing your semester overseas,  
Fey, amy poehler, Jim belushi, steve  precisely observed swedish psy­ this one’s for you. “puzzled love,”  
carell and the like. show up early  chodrama follows a family on a ski- available on netflix, follows the love  
(doors open at 8 p.m.) for a chance to  ing holiday in the alps. when an  story of american and spanish stu­ 
see some of the up-and-coming co- avalanche hits the resort, the father  dents, sun and lucas, studying in  
medic talents headed for places like  makes a decision that challenges  barcelona. check back monday for  
snl.  his role as family  patriarch.  erin mcauliffe’s review!  

SATURDAY 



MARY MCGRAW | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Don’t pick infamous Jameis 

Zach Klonsinski 
sports writer 
between Tim Tebow and Jameis winston, give me the gator, please. 
wait. what’d he just say? 
you heard me. 
as the pre-nFl combine talk begins to heat up, we are already going deaf from the so-called “experts” beginning to debate who should go first overall april 30 on the cam­pus of roosevelt university in chicago. a lot of the chatter currently has the Tampa bay buccaneers leaning towards selecting winston with the top pick. 
no. Just … no. 
i’m not an nFl general manager, nor will i claim to be. however, i have played sports before, and i know enough about what a team needs as a leader and what it does not to give my input. 
in football, the leader of the team is almost always going to be the quarterback. players like brian urlacher, ray lewis or J.J. watt can be the face of the team, but finding a leader on defense like them is simply a once-in-a-generation find. no other position on the of­fensive side of the ball can be the face of a modern-nFl team other than the quarter­back, just because of how the game is. 
with this in mind, let’s take quick look at the quar­terbacks who made the divi­sional round of the playoffs this year: Joe Flacco, Tom brady, Tony romo, cam newton, andrew luck, peyton manning and aaron rodgers. These names do not evoke controversy. The first thing that pops into my head about them is that they have the innate ability to lead in all aspects of the word: on the field, on camera, in the locker room, in the film room and in the way they conduct them­selves in life. 
i hear the name “Jameis winston” and i shudder. i think of crab legs, bb guns, screaming indecent things, rape (sure, he wasn’t charged, but he’s still associated with it), his “interview” after the national championship game last year and finally the utter collapse against oregon. 
That’s what winston evokes in my mind. if noth­ing else, Florida state coach Jimbo Fisher deserves credit for somehow surviving the “Jameis winston show” at the Jack haskin circus complex for two years. 
except a first-overall pick isn’t for two years. it’s for 20. even many Florida state 
fans became fed up with winston. on the other hand, packer supporters are as proud of rodgers as they are of wearing giant blocks of cheese on their heads, and patriots fans disregard brady’s combine “highlights” as much as bill belichick does deflategate. 
a leader doesn’t have to be friends with all the other guys on the team. he doesn’t have to be the guy you want to go out with sunday night after the game — in all honesty, he shouldn’t be. he does, however, need to earn his teammates’ respect. he does need to gain their trust and support. 
when i think of a player comparable to winston, my immediate response is Johnny manziel. i trust winston about the same as i trust re­hab-resident Johnny Football. i might even trust manziel a little more, as scared as i am of that statement. 
compare winston to cam newton, sure. newton has grown a lot since he got into the league, but i wouldn’t exactly call him a successful no. 1 pick yet either, nor do i think his body will hold up until he is 30. 
call winston an athletic freak with too much talent to pass up. cool. Then look at just about every defensive nFl player and realize how much of a freak each one of them is, too. They’re already drooling at the prospect of tearing winston’s head off. 
winston is not worth the first-overall pick any more than manziel was worthy of the 22nd pick last year. now, about that whole Tebow thing … 
am i saying i’d take Tebow over any of the other quarter­backs i mentioned earlier? of course not, but i’d take him over winston in a heartbeat. winston’s downsides out­weigh his physical abilities in my eyes in the same way Tebow’s leadership, sheer will and personal charac­ter outweigh what he lacks as a quarterback — at least enough to where he’s clearly a more attractive choice than winston. 
sure, you’d have to build a really good football team around Tebow for him to suc­ceed, but before you even think about sunday’s squad, you’ll have to build a better pr team around winston. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

No vote of confidence for Cutler in Chicago 
Associated Press 
indianapolis — both the coach and general man­ager of the chicago bears were given ample opportu­nity wednesday to endorse Jay cutler as their quarter­back for 2015 and beyond. 
Time  and  again,  they  
declined.  
“we’re  going  to  ask  

this about eight different ways?” coach John Fox said after one of the attempts wednesday at the nFl scouting combine. “i don’t think there’s any question that there’s ability and tal­ent there. but there’s a lot more that goes into it, and we’re evaluating that as we speak.” 
The bears signed cutler to a seven-year contract worth $54 million guaran­teed last offseason, with the thought that he’d lead them into the next de­cade. but 2014 was a deba­cle in chicago. The bears finished 5-11, coach marc Trestman got fired and cutler tied for the league lead in interceptions (18) and was in the middle of controversy all season. 

Fox said he met with cutler when he was hired in chicago last month, but when pressed, the coach offered up nothing about what he took out of that meeting. 
“i’m just getting to know him,” Fox said. “everyone’s got perceptions. This is a relationship business and that takes time. i don’t want to stand up here and give you a final evaluation when maybe i’m a fourth through the test.” 
The bears brought in free agent Josh mccown for a workout and Fox said “there’s obviously interest or we probably wouldn’t have met with him.” 
cutler is 44-38 as the bears starter, and has led the bears within a game of the super bowl only once, in 2010. That season, he hurt his knee in the nFc title game. cutler has never had a passer rating over 90. 
bears general manager ryan pace was every bit as noncommittal as his coach when asked about having cutler back this season. cutting him would count as much as $15.5 million against the bears salary cap, though there are ways to recoup some of that loss. 
“we’re still evaluating all of that, obviously, going through this whole thing,” pace said. “i don’t want to rush any decisions. i want to max out the time that we have and just be thorough with every one of these.” 
pace said the bears are evaluating the tape on cutler. 
“but there’s things we want to know more about the player,” pace said, “and that goes for all our players.” 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL | wisconsin 55, penn sTaTe 47 
Decker, Kaminsky lead Badgers past Penn State 
Associated Press 
sTaTe college, pennsylvania — no. 5 wisconsin couldn’t control penn state’s d.J. newbill on wednesday night, so the badgers settled for stopping all his teammates. 
sam decker scored 22 points and Frank kaminsky added 16 as no. 5 wisconsin overcame a late penn state surge to defeat the nittany lions 55-47. 
dekker and penn state’s d.J. newbill waged an entertain­ing scoring battle. newbill got 29 points, but the next-high­est scorer for penn state (15­12, 3-11) was brandon Taylor with seven. 
The badgers (24-2, 12-1), despite shooting 39 percent, were aided by nigel hayes’ 13 rebounds and nine points. 
“we kept trying to get stops on the other end,” wisconsin 

FOR RENT 
Nice house for rent. 905 Stanfield. 3 beds, 2 baths. Sun porch, rec room. Available now. 608-658-6910 

coach bo ryan said. “if newbill wants to get a shot, he’s going to get a shot. with how strong he is with the ball and deception and change of directions. we wanted to be sure we didn’t let anybody else get hot. Fortunately they didn’t.” 
wisconsin’s 24th victory marked the school’s best start in program history. 
seventeen of penn state’s 27 games have been decided by eight points or fewer and the lions stuck around in this one. but they were 2 of 13 from long range and got to the foul line just three times. 
penn state’s players outside of newbill were just 8 of 33 from the field. 
“i was just trying to get a win, man,” newbill said. “The points mean nothing to me if we don’t win the game. 
“i was just trying to do whatever i could to keep my team in the game.” 
wisconsin never trailed and pulled out to a 39-26 lead at the outset of the second half when dekker sandwiched a pair of buckets around two from hayes. 
That forced a penn state timeout, then neither team scored for more than three minutes before newbill’s la­yup for penn state and anoth­er dekker 3-pointer that put the badgers up by 14. 
The teams combined for just 21 points in the first 11 minutes of the half, and the badgers patiently built a 46­30 lead. hayes and kaminsky dominated the boards and penn state went cold. 
“we were trying to do what­ever we could to keep the lead,” kaminsky said. “we knew coming in they were much better at home and they were able to feed off that energy.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
It was the best of times, it was the the season of Darkness, it was the worst of times, it was the age of spring of hope, it was the winter of wisdom, it was the age of foolish-despair, we had everything before ness, it was the epoch of belief, us, we had nothing before us, we it was the epoch of incredulity, it were all going direct to Heaven, we was the season of Light, it was were all going direct the other way 


ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Irish to travel to Louisville, Pittsburgh 
the action-packed weekend 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 

sports writer ahead of them, irish coach Jay 
louderback said. 

after splitting last week-“[Tuesday] was our first end’s matches at indiana and practice back, and we had illinois, notre dame will hit a really great practice,” the road again this weekend louderback said. “i was dis-with trips to louisville and appointed [with the loss to pittsburgh. indiana]. The team was dis-
The 26th-ranked irish (4-appointed. but the kids were 
3) will officially kick off their all fired up and ready to go slate of acc matches Friday once we started practice. you afternoon in louisville, know, we play every match kentucky, when they take tough, with the acc and on the no. 74 cardinals (9-our difficult nonconference 3, 1-0 acc) before travel-schedule as well, and they ing to pittsburgh to face the know, especially on the road, panthers (2-4, 0-1). we’re going to have some 
Following a disappoint-losses. ing 4-3 loss to the hoosiers “we weren’t too happy, on sunday, the irish have but as soon as we got back to begun to refocus before practice we regrouped and 
paid adverTisemenT 
are looking forward to start­ing acc play this weekend.” 
after a nonconference schedule that featured tra­ditional big Ten and pac-12 rivals, notre dame will now turn its attention to confer­ence opponents. however, not much strategy will be changing with the new oppo­nents, louderback said. 
“we’re not really going to do anything different,” louderback said. “we do make a switch in the format, with doubles going up to eight now. we go back to that this weekend, back to that format pretty much the rest of the year. in practice we’ve been working on the no-ad, and now we’re switching back to 
SMC TENNIS 

By DAISY COSTELLO 
sports writer 
after starting off the year with a Feb. 7 loss to aquinas, saint mary’s dives back into the heart of its sea­son this saturday with back-to­back away matches against ohio northern and wittenberg. 
The belles (1-1) had not com­peted since the end of september prior to their loss to aquinas, and belles coach dale campbell said he sees the defeat as a learning ex­perience for the team. 
“The lessons we learn from each 

match and getting better is most 
important,” campbell said. 
The belles are gearing up for a tough season this spring, with 
paid adverTisemenT 
regular scoring. it’s a change that we need to get used to again. it makes it seem like the game lasts forever. That’s a big, main adjustment.” 
both louisville and pittsburgh will present ear­ly challenges for the irish, louderback said. 
“louisville — we saw them this fall in our tournament,” louderback said. “They only brought four or five play­ers, so it’ll be a new look this weekend. and they’re going to be a different team from last year, with some graduating seniors. They’re young, defi­nitely a team we haven’t seen much of. it’ll be interesting to see how that match goes be­cause they are young, and, for many of them, it’s their first time through the acc. 
“pitt’s basically the same team as last year. we won the match [7-0]. but if you look closely at the box score, it was a lot closer than it seemed. we had some tight matches. we played them here out­doors last year, so it’ll be in­teresting to see how they are at home and indoors. we defi­nitely will not be taking them lightly by any means.” 
notre dame will take on louisville on Friday at 4 pm and will head to pittsburgh for an 11 a.m. match with the panthers on sunday. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 

saint mary’s continues nonconference slate 
early nonconference matchups preparing the team for tougher miaa competition later in the season. 
“hope and kalamazoo, the defending no. 1 and no. 2 in our conference, should be extremely tough this year,” campbell said. “calvin was very tough last year too, and we cannot overlook any­one in our conference.” 
The belles are slated to square off against their first confer­ence opponent, hope, on Feb. 28, followed by a week-long trip in early march full of nonconfer­ence matchups before resuming conference play in mid-march. The team will square off against calvin on april 11 and finish the regular season at kalamazoo. The miaa tournament features the top four teams in the conference, and campbell said he expects the belles to be playing in it. 
“a certain goal [for the team] is to be top four in our conference, making the conference tourna­ment,” campbell said. “we were top four in our conference last year, but we believe we can do bet­ter this year.” 
The winter has held back the belles, forcing them to battle the injury bug and preventing them from getting in solid practices, campbell said. 
“players [getting] sick … has made it difficult to get into a rhythm,” campbell said. “[but] we have a deep squad and are trying to get everyone ready to contribute.” 
campbell said the belles will rely on senior captains shannon elliott, Jacqueline kjolhede and kayle sexton for leadership both on and off the court, as the team welcomes four freshmen to its roster. elliott posted a career-high 12 singles wins in the 2014 sea­son, with kjolhede and sexton following with 10 and nine wins, respectively. campbell said their leadership will be valuable be­cause the team is trying to im­prove its singles game. 
“a heavy focus was put on our … singles game over the past week,” campbell said. “with about five weeks of practice, we’re trying to get better every week.” 
The belles continue their sea­son this saturday against ohio northern and wittenberg. The first match is slated to begin in lima, ohio, at 1 p.m., with the second following at 6:30 p.m. in dayton, ohio. 
Contact Daisy Costello at mcostel4@nd.edu 


The observer | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

right hooks and carried that 
Bouts 
momentum into the third 
conTinued From page 20 
round. leppert landed a 

powerful uppercut to lee’s round, brennan knocked jaw, but a counterattack from down nadar with a vicious lee forced leppert onto the headshot. after the knock-ropes, where lee delivered down, nadar showed fatigue a strong flurry. however, it and could not put together was not enough secure the a comeback. brennan ad-victory, as leppert took the vanced to the semifinals by bout by split decision. unanimous decision. 
145-pounds: Atticus Coscia def. Albert “I am so Lone” Lee Robert “R. Kelly” Devine 
lee came out on fire in def. Connor “MJ” Chelsky the first round, but coscia The first round consisted came to match his oppo-of devine pinning chelsky nent’s intensity, putting lee on the ropes several times. on the defensive for the lat-however, chelsky quickly ter part of the round. The bounced back to fight the se­sophomore from siegfried nior off. a very intense sec-hall coscia landed several ond round ensued, as both the remainder of the third, was just as action-packed. heavy shots to the ribs and a headshots on lee to gain sides traded punches and though, guilfoile kept yoder yerkes, a sophomore from st. few to the face, slowing hoyt the early advantage. lee re-kept a brisk pace. devine at a distance and connect-edward’s hall, opened the down. schmelling dominat­mained on the defensive in landed a strong headshot to ed on enough well-timed round with a strong flurry, ed the third round, keeping the second round, eventu-start the third round that punches to win by unani-but the dillon hall senior hoyt at bay with jabs, on his ally stopping to go through stunned chelsky and sent mous decision. duffy managed a counter-way to the unanimous deci­an eight-second count, but him into the ropes, but again attack to push yerkes into sion victory. the match continued. coscia the senior recovered. devine Peter “The Wild Irish Rose” the ropes at a few different used lightning-fast combi-knocked down chelsky some McGinley def. Joe “GI Joe” points. in the final round, 158-pounds: nations to keep his fellow moments later with a strong DeLuca duffy was the stronger of sophomore on the ropes to headshot, but after a pause, mcginley came out ag-the two boxers and continu-Garrity “Biscuit” McOsker start the third round and chelsky came out with re-gressively, but deluca ally forced yerkes on the de-def Joe Quinones was relentless until the final newed energy. he managed dodged most of his early ef-fensive. duffy was declared close-quarter fighting bell. as a result, coscia was to swing the momentum and forts. he was eventually able the winner by unanimous defined the first round, as named the victor by a unani-the crowd in his favor, but to land a flurry of punch-decision. both boxers sought to land mous decision. it was not enough as the fi-es, but deluca countered. body blows and keep his op­
nal bell sounded and devine mcginley connected on a Kieran Carroll def. Paul ponent close. Finally, the Alex “El Cadejo” Alcantara was declared the winner by few well-timed punches past “The Shake” Rudnicki senior mcosker opened the def. Cullen “The Fishtown split decision. deluca’s defenses, forcing The start of the fight action up by landing a pow-Hound” McNamee deluca onto the ropes late saw carroll, a junior from erful uppercut near the end 
both fighters kept their Danny “Nacho Tigre” in the first. deluca started duncan hall, taking early of the first round. The sec-distance throughout the Espinoza def. EJ the second round on the of-control, with a series of body ond round slowed down, as first round, employing de-“Armageddon” Smith fensive, but mcginley fought shots and a hard cross that both fighters seemed to tire fensive strategies. however, The fighters came out back, forcing deluca onto knocked Zahm sophomore as the fight wore on and nei­alcantara started the sec-slower than other fights of the ropes, where mcginley rudnicki to the canvas. ther boxer gained a clear ad­ond round strongly and put the evening, as they tested soon knocked him down. halfway through the first vantage. in the third round mcnamee on the ropes, each other out and probed mcginley again knocked round, action was stopped the action heated up again where he delivered a pow-different avenues of attack. him down again shortly af-to treat rudnicki’s bloody with mcosker backing the erful combination of left The second round saw a con-ter. mcginley forced deluca nose.Throughout the match, freshman Quinones into the and right hooks. mcnamee tinued defensive struggle, to the ropes to start the third carroll dodged the majority corner on multiple occa­tried to open the third with few hard punches hit-and delivered more blows of rudnicki’s jabs and hooks sions. mcosker was declared stanza more aggressively, ting their mark. both fight-to deluca’s body, knocking and countered with stiff the winner by unanimous but an alcantara coun-ers successfully dodged him down again and once shots to the head. in the sec-decision. terattack forced him onto and parried each other un-more soon after. although ond and third round, carroll the ropes again, where til espinoza unleashed a deluca was able to hold on held off opening surges from Ryan “Attila” Dunn def. alcantara delivered a flur-combination to start the to finish the fight, mcginley rudnicki to slow down the Sean Himel ry to mcnamee’s body that third round, a moment that won by unanimous decision. pace of the match and es-dunn, a freshman from knocked the duncan hall changed the course of the tablish control. Though both knott hall, came out swing-senior down. when the fight match. The junior never let 149-pounds: boxers threw flurries to end ing in the first round and restarted, alcantara forced smith recover and stayed on the fight, carroll was able to attempted four right hooks mcnamee back into a cor-the offensive, applying con-Luke “Lobos” Kiefer def. connect on the majority of that himel, a junior from ner where more body blows tinuous pressure. espinoza Liam “Trooper” Chang his. in the end, carroll ad-duncan, managed to dodge. knocked him down again. was awarded a trip to the This fight started slowly, vanced to the next round by however, halfway through alcantara continued to show semifinals by unanimous as the two boxers looked to unanimous decision. the round, himel hit the off his footwork, forcing his decision. find a winning a strategy. deck hard and the fight was opponent into the corners, near the end of the first Garrett “FedEx” Schmelling stopped. dunn had landed where once again he went “Sloppy” Joe Guilfoile def. round, kiefer, a junior from def. Briggs “Drop It Like a punch that caused himel on the offensive. The referee Matthew “Scruffy” Yoder “I duncan hall, broke the mo-It’s” Hoyt fall, and he landed poorly. stopped the fight and award-Barely Know Her” notony by landing one solid both fighters came out dunn was declared the win­ed alcanta the victory. despite a slow start from combination. The second swinging to open the first ner in a referee-stopped 
both contestants, guilfoile round saw more action and round, and schmelling, contest. 
E.J. “Binks” Leppert def. took the upper hand in the again, kiefer managed to a Fisher hall sophomore, Daniel Lee first, forcing yoder towards land more blows than chan quickly established him-Chip Blood def. Eoghan “I 
The two fighters scouted the ropes and dodging the before the bell rang. in the self as the swifter of the two am Actually from Ireland” his opponent for the majori-o’neill freshman’s attempts third round, the junior from fighters. he ducked under Flanagan ty of the first round, but each to counter. guilfoile was alumni tried to build some numerous attempted shots The match began cau­landed some well-timed able to land some strong momentum with an attack, to his head by keenan hall tiously, as both sophomore punches with leppert prov-right hooks in the second, but kiefer stifled his at-senior hoyt and landed sev-fighters spent the first half ing to be the more accurate. but yoder connected with tempts and got the better of eral impactful hits of his of the opening round feel-lee came out strong to start a very powerful right hook chan throughout the round. own towards the end of the ing each other out. Zahm’s the second round, landing of his own that knocked kiefer was declared the win-first round. hoyt come out Flanagan backed blood, some solid left hooks, but guilfoile down late in the ner by unanimous decision. aggressively in the second from sorin college, into the the fight returned to a slow, round. in a lively start to round, but schmelling land-corner, and unloaded sev­calculated pace, with most the third round, guilfoile Devin “Opel” Duffy def. ed several brutal shots to the eral hard shots to the body punches from each fighter delivered a combination of Patrick “Payday” Yerkes head that caused the referee and head. blood escaped being blocked. at the end of blows to yoder’s body, but both fighters landed pow-to step in and begin a count. and threw a few blows of his the second round, leppert yoder blocked it and forced erful combinations through-hoyt shook it off, but towards own to even things up, and took control with a power-guilfoile onto the ropes with out a punch-filled first the end of the second round ful combination of left and a counterattack. Through round. The second round schmelling landed several see bouTs PAGE 15 



Bouts attempting to breach grasso’s the judges awarded split-deci-repeatedly forced his opponent the first round close. in the sec-defenses with experimental jabs. sion victory to Flanigan. to the ropes and landed devas-ond round, cooley continued to 
conTinued From page 14 

however, a mistimed left hook tating headshots, but chestnut land punch after punch, forcing the first round ended incon-gave the shorter grasso an open-178-pounds: continued to fight back through-the referee to stop the fight mo­clusively. The second round ing, and he forced clarke into out the round. ultimately his ef-mentarily. rossetto was never was more or less the same, with the corner on two separate occa-Jason “Downtown” fort was not enough, as breslau out of the fight, however, and was Flanagan landing a few more ac-sions with relentless body blows, Ellinwood def. Matt secured a unanimous-decision able to still land punches on his curate strikes than blood to take forcing two stoppages. clarke “Hands” Bedell victory from the judges. opponent throughout the bout. a slight edge. however, in the adjusted well to grasso’s strategy The duo exchanged jabs early, cooley’s experience proved to third and final round, both fight-after the second stoppage; taking but ellinwood’s headshots were Eric “P-Rex” Palutsis def. be too much for the freshman, ers put everything they had into advantage of his superior reach, more effective in the early stages Brian “Rowdy” Roddy however, as he pulled away in each punch. in the end, blood by throwing punches to connect of the fight. in the second round, These two seniors showed the third round and secured a escaped the hard-fought match under and around grasso’s high bedell searched for the perfect patience early in the bout, be-unanimous-decision victory and with a split-decision victory. guard. clarke regained some punch while ellinwood landed a fore palutsis landed a number a spot in the semifinals. 
momentum in the second round. series of jab-hook combos, forc-of devastating shots at the end Joe “Sully” Sulentic def. grasso became more tentative ing a count halfway through of the first round. The second Brian “Cheese” Willis def. Patrick Burkett in the following rounds, giving the frame. bedell attempted to round featured much of the Lucas “Da Ugly Doo” de 
The fight began with the quick-clarke opportunities to connect respond as the second round same, but roddy was able to Heraclito Lima er burkett, a sophomore from with combinations. ultimately, concluded, but his attempts land a higher percentage of his de heraclito lima came out on siegfried hall, darting around however, grasso’s early aggres-were countered with strikes punches. as the third round be-the offensive, but willis weath­morrissey hall sophomore sion earned him the advantage from ellinwood. The final round gan, palutsis started to pull away ered the storm and forced him sulentic, throwing periodic jabs and the victory by split decision. saw bedell land an early body from roddy, forcing him into the up against the ropes twice early to keep sulentic from getting in combo, but a parried hook gave corner more than once and land-in the first round. before the end too close. eventually though, Gage “American Psycho” ellinwood room for an uppercut ing fierce shots to the face and of the round, willis landed a bru­sulentic trapped burkett’s O’Connell def. Scott that forced the second count of body. Though the fight was close tal blow that sent de heraclito against the ropes with his hard-“Bootstrap” Rosseau the match. bedell survived the throughout, palutsis did just lima crashing into the ropes. as er crosses to the head and ribs. The fight began with both count and finished the fight, but enough to differentiate himself medics and trainers helped de multiple times both fighters boxers immediately laying into ellinwood took the victory by and earn a split-decision victory heraclito lima to a sitting posi­clinched each other, forcing the each other, throwing flurries of unanimous decision. over roddy. tion, willis waited in the oppo­referee to separate the two. as punches to the head and body. site corner. before leaving the the fight went on, burkett’s speed The storm ended with a sudden Brendan “Rainman” 184-pounds: ring, de heraclito lima was met slowed, leaving him vulner-jab that knocked rousseau, a Lesch def. James “Iceman” with a hug from his opponent, able to steady and powerful hits senior from Fisher hall, down. Hodgens Derek Meyer def. Jack and willis was granted a victory from sulentic through the third The second round was more or both fighters launched an all-“Hammer” Corrigan in a referee-stopped contest. round. The match ended with less the same, with both fighters out offensive to start the hotly-The beginning of the match sulentic picking up the unani-exchanging moments of control contested match. lesch landed was mostly defensive, with 196-pounds: mous decision victory. where they trapped each other a brutal right hook to hodgens’ corrigan landing a right jab 
in the corner, landing hard shots head, sending him reeling and that snuck past meyer’s guard Pat Gordon def. Chris “The 167-pounds: to the body and head. The third forcing a stoppage. The hook and made contact with his Fist” Vazquez 
round devolved into an endur-seemed to shake hodgens, whose head. meyer responded in kind, each fighter began the bout by Patrick “Pattycake” Shea ance test, as both men threw as intensity wavered towards the though, delivering a flurry of throwing punches with an em-def Eric “The Squirrel” many punches as they could, end of the round. lesch returned body blows to force corrigan phasis on efficiency and preci-Tomarello bringing the crowd to a fever to his right hook again and again, against the ropes at the end of sion. The first round proved to be 
in a battle of off-campus se-pitch. Finally, the bell rang, and causing hodgens to stagger back the first round. To start the next an even affair, with both landing niors, Tommarello squared off in the end, the judges awarded to his corner. hodgens roared frame, corrigan managed to several jabs before the frame’s with shea. The first round saw the law student o’connell the back in the second, though, tak-duck a hook and land a fierce conclusion. The second round shea take a slight edge as he victory by split decision. ing advantage of a haphazard body shot, only for meyer to saw gordon break the defensive managed to keep Tommarello defensive stance from lesch. connect with an uppercut of his stalemate, as he nearly forced on his back foot for most the Mike “Flanigan” Flanigan The third round started in much own. both fighters appeared ex-vazquez to keel over with a bru­round. despite this, Tommarello def. Paddy “El Canelo” the same manner as the first — hausted by the end of the bout, tal left hook. The strike seemed dodged most of shea’s more in-Lawler with a punishing right hook from with punches losing speed and to shake vazquez, whose guard tense punches. in the second The intensity of this matchup lesch — sending hodgens to his missing their targets. ultimately, faltered and he adopted a more round, shea began to methodi-was apparent from the opening knees, earning lesch a deci-though, meyer’s earned the vic-haphazard attack. gordon con­cally wear down Tomarello bell, as both boxers traded body sive victory in a referee stopped tory by unanimous decision. tinued to gain in the third, but using his superior height and and headshots continuously contest. “The Fist” did not go quietly, reach. The fight halted for a few throughout the first round, incit-CJ “Chief Justice” Pruner finding a second wind and forc­seconds in the second round ing loud cheers from their large Brent Breslau def. Ryan def Erik “The Dozer” ing gordon against the ropes as Tomarello was treated for a supporting sections. at differ-“Cherry Boppins” Chestnut Mendoza shortly before the final bell. The bloody nose. shea’ continued to ent points in the opening round, after a slow start to the bout, pruner used his longer reach momentum from gordon’s sec-use his advantages in the final each fighter pushed his opponent breslau went on the offensive. early and often, lobbing punish-ond-round push set the tone for round and at the end of the bout, up against the ropes. The second breslau fought more aggressively ing blows around the guard of the fight, though, earning the shea was declared the winner by round saw much of the same, as than his freshman opponent, mendoza to remain continuous-freshman a victory by unani­unanimous decision. the freshman lawler came out chestnut, in the first round. The ly on the assault. still, mendoza mous decision. 
firing but was evenly matched second period saw a shift in mo-retained a strong stance and re-Mike “Greasy” Grasso def. by the senior Flanigan. in the fi-mentum, as the fighters stood in sponded with well-targeted body Evan “Heavy Duty” Chris “Double Diesel” nal round, both fighters went all the center of the ring, going blow blows. pruner’s momentum Escobedo vs. Ian White Clarke out, and there did not seem to be for blow. The third round opened continued through the second escobedo and white traded 
clarke started on the offensive, a clear victor at the final bell, but as an all-out brawl, as breslau round, as he pressed his height punches at the center of the ring advantage, forcing mendoza out and danced around one another of range with straight jabs and for much of an evenly-matched parries. mendoza forced the is-first round. in the second frame, sue as the final round opened, these two seniors continued to taking pruner’s jabs and re-battle in the middle of the ring, sponding with body blows of but escobedo’s shots found his own, capped by a crushing his opponent more frequently. right hook to pruner’s head. still, once the third round got going, pruner’s early assaults earned escobedo began to pull away him an advantage that he main-from white, forcing him to the tained throughout the match, corner and overwhelming him resulting in a victory by unani-en route to earning a unani­mous decision. mous-decision victory. 
Bryan Cooley def. Mike Chris Croushore def. Rossetto Daniel “-imals Drinkable 
pitting freshman against se-Yogurt” Babiak nior, these two boxers opened croushore held a height and the match with a flurry of action. reach advantage but babiak rat-midway through the first round, tled his opponent and had him the senior cooley knocked his on the run as the first round went opponent to the ground, but rossetto battled back to make see bouTs PAGE 16 



Bouts 
conTinued From page 15 
on. The second round only grew in intensity, as croushore nearly forced babiak from the ring at one point. The final round was a rollercoaster of momen­tum, with each fighter en­forcing his will at various points. The fight came down to a split decision, with the judges awarding croushore a spot in the semifinals. 
Jack  Considine  def.  
Joseph  “The  Dirty  
Bubble” Stevens  

The fight saw both fighters forego lengthy jabs in favor of vicious body blows. each fighter landed a series of impressive shots in the first round,with considine gain­ing the slight upper hand, but neither fighter faltered for more than a few mo­ments. The bout seemed to tilt further in considine’s favor as the middle frame progressed, with his hooks forcing stevens to adopt a more defensive style. stevens tried increase the speed of the match and avoid considine’s strategy of fighting near the ropes in the final round, but his efforts afforded considine openings of his own. after an exchange of hooks and jabs that left stevens reeling, the bell rang and considine took the unanimous-deci­sion victory. 
Heavy Weight 
Gerry “Jarreigh” Kelliher def. Kevin “Packy” Gates 
early in the fight, it seemed as if both fighters simply wanted to out-muscle the other, clinching often. kelliher landed shot after shot before the referee was forced to stop the fight mo­mentarily, but gates came back with a fury to end the round. The second round featured a similar intensity, but neither fighter was able to gain an edge. midway through the final round, kelliher landed a pair of devastating shots to the face, and he was ultimately able to earn a unanimous-decision victory over gates. 
Jackson “The Flash” Wrede def. Kyle “Hot Crossed” Munns 
much of the first round was spent sparring in the center of the ring, as the law student munns and freshman wrede searched for weaknesses. The second round saw the fight­ers trade body shots, before wrede began to knock his op­ponent off balance and drive him to the fringes of the ring. at the start of the third round, munns came out firing, forcing wrede to the ropes, but wrede was able to fight him off and reassert control of the fight with one punch after anoth­er. wrede was ultimately too much for munns, as he secured a unanimous-decision victory. 
Ryan “The Swedish Meatball” Lindquist def. Erich “Daddy” Jegier 
both fighters exchanged haymakers to start the bout, with neither willing to back off. The fight was interrupt­ed midway through the first round, as lindquist bloodied Jegier’s nose. Jegier had trouble regaining his early intensity. lindquist continued with jabs to the face that forced stop­pages in the first and second rounds as trainers tended to nose bleeds. The wound did not slow Jegier down, however, as he renewed his aggression in the later half of the fight. The two matched blows through the end of the second round, with neither fighter earning any apparent advantage or ap­pearing to fatigue. The fight concluded with linquist tak­ing home the split-decision win. 
Tyler “Tuna” Plantz def. Taylor “Showbiz” Kolbus 
a contrast between reach and tenacity defined the fight from the opening bell, as plantz’s hard-hitting barrages sought to overcome the far-reaching jabs and hooks of the lanky se­nior kolbus. each managed a number of blows, with the ma­jority of plantz’s connecting with his opponent’s midsec­tion, while “showbiz” target­ed the head. plantz earned a warning against low blows midway through the round. 

still, he managed to take ad­vantage of his nimble step and forced kolbus into a defensive grapple in a corner. The fi­nal round proved decisive, as plantz found a pair of openings and managed to close the dis­tance between himself and his taller opponent. when the bell rang to end the match, plantz took home the unanimous-de­cision victory. 
Contact Mike Ginocchio at mginocch@nd.edu, Sean Kilmer at skilmer@nd.edu, Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu, Daniel O’Boyle at dobyle1@nd.edu Hunter McDaniel at hmcdanil@nd.edu and Brett O’Connell at boconnel@nd.edu 


Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmcobserver 





Baseball 
conTinued From page 20 
really quality teams, and they were all three tight games,” he said. “so for us to say that we’re some sort of prohibitive favorite, i think, would be really, incredibly getting ahead of ourselves.” 
last weekend, aoki started junior left-hander michael hearne, senior right-hand­er scott kerrigan, fresh­man right-hander brandon bielak and junior right-hander nick mccarty, re­spectively, and he said he plans to send that same quartet to the mound this weekend in the same order. 
“hopefully, nick is pitch­ing in the championship game, but if not, we’re just going to go down there, and we’re going to try to get bet­ter and compete every pitch as well as we can,” aoki said. 
he added he wants to see his players have a competi­tive attitude this Friday to sunday. 
“i think the big thing for me is, i don’t really look at last weekend and feel as though we played abso­lutely at our potential, but i feel as though we came pretty darn close to playing as well as we can in terms of our compete factor, and that’s what i want to see because that’s completely controllable,” aoki said. “ … sometimes performanc­es are gonna be great, and sometimes they’re not gon­na be so great, but if the compete factor is there, we can still manage to take a weekend, three out of four, when maybe we didn’t play at our very best.” 


as notre dame is just starting its season, its first two weekends feature four-game series, while the majority of the rest of the season will consist of three-game weekend series. That extra game helps the team solidify factors like its starting lineup, especially with acc play opening in just two weeks, aoki said. 
“There’s so many things that are still up in the air,” he said. “i think the playing four-game weekends early really kind of gives you an indication of how guys are gonna react when the games count for real.” 
The irish take on incarnate word tonight at 
6:05 p.m. at nelson wolff stadium in san antonio to open the irish alamo invitational. They will later face villanova on Friday and northwestern on saturday. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 



The observer | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


against hoftstra on sunday. 
Softball 
playing multiple days in a 
conTinued From page 20 

row in a position as stressful as pitcher can be a daunting, against hoftstra on sunday. but nasland said she was not 
despite putting in so many worried about getting physi­innings, nasland said she cally overworked. was not worried about get-“pitching that amount of ting physically overworked. innings does have an ef­
“pitching that amount of fect on my arm, but adren­innings does have an ef-aline definitely carries fect on my arm, but adren-me through the innings,” aline definitely carries nasland said. “i just work me through the innings,” hard to recover during the nasland said. “i just work week.” hard to recover during the week.” in order to play with the 
in order to play with the stout competition they will stout competition they will face in california, the irish face in california, the irish will look for more strong will look for more strong performances on the mound performances on the mound from nasland and the rest of from nasland and the rest of the pitching rotation, as well the pitching rotation, as well as more production at the as more production at the plate from players such as plate from players such as senior infielder katey haus, senior infielder katey haus, who leads the team with a who leads the team with a .444 batting average and .444 batting average and three home runs, and junior three home runs, and junior infielder micaela arizmendi, infielder micaela arizmendi, who boasts a squad-leading who boasts a squad-leading eight rbis. nasland said the eight rbis. nasland said the team is confident that it can team is confident that it can do so and compete well. do so and compete well. “i think we just need to fo­
“i think we just need to fo-cus on the fundamentals of cus on the fundamentals of the game and play with con-the game and play with con-fidence,” nasland said. “we fidence,” nasland said. “we have all the building blocks have all the building blocks of a great team, we just need of a great team; we just need to trust that.” to trust that.” The irish take the diamond 
The irish take the dia-Thursday against Tennessee, mond Thursday against with four more games be-Tennessee, with four more tween then and saturday. games between then and First pitch is scheduled for saturday. First pitch is 10 a.m. scheduled for 10 a.m. at big league dreams sports Contact Mike Ginocchio at complex in cathedral city. mginocch@nd.edu 
passionate — i want it more,” davis led the yellow Jackets 
W Bball 

she said after the duke game. with 24 points in their first 
conTinued From page 20 

“i’ve had some great mentors game against the irish despite playing together. i think ev-before who really preached getting into foul trouble. erybody’s starting to get com-that. … when i get on the georgia Tech sits fifth in the fortable. The freshmen look floor, i just want to have fun. conference in scoring offense, a lot more comfortable, so i i want to compete every single averaging 73.5 points per think we’ve coming a really night.” game. but its defense ranks long way.” mcgraw said loyd’s im-12th out of 15 teams, giving 
in the most recent win over provement has extended to up 68.3 points per night, a stat the blue devils, irish junior defense as well, where she that fares well for an irish of-guard Jewell loyd — who has posted notre dame’s sec-fense that leads the acc with was named to the naismith ond most steals (43) and third 84.0 points per game. Trophy women’s midseason most defensive rebounds (95). even though notre dame 30 list last week, along with “she’s fighting screens a has already collected a win freshman forward brianna lot better,” mcgraw said. “i against the yellow Jackets this Turner — tallied a game-high think she’s communicating season despite a poor defen­21 points, 12 of those coming a lot more, and her lockdown sive performance, mcgraw on four 3-pointers. faceguard is a lot better than said her players need to keep 
Those 21 points brought her it was last year.” their focus through their final 2014-2015 scoring total to 538, The yellow Jackets will four regular-season contests. helping her become the fast-bring their own naismith can-“every game is important,” est player to accumulate 500 didate to mccamish pavilion she said. “The most impor­points in a season in notre in sophomore guard kaela tant game is the next one up, dame history. her 20.7 points davis. davis’ 20.2 points per and we’ve got to look at it that per game also lead the acc. game sit in third place in the way: every single game mat-
even with an all-american conference behind loyd and ters from here on out. we’re distinction and national wake Forest senior forward focused on the next game.” freshman of the year award dearica hamby. The irish and yellow Jackets under her belt after her first Joining davis in the georgia tip off at 7 p.m. Thursday two seasons, loyd said she Tech starting lineup is junior at mccamish pavilion in has noticed a change in how forward roddreka rogers, atlanta. she approaches the game as a whose 60-percent field-goal junior. percentage trails only Turner’s Contact Mary Green at                   
“i just think that i’m more 68 percent mark in the acc. mgreen8@nd.edu 





CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

Level: 

DOME NUTS | aleXandria wellman 


Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
© 2012 The Mepham Group. Distributed by Tribune Media Services. All rights reserved. 



11/22/12 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: don’t shy away from something or someone you want in your life. you have good discipline, and if you use your intelligence, you will find a way to get what you want. don’t be daunted by setbacks or those who don’t share your vision. set your sights on what you want to achieve and don’t stop until you reach your destination. your numbers are 3, 14, 17, 22, 30, 37, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): show off your playful side. socialize and get involved in activities that will help you expand your awareness and your physical and mental strength. set goals and prepare to make positive changes to your attitude, your finances and your health. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): emotional problems will escalate if you disagree with an elder or a superior. Think twice before you take on something that you aren’t prepared to compete with. Focus on honing your skills and don’t waste your energy. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): size up what you want to do and what you must do. having a clear picture regarding what’s expected of you will help you delegate your time accordingly. showing your ability to do it all will lead to advancement. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t let anyone dump added responsibilities in your lap. uncertainty will result in loss, so if you are questioning a deal, read the fine print before you make a commitment. put more time and effort into self-improvement instead of trying to change others. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): plan activities that will challenge you mentally and physically. love and romance are in the stars and will enhance your personal life if you offer affection to someone special. your confidence will entice someone to partner with you. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): concentrate on partnerships and network at functions that are geared toward entrepreneurs. Taking a stance and following through with your plans will attract attention and help to stabilize your position among your peers. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): be careful not to disrupt your relationship with someone you need in your corner. choose your words wisely and throw in compliments to ensure that you maintain the support you need to follow through with your plans. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): stick close to home and make the changes that will help you fulfill your creative needs. love, romance and passion should be a top priority. don’t talk -- take action and show how much you care. a unique lifestyle change will be beneficial. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): put your plans into motion. say what’s on your mind and follow through. The more concise you are, the easier it will be to avoid being misinterpreted or deceived. positive changes at home or to your surroundings will give you fresh vision. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): choose to take a unique route or approach to something you do that can raise your income. it’s how you display and present what you have to offer that will make the difference. an old partner will have something worthwhile to contribute.  


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): your impulsiveness will put you in an ideal position. a clear-cut view of the possibilities will make it easier for you to jump into action and take over. an important partnership will improve your chance to get ahead. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): don’t leave anything to chance. secrets will be revealed if you trust someone with personal information. don’t give anyone a reason to doubt you. demands will be made if you are too accommodating. don’t make promises you will regret. 


Birthday Baby: you are opportunistic, sociable and popular. you are helpful and charitable. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by David L. Hoyt and Jeff Knurek 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
ZAOOK  

 
 
 
 
 

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
PATOD  

 
 
 
 
 

TLATET  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 


LIBSUY  

 
 
 
 
 
 


A
A: 


(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: MUSTY SIXTY NIBBLE FACTOR Yesterday’s 
Answer: When he put the finishing touches on his book about clocks, his wife said this — IT’S ABOUT TIME 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
BENGAL BOUTS BASEBALL 
Boxers compete in quarters Team heads south 
By MIKE GINOCCHIO, SEAN KILMER, MAREK MAZUREK, HUNTER McDANIEL, DANIEL O’BOYLE, and BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writers 
135-pounds: 
Patrick “Il Lupo” Brennan def. Arun “Bollywood Basher” Nadar 
The first round of the fight began evenly matched. however, midway through the stanza, the junior nadar caught his hand on the ropes, which required medi­cal attention. at the begin­ning of the second round, nadar had to stop the fight again because his nasal bandage was giving him problems. after the time­out, the sophomore brennan seized control of the fight, bobbing, weaving and con­necting several counter-punches. immediately after the bell to begin the third 
see bouTs PAGE 14 

for four-game series 

By MARY GREEN 
sports editor 

notre dame will escape the south bend snow and cold this weekend when it travels to san antonio for the irish alamo invitational. 
The irish (3-1) will take on incarnate word, villanova and northwestern in the tournament, which they en­ter coming off a 3-1 start to their season in oklahoma. 
notre dame has traveled to san antonio six out of the last seven years for the invitational, held at nelson wolff stadium. 
“you’ve got a certain level of comfort [at the tourna­ment], and i think that fa­miliarity and the comfort that it breeds allows you to play at a pretty high level,” irish coach mik aoki said. EMILY MCCONVILLE | The Observer “obviously, part of the chal-Sophomore Joe “Sully” Sulentic eyes his opponent sophomore lenge of going on the road is Patrick Burkett in the quarterfinals of the 158-pounds division. that oftentimes, you could 
be going into a place you’ve never been, and just that level of uncertainty might just affect you a little bit, but this is a place where three out of our four classes on the team have been. it’s a good setup.” 
The irish will take on incarnate word (2-2) on Thursday, villanova (0-2) on Friday and northwestern (0-3) on saturday, with a po­tential championship game sunday. Though notre dame collected more wins dur­ing its opening tournament than this weekend’s oppo­nents combined, aoki said his team should not consid­er itself as a favorite heading into the matchups. 
“it’s so early in the sea­son to say that, well, northwestern, who played oregon state and michigan state — they played three 
see baseball PAGE 17 
ND SOFTBALL 

irish travel to cathedral city 
By MIKE GINOCCHIO 
sports writer 
after stumbling to a disap­pointing finish at the Tiger invitational last weekend, the no. 23 irish look to get back on track when they travel to cathedral city, california, for 
the  mary  nutter  collegiate  
classic,  which  starts  
Thursday.  

notre dame (5-4) will be one of 35 teams competing over the weekend, and three of its five scheduled games are against other ranked teams. 
last weekend, the irish fin­ished 1-3, including two nar­row 3-2 losses, but sophomore pitcher rachel nasland said the team has diagnosed the problem and is ready to move on. 
“[last] weekend did not play out as we had hoped,” nasland said. “we didn’t come out with the same intensity that we typically do, and i think that is what ultimately hurt us. [however,] this is just the start of the season, and we are still trying to adjust to the rig­orous schedule.” 
notre dame’s opponents in california include no. 10 Tennessee, no. 25 Texas and no. 8 georgia. This will be the first time the irish have played the volunteers since 2005, when notre dame won 5-2. notre dame last faced the longhorns in 2007 and the bulldogs in 2004, when the irish lost, 7-1, in the sole meeting between the squads. 
against such strong teams, pitching will be key to estab­lishing the irish on the field, nasland said. 
“pitchers set the mood for the entire game,” nasland said. “if, as a pitching staff, we can continue to hold steady on the mound, i think it will mentally allow the hitters to relax at the plate and not press. They can then be confi­dent that we will outscore the opposing team.” 
nasland in particular has been effective recently. in three games at lsu, she re­corded a 0.88 era in 16 in­nings, allowing just two earned runs on only seven hits. in addition to start­ing twice, nasland came in as a reliever for the irish and clocked six no-hit innings 
see soFTball PAGE 18 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

ND puts 10-game win streak on the line against Tech 

SARAH OLSON | The Observer 
Irish sophomore guard Lindsay Allen attempts a layup during Notre Dame’s 63-50 win against Duke on Monday. 

By MARY GREEN 
sports editor 
The last time no. 4 notre dame faced off with georgia Tech on Jan. 22, irish coach muffet mcgraw dished out some scathing words to her team after an 89-76 win. 
The irish (24-2, 11-1 acc) will see just how far they have come in a month when they meet the yellow Jackets (14­12, 4-8) tonight at mccamish pavilion in atlanta. 
The home win over georgia Tech was the second game in January in which notre dame showed serious vul­nerabilities, the other being a Jan. 8 loss at miami (Fla.). 
however, notre dame has bested opponents by an av­erage of 22.2 points since the georgia Tech game, and its 13-point win over duke on monday was the smallest margin of victory since then. 
“i think we’ve come a long way since early in the con­ference season,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said after the duke game. “we’re play­ing great basketball; we’re 
see w bball PAGE 18 






