the independent to uncover newspaper serving the truth notre daMe and and report saint Mary’s it accurately 

voluMe 49, issue 5 | FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2015 | ndsMcobserver.coM 
Students look back on Hurricane Katrina 
As ten-year anniversary approaches, Notre Dame Gulf Coast natives reflect on their experiences 
By CLARE KOSSLER 
associate news editor 
nearly 10 years have passed since images of the devastation left by hurricane Katrina first appeared in major news outlets, but for some notre dame stu­dents the memory of the hurri­cane is still as fresh as on the day Katrina made landfall, aug. 29, 2005. 
“[the hurricane] is some­thing that i will always remem­ber,” Mari tumminello, a junior from new orleans, said. “i can’t even believe it was 10 years ago. it shocks me that it’s been that long.” 
tumminello was 10 years old when Katrina hit. she said she and her family evacuated their home after reports that the hur­ricane had become a category 




RecSports to host Biathlon 
By ANDREA VALE 
news writer 
the annual recsports biathlon will be held saturday, aug. 29 and will begin with a half-mile swim in st. Joseph’s lake followed by a two-mile figure eight run around both st. Joseph’s and st. Mary’s lakes. 
“the biathlon has been go­ing on since the early 90s, and has been an annual event ev­ery year,” edward beven, facil­ity program coordinator for recsports, said. “it is typically the first weekend of school, depending on the football schedule.” 
according to beven, the bi­athlon began over a decade ago without any particular medical or memorial cause to prompt its patronage; rather, the event “was designed to give the notre dame community an activity to do the first couple weeks of school.” 
it precedes the domer run, recsport’s “bigger char­ity event,” which will take place saturday, oct. 3. 
despite the biathlon being a relatively small and quick event in comparison to other athletic events put on by recsports, beven said a lot of preparation went into planning for the com­bination swim and run, includ­ing meetings with the notre dame fire department to ap­prove plans for transportation and safety. 
“risk management and safe­ty is our number one priority,” beven said. “staffing is done by recsports, which is a combina­tion of professional staff mem­bers and student staffing. 
“last year we had about 75 participants, so i think staying in that ballpark would be great. our hope is that it’s a beauti­ful day and that those that par­ticipate have a great time, meet some new friends and just en­joy themselves. i don’t think we could ask for much more than that.” 
neither sophomores anna volk nor Katherine inskeep has ever participated in this event before, but both said they think their previous experiences in triathlons will help in their first biathlon. 
“i had wanted to last year, but don’t really like running,” volk said. 
the pair has decided to com­bine their efforts — volk will complete the swimming portion of the event, while inskeep will run. 
to prepare for the biathlon, volk drew on her past swimming career, while inskeep turned to her running experiences. 
“i swam competitively in high school and managed a pool this summer,” volk said. “i had easy access to a pool and remem­bered a lot of sets that i used to do, as well as made up some of my own that were more biathlon specific.” 
“when i was home over the summer, i went running with my high school cross country team,” inskeep said, “it worked out well because i had other people to motivate me to keep going. i actually ran the course this morning, too, so i wouldn’t get lost during the race.” 
the biathlon is open to all notre dame students, fac­ulty and staff according to the recsports website. there is no charge to register for the event. 
registration is currently open online via recregister at recreg­ister.nd.edu. 
according to the website, “the biathlon has team or individu­al trials; Men’s, women’s, and 
see biathlon PAGE 3 


law professor participates in peace talks 
By J.P. GSCHWIND 

news writer  
colombian  president  
Juan Manuel  santos has  
named  notre  dame  law  

school professor douglass cassel as a legal adviser and negotiator in the on­going peace talks between the colombian government and the revolutionary armed forces of colombia (farc). 
according to a university press release, cassel will serve in a six-person bi­lateral group tasked with developing a process for ensuring justice for both victims and perpetrators of war crimes that have occurred throughout the last 50 years of the conflict in colombia. the group has been meeting over the summer and will continue to meet in havana, cuba. 
a former director of notre dame’s center for civil and human rights, cassel said he has been interested in colombia for some time. 
“i followed the situa­tion of human rights and civil war for many years,” cassel said in an interview. “i’ve been there various times to consult with the 

church, the government and with human rights organizations” 
the effects of the conflict have devastated colombia, cassel said, citing wide­spread human rights viola­tions and costly economic 
see coloMbia PAGE 4 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                    Jack rooney christina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: Mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 

News Editor: Margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: erin Mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: brian lach Online Editor: Michael yu Advertising Manager: Mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: Marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your go-to Disney song? 

Lucas Unruh 
junior Zahm house 
“go the distance.” 
Alanna McEachen 
sophomore Mcglinn hall 
“hakuna Matata.” 
Mason Shinn 
junior st. edward’s hall 
“My mother didn’t let me watch disney movies as a child.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Sara Schunck 
junior 
badin hall 
“be a Man.” 
Luis Fernandez 
freshman 
stanford hall 
“love is an open door.” 
Michaela Schunck 
freshman 
Mccandless hall 
“Zero to hero.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

the observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint Mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. the observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
the news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, Managing editor, assistant 
Managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of the observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

the observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published Monday through friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
the observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
postMaster 
send address corrections to: 
the observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
the observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

clare Kossler Zach Klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Matthew McKenna alex carson Martha reilly ben padanilam rachel o’grady 
Graphics 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
Janice chung Scene Miko Malabute 
Photo 

ND Women’s Soccer Biathlon ND Women’s Soccer Workshop: Getting The Greek Crisis and 
Michael yu Viewpoint tabitha ricketts vs. Santa Clara Boat House vs. Portland Started in Research the Future of Europe Alumni Stadium 10 a.m. Alumni Stadium Brownson Hall Hesburgh Center for 7 p.m. Half-mile swim and 1:30 p.m. 4 p.m.-5 p.m. International Studies Corrections The Irish take on Santa two-mile run race for The Irish take on No sign up is required 5 p.m.-6 p.m. Clara. individuals and teams Portland. for this event. A flash panel 
in the aug. 25 issue of the observer, the article “sMc unveils new abroad program” incorrectly stated John Graduate Student Outdoor Movie Vespers Respect Life Mass Activities Night cabot university offers nursing Mass South Quad Basilica of the Sacred Basilica of the Sacred Joyce Center first and classes. the observer regrets this Basilica of the Sacred 10 p.m. Heart Heart second floors 
error. 

Heart Outdoor screening 7:15 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 7 p.m.-8:50 p.m. 
5:15p.m. hosted by Student Scripture readings and Sponsored by ND Browse different clubs Weekly Mass Activites Office prayer Right to Life Club and sign up. 

ndsMcobserver.coM | FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2015 | the observer 

SMC alumna to present memoir 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
associate saint Mary’s editor 
on Monday, saint Mary’s college is hosting alumna Mary grace foxwell, class of 2007, and her father alan guebert for a reading and signing of their recently re­leased memoir, “the land of Milk and uncle honey.” 
guebert, a nationally syn­dicated agricultural colum­nist, co-authored the book with his daughter. 
“the land of Milk and uncle honey” was re­cently included on bon appetit Magazine’s “20 new food books to read this summer,” los angeles Magazine’s “a summer reading list for foodies” and food tank’s “2015 summer reading list.” 
the book is a collection of memories gathered from guebert’s stories and reflec­tions written for his weekly “farm and food file” col­umn, which has run in the south bend tribune and 70 other newspapers for more than 20 years, foxwell said. 
“[My father] started writ­ing the column when i was just a young girl,” she said. “Most of the book’s characters had passed away long before i was born. yet as long as i can remember, he’s told these stories of indian farm — not only to me and my brother, but also column readers from Maryland to Montana — and many of us have asked him to compile a memoir. 
“it wasn’t just me urging my father to take on a book project — many other folks were as well.” 
according to the foxwell digital website, indian farm was a 720-acre, 100­cow dairy farm in southern illinois where guebert grew up during the 1960s. the stories and memories relat­ed in “the land of Milk and uncle honey” are products of the time foxwell’s father spent on the farm. 
with a mutual respect for their unique gifts and abili­ties, the father-daughter team worked together to share numerous lesson-filled memories to readers outside their immediate family and the news col­umn, foxwell said. 
“i wanted the lessons he and i have learned from the hired men, my grandparents and my great-great-uncle honey to affect and in­form others, and to possibly make people think about how rural communities have changed, what our small towns and farms are missing and how we can re­turn the real ‘culture’ to ag­riculture someday,” foxwell said. 
foxwell combined all her various interests in food, cooking, writing, editing, reading and telling sto­ries in an effort to write a memoir that will inspire conversations between communities, she said. 
“we need to talk about where our food comes from, who grows and packages it, how our rural communities and towns have changed, where we want our future food policies to be directed and how we want our global food system to look in an­other generation or two,” foxwell said. “we also need to remember the simple lessons from indian farm: hard work, humility and caring for our community and for the land. 
“publishing a memoir is one way to start that con­versation, but there are countless other ways to share your voice with the world.” 
foxwell, who majored in humanistic studies at saint Mary’s, said she believes the major provided her with the self-confidence and skills required to take on the mul­tifaceted project. she said humanistic studies deep­ened her love for reading and learning, both of which enabled her to complete the memoir with her father. 
“My father and i like to say that great writers are first and foremost great readers,” foxwell said. “and i think that’s why we could both take on this project knowing the other person had a shared zeal and ap­preciation for the written word.” 
the event will take place Monday, aug. 31, from 6 to 8 p.m. in rice commons in the student center. copies will be available for pur­chase at the signing. 
additional information, including future events and contact information, can be found at www.farmand­foodfile.com. 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 

Biathlon 
continued froM page 1 
co-rec divisions; and varsity and non-varsity categories.” 
“the biathlon is rough­ly an 800-meter swim, and two-mile run,” beven said. “participants can do it indi­vidually or in pairs.  we meet down at st. Joe beach — yes, notre dame has a beach.” 
registration for partici­pants the day of the biathlon will be open from 8:30 a.m. to 
9:30 a.m. at the boathouse on st. Joseph’s beach, located on the far end of st. Joseph’s lake. the race will begin at 10 a.m. at the boathouse. 
“i really just want to have fun, and promote swim­ming in the lakes,” volk said, “running around the lakes is a pretty common activity for notre dame students, but not many use the beach.” 
“this is a chance for notre dame community members to see what recsports can of­fer them,” beven said,  “we have so many terrific events throughout the year, and this is a nice kickoff for the fall. it’s a quick event, but also challenging at the same time.  come on out, and have a blast.” 
Contact Andrea Vale at  avale@nd.edu 
paid advertiseMent 




Katrina  escaped to his town, many of them school-aged children.  Colombia  cassel said. “then the war may just go on endlessly.”  forces directly. according to cassel, the  
continued froM page 1  while the hurricane itself  continued froM page 1  additionally,  cassel said  biggest obstacle to secur­ 
did relatively little damage to  the  asymmetric  nature  ing  a  peace deal is enforc­ 
flooding  across  the  city  shreveport, which  is  in  the  disruptions that have in- of the conf lict means it  ing justice for atrocities. he  
caused billions of dollars in  northeastern part of the state,  ternally displaced approxi­ is  exceptionally  difficult  said an agreement must in- 
damage; according to a  dec.  boyd said the evacuees from  mately six million people.  to  eliminate  entirely  the  clude provisions to encour­ 
2005 report by the  national  coastal cities posed a major lo­ “this is longest running  farc. thus, he said a nego­ age  truth-telling,  punish  
climate data center, flood wa­ gistical problem.  civil  war  in  the  world,”  tiated peace is a much more  wrong-doing  and  restore  
ter covered over 80 percent of  “i was in sixth grade, and i  cassel said.  appealing option.  harmony.  
new orleans, in some places up  remember the schools just be- w hile  there  have  been  “it’s impossible to com- besides the ethical con- 
to 20 feet deep.  came  flooded with students,  three distinct attempts to  pletely defeat the guerrillas  siderations  of  justice,  
“we were lucky in that my  because it was the beginning of  negotiate  peace  between  because they’re ver y mo­ cassel said for any deal to  
house didn’t flood where i was,”  the school year, so a lot of kids  the  colombian  govern- bile, they only hang out in  stand a chance of success  
tumminello said. “the levees  were joining the classes right  ment and  farc  over the  the jungle and it only takes  it  must  satisf y  numerous  
by us stayed strong, which was  about that time and it was just  last quarter centur y, cassel  two guerrillas to blow up an  pragmatic requirements in- 
great. but we had tons of wind  an  overwhelming  situation  said the current effort holds  oil pipeline — which they  cluding complying with in- 
damage, we had brick walls  having not enough seats but so  unique promise for several  did in June, cutting off the  ternational law and gaining  
fall down, we had shingles. My  many kids,” he said.  reasons.  water  supply  or  poisoning  the collective support of the  
neighbor, his house imploded,  in order to respond to the in- he  said  not  only  is  the water supply for an en- government, farc and the  
we had a tornado go down our  flux of evacuees, boyd said vol- president  santos  firmly  tire cit y of 200,000 people,”  colombian people.  
street.”  unteers converted many school  committed  to  achieving  cassel said. “even a well- ultimately,  cassel  said,  
but although  tumminello’s  gyms into temporary shelters.  peace, but farc knows that  equipped  and  well-trained  justice remains the central  
house fared well in compari­ “i remember going and vol- if they cannot come to an  army like the  colombian  issue.  
son to much of the city, she said  unteering with my family in  agreement with him it will  army, which is probably the  “if we can’t find a solution  
her family was unable to stay  one  of these shelters and just  be a difficult task to find a  strongest army in the hemi­ to  the  justice  issue,  there  
in  new  orleans. with limited  seeing how many people they  better opportunity in the  sphere outside of the united  will  be  no  peace  agree- 
flights leaving new orleans in  had crammed in there with  future.  states,  can’t  completely  ment,”  cassel  said.  “we  
the weeks and months follow- limited supplies,” he said. “it  “the  farc  know that if  eliminate these guys.”  cannot simply forget ever y­ 
ing the hurricane, tumminello  became a logistical disaster.”  they don’t make peace with  however,  cassel said in  thing that happened. there  
said her father had to move  like boyd, senior May stewart  this president, it’s probable  recent years the colombian  needs to be some form of  
their  family  temporarily  to  said she remembers return- going to be a long time be- government  has  neutral- justice.”  
Miami in order to keep his job  ing to school to see many new  fore they’ll have any other  ized farc as a convention- 
at the airline.  faces. stewart lives in vacherie,  president as open to try­ al militar y threat capable of  Contact J.P. Gschwind at   
“seeing it as a kid and not un­ louisiana, a small town about  ing to negotiate a peace,”  engaging colombian armed  jgschwin@nd.edu  
derstanding everything about  an hour west of new orleans.  
it — why we couldn’t go back,  “i think i noticed most of the  
why we had to stay — made it  damage when i went back to  
so much more difficult,” she  school,” she said. “i went to a  
said. “in hindsight, it was a good experience for me in the  catholic school in a different town, but we got a ton of stu­ 
end, moving away, experienc­ing something else, and that  dents from catholic schools in new orleans that were dis- 
would have never happened  placed because of the storm,  
had Katrina not happened.”  and so it was weird to be in  
in pass christian, Mississippi  school with people who lost ev­ 
— which according to a 2008 re­ erything that they had.  
port by the national hurricane  “one of the girls that i be- 
center experienced the highest  came really close with, she only  
storm surge of the hurricane at  had one picture that she  was  
27.8 feet — notre dame senior  able to bring with her from her  
John-paul drouilhet had a very  house. i couldn’t imagine that.”  
different experience of the storm.  stewart said she thinks part  
like tumminello, drouilhet’s  of the reason the hurricane was  
family  evacuated  the  area,  so devastating was that its in- 
but while  tumminello’s fam­ tensity took people by surprise.  
ily  temporarily  relocated  to  “no one really thought it was  
Miami,  drouilhet’s  returned  really going to be as bad as it  
home to find much of their city  was going to be,” stewart said.  
leveled.  “and then, by the time we real­ 
“the church and school were  ized that it was, it was kind of  
just gone,” he said. “there was  too late to make plans.”  
nothing left to either of them.  tumminello, drouilhet, boyd  
“everything was just kind of  and stewart all said Katrina left  
destroyed.”  a lasting impression on them,  
drouilhet said in the after- even 10 years after it hit land.  
math, volunteers helped con­ stewart said since witnessing  
struct temporary schools for  hurricane Katrina, any news of  
children to attend until the city  impending disasters makes her  
could locate resources for more  anxious.  
permanent school buildings.  “i’m always looking and see­ 
“shortly  after  the  storm,  ing what storms are coming up  
they  got  enough  volunteers  and where they are going, and  
to come back, and we actu­ it sounds horrible, but pray- 
ally built a school out of a skat­ ing that it doesn’t happen in  
ing rink in the same town,” he  louisiana because i know what  
said. “seventeen days and we  would happen to my town,”  
opened the school. i  mean  it  stewart said.  
wasn’t perfect, it was a skating  but despite the tragedy of the  
rink with walls built in it, but it  storm, tumminello said some  
was what we needed.”  good came out of  hurricane  
drouilhet’s community was  Katrina.  
not the only one in need of  “it was definitely a terrible  
school buildings.  coming in  time in my life, but it’s some- 
late august, Katrina left thou- thing that’s shaped who i am  
sands of children without a  today and  i  wouldn’t be the  
school to attend at the begin- person i am today had it not  
ning of a new school year.  happened.”  
senior  carter  boyd,  of  
shreveport, louisiana recalled  Contact Clare Kossler at   
the hundreds of evacuees who  ckossler@nd.edu  




paid advertiseMent the observer | FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2015 | ndsMcobserver.coM 



INSIDE COLUMN 

what even is art, anyway? 

Lesley Stevenson 
senior news writer 

throughout my time at notre dame, i’ve been saying i want to take an art class, just for fun. Just, you know, like an english major might take an engineering class for kicks. i have no real business taking an art class, first because i have no training and second because i’m not sure what it is — art is notoriously dif­ficult to define. at least with something like calculus, i’d know what i’m getting into. 
but that’s exactly what i love about art. consider “untitled painting,” a work by art & language — a real person whose real name is Michael baldwin. hanging in london’s tate Modern, it is described simply as “mirror on canvas.” 
according to the display caption, baldwin challenges the “century-old convention” of forcing viewers to “look at an image of the art­ist’s making.” instead, “viewers are now con­fronted by themselves, thereby questioning a long-held notion of painting transcending reality.” 
“okay, tate Modern,” i thought when i first saw it. “this is a mirror. it is mounted on a can­vas. it is not a painting; it is a mirror. you aren’t fooling anyone.” 
but, you know, any of us could have hung a mirror on a wall and called it our magnum opus. we just didn’t. the most absurd thing is this is what i remember best from my visit to the museum, even half a year later. 
art is an absurd concept. think of salvador dalí, whose fine, fine brushstrokes are so small and silky smooth that his paintings look print­ed in ink. you can’t dispute his mastery, even if the works are, well, rife with phallic symbols and creepy crawlies and random eggs. 
or how about harry potter? did you know that in Mad-eye Moody’s first classroom scene in the fourth movie, director Mike newell uses more than 35 different camera angles, all from varying heights, slants and perspectives, to disorient the viewer and make Mad-eye more intimidating? 
or, listen, if you’re in new york, you have to see “hamilton.” with a book, music and lyrics all by lin-Manuel Miranda of “in the heights fame,” this musical tells the biography of alexander hamilton entirely through hip-hop and rap music. and it works. it’s absurd, sure, but it works — just ask obama (he saw it in July). 
art is an absurd concept because it’s too broad to define. that doesn’t mean any old thing can be art, but who am i to judge? to me it seemed silly to call a mirror a painting, but then again, i’m writing a senior thesis on the harry potter movies. clearly i, too, find artistic merit in strange places. 
so i’m taking an art class, like a fish out of water trying to walk on unfamiliar ground. it’s an absurd thing for me to do, but absurd situations sometimes create the most beauty. My work might not make it as far as the tate Modern, but hey, art & language hung a mir­ror up and called it a painting. who’s to say one of us couldn’t do it next? 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

My year becoming a survivor, supporter and activist 
this past year, three of my close friends became victims of sexual and physical assault. i became a victim, and then a survivor, of dating violence, sex­ual harassment and stalking. the ability to be a nor­mal college student was taken away from me. every week, i had at least three of the following: police interview, title iX meeting, meeting with the office of community standards, meeting with a lawyer who was investigating a title iX case, meeting with an administrator, meeting with my resource coun­selor or meeting with my case manager. sometimes i didn’t even know whether the meeting was for my case or for a friend’s case. so naturally, my first pri­ority, and the main topic on my mind most of the time, was not when my dorm dance was, what exam i had coming up, what parties were happening this weekend or how our school was doing in sports. it was rape, sexual assault, physical assault, the bro­ken legal and school systems, title iX legislation and the sheer number of survivors who never expe­rience justice. i saw “the hunting ground” twice at my school and both times sat in my chair thinking, this is the world i am living in right now. the world i see that others don’t. a world of abuse and broken­ness and college campuses letting rapists go free so that their sexual assault statistics stay low. it’s a world i never asked to be a part of, but now my eyes are opened, i can’t help but feel called to action. 
the fact that 100,000 college students will be raped next year, according to the feb. 11 newsweek article about “the hunting ground,” is disgusting. the fact that my school currently only recognizes dating and domestic violence to be physical, when the federal definition encompasses physical, verbal, emotional and cyber abuse, is just plain wrong. the fact that so many men in our country believe they have the right to physically and verbally violate women and men in a way that profoundly changes the victim’s life is horrifying. but most people do not feel called to action until it hits home, and in fact, stand by and watch dating abuse or sexual assault occur without stepping in. an excerpt from Judith herman’s book “trauma and recovery” ex­plains this phenomenon: “it is very tempting to take the side of the perpetrator. all the perpetrator asks is that the bystander do nothing. he appeals to the universal desire to see, hear and speak no evil. the victim, on the contrary, asks the bystander to share the burden of pain. the victim demands engage­ment, and remembering …” 

i lost many “friends” last year, as some decided to side with my abuser, or asked to be “left out of it.” they claimed that my abuse wasn’t their issue, and they shouldn’t have to address it. My argu­ment is this: intentional complacency in the face of violence is the same as condoning it. if you don’t speak out, you are supporting the abuser. it’s that simple. this is especially relevant considering that my abuser has seven other victims that he has sexu­ally, physically and verbally abused and assaulted. these other women were harassed, blackmailed and threatened the same way i was. had someone spoken up for even one of the other seven women, i can’t help but imagine that i might not have been an abuse victim. but i am not going to let there be a ninth victim. 
My friends and family have asked me when i’ll go back to normal. i don’t think i ever will. once you see the psychological trauma that survivors of assault and abuse endure, or even experience it yourself, you can’t go back. so now i’m moving for­ward and trying to determine how i can best create change. i would love to be a part of the grassroots activist movements educating students about their title iX rights and pushing for stricter state and fed­eral legislation. we’ll just have to see what’s in store for my future! 
Noelle Langmack 
senior off-campus aug. 27 


the observer | FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2015 | ndsMcobserver.coM 

don’t give up on the voting rights act 
Jordan Ryan 
words of wisdome 

an extremely fine line exists between proper federal authority and an imposition upon states’ constitutional rights, especially when it comes to voting laws. while voter id and absentee voting laws dominate the media, these are all propelled by one piece of legislation — one that was recent­ly changed: the voting rights act. the effects of this change could be extreme. 
in 1965, president lyndon Johnson pushed the united states forward with the passage of the voting rights act (vra). long overdue, this land­mark legislation was deemed the turning point in the fight for all-inclusive voting rights. however, buried within this well-intentioned legislation is a coverage formula (outlined in section 4(b) of the law) designed to target states that, as of that time, were believed to have enacted inequitable voting laws. section 4(b) provides that if the voting and population data of a particular state yields an un­satisfactory result after application of a compli­cated algorithm, the state would be placed under federal preclearance, meaning that the united states attorney general would have to approve all voting law changes within a pre-cleared state before that law could be implemented. Masked behind noble intentions, this section unfairly targeted mostly southern states which had his­torically cast a majority of votes for republican candidates, such as alabama, georgia, texas and virginia. 
in June 2013, the supreme court, in a close 5-to­4 decision, corrected this inequity when it ruled in shelby county v. holder that the coverage formula was unconstitutional. the court agreed that the formula was based on outdated informa­tion and should be discarded, but that congress should not throw out the idea of reviewing state voter legislation totally. they wanted congress to go back to the drawing board. however, congress simply annulled section 4(b), therefore wholly eliminating preclearance of violating states’ vot­ing laws. 
the court’s decision has been roundly criti­cized as a step backwards in voter’s rights, but such criticism is misplaced. the supreme court’s rejection of the formulaic provisions of the vra will ultimately promote more equitable and in­clusive voting rights in those states subject to the statute — in fact, it already has. 
section 4(b) was outdated and unfairly bur­dened certain states. the jurisdictions targeted by section 4(b) may have been areas of voter suppression in the 60s, but those unacceptable conditions have improved tremendously. for ex­ample, according to the economist, “in 1965 a mere 6.7 percent of african american voters in Mississippi were registered; by 1988 the propor­tion was 74.2 percent. that year in louisiana, as in texas and georgia in 2004, a higher proportion of african americans than caucasians were reg­istered to vote.” voting rights climates in targeted states have thankfully evolved. 
More surprising is the climate of states not cov­ered by the formula.  for example, according to a June 2013 new york times report, Massachusetts, which is not covered by sections 4 of the vra, had the greatest disparity in registration be­tween caucasians and african americans during the 2012 presidential election. furthermore, as chief Justice John roberts observed in the shelby county opinion, in the 2012 election, “african­american voter turnout exceeded white voter turnout in five of the six states originally cov­ered.” the nine states under original preclear­ance simply no longer represent the problems in the american election landscape. 
the cataclysmic consequences, which many predicted would flow from the county decision, simply have not come to pass. as we reach the second anniversary of the court’s opinion, a number of states, including many of those tar­geted southern states, have passed laws which have unquestionably benefited all voters, laws such as those permitting online voter registra­tion. following the court’s opinion, many of the states formerly subject to the preclearance re­quirements of the vra also have enacted other voter related laws which have received wide support. for example, many of these states have enacted voter identification laws designed to prevent fraud in elections. the washington post has reported that 75% of americans support the notion that photo identification ought to be a pre­requisite to vote. the presumption made in many circles that states formerly subject to section 4(b) would, after the shelby county opinion, enact laws suppressing the right to vote, particularly among minority communities, has simply proven to be false. 

what we see instead is that states with no preclearance requirement have witnessed poor voter outcomes. this begs the question: if pre­clearance set southern states on a path towards successful polling practices, then shouldn’t all states be placed under preclearance? if yes, then congress ought to redesign section 4(b). if 4(b) is not the reason we have seen change, then states should be given the right to decide their own fate. sometimes, the states have it right and federal intervention is not necessary. yet perhaps federal intervention is needed when it comes to a right as fundamental as suffrage. it is up to us to decide. 
Jordan Ryan, a sophomore resident of Lyons Hall,   studies political science and peace studies along with minors in constitutional studies and business economics. She can be reached at jryan15@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Work together, not apart 

toward the end of the spring semester, i watched from afar as saint Mary’s students and alumnae signed a petition to get president Mooney’s attention about sexual assaults at saint Mary’s in the wake of the viewing of “the hunting ground.” when students sat down with her for a meeting a few days later, she made it very clear that it was hard to work with notre dame. notre dame and saint Mary’s have al­ways had a special relationship, and it seems to me they should work together on this important issue. 
on sept. 10, 2010, exactly 22 days into my freshman year of college at saint Mary’s, i came home from my italian class only to find am­bulances and police everywhere as a student was brought down in a stretcher and taken to the hospital. for the next few hours, the fresh­man dorm i lived in was basically on lockdown as ras went from room to room pleading with us to stay still in light of a crisis. they did not tell us what was going on, and rumors began to circulate. later we would receive an email from dr. Mooney telling us a student had died, lizzy seeburg, the girl who lived across the hall from me. 
i was not friends with her and didn’t know her beyond hellos in the bathroom, but over the next few weeks she was constantly in everyone’s thoughts. i watched as one of her closest friends cried through most of the next week of classes. i watched her parents come from the service, and i watched as all the details of the sexual assault came to light. 
with every detail, saint Mary’s students be­came angrier and angrier towards notre dame for how they handled the case, then at the end of freshman year, the story hit closer to home. one of my friends was sexually assaulted by her boyfriend and spent the next six months bring­ing charges against him at notre dame, but to no avail. she later tried to kill herself and was asked to leave by the university, transferring away in the fall. 
in 2012, there was a sexual assault on a notre dame student near the grotto, and the suspect was seen taking off down saint Mary’s road to­wards saint Mary’s, knife in hand. i remember it clearly because notre dame was sent an alert but not saint Mary’s. students at notre dame began texting their friends at saint Mary’s, and my wonderful boyfriend at the time told me not to go outside that night. it seems that while saint Mary’s security dropped the ball with alert­ing us, the students at both campuses made up for the lapse, passing the message around until everyone knew. it would be so easy for the two security forces to communicate and yet it seems so rare. 

one fourth of women in college will be sexu­ally assaulted, according to the non-profit rape-prevention organization one in four, and that is just the number reported; in the sexual assault training we had at saint Mary’s, it was thought to be one third because so much is not reported. notre dame is the most wonderful community in the world. i have seen us come together for tragedy and victory alike. i love notre dame just as much as i love saint Mary’s, though some saint Mary’s students and staff have gotten the impression that for notre dame, saint Mary’s college is the little sister in the relationship, an­noying and to be ignored. this issue is bigger than any relationship problems the two schools might have and the presidents of both schools need to work together in order to help create a safer space for women of both schools for the upcoming school year and future years to come. the community is too intertwined not to. 
the ring i wear every day says saint Mary’s­notre dame. the founders of the two schools, who worked together frequently, would be devas­tated to see the divide today. 
Alex Penler 
class of 2014 aug. 27 


with n.w.a.’s biopic, “straight outta compton,” still fresh on moviegoers’ minds, the scene staff brainstormed: which music group deserves the next biopic? which artist has a story so in­teresting and wildly unbelievable on their way to the top that the only way to believe it is to, well, see it. and see it on the silver screen, in all its glory (preferably in a film less than three hours). 
By MIKO MALABUTE 
scene editor 

we essentially did the “wu-tang spread” on yesterday’s scene section, and after watching “straight outta compton,” i thought to myself: when will wu-tang get their silver screen shine? the “wu” brand is iconic, even to people who don’t listen to their en­tire catalogue — after all, does anyone remember “wu wear”? they had an entire clothing line just based on their hip-hop group. only 50 cent’s “g-unit” clothing line could top them in that arena. My lone issue is this: how in the world are producers and directors sup­posed to find enough good actors? the producers of “straight outta compton” had a bit of trouble finding the perfect five cast members to fill the shoes of the original five n.w.a. members, and the original wu-tang clan had almost double n.w.a.’s numbers. that’s a lot of starring roles. 
By ADAM RAMOS 
scene writer 
weezer may not go down in history as the most critically acclaimed band of all time, but their story is certainly something. take four awkward, geeky college kids and turn them into one of rock’s biggest name in just a few short months. whether it be weezer’s hysterically dorky music videos like “buddy holly” or “pork and beans” or its ability to craft some of alt-rock’s most catchy hooks in songs like “say it ain’t so” or “My name is Jonas,” the band offers something for ev­eryone. yet to me, weezer provides a perfect snapshot of that late ’90s and early 2000s childhood in which i was raised. every time i hear the boom­ing intro of “beverly hills,” i immedi­ately begin to reminisce about my ipod shuffle. i even remember jamming out to “undone – the sweater song” on my sweet “guitar hero” set for the playstation that i got for christmas. any biopic encapsulating that weird and fabulous time in life would be a movie i would love to see. only ques­tion left would be who to play rivers cuomo? My vote would go to Michael cera. 
By KATHY MINKO 
scene writer 
anyone else interested in witness­ing one of history’s most influential rock groups’ rise to fame? i would love to see ireland’s own u2 on the big screen. a dublin high school garage band’s transformation into activism — not to mention footage of bono rock­ing sweet sunglasses and the edge soloing and soundchecking — would make quite the coming-of-age story, right?  honestly, i’d just love to see them perform “vertigo,” “beautiful day,” “one,” “ordinary love” (ugh, so many songs i can’t choose from) throughout dublin. side note, i’d re­ally like them to cover “still haven’t found what i’m looking for” at a wed­ding, even though that may not hap­pen in a big motion picture. that’s just a bucket-list thing. universal would need a talented line-up, but drake bell definitely reminds me of a young bono. all in all, u2 would make an ex­cellent biopic for all ages to reminisce and enjoy. 

By MATT MUNHALL 
scene writer 
the problem most music biopics run into is trying to cram an artist’s entire decades-long career into a 90-minute film instead of focusing on just one pe­riod. Kanye west is arguably the most important musician of the past de­cade but also one of the most public. yet, after he interrupted taylor swift at the 2009 vMas, he disappeared from the public eye — one of the few peri­ods of his life that was not incessantly covered by the tabloids. in the months that followed, he worked as an intern at fendi and retreated to a compound in hawaii to record “My beautiful dark twisted fantasy.” it’s the story of how the most hated man in the world went into exile, excised his demons and cre­ated the best artistic work of his career 
— a classic american story of redemp­tion for the 21st century. 
JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 
the observer | FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2015 | ndsMcobserver.coM 


By MATT MUNHALL 
scene writer 

for better or worse, in the second decade of the 21st century, so much of human communication has come to be mediated through devices and screens. the debate around the massive chang­es brought about by the digital age is so frequently polarizing: are we more connected or more isolated than ever before? edward snowden’s 2013 rev­elations about the national security agency’s surveillance programs have likewise sparked discussions about the privacy, or lack thereof, of our commu­nication online. the prevalence, how­ever, of both these technologies and the conversation about their role in our lives have made it a fertile topic for ex­ploration by musicians in recent years. 
“we’re still connected, but are we even friends?” win butler asks on arcade fire’s 2013 single “reflektor.” over the course of a nearly seven-minute disco track, butler and régine chassagne continue to question what it means to communicate online, theorizing that 
By ADAM RAMOS 
scene writer 

in today’s world, artists’ music is just not paying the bills like it used to. the fact is, no one is buying cds anymore. Moreover, illegal downloads — along with services that pay very little for music, like spotify or apple Music — make it impossible for artists to reach the riches of artists past. yet, there is a small silver lining for us music lovers — artist are now forced to perform more in order to recoup some of the lost rev­enue. this is where festivals come in. 
nowadays, every major city across the globe boasts a music festival ful­ly loaded with an impressive lineup of artists from all genres. whether it is barcelona’s primavera sound or delaware’s firefly Music festival (the one i graced this summer), festivals are popping up all around world and con­sistently selling out. which beckons it’s “just a reflection of a reflection/of a reflection of a reflection.” 
father John Misty’s “true affection,” off this year’s excellent “i love you, honeybear,” explores the inadequacy of digital communication as well. the track’s electronic production stands out on an album of folk rock songs, with Josh tillman embracing digital tech­nology in his music even as it bemoans its social effects. “when can we talk/ with the face/instead of using all these strange devices?” he asks at the begin­ning of each verse, suggesting that real-life communication is still the best way to show affection. 
drake offers a critique of social media on “energy,” from his recent mixtape, “if you’re reading this it’s too late.” on the track, he complains about women “askin’ me about the code for the wi-fi/ so they can talk about they timeline/ and show me pictures of they friends/ Just to tell me they ain’t really friends.” the rapper interrogates how the mean­ing of friendship has changed because of social media and bemoans how fre­quently it becomes a distraction, even 
the question i grapple with every time i go anywhere: what sort of stuff should i bring? 
have no fear, after a full four days in the midst of music festival mayhem this summer, i have gathered some advice, which i shall bequeath to all the men out there with similar innate clueless­ness. this is not a tale of fashion; this is a story of pragmatism. every piece i selected serves a purpose: between the heat, the long hours and large crowds, it is crucial to pack smart. take heed, or next summer when you and your squad take the local festival, you won’t be a happy camper. 
shorts, t-shirts and tanks should make up the most of your suitcase. however, it’s important to take the material into consideration. any light, preferably water-wicking material will help prevent against chafe and keep you cooler in those chaotic crowds. sock material is also very important to in real-life conversation. 
“digital witness,” the 2014 single by st. vincent, wonders about our re­liance on social media. on the song’s chorus, annie clark sarcastically asks, “if i can’t show it, if you can’t see me/ what’s the point of doing anything?” the song is clearly cautious about the performative nature of social media and the tendency to constantly be cap­turing moments to share online. “watch me jump right off the london bridge!” she jokes at one point, pointedly critiqu­ing the narcissistic, attention-seeking aspects of social media. 
M.i.a.’s “internet connection” is also about our dependence on the internet, even as it embraces digital sounds, using samples such as the photo booth count­down timer and the sound of emptying your trash folder to create what she calls a “digital ruckus.” over this beat, she re­lates the experience of “surfin’ out of my mind” and the difficulty of turning off the computer to go “do something.” 
eMa’s underrated 2014 album “the future’s void” addresses many of the same issues, especially on “3Jane,” 
consider — dry fit is essential. 
speaking of feet, shoes can make or break the experience. its no secret be­ing at festival involves a lot of walking, yet many don’t put this into consider­ation when bringing shoes. a solid run­ning shoe does the trick and while you are it, throw a support insole into that puppy. don’t stop at one pair though: one muddy day and your shoes could be toast, so bring an extra or two. 
think back to this summer — you see a picture of some kids you went to high school with at a music festi­val, and what are the guys wearing on their backs? hydration backpacks (camelbak being the most popular brand), of course. i was a bit hesitant at first, but after some research, i settled on a teton hydration backpack. once you get past taking sips of water out of a backpack, having a large supply of por­tably cold water was a lifesaver. even better, most hydration backpacks allow which discusses the effects of con­stantly sharing about yourself online. “feel like i blew my soul out/across the interwebs and streams,” erika M. anderson sings, ”it was a million piec­es/of silver, and i watched them gleam.” the internet leaves a “hole so big inside of me” and makes her feel disconnected from the world. 

so many of these artists raise their concerns about the digital age as ques­tions — these discussions about the im­pacts of technology are still very much unresolved. at the very least, however, these songs force us to consider the ef­fect on ourselves and how we interact with others. as clark wrote in a review of “reflektor,” but which could also be applied to the other songs of this play­list, this music “elucidates constant psychic vacillation between uber-con­nection and utter disconnection. they ask you to be aware of your fractured at­tention span/psyche/in touch with your humanity.” 
Contact Matt Munhall at                   mmunhall@nd.edu 
for easy storage for things like sun­screen, wallets and poncho. ponchos are also essential: if not for wearing in rain, they at least make great blankets for sitting during those slower shows. 
no matter what you end up pack­ing, make sure you’re not the guy who takes up half the car with his things. festivals are some of the most fun and amazing places on earth, but they are certainly not glamorous — especially for guys. try rolling your clothes to help conserve space in those cramped cars. 
as we begin to approach the fall and the cold air that comes with it, let’s try to not forget that festival season is just two short semesters away. yet, with presale tickets becoming more read­ily available, it’s never too early to be­gin getting your summer festival plan together. 
Contact Adam Ramos at                            aramos6@nd.edu 
JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Searching for the perfect playoff 
Daniel O’Boyle 
sports writer 
let’s get this straight before the college football season starts: the answer is six. not eight, not four, not 16 — there should be six teams in the college football playoff. 
this isn’t a reactionary solution to last year’s situ­ation, in which six teams ended the season with an argument for a shot at the title (last season is just proof that six is such a convenient point for a cut­off), and it’s not a plan for a guaranteed spot for notre dame in the playoff every single year alongside five conference champions; a six-team playoff just works. it means the regular season is still incredibly impor­tant, while solving the mess that is the college football landscape. 
let me outline my pro­posal a little more. six teams are selected: i don’t think there needs to be au­tomatic qualification for “power five” conference champions, but i would expect them to take five spots almost every year. that would leave one spot to be fought over by co-champions, conference runners-up, independents and champions from the “group of five” confer­ences. Most years, that selection will only produce one really worthy team (the second of tcu and baylor last year), and a second can earn a spot if they truly have a stronger case than a power five champion, meaning power five teams will still have an incentive to draw up a tough out-of­conference schedule. the top two teams would then get a bye straight into the semifinals. will there be argument over who gets the bye? of course, but the teams missing out get a chance to show they de­served it and still compete for the championship. 
Maybe it’s because i’m not american, and i grew up watching soccer, but i don’t really love playoffs. My beloved reading fc’s regular failures in promo­tion playoffs, often as the top seed, probably didn’t help either. if college foot­ball could go without one, i wouldn’t mind. it can’t because with so many dif­ferent conferences and schedules a champion is never clear, but i still believe a playoff should be small. not four teams because five power con­ferences fighting for four places makes no sense, but six is as big as it needs to go. 
americans love play­offs, they love to see an underdog overcome the odds and win, but do they really deserve it if they weren’t the best team over the course of the season? would Michigan state re­ally have been worthy na­tional champions last year, or south carolina the year before? 
and the more teams you let in, the less the regular season matters. one thing that makes college foot­ball special in american sports is that every single game matters for a national championship contender. lose one game, and there’s a chance your title hopes are gone; lose two, and it’s almost certain. there’s no other major sport that’s so unforgiving, and it means that every second of the season can be exciting. you never know when the next twist in the season will come. with a larger playoff, the champion is the best team at the end of the sea­son but not always the best team over the whole sea­son. in every other sport, you can get hot late in the season, but in college foot­ball, you have to start hot and stay hot. 
with an eight-team play­off, a loss isn’t a great con­cern — you know one loss should see you in, and even a second isn’t a huge worry. but with six, not only are your chances of making the playoff slimmer, but you’re always fighting for that bye. that means there’s still a real reward for a perfect regular season. not a mo­ment goes by in the season of a contender that doesn’t have national champion­ship implications: there’s a chance of redemption for one or even two losses, but the top teams will be fight­ing for a top-two spot, not just a top-six one. 
sure it’s only a two-team difference, and eight teams is probably a better option than four, but if you want every single week of college football to really matter, a playoff needs six teams: no more, no less. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MEN’S GOLF 

irish tee off season with Kickoff challenge 
By SEAN KILMER 
sports writer 
while the rest of campus will be enjoying the first weekend back at school, notre dame will be opening its season at warren golf course in the notre dame Kickoff challenge. 
irish head coach James Kubinski said he expects the team to treat this tour­nament seriously and would like to see the first step to a better year for the irish af­ter finishing 11th at the acc championships last season. 
“our expectation this first week is to come out with great focus, compete, start building those good habits and give ourselves an op­portunity to win,” Kubinski said. 
the irish did not lose any golfers from last season and welcome three freshmen to the program, ben albin, Kevin conners and Miguel delgado, all of whom could contribute this season, Kubinski said. albin comes to notre dame on the heels of a high school state cham­pionship, where he bird­ied the final two holes to give his team a one-stroke victory. 

with a trio of fresh­men looking to contribute, Kubinski said he’s not quite sure of the mix of golf­ers who will compete this weekend. 
“we’re determining right now how many of our fresh­men will get in there,” Kubinski said. “all three have built highly-compet­itive résumés. i do expect good things from our re­turning guys. i like the work they’ve done these last few months.” 
at the acc champion­ships in april, junior blake barens finished tied for 46th to lead the irish at 11-over par for the tourna­ment, while junior Matthew rushton, senior corey sciupider and senior tyler wingo all finished within three strokes of barens, giving the irish a tight pack of golfers headed into this season. 
while this is the first tournament of the season, Kubinski said he wants to see his team perform in tense situations from the start. 
“our goal is actually to apply some pressure,” Kubinski said. “i’d like to see our guys comfortable when things are consid­ered by most to be uncom­fortable. learning to do so will allow them to tap into the physical talent they undoubtedly have. i really like this group. i believe in them.” 
the irish tee off sunday at warren golf course for the notre dame Kickoff challenge. 
Contact Sean Kilmer at skilmer@nd.edu 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Recent arrests add to Hoosiers’ troubles 
Associated Press 
indianapolis — indiana coach tom crean questioned his team’s leadership and challenged his players to make better decisions on and off the court thursday. 
failing to meet those ex­pectations could have more serious ramifications. 
in his first public com­ments since indiana’s most recent legal embarrassment, the frustrated coach apolo­gized to fans for having an­other legal run-in play out in public and insisted his top priority between now and november’s season opener will be getting the program righted. 
“we’ve got to get a team, guys that understand that they play for indiana and not at indiana,” crean said. “even some of our indiana guys have got to understand that. ultimately, i’m responsible but our internal leadership has been less than poor for 

FOR SALE 
CONDO-Mishawaka, Sedgwick 

the last two years, and it’s got 
to get better.” 

or crean will get tougher. 
the hoosiers have been dealing with these sorts of problems since former player hanner Mosquera-perea was arrested on an owi charge in february 2014. Mosquera­perea was booted off the team in May, after a teammate, devin davis, was cited for marijuana possession. while Mosquera-perea was not cit­ed, he was with davis, who also was dismissed. 
crean said thursday he should have booted Mosquera-perea after the ar­rest 18 months ago. 
since then, crean has at­tempted to get his players’ at­tention with suspensions and internal discipline. 
but the problems have not dissipated. 
in november, davis sus­tained a serious brain injury after he was hit by a car driv­en by teammate emmitt holt. police determined holt was not at fault because davis jumped in front of the vehi­cle. according to the police report, both players had been drinking even though they were under age. 
last weekend, holt, a sophomore, and freshman thomas bryant were cited by indiana state excise police for illegal possession of an al­coholic beverage. police said each was found with a bot­tle of vodka in a parked car and that neither was in the driver’s seat — not far from where the november accident occurred. 
no punishments have been announced yet, and athletic director fred glass said he doesn’t expect that to happen until next week. 
the latest run-in has reig­nited concern among fans and former players about what’s happening inside the program and what can be done to fix it. 
they’re not the only ones upset. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
House, 3BR 2.5 BA. View of park and riverwalk. Secured entrance with underground parking. $95,900. Call 574-255-3862  I’m never gonna catch my breath. Say goodbye to those who knew me. Boy, was I a fool in school for cutting gym. This guy’s got ‘em scared  

paid advertiseMent 



the observer | FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2015 | ndsMcobserver.coM 

ND VOLLEYBALL 

Young Irish squad set to start season 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
notre dame will start its cam­paign this weekend as it travels to Murfreesboro, tennessee, to compete in the blue raider bash. 
last season, the irish strug­gled mightily away from purcell pavilion, winning just twice outside south bend, but will have a chance to improve on that from the opening weekend as they play a trio of teams that failed to post a winning record last season — saturday, the irish take on a bowling green squad that went 7-21 last year before playing cleveland state, which posted a .500 record. the weekend will conclude against hosts Middle tennessee state, which finished 9-21 a campaign ago. 
besides looking to improve upon its 6-23 record (3-15 acc) from last season, notre dame will have to cope with the loss of six seniors. with just three upperclassmen on this year’s squad, new irish head coach Jim Mclaughlin will have to rely on senior outside hitter haley bonneval, junior middle blocker simmone collins and junior middle blocker Katie higgins to lead one of the youngest teams in the conference. 
“unfortunately, the side ef­fect of a rebuilding season — new coach, new conference, and a lot young talent — is of­ten a rough record,” higgins said. “however, all throughout the season, i saw glimpses of the greatness that this team is capable of. in the middle of the season, we won two of three games down at purdue for the purdue active ankle challenge, and we have been having some great scrimmages during preseason.” 
upperclassmen aren’t the only leaders on the team. sophomore outside hitter sam fry was given all-acc fresh­men honors last season and has been recently honored with all-acc preseason honors. fry was second on the team in kills, with 242, and after losing three of the top four players in kills, fry will be expected to have a repeat performance of her freshman year. 
the majority of the remain­ing experience comes from a trio of sophomores — outside hitter sydney Kuhn, who played in 106 sets, libero natalie Johnson, who played 103, and setter Maddie dilfer who com­peted in 75 sets. 
while the lack of experience isn’t ideal, higgins said she be­lieves the team has been devel­oping solid chemistry ahead of the season. 
“cohesion is a major focus,” higgins said. “in volleyball, teamwork is essential, and with such a young roster, we’re re­ally putting in the extra work to bond together.” 
the irish finished 14th in the acc last season, and in a strong conference, higgins said she knows the irish must earn the respect of the league, a process that starts this weekend. 
“the acc is stacked with re­ally strong volleyball schools, so we knew it would be a chal­lenge heading into the 2014 season, not only playing in a new conference but under a new coach as well,” higgins said. “the good thing is we can only improve from here, but we do have to earn the respect of the acc. and as we settle into our new conference and be­come comfortable under coach 
paid advertiseMent 

Mclaughlin’s system, i can eas­ily see notre dame becoming known as a competitive team in the acc. … right now, we are putting all our focus on bowling green and cleveland state and are looking forward to starting 2015 off with two wins.” 
the irish will kick off their season at the blue raider bash on saturday at 11 a.m. against bowling green in Murfreesboro, tennessee. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 



ndsMcobserver.coM | FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2015 | the observer 

M Soccer 
continued froM page 16 
“we’ve had a lot of success in the past few years, and we have a new team coming in, so there’s always the excitement of trying to match the pressure of sus­tained success.” 
clark mirrored the excitement of his players as he elaborated, claiming the start of a new aca­demic semester carried a lot of energy on its own. 
“i think it’s also just the excite­ment of the new season,” clark in recent seasons, the team has established a reputation of scoring by committee — senior midfielder and captain patrick hodan led the team with nine goals last year, while five other players managed three or more goals in 2014. clark insisted indi­vidual performance and records mattered little to his squad when compared to the team’s long­term success. 

“as long as the team scores, i don’t think it matters who gets the goal,” clark said. “we don’t put too much emphasis on indi­viduals. patrick [hodan] will be very happy if the team scores. i think he will certainly score some goals and have a few as­sists as well, but he’ll be more concerned with winning.” 
notre dame and Maryland are scheduled to begin at 5 p.m. friday at bill armstrong stadium to kick off the adidas/iu credit union classic. the irish and host hoosiers will then square off at 2 p.m. sunday to conclude the weekend’s festivities in bloomington. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 
said. “you’re back to school, this week is a very exciting week, suddenly classes start — i don’t know if the players are excited about classes starting, but i think they did miss it. they’ll see a lot of friends that they haven’t seen since last spring.” 
of course, renewed social lives will have to remain on the back burner at least for this weekend while the team faces two nation­ally-ranked teams away from the friendly confines of alumni stadium. though Maryland is fielding 13 newcomers this com­ing season, clark denied any real 
paid advertiseMent 
notion of an extended rebuild for the big ten soccer club. 
“i don’t think there’s really a turnover,” clark said. “there is still a whole squad of return­ing players — they’re seasoned veterans. a lot of the players we faced in the ncaa tourna­ment are still there. i think they have a pretty experienced line­up — i don’t think there will be anything different [in terms of preparation].” 
one particular area to watch in the coming season, both this weekend and beyond, lies in the production of the irish offense. 



W Soccer 
continued froM page 16 

up the field. they’ve got players who have a lot of creativity and are playmakers. we’re going to have to make sure that we de­fend well as a group, and we pressure them and try to limit the amount of time that they have on the ball.” 
first up for the irish in the notre dame invitational are the broncos (1-1) on friday. the team expects them to be their strongest opponent yet, naughton said. 
“they’re a very physical, strong and fast team so going up against an opponent like them is always a challenge, and it’s exciting because we get to battle on the field,” naughton said. “it will be really excit­ing to see how we match up on the field against them because they’re going to be our best competition thus far.” 
then, the irish will welcome the pilots (0-1) on sunday. naughton said she expects portland will be fundamen­tally sound in addition to being physical. 
“they’re very technically sound,” naughton said. “we will impose our will as best we can and see what happens.” 
despite the stronger chal­lenges they pose than previous opponents, romagnolo said the irish game plan remains the same. 
“[we need to] continue to move the ball on offense, cre­ate opportunities for ourselves, continue to get a lot of num­bers forward in the attack and take chances around the goal,” romagnolo said. 
in addition to looking to con­tinue their fast start, naughton said the irish have a little extra incentive for these two games. last year in this event, the irish suffered two narrow defeats to texas tech and usc. this time around they expect different results, naughton said. 
“that’s definitely in the back of our mind, knowing that we need some redemption from last year,” naughton said. “we just need to take santa clara first, get the result we want and then move on to portland.” 
notre dame will play both of its games this weekend at alumni stadium, first welcom­ing santa clara on friday at 7 
p.m. before hosting portland on sunday at 1:30 p.m. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 

paid advertiseMent 


the observer | FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2015 | ndsMcobserver.coM 

Captains 
continued froM page 16 
“nick Martin last year was named a captain and had to fight through a very difficult injury from the year before, and it was very dif­ficult for him just to get healthy,” Kelly said. “and you can see this year being fully healthy, how he’s been able to lead not only the of­fensive line but the entire offense. it’s great to watch him lead and be such an integral part of what we’re doing.” 
Martin joins his brother Zack Martin as a two-time notre dame captain. still, even after a sec­ond year, Martin said the honor is humbling. 
“it gives you a sense of pride,” Martin said. when you have a team like this it’s easy. everyone cares about the person next to them more than themselves.” 
for day, also a captain last year, an extra year of knowing his role on the team will be integral, Kelly said. 
“sheldon day as an underclass­man, i don’t know if he truly knew how to lead as an underclassman,” Kelly said. “he was afraid at times to step on the seniors’ toes and was hesitant at times to speak up. that’s not the case this year. he truly has control of his room, the defensive line room. what’s impressed me the most about him is how he’s practiced every single day, with energy and a desire to want to get better.” 
day agrees that he has been much more vocal this year. 
“if i say something, they defi­nitely listen,” day said. “they know where i’m coming from. 
“[but] it’s kind of amazing to see how each person can step up when we need them to.” 
while he was not a captain last year, schmidt was a vocal leader on the defense en route to his team Mvp honor. 
“Joe schmidt speaks for himself in that, boy, what a representative for our program in the community, in the classroom, class, distinction, and then on the field just a great communicator, a galvanizer,” Kelly said. 
although schmidt said nothing will change regarding how he in­teracts with the team, he still recog­nized the gravity of the captaincy. 
“it’s the most humbling, greatest honor that has ever been bestowed upon me,” schmidt said. “Just to have the guys on this team, the guys i spend all of my time with 
— they vote on something like that — it’s pretty incredible. i’m so humbled. i love this team, i love this university. it’s such an incred­ible feeling.” 
although schmidt wasn’t a surprise to most, farley, who has fought through adversity in his career, might have been. however, Kelly praised the way the gradu­ate student interacts with his teammates. 
“Matthias farley brings together all segments of our football team,” Kelly said. “probably has as many good relationships with our true freshmen as any upperclassman. that kind of personality, he really gets along with so many players on our team.” 
farley, for his part, was blindsid­ed by the news. 
“it’s the greatest honor of my life,” farley said. “i’ve never in my wild­est dreams would have thought, after my freshman year going through all the ups and downs, that this would be where i’m at. i love this place, i love this team, and to have the honor to represent them is a huge honor and a huge blessing for me. 
“to be able to represent every­body: the coaches, the staff, the other students, people across the country. it’s a huge honor.” 
the last captain, smith, is argu­ably notre dame’s most dominant player — and Kelly didn’t shy away from those accolades. 
“Jaylon [smith] is such a force on the field,” Kelly said. “he’s so impactful that you can’t help but notice him every single down that he’s out there. he’s our best player on defense. it’s not even close — he’s that good of a player.” 
smith said he was honored to be named a captain. 
“it means everything,” smith said. “i’ve always been a leader, but to have that really highlighted by the team and the coaches vot­ing me, in that name, in that place; getting a chance to wear that ‘c’ is special. 
“wearing that ‘c’ on my chest is something i’ll get to cherish the rest of my life.” 
notre dame’s captains will take to midfield next saturday against texas under the lights, prior to the teams’ kickoff at 7:30 p.m. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 



came at outside linebacker, in­cluding all 13 games in 2012 during notre dame’s run to the bcs national championship game, recording a career-high 22 tackles. 
arguably his best single-game performance in an irish uniform came in that 2012 season opener against navy in dublin, when he registered four tackles and forced a fumble, which was scooped up by teammate stephon tuitt and returned 77 yards for a touch­down in the 50-10 victory. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
Williams 
continued froM page 16 
future into uncertainty. 
“he’s not going to be allowed to practice either,” Kelly said. “he has a locker, we’ll provide him with the opportunity to work out, and i know our assistant ath­letic director chad flenders had a conversation with him, and we’ll provide him with a facility here to do that. i think he’s going to get himself organized academically now that he has some finality with this. i think he is still maybe interested in pursuing the nfl. 

he’s figuring out what he wants to do.” 
Kelly also said williams had been prepared for this outcome and that he should still be able to finish his education at notre dame. 
“ishaq knew it was going to be an uphill fight there, but where he never wavered was coming back to school and getting his degree,” Kelly said. “the silver lining is that he is in school, and we’re very optimistic that he’ll be able to fin­ish his degree here.” 
williams appeared in 35 games for the irish in his first three sea­sons at the school, all of which 
paid advertiseMent 



ndsMcobserver.coM | FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2015 | the observer 

CROSSWORD | will shortZ 

ACROSS 32 Mary of early 67 Dangerous 1 One of the three Hollywood sprayer dimensions 33 Says, informally 68 Soft cheese 6 Pro bono 35 Garden spot 69 Outstanding promo, for short 
38 Wetlands birds 70 Cowboy moniker 9 It may have 
40 “V” vehicle 71 Chain part: many jets 
Abbr. 12 Tight squeeze 
41 Grab suddenly 
72 Some close-ups 14 Pirate portrayer ___ Girl” of film 
43 Broadway’s “Me 
44 Burrows, e.g. DOWN 15 Keyboard key 46 Grab suddenly 1 Scale abbr. 
16 “I was wrong … 

47 Note 2 Classified inits.
big whoop” 49 Carpenter ___ 3 2012 rap17 Abbr. 

Grammy

50 Annual literary
accompanying 0 

nominee for 18 “___ luck?” “Life Is Good”award 
51 ___ Carpenter
19 Pound, as 4 14-Down
54 Horny devil

potatoes starring Jack 
56 Psychoactive Lemmon20 Milk, in a way 
drug used in 
5 Keeps one’s21 Nasties medicine mouth shut?
22 Captain von ___ 57 Insurance 6 Beverage(musical role) worker introduced as25 Overzealous 58 Mainframe Brad’s Drink 

27 Some arm brain, for short 7 Maker of the 
exercises 59 Nabisco offering LZR Racer suit 
28 Something 61 Cooking spray 8 Loan letters requiring little 
62 Diane of 9 Football Hall-of­study “Numb3rs” Famer Bart 
29 Sick 

63 Perk for a pool 10 Comic part 30 Mind party? 
11 Bottomless pit 13 Triple Crown

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
winner of 1934 


14 Drive-in theater draw … with a literal hint to 4-and 21-Down 
21 14-Down starring Frank Sinatra 
22 Brewed beverages 
23 Bob Marley, e.g. 
24 Sean of “The Lord of the Rings” 
26 Viva voce 
31 A.L. East team, on scoreboards 
34 Little fella 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  
12  13  14  15  
16  17  18  
19  20  21  
22  23  24  25  26  27  
28  29  30  31  
32  33  34  35  36  37  
38  39  40  41  42  
43  44  45  46  
47  48  49  50  
51  52  53  54  55  56  
57  58  59  60  
61  62  63  64  65  66  
67  68  69  
70  71  72  

PUZZLE BY PATRICK BLINDAUER 
36 “Let’s give ___” 48 Star-studded show, with “the” 
37 Get rid of 51 Utterly dead
39 Prefix with 
pathetic 52 Goggling 53 Dance version
42 Juno, to the Greeks of a record, often 
45 Brew whose 55 You may bename is an fooled at itsarticle of clothing beginning
when read backward 60 ___ de boeuf 
62 Org. whose motto is “Fidelity, Bravery, Integrity” 
64 Brewed beverage 
65 Music writer Hentoff 
66 R.N.’s are in them 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay.Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
SUDOKU | the MephaM group 
Level: 


8/31/12 

Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
© 2012 The Mepham Group. Distributed byTribune Media Services. All rights reserved. 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia last 
Happy Birthday: Keep an open mind, but don’t believe everything you hear. you will come across all sorts of new possibilities, but many of them will be lacking substance. it will be vital for you to remain cautious and only pursue the deals that you know are legitimate and can bring you the results you need to advance. your numbers are 1, 6, 13, 21, 29, 33, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Keep your emotions in check and offer a little charm and flirtation. it’s how you approach the people you deal with that will make the difference. be sure you do your homework and don’t overlook minor details. romance conquers all. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): pick up information, documentation, skills or whatever else it takes to advance your career. Keeping a steady pace and refusing to let emotional matters get you down will ensure that you expand your interests and engage in unique opportunities. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): too much to do and too many choices will lead to confusion and making promises you can’t keep. slow down and readjust your course until it is more realistic. think before you take action. put time aside for family fun. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t let anyone railroad you into taking on responsibilities that will cause you to neglect your own pursuits. focus on exploring your interests and developing a strategy that will help you reach your goals and stay within your means. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): if you want to bring about change, you will have to be resourceful. touch base with someone from your past who has experience with what you want to pursue. Make personal changes that will help you ease your stress. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): you can overcome anything if you exercise patience and refrain from being critical. compassion and understanding will help you gain respect and enlist the help you need to reach your goals. expand your interests and your friendships. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Make an effort to participate in events that will improve your environment, community or your relationships with loved ones. positive changes will help reduce the demands being put on you by someone trying to control your life. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): avoid getting involved in a dispute or altercation that could result in injury. focus on being creative when it comes to work and how you run your household. don’t be afraid to be different. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you can charm influential people, but make sure you also honor the promises you make. start making changes that will help you be the kind of leader that other people expect you to be. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): financial opportunities are heading your way. expand your interests, but don’t be too free with your ideas, or someone will try to step in and take over. bide your time, pick your battles and aim for victory. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t let your emotions cause problems with someone you love. listen carefully and offer understanding and practical solutions and you will bring about positive change. an interesting position will grab your interest. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): review your goals and collaborate with someone from your past who will help you get things done quickly and efficiently. Make your intentions known and put what you have to offer in writing before you proceed. 


Birthday Baby: you are persuasive, inventive and proactive. you are astute and progressive. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
BEAAT  

 
 
 
 
 

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
GAIME  

 
 
 
 
 

GENNIB  

 
 
 
 
 
 

CIYPAR  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

Print youranswer here: 


(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: HYPER PARCH WANTED TAMPERYesterday’s 
Answer: After he pitched a perfect game, he — THREW A PARTY 


Make checks payable to and mail to: the observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city state Zip 

the observer | FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 2015 | ndsMcobserver.coM 
FOOTBALL 

Irish name five captains for season 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
for only the third time in team history, five irish players will make the pregame walk to midfield for the captains meeting. 
notre dame head coach brian Kelly named senior defensive line­man sheldon day, junior lineback­er Jaylon smith and three graduate students, linebacker Joe schmidt, cornerback Matthias farley and of­fensive lineman nick Martin, as the team’s 2015 captains thursday. 
the last time the irish had five captains was 2007. but if Kelly had his way, there would have been even more. 
“we probably could have named 
10. seriously,” Kelly said. “i really had a hard time. we went back through the media guides to check what the most captains were, be­cause i had it whittled down to seven, and i couldn’t make the case for seven.” 
both day and Martin served as captains last season, while schmidt was voted most valuable player of the 2014 squad by his teammates. Kelly reflected on all five and why he’s excited about each leading the team this year. 
see captains PAGE 14 


ncaa denies williams appeal 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports editor 
defensive lineman ishaq williams’ petition for another year of eligibility has been denied by the ncaa, irish head coach brian Kelly said thursday. 
“we heard back from the ncaa on ishaq williams, and his appeal was denied,” Kelly said. “he will not compete for notre dame. this was his last chance at eligibility, and that was it.” 
williams, who was one of the five players suspended during the university’s investigation into academic dishonesty last season, returned to school when classes resumed tuesday after clearing by notre dame. however, the ncaa rejected the brooklyn, new york, native’s petition, ending his college career and throwing his 
see williaMs PAGE 14 
MEN’S SOCCER 

nd heads to bloomington to take on ranked foes 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writer 
Quite simply, head coach bobby clark described the up­coming weekend as one of the most exciting in his recent memory. 
“the two games we open up with … you couldn’t get two big­ger games for the first weekend,” clark said thursday afternoon as his no. 4 irish squad prepared to travel to bloomington, indiana. 
notre dame opens its regular season with a pair of fixtures as it participates in the adidas/iu credit union classic — the first takes place friday night against defending big ten champion no. 13 Maryland while the second pits the irish against tournament host no. 14 indiana. 
the irish are coming off a strong showing with a 1-0 vic­tory in their final warmup game against no. 22 saint louis, but clark said the regular season is a different beast altogether. 

“the start of a new year is al­ways a challenge,” clark said. MICHAEL YU | The Observer 


Irish senior midfielder Patrick Hodan looks up the field during see M soccer PAGE 13 Notre Dame’s 1-0 loss to Virginia on Nov. 30 at Alumni Stadium. 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Irish seek to continue hot start 
By BEN PADANILAM 
sports writer 

off to a hot start, no. 7 notre dame hosts santa clara on friday and portland on sunday in the 23rd annual notre dame invitational at alumni stadium. 
to open the season, the irish (2-0) have come out of the gate strong on both ends, outscor­ing valparaiso and toledo by a combined score of 9-0. senior defender and captain Katie naughton said she believes the team has met their goals com­ing into the year thus far. 
“i think that our preseason really prepared us for what we wanted to accomplish,” naughton said. “we wanted to come out attacking, strong and relentless. we didn’t want to give our opposition any op­portunities. some of our team goals are not to allow any shots and to score more goals than we allow shots. 
“we’ve pretty much met those goals, and it’s really excit­ing to see moving into these big games this weekend.” 
the irish have done just that up to this point, as the defense only allowed one shot over the first two games. in addition to stopping their opposition’s at­tack, they have been able to put pressure on other defenses, as the irish took a total of 53 shots in those two games. irish head coach theresa romagnolo said the team’s versatility has been key thus far. 
“we’ve got a lot of creative players who can move the ball well,” romagnolo said. “i think we’re setting each other up really well. we’re playing a lot of combinations and get­ting around the outside, so we have a variety of different ways that we can attack opponents. you’re seeing different people be able to score goals in differ­ent ways as well.” 
however, the irish will be facing two teams this weekend that also have creative attacks, romagnolo said. 
“both santa clara and portland are possession-based teams,” romagnolo said. “they’re going to look to build 
see w soccer PAGE 13 




