the iNdepeNdeNt to uNcoVer Newspaper serViNg the truth Notre dame aNd aNd report saiNt mary’s it accurately 

Volume 49, issue 63 | FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2015 | NdsmcobserVer.com 
ND Shakespeare Festival engages students 
Students and ND community members to audition for parts in summer festival’s productions Saturday 
By COURTNEY BECKER 
News writer 
the Notre dame shakespeare Festival (NdsF) is offering stu­dents the opportunity to work with world-class theater profes­sionals this summer. 
this saturday, ryan producing artistic director of the NdsF grant mudge and the two directors for this sum­mer’s main shows, pirronne yousefzadeh and west hyler, will hold auditions for stu­dents and other members of the Notre dame community for the festival. 
“we have a mission that pri­marily is to explore the plays of william shakespeare but focus on our surrounding com­munities,” mudge said. “one of our key components is pro­viding opportunities for stu­dents with the pros. that’s how shakespeare’s company did it. ... so it’s an unusual program in that regard and i think it’s a very special program because of that.” 
mudge said in addition to undergraduate and graduate students, the company hires professional actors from sur­rounding communities to par­ticipate in the festival. 
“we have a young company … that’s undergraduates, grad students and recent grads who 
see NdsF PAGE 4 

Photo courtesy of Shakespeare at Notre Dame 
Students actors from the NDSF’s Young Company perform a scene from Shakespeare’s “The Merry Wives of Windsor” for the festival’s 2014 season. Student and professional actors participate in the NDSF each year. 



Doctor analyzes health policy 
By ALEX WINEGAR 
associate saint mary’s editor 
as part of the saint mary’s department of Justice education symposium about different as­pects of health care, dr. ellyn stecker, a family physician, spoke on women’s health justice. 
stecker started her presenta­tion by emphasizing the impor­tance of health care. health care is a basic necessity for human survival, she said. 
“it’s special because it requires a certain educated coopera­tion of group members,” stecker said. “health management is not always obvious or intuitive. 
see health care PAGE 3 


professor explores adolescence 
By MATTHEW McKENNA 
News writer 
professor of psychology, daniel lapsley, said the ma­jority of teenagers violate the law in some way; he stole a bob dylan album when he was younger, but this behav­ior is not indicative of a teen at risk of a life of crime. 
lapsley, who also serves as the chair of the psychology department, spoke in the eck Visitors center auditori­um thursday evening about adolescent development and its effect on behavior and the formation of iden­tity. lapsley’s talk was titled “the promise and perils of adolescence” and was spon­sored by the Notre dame club of st. Joseph Valley. 
lapsley said changes in the way the brain processes serotonin and dopamine during adolescence can af­fect the way an adolescent weighs decisions and their consequences. 
“the teen is more drawn to the potential benefits of a decision than the potential 
see teeNs PAGE 4 


campus ministry hosts first “Fr. ted talks” 
By AIDAN LEWIS 
News writer 
“From a life of faith, what is important to me?” edward hums asked during the inau­gural Fr. ted talk thursday evening at recker’s. hums said he finds the lives of saints to hold the most importance in his faith life. 
hums, a professor of accountancy in the mendoza college of business and a fac­ulty-in-residence in lyons hall, said he holds several saints very close to his heart due to specific events they relate to in his life. 
“i have an informal litany of saints, saints that mean some­thing to me. Not that it’s be­cause this is what the saint did, but that the saint represents life events in my life of faith,” hums said. 
one of these saints is st. mark, whom hums’ hockey coach at Notre dame always prayed to before games. For this reason, hums said st. mark reminds him “of the peo­ple who helped [him] through Notre dame.” 
to hums, st. mark is repre­sentative of the help and sup­port everyone needs in their life. 
“you can never get anywhere by yourself,” he said. “you didn’t get to Notre dame by yourself, and you will not get through by yourself. … there are so many people you owe so much to.” 
st. Joseph is another saint who has distinct significance in hums’ life. hums said the feast day of st. Joseph, march 19, coincides with the date 26 years ago when hums had his last drink. 
“that was a tough time pe­riod, going through something that you needed help getting through, and st. Joseph always reminds me of that day,” hums said. 
hums said another saint 
see saiNts PAGE 3 


News PAGE 2 sceNe PAGE 5 ViewpoiNt PAGE 7 womeN’s basketball PAGE 12 hockey PAGE 12 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, Notre dame, iN 46556 024 south dining hall, Notre dame, iN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney cristina guiterrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 

News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah Villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
If you could be any cartoon character for a day, who would you be? 

Erin Lattimer 
junior 
howard hall 
“minnie mouse.” 
Jacqueline Cassidy 
graduate student off campus 
“sandy cheeks.” 
Garrett Rasmus 
sophomore 
dillon hall 
“patrick star.” 

Trent Jackson 
junior 
siegfried hall 
“Jimmy Neutron.” 
Utkarsh Sonkiya 
sophomore 
Zahm house 
“avatar: the last airbender.” 
Joey Curci 
sophomore 
Zahm house 
“captain underpants.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Want your event included here? 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators Laudato Lunch Shakespeare Festival Violin Performance Advent Vespers “Do You Hear What I 
(574) 631-8839 
Geddes Hall DeBartolo Performing Snite Museum of Art Regina Chapel Hear?” 
12:30p.m.-1:30 p.m. Arts Center 2 p.m.-3 p.m. 6:45 p.m.-7:15 p.m. Lewis Hall 
Policies 

the observer is the independent, daily newspaper published Discussion about 10 a.m.-6 p.m. Faculty member Tricia Join the community 8 p.m.-9 p.m. 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre Notre Dame at Paris Auditions for “Pericles” Park and guest Taylor in prayer during the Unchained Melodies’ dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
Climate Conference. and “The Tempest.” Morris will perform. Christmas season. winter concert. 

including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. the observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. Hockey vs. “Anchored in Hope” Créche Pilgrimage Piano Masterclass Men’s Basketball vs. the news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
Massachusetts Keenan Hall Eck Visitors Center Snite Museum of Art Stony Brook 

possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant Compton Ice Arena 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 2:30 p.m.-4 p.m. 3:30 p.m.-5 p.m. Purcell Pavilion 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 7:35 p.m.-9:35 p.m. The Voices of Faith Visit nativity exhibits Learn from pianist 9 p.m.-11 p.m. letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
NDtakes on Minutemen. Gospel Choir Concert. around campus. Svetlana Belsky. ND faces the Seawolves. 
necessarily those of the observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Keynote examines health care 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 
the biggest issue when it comes quality of care is only 10 percent of 

the observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday By NICOLE CARATAS except during exam and vacation periods. 
News writer to health care in america is differ-community health, and in previous 

a subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
ence between equality and equity, decades it was the only factor hospi­
the observer is published at: 024 south dining hall 
the saint mary’s department of gutierrez said. tals prioritized. 

Notre dame, iN 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices 
Justice education organized a day-“equality is sameness, giving ev-“having a bright, shiny hospital 
postmaster send address corrections to: 
long symposium thursday about eryone the same thing,” gutierrez does not improve the overall health 
the observer p.o. box 779 
different aspects of health care. the said. “it only works from our view status of individuals in a commu­
024 south dining hall Notre dame, iN 46556-077 
keynote speaker for the event, st. if everyone started from the same nity,” gutierrez said. “if you only be-
the observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
Joseph health system president and place. … however, we believe in lieve that we’re going to save you in ceo albert gutierrez, gave a presen-health care that equity is some-the hospital and then we’re going to tation titled “how catholic faith in-thing that we’re looking to strive to send you back on the street, that is a forms the practice of health care.” achieve.” very, very limited view of … health 


director of the Justice education gutierrez showed a graphic that care. program adrienne lyles introduced depicted equality versus equity and “we are now in our strategic plan 
News Sports 

clare kossler Zach klonsinski the day’s events. showed three people of different operating under the model that matthew mckenna hunter mcdaniel 
“today’s health care Justice heights trying to look over a fence. health does not begin in a doctor’s 
martha reilly ryan klaus 
symposium is designed to foster in-under equality, they all had the same office. we have chosen, as a health 
Graphics Scene 
tellectual curiosity, rational inquiry, size box to stand on, and the shorter system, to inject ourselves in the en-

Janice chung matt mcmahon 
respectful dialogue, civic respon-people could not see. under equity, tire argument.” 
Photo Viewpoint 
sibility and the practice of justice the people had a different number gutierrez said he cares for patients 

Zach llorens tabitha ricketts 
and compassion,” lyles said. “health of boxes to ensure each person could because people are made in the im­care is a commodity that concerns see over the fence. age of god. he said because all peo­and affects all human beings.” “if you follow the theory of equal-ple have dignity, they all deserve 
Corrections 
gutierrez said saint mary’s and ity, you could still have people that reverence, and he creates plans to 

the observer regards itself as saint Joseph health system, which is are left out,” gutierrez said. “ ... we ensure the hospital follows through a professional publication and 
part of trinity health, are sister in-must first ensure equity before we on that. strives for the highest standards 
stitutions because the sisters of the can enjoy equality.” “all of this goes back to biblical 

of journalism at all times. we do, 
holy cross founded both of them. gutierrez said trinity health looks concept,” he said. “whether you have 

however, recognize that we will make 
he also said the health system is at all factors needed to ensure the earned it or not, we will care for you.” 

mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
an extension of the catholic church best health care when it develops 

please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so through its relationship with the business and management plans to Contact Nicole Caratas at  
we can correct our error. sisters. improve the hospitals. he said the ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 

NdsmcobserVer.com | FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2015 | the obserVer 


Health care 
coNtiNued From page 1 
moreover, achieving good health affects not only one individual but also the entire group.” 
stecker said the u.s.has faced major problems with the way care has been divided in our health system. 
“in the united states we have a hodgepodge of our health care system,” she said. “we don’t insure basic healthcare for everyone nor do we insure catastrophic care. what you get depends upon your sex, ethnic­ity, marital status, status as a citizen, immigrant or undocu­mented, faith, age and the avail­ability of medical providers near you.” 
the u.s. federal government offers programs like medicare, medicaid, Veterans health administration, indian health service, volunteer clinics and the children’s health insurance program, she said, but does not have universal coverage. 
“what we do not have, howev­er, is universal health coverage, we are one of the few indus­trialized countries that does not,” stecker said. “attempts to improve coverage have always been foggy. our goal is to have all people covered. the plan is still being implemented even as there are political actions to dismantle.” 
before the affordable care act, the month after students gradu­ated, they were generally not cov­ered under a parent’s or school’s insurance, she said. 
“if you bought your own insur­ance as a woman, you often paid a higher rate then men,” she said. “things are better for your gener­ation than they were in the 1960s. women now have a much better chance to enroll in college. … however, we are not yet finished with those years of prior, lame discrimination. 
“in your family or in your work, you might care for women who took time out of the labor force who cared for children or other family members and who did not have access to a college edu­cation, may have been forced to quit working when they married or lost their job when world war ii ended and the men came back and took all of the jobs back,” stecker said. 
“people do not get social secu­rity credits for society care work. women have done a greater part of that work and both social secu­rity or competent pension is not as great as [for] a man in the same age group. thus, older women have not benefited as much from the pay equity legislation that got passed and they are living out the reality of hundreds of thousands of dollars [in] pay difference.” 
stecker said in the past year, lgbtQ partners have benefited from their partner’s pension, medical insurance and social se­curity benefits. 
“when people are married and have those benefits, health is better,” stecker said. “with these changes in the way we treat lgbt individuals, the most pressing ar­gument in the medical commu­nity, and in the discussions that i had, it wasn’t a matter of what is right, what is wrong. health is better for the families and for the children in those families. 
“good health is a mixture of heredity, nutrition, nurture, lo­cation and avoidance of toxins. … and then there’s luck,” stecker said. “some things we have con­trol over and those are the things we should manage in a good way. if we need less care, then there is more care for others. if we need more care, then we can be most grateful that we have access.” 
stecker said the u.s. spends more money on health care than other countries but does not have the best health outcomes overall nor cover everyone that needs to be covered. 
“is universal access necessary for justice? yes i think so,” stecker said. “moreover i believe it’s the smart thing to do. … a healthy population makes a stronger country.” 
Contact Alex Winegar at  alexwineg01@saintmarys.edu 
Saints 
coNtiNued From page 1 
in his informal litany is st. anthony, the patron saint of lost items. when talking to students, the professor said he often notices “they are missing something.” 
“they’re looking for some­thing, and that something is faith,” hums said. 
hums has experience with this, since he said he once struggled with faith himself. however, st. anthony helped him through this time, he said. 
“at one point in time i think i was a little bit lost too. but i got found,” hums said. 
a final saint hums said played an essential role in his life is st. andré bessette, formerly known as brother andré of the congregation of holy cross. at one point in hums’ life, his mother was very sick, to the point that hums said he couldn’t prop­erly care for her anymore. 
after leaving her at the schubert house, an assisted living facility, he went to a nearby statue of brother andré. 
“brother andre,” he said in prayer to the statue. “there’s nothing i can do. i’m a failure. i turn her care over to you, be­cause i trust. whatever you do, i know it’ll be god’s will.” 
in her time at the schubert house, hums’ mother went from a wheelchair, to a walk­er, to a cane, to being able to walk on her own, hums said. 
“the last few years of my life, through brother andre, i got my mother back. they tell you miracles do happen … that’s a miracle from brother andre. that’s why he means so much to me,” hums said. 
hums closed by saying ev­eryone must find time for god in their busy lives, whether it’s through a litany of saints or some other form of prayer­ful reflection. 
“close your eyes, just relax, and into that silence, sur­rounded by all the business, this is where god comes in.” 
Contact Aidan Lewis at  alewis9@nd.edu 

paid adVertisemeNt 



the obserVer | FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2015 | NdsmcobserVer.com 

complexity of the adolescent. and community,” lapsley the basic foundation of 
NDSF Teens 
the search for the answer to said. “this is sometimes shakespeare plays — the text — 
coNtiNued From page 1 coNtiNued From page 1 
this question, he said, can re-called the basic duality of hu­“our focus, always, is on great shines through, mudge said. 

sult in a sense of egocentrism man existence. we all want to tour a shakespeare play or a storytelling and compelling 
consequences, and this is be-in which teens feel as though be independent and autono­classical play all throughout narrative,” mudge said. “if there 
cause of the work of the lim-they are the center of the mous, but we don’t want to be michiana,” he said. “they … were a core to [NdsF], it’s ensur­
bic system,” he said. “teens attention. isolated or alienated or lonely. form a part of the professional ing that the phenomenal lan­
are drawn to immediate ben-“as a consequence of ado-“as much we yearn for at-company, which are [actor’s guage with which shakespeare 
efit, so much so that they are lescent egocentrism, teens tachment, union and love, we equity association] actors from crafted the plays rings through 
willing to settle for less as are set to construct imagi-don’t want to be enmeshed in the union of professional ac-very clearly. if you’ve got all 
long as the benefit is received nary audiences,” lapsley our relationships. we must tors and local pros, designers the effects in the world but you 
faster.” said. “they assume that they strike a balance, and a lot of and coaches that come from can’t hear ‘to be or not to be,’ 
“as kids get older, they are are on stage and everyone the pain of adolescence is try-all over the country and work something’s missing.” 
more likely to consider both else in their lives is the audi-ing to find out where that bal­at Notre dame in the summer. students who audition and 
the risk and the benefit of ence they are playing to, and ance is.” … [students] would be work-aren’t cast in the company or 
their decisions, and they are so this is said to account for he said improving the abil­ing right alongside tony award would prefer not to act also 
more likely to consider the the heightened sense of self-ity of a child to cope with ad-nominees and chicago’s ver-have an opportunity to work on 
long term consequences of consciousness. you’d be self-versity doesn’t take anything sion of that, Jeff awards.” the festival. Junior mary patano 
their actions,” he said. conscious too if you thought exotic; it just takes the forma­aside from the hired actors, worked as an assistant stage 
lapsley said there are ele-tion of meaningful, healthy mudge said he is particularly manager during last summer’s 
ments of adolescence that are relationships. 
“We must strike 

excited to work with hyler and festival. 
shared across different spe­

“the most important part yousefzadeh, who will be di-“i had never really done a lot 
cies — something that is a re-

a balance, and of resiliency is that a kid has recting “the tempest” and of stage management before, so 
sult of evolutionary changes 
a lot of the pain one good relationship with 

“pericles, prince of tyre,” the i wasn’t really sure what to ex-in the brain. 
a caring adult who conveys 
of adolescence 

festival’s two featured shows pect, but it made me appreciate 
“this occurs not just in 
that to the child,” lapsley 
is trying to find 

this season. all of the work that goes into the 
human adolescence, but 

said. “children bring a lot to “[tempest director hyler] has shows,” patano said. “i helped 
across all mammalian spe­

out where that the table, but the most impor­a bunch of great experience that with some of the set building, i 
cies,” lapsley said. “this in-

balance is.” tant thing is that this recruit has led him to another gig he helped with costume changes, i 
dicates that this risk-taking 
the attention of an adult in a 
Daniel Lapsley 

has next year. he’s directing the was there for teching the lights, 
and sensation-seeking con­
child’s life.” 
chairman 

first ever broadway production the sounds and all of these 
veys an evolutionary advan­
lapsley said he hopes his 
department of psychology 

by cirque du soleil, which is wonderful things that people 
tage, which is a point i hope 

audience identifies with his the largest theater company in put so much work into just kind 
you keep in mind in worrying topics in the same way he the world,” mudge said. “this is of made the show. it’s a lot of 
about of your own kids.” the whole school was buzzing identifies with them. the first time they’ve ever been work.” 
“as result, teenagers are about you, noticing all of your “i think that’s why i got into on broadway and he’s the stag-patano also said she enjoyed 
more emotional, more re-flaws and applauding your this,” he said. “i think that’s ing director. … so what’s nice is interacting with students out­
sponsive to stress and more achievements.” why i study adolescence, be-because we’re Notre dame, and side of the festival. 
likely to engage in reward the professor said adoles-cause at the end of the day because, also, it’s a really lovely “you all live together in the 
and sensation-seeking,” he cence is characterized by a the topics that are of inter-kind of family atmosphere and houses, so you have these din-
said. “these changes also search for identity, one that is est to me, that i like to study a lovely place to come to work, ners, and everyone comes to-
make teenagers more vulner-consistent between the per-and write about, are things he returns and works with us on gether and it’s a lot of fun,” she 
able to substance abuse and son you were as a child and that i think i’ve wrestled with multiple years even though he said. “i really liked living in 
depression.” the promise of what you will myself.” could be off doing anything.” the house. we had a super-fan 
lapsley said a concern to be in adulthood. because of hyler’s outside house where everything was 
answer the question “who “i think individuation is a Contact Matthew McKenna at experience, NdsF is able to ex-covered in Notre dame stuff.” 
am i?” drives the intellectual balancing between agency mmcken12@nd.edu periment more than they have because of the valuable expe­
paid adVertisemeNt 

in the past, mudge said. rience and the bonds created, 
“if anybody has tumbling, patano said she recommends gymnastics or musical skills, students get involved. we want to see them, or at least “i’ve never regretted audi­know it,” mudge said. “west is tioning for something, because going to be adding elements if you don’t audition or don’t of modern circus arts into the try it, it’s an automatic no,” she tempest.” said. “so giving it that shot, i 
mudge said yousefzadeh, think, is worth it, especially who is directing pericles, brings for NdsF, especially because a slightly different perspective shakespeare’s so relatable to ev­than hyler. eryone. … i learned how to take 
“she just has that kind of ter-initiative and work with people rific perspective you want in who aren’t just students. you’re someone who works with un-working with professionals… dergrads,” he said. “she treats you can’t beat their experience.” them seriously, makes sure mudge said students like that they have a chance to be as patano who participate in the creative as professionals, rec-festival use the experience they ognizes that sometimes at that learn for years to come. early career phase you don’t “many of the folks who’ve quite know where you’re re-been through the young com-ally going. so she knows when pany report that it is an abso­to step in and guide a little bit lutely profound, life-changing more. [she has a] really great experience,” he said. “their sensibility for that.” awareness of how people be­
mudge said NdsF also gives have and why people behave Notre dame faculty a chance to that way is enhanced immea­showcase their skills, too. surably by working with these 
“right here [at Notre dame], plays. … i keep coming back to too, are resident artists,” mudge them because i change. my per-said. “marcus stephens teaches spective change and suddenly i scenic design and other theater see new things in the plays all courses, and he is a brilliant de-the time.” signer who always brings a dif-to schedule an audi­ferent lens through which to see tion performance email the play and through which to NdsFauditions@nd .edu, be onstage and inhabit the play. and to inquire about a posi­he has a tremendous creative tion working backstage email brain that i very much value NdsFhiring@nd.edu. and enjoy working with.” 
the first priority of NdsF, Contact Courtney Becker at however, is to ensure that cbecker3@nd.edu 

the obserVer | FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2015 | NdsmcobserVer.com 


By KATHY MINKO 
scene writer 

this weekend, the Notre dame student players will put on “Naked mole rats in the world of darkness” at washington hall, and junior direc­tor mary patano promises a humorous show to entertain all. 
“i picked [the show] out in the begin­ning of June,” patano said. “i feel like with a name like this, people are going to want to come see it.” 
“Naked mole rats in the world of darkness” — an intriguing title indeed 
— satirizes gender relations between husband and wife, boyfriend and girl­friend and platonic friends. 
“Naked mole rats [are] blind their entire lives, … but they mate for life,” patano said. “i think that has to do with [the fact] that men and women are often times just kind of flying blind and going wherever, but they’re still together.” 
By ADRIAN LORE 
scene writer 

it’s a normal halloween at the of­fice. people are dressed up, and an older man looks innocent enough wearing a costume of blood splat­tered all over his white dress shirt. he stands around nonchalant, but when the camera takes him aside, he con­fides: “it’s halloween. that is really really good timing.” 
evidently, the blood was part of no costume, but that should come as no surprise to any consummate creed bratton fan, who knows all about (and therefore least about) this innocent-looking geriatric’s vaguely and not­so-vaguely clandestine antics beyond his role as quality assurance repre­sentative for dunder mifflin paper company, inc. 
and in his constant evasion of the police, this elusive figure that 
the cast of nine Notre dame students perform a variety of monologues and skits, dramatizing stereotypical attri­butes of both men and women. whether through comments from husbands claiming that men will forever lose ar­guments to their wives or charges that men never listen to their spouses, the Notre dame student players present a comedic and relatable representation of gender relations in today’s world. 
“yes, guys and girls are very different,” patano said. “but when it comes down to it, we all want the same things. we just go about it in different ways.” 
patano said she has been pleased with her actors’ performances and their overall chemistry, both on and off the stage. casted immediately after Fall break, the players would go on to meet one-on-one or in small groups to rehearse the 19 monologues and skits separately. 
right before thanksgiving, the entire 
nonetheless became a fixture throughout the nine seasons of the office is coming to perform at legends at 10 p.m. on saturday, sponsored by sub. but many fans of the show will be surprised to find that his perfor­mance will be not so much centred on bratton the tV series character, but rather on bratton the musician. 
indeed, not many know that before bratton began his long run on the office, his entertainment career be­gan as a professional musician, a pur­suit he continues today. born into a family of musicians, in his early years during the ’60s he was a member of folk rock band the grass roots, who were no mere bedroom band but a nationally-acclaimed group with two gold albums and several chart-top­ping singles during the height of their fame. he was very active during those years, and certainly a part of the television character’s eccentricity is cast joined forces for the first time to run through the entire show. 
“it can be scary to work on something for a month only to meet the rest of your cast two days before a show,” patano said. “but [they] have really come together.” 
patano said she attributes the imme­diate chemistry of cast and crew mem­bers both to the nature of the show and to the nature of the actors. 
“what’s awesome is that we have peo­ple from different grades [and majors] in the show. it’s not just one group of people,” said patano. “the great thing about theatre is that you can take peo­ple of any different [background] and put them together to create something as a whole. that’s what’s so great about having a cast and crew like this.” 
chemistry and culture are evident throughout the performance, as each character shares his or her own story to convey the humor, irony and satire 
based on bratton’s actual life: during those early years he traveled around the world, playing guitar at festivals from san Francisco to israel. 
he left the grass roots just as the decade came to a close, and it was not long after his departure from the band that bratton began his acting career in earnest. he made appear­ances in movies and television shows alike during the subsequent decades, but his musical output stagnated. interestingly enough, it was at the turn of the century, not long before his first appearance on the office, that bratton began to release music again, this time as a solo artist. since then he has been quite prolific, having released several albums in the past decade, even as he doubled as creed bratton the television character and worked several other roles, even per­forming as a voice actor for popular cartoon program adventure time. 
that comprises basic male-female re­lationships. with characters providing representations of various attributes of a man and woman’s brain and body, the show encourages audience members to pay attention and think critically about each scenario. 
“Naked mole rats in the world of darkness” will show Friday evening at 7:30 p.m., and saturday at 4 p.m., in washington hall’s lab theatre. students can buy tickets at the door or at the laFortune box office for $5. 
patano said the cast and crew encour­age Notre dame students to attend their performances. 
“i’m really excited for people to see this for the first time and be caught off guard a little bit,” patano concludes. “they’ll be pleasantly surprised by what’s in there.” 
Contact Kathy Minko at             kminko@nd.edu 
admirably, though he has acknowl­edged his influence and popularity as an actor and skill as a comedian, he remains true to his roots as a musi­cian, and has not neglected this pas­sion in recent years. this, in fact, seems to be why he chooses now to perform shows in which these dis­tinct sides of him blend. and thank goodness, because as much as we may all have enjoyed his role in the office and the beloved (or feared) fictional character of creed bratton, it is cer­tainly exciting that we will be able to experience his talent in a different way that represents who this peculiar man really is. 
the event starts Friday at 10 p.m. at legends. admission is free for stu­dents with a Notre dame, saint mary’s or holy cross i.d. 
Contact Adrian Lore at             asanch11@nd.edu 
JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 



the obserVer | FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2015 | NdsmcobserVer.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

beauty in the ruins 
Chelsey Fattal 
News writer 

when i studied abroad in argentina last spring, my program immersed me into the resplen­dent culture and city of córdoba for six months. landing in córdoba on Feb. 7, i was a naïve dreamer who had no idea of her place in the world. looking back, i never expected to accom­plish what i did during my time there. it was truly a miracle. 
living roughly 4,900 miles away from my home in chapel hill, North carolina and approximately 5,300 miles from school in south bend, indiana, by april i remembered sitting in my bedroom, when i felt empty. i sat alone in my host family’s house in pain and heartbreak. Not only had i failed to fulfill my goals while being abroad, but i did not yet feel connected to the people there. deciding to rid myself of my sour outlook, i de­vised a plan to do something about it — i had to be bold before i returned home in July, with no regrets. with that said, i had an itch to go some­where majestic. somewhere i could marvel at with my own eyes, and soak in the people, the archi­tecture, the food, the smells, the culture and the ruins from the past. 
at the whomping age of 22, i needed to travel fearlessly, in whichever direction my sojourning spirit was guiding me. consequently, my spirit seemed to be leading me towards peru and i was afraid of what i was asking myself to do; what i was asking myself to risk. mustering all the cour­age i had, i took the plunge to “trek peru.” you see, i chose to go to machu picchu because there was beauty in the ruins. beauty i struggled to understand. more simply, i personally refused to see how bad something was in my life, until it destroyed me. so, why not embrace it and find the roots of a civilization, who had successfully reconstructed their beauty through a refined “brokenness?” 
above all, there is the fascination at machu picchu to “find yourself” and to answer the impor­tant “questions of life” — whether it is underneath the swaying vines or perched on top of a beetling crag — the rugged masonry of a bygone race will dazzle you. there, i tried to understand the bewil­dering romance of the ancient builders who, ages ago, sought refuge in this region, like i did. like the ancient people who built it, i traversed a dif­ficult journey through a deep and winding gorge, stumbling and twisting past overhanging cliffs of incredible heights. Never before had i felt more intrigued and terrified, all at the same time. 
walking up the stone steps of the entrance to machu picchu, it was remarkable to think that after being abandoned in 1572, it was not again brought to the world’s attention until 1911. this indicated to me it is never too late to rediscover something: within ourselves, within the world or within one another. 
i dedicate this column to those who, in light of exams, lack the motivation to continue on, to those who are currently facing adversity in their personal lives and to the ones who view their impending graduation as a quagmire. i want to encourage you all to not give up. if i have learned anything in south america, it is nunca se rinde — never give up. 
Contact Chelsey Fattal at                              cfatta01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
A sermon on hatred 
Gary Caruso 
capitol comments 
a current Notre dame senior administrator’s spouse — a fundamentally conservative catholic who unquestionably follows every entrenched exclusionary edict espoused by the likes of New york cardinal timothy dolan — several years ago told me to leave catholicism if i did not like it. to this day it angers me to recollect that moment of segregation, which fortunately today pope Francis has rejected in favor of ministry, forgiveness and inclusion. i, a card-carrying lector and weekly at­tending parishioner at st. matthews cathedral with just as much right to worship as anyone else, chose to fight for change within the church structure. unfortunately, others with a low tolerance for con­frontation from a similar slight simply channel their rage in other tragic, lethal ways, most notably mass shootings. 
obviously, violent mass shootings like this week’s massacre in san bernardino that killed 17 unarmed health department employees emanate from some form of derangement, rage or hatred. authorities have yet to determine the exact motives behind 
u.s. citizen and local county health inspector syed rizwan Farook and his foreign-born wife, tashfeen malik. the couple, dressed in body armor and black tactical warfare gear, brandished 223-caliber as­sault rifles, semi-automatic handguns and explosive devices. the husband-wife team met through an internet dating site where Farook identified himself as a chicago-born muslim with the username “fa­rooksyed49.” authorities are still working to unravel their history. 
some theorize the wife, malik, may have created a nexus to foreign terror in this case when she radi­calized her husband to the point of inciting him to prepare for and retaliate against something — the government, religious infidels or possibly fellow county workers. we do not know as of this publica­tion, but eventually the mystery will be unwound. whatever their motives, they mark this year’s 355th mass murder as defined by four or more casual­ties and calculated on the crowd-sourced “mass shooting tracker” run by a collection of reddit us­ers. as these numbers of mass shootings multiply, our sensitivity to murder numbs and a copycat con­tagion increases the likelihood of other domestic bloodbaths. 
how does our nation maintain a civilized society in light of legislative loopholes regarding gun sales, background checks and registrations while at the same time neglecting to prohibit assault weapons? Nationally, more than 300 million guns are current­ly in circulation. in fact, the Fbi recently handled an all-time daily record-high 185,000 background checks on black Friday alone. the National rifle association — from which i received certificates as far back as my high school years — claims we simply need to enforce the laws already on the books. that claim has been the Nra’s refrain since i first began working on capitol hill in the 1970s. in light of their resistance and congressional failure to strengthen gun laws, our nation’s only hope is to check the ha­tred that fuels disturbed, angered or sensitive indi­viduals to wage gun-related carnage. 
barely two weeks ago, oklahoma wesleyan university president dr. everett piper attempted to address his christian liberal arts campus with a thanksgiving holiday homily he described as “a sermon on love,” from corinthians 1:13 that focused on the love: “love is patient, love is kind. it does not envy, it does not boast, it is not proud.” surprisingly, a student complained to piper that his message of love “victimized” the student who felt badly that he (the student) did not exhibit love. in response, piper posted an open letter on the university blog in which he stated the campus was not daycare while characterizing the student and others like him who felt hurt or considered themselves victims as “self­absorbed and narcissistic.” 
piper has identified how uncontrollable hatred springs up in many ways throughout various cul­tures across the world, including our comfortable, self-absorbed american way of life. For many who are challenged and made uncomfortable — regard­less of whether through major religious or political differences, misinterpretations of a simple love sermon or a minor perceived disrespectful personal insult — their warped hatred identifies others as haters, oppressors and bigots. piper writes that dis­comfort stems from one’s conscience, and the goal is to learn to be selfless rather than self-centered, to be more interested in practicing personal forgive­ness than political revenge and to avoid playing the hater card rather than confessing your own hate. 
my sermon on hatred contains principles univer­sal and undeniable. with the absence of respectful discourse and civil disagreement come revulsion, suppression and hatred. when free thought and expression are limited to conform into a comfort­able majority, abhorrence springs from perceived differences of thought, lifestyle or action. history is littered with numerous examples of nations warring over perverted policies that attempt to mold oth­ers into one monolithic society. that is the current premise behind the islamic state, which must end through conversion or destruction before peace can reign. 
hopefully, the first positive and unifying aspect of fighting a common isil enemy moving forward will be to lessen the hatred within every nation’s bound­aries. moreover, such a collective and constructive better understanding around the globe will unite religious and political leaders in their commitments to uniformly say, “enough hatred!” 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. Contact him on Twitter: @GaryJCaruso or email: GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Have a Conscious Christmas 
i’m writing today to let the Notre dame commu­nity know about badin halls’ 7th annual conscious christmas handicraft sale, happening today from 11 
a.m. to 7 p.m. this event showcases fair trade gifts handcrafted in Nepal, many of which are designed by Notre dame’s own art and design students. they spend 10 weeks each summer working with artisans to modernize their products.this year’s sale is even more critical, with 100 percent of proceeds going to rebuilding efforts after last april’s devastating earth­quakes there. there is still so much work to be done. 
come shop knit hats and headbands, scarves, totes, bed covers and singing bowls and feel good finishing up your holiday shopping while supporting a great cause and the women of badin who work hard to put it on. look for the prayer flags directly across from south dining hall and enter on the side door. 
Ann-Marie Conrado 
assistant professional industrial design dec. 3 


the obserVer | FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2015 | NdsmcobserVer.com 
until death do us part 
Timothy Bradley 
guest columnist 

the center for ethics and culture hosted its 16th an­nual Fall conference in mckenna hall the weekend before thanksgiving. this year’s conference theme was freedom: a perennially pertinent theme. but perhaps it is more im­portant now than ever to understand the meaning of au­thentic freedom. consider just one arena in which freedom has recently been given a “progressive” — and dubious — meaning: marriage. 
this summer the supreme court held that same-sex marriage is a constitutional right because it is an impera­tive of “freedom.” Justice kennedy wrote in the court’s majority opinion that “the right to marry is a fundamental right inherent in the liberty of the person,” and later that the “nature of marriage is that, through its enduring bond, two persons together can find other freedoms, such as expression, intimacy and spirituality. this is true for all persons, whatever their sexual orientation.” 
but how does the legal right to enter a “marriage” con­tribute to the freedom of same-sex attracted persons? especially in light of the fact that, no matter what the law calls things, no two men or two women can in truth get married. 
the vision of marriage now enshrined in law sees mar­riage essentially as a deep and loving emotional bond, not necessarily connected with the rearing and upbringing of children, and valuable only so long as the participants are emotionally fulfilled. this revisionist view of marriage has taken hold of just one aspect of the truth about marriage 
— that it is chiefly an emotional union of persons — and exalted this aspect of marriage at the expense of all other aspects. and so the court and those who cheer its deci­sion have enlarged, so to speak, the freedom to marry by shrinking what marriage is. 
how exactly does doing that contribute to freedom? most people still agree marriage should be permanent, 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

the world is facing a crisis. a crisis full of many emotions — pity, terror, empathy, anger, sadness, fear. since the beginning of the syrian civil war in 2011, an estimated more than 9 million syrians have fled their homes in search of refuge. either relocating domesti­cally or internationally, families have uprooted their lives and their children, leaving their friends, relatives and any sense of normalcy. they leave not out of de­sire to find a new job. the refugees are not looking to seek a new lifestyle in a wealthier country out of greed. they are not pretending to flee a deadly war in order to inflict more violence abroad on americans and europeans. rather, they leave for one reason — fear for their lives. the same fear that the city of paris, the country of France and the whole world felt after the at­tacks a few weeks ago. i am in no way trying to belittle the atrocities that took place in paris, but rather i am trying to highlight the atrocity that the world has com­mitted by turning a blind eye to syria and the victims of its civil war. 
the paris terrorist attacks were devastating not only because innocent lives were taken but because it took the murder of these 129 innocent lives to make the world speak up. why are the 250,000 deaths within syria in the past four and a half years not enough? why are the 1,500 civilians that were killed in one day by the oppressive assad regime through chemical attacks not enough? why are the 2,800 refugees that have died while trying to flee the violence that paris saw for one night not enough? the answer is because the biggest emotion of this crisis is not anger or sadness — it is fear. the terrorists have this figured out. it is the very essence of their name — terror. their strategy works because the more they make us feel threatened and fearful for being who were are, the more we let them win. paris has sparked a conversation because this exclusive and monogamous. but the new vision of mar­riage enshrined by the supreme court this summer can­not provide a principled basis for these norms. 
if marriage is simply an emotional bond differing from other forms of companionship in degree of intensity and not in kind, why should marriage be limited to two people? similarly, on this view, why should marriage be perma­nent? why not get up and go when the spark fades? what about marriage calls for a permanent commitment “until death do we part?” again, why, on this view, does marriage call for sexual exclusivity? there is no principled reason 
— some will choose to live by these norms based on their preferences, but there is nothing about marriage in this understanding that inherently calls for fidelity to them. 
it seems that by redefining marriage — and thus making it harder for anyone to live out the norms of marriage most of us still think are important — the institution of same-sex marriage has eroded our freedom, making it more dif­ficult than ever to live out a true marriage. here, though, it is important to mention there is nothing particularly “homosexual” about the revisionist view of marriage. long before anyone was contemplating same-sex “marriage,” many heterosexual couples were buying into the revision­ist view, adhering to an ideology about sex and the family that has harmed marriage to this day. the institution of no-fault divorce harmed the marriage culture, as did in­creasing cultural approval of cohabitation, extramarital sex, pornography, the hookup culture and nonmarital childbearing. same-sex “marriage” did not cause these problems, but is rather the logical conclusion of the under­standing of marriage that these practices embody, foster and encourage. 
how does this revisionist view of marriage serve the freedom of persons experiencing same-sex attraction? it seems that by erasing the difference between marriage and other forms of companionship, such that your non-marital relationships are seen as simply less, this view has harmed friendship. how much more difficult will it be for persons of the same sex (especially those who seek to live 
A cry for morality 
fear is actualized in a country that we picture to be not too different from our own. when we picture syria, we picture a war-torn middle east where chemical war­fare, air strikes, oppressive governments and death is the norm. what we do not picture is the people, just like you and me, the kids and the young adults who have done nothing to deserve this injustice, yet it is still their daily lives from a country controlled by a terrorist group and an oppressive and murderous dic­tatorship. they have given up everything they love and everything they have simply to live. 
if you believe in what more than half of our gover­
nors have proposed — that we keep syrian refugees 
from seeking asylum in our country — then you are 
going to be on the wrong side of history. blaming the 
victims out of fear is cowardly and inhumane and 
has to be stopped immediately. we must stop this 
racist, shameful and un-american response to the 
crisis. we cannot let the world treat the refugees and 
innocent muslims everywhere as scapegoats for our 
islamaphobia. the refugees are not the radicalized 
extremists who are trying to kill us. since september 
11, no refugees have been arrested on domestic terror­
ism charges. the process to seek refugee status in the 
united states takes on average more than two years 
and is so extensive that by the time a refugee reaches 
our shores, the government knows who their third 
cousin is and what score they got on their fifth grade 
history test. Find me a terrorist with such a fabricated 
life and hidden extremism who is willing to wait two 
years to potentially be accepted. the islamic state can 
much more easily radicalize european nationalists or 
americans who are already free to flow between bor­
ders without government restriction. blaming the ref­
ugees and fearing the innocent will always be wrong. 
the attack on paris has made one thing clear — it is chastely) to find fulfillment in friendships with persons of the same sex now that marriage has been redefined? 
or consider children. how are children made more free by an institution that, with the blessing of the law, actively deprives them of their right to a mother and a father? how does this contribute to children’s freedom, especially when they are not given a choice — or a voice? 
the thing about marriage is it is not about freedom, at least, not freedom as we often understand it. dietrich bonhoeffer, in a letter written from his prison cell to a young married couple, wrote, “it is not your love that sus­tains the marriage, but from now on, the marriage that sustains your love.” similarly, g.k. chesterton writes, “in everything on this earth that is worth doing, there is a stage when no one would do it, except for necessity or honor. it is then that the institution upholds a man and helps him on to the firmer ground ahead.” 
the reason people have always desired marriage and sought to live by its norms is that living out a true marriage is a good thing for human beings to do. the norms of mar­riage — the rules of the game — make marriage possible and valuable. the institution upholds us — but can it up­hold us any longer? by redefining the institution and mak­ing nonsense of the norms that structure it, have we, under the guise of expanding freedom, undermined our freedom to live out the real thing? 
goethe wrote, “None are more hopelessly enslaved than those who falsely believe they are free.” has the revisionist view enshrined a false view of marriage — and the free­dom it requires and entails? has Justice kennedy extended a false promise of fulfillment and a false freedom to same-sex persons? i fear he has, and i fear we all will suffer the consequences of this false freedom. 
Tim Bradley is the president of Students for Child-Oriented Policy and editor-in-chief of the Irish Rover. Contact him at tbradle5@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
time to act. it is time to stand up to the violence rather than letting fear hold us back. the only weapon that is capable of defeating us is fear. we are strong and can defeat terrorism by not succumbing to the fear within us but rather turning it into conviction and desire for peace. the way to achieve peace through all this war is to not let fear suppress our moral obligation to stop violence and help those who are seeking refuge. 
in december of 1938, 68.8 percent of college stu­dents did not support accepting Jewish refugees from central europe. it is our time to step up and say we are not going to let another genocide happen. we have the power to hold our nation and our world to a higher standard and provide for those in need. a harsh winter is coming and unless you plan to ignore the real prob­lem while hundreds of thousands of people will freeze in refugee camps, forests and dirty streets, cry out for morality and justice. cry out for peace and human­ity. it starts here in our community at Notre dame for we are the young voice of america and we can cry out for change. cry out for our nation to follow the likes of germany and canada to aid the refugees. cry out and mourn for the deaths of not only the parisians but also the syrians. cry, cry — but act, for to be human is to love and to love is to provide for those in need. 
“we must not let ourselves be moved by fear in this country. we have seen that happen too many times in other countries. sometimes i worry about the pos­sibility that we will follow their example.” — eleanor roosevelt, 1939 on the overwhelming american fear of Jewish refugees 
Monica Montgomery 
freshman mcglinn hall Nov. 19 



CROSSWORD | will shortZ 


JUST ADD WATER | eric carlsoN & JohN roddy 
SUDOKU | the mepham group 


FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie HOROSCOPE | eugeNia last 


Happy Birthday: learn from past experiences. you will be prone to taking on too much and have a tendency to be indulgent and overly emotional this year. keep situations in perspective and deal with matters of concern quickly. trust in your ability to assess, confirm and make things happen. maximize your willpower and don’t look back. your numbers are 7, 12, 18, 21, 27, 33, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): a disciplined approach to contracts, legal matters and your finances will enable you to engage in the luxuries you enjoy. a discussion with someone you love will lead to greater incentives and future plans. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): participate in industry events or take part in celebrations that mark a new beginning. events and projects should be scheduled carefully to avoid creating a conflict with someone else’s plans. a shopping trip will lift your spirits. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you’ll face trouble if you make unrealistic promises. problems with children, people from your past or someone you are in a partnership with will escalate if you overreact. Focus inward instead of on what others do or say. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): do what you can to spruce up your surroundings. preparing for the festive season or getting involved in an event that is geared toward helping those less fortunate will result in great joy and new friendships. express your thoughts and feelings. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): getting out and taking part in events and activities that allow you to share your ideas and plans will lead to an opportunity. Networking, meetings and updating your resume will help you set your sights on future prospects. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): do your best to listen to any grievances being made before responding. take time to weigh all the pros and cons and consider the possible outcomes based on the choices you’ve been given. don’t overreact. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): use your knowledge and your experience to your advantage. someone will try to get the best of you, but as long as you are well-informed regarding situations that influence your life, you will come out on top. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): revisit old ideas and reconnect with people you have worked with in the past. the information you receive may not be accurate, but it will spark your interest and allow you to turn a questionable idea into a viable venture. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): travel or dealing with emotional situations or authority figures will not bode well. stick close to home, and if you feel the need to make changes, concentrate on your living space or personal skills and appearance. make love, not war. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): avoid anyone trying to put pressure or demands on you. gravitate toward people who offer stability and security, not those making impulsive changes or inconsistent offers. protect your health and your assets, and steer clear of fast-talking wheelers and dealers. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): when it comes to contracts and agreements, make sure all your paperwork is in order. investing time and effort into the way you look and feel will bring excellent results as well as compliments from someone special. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): keep a clear mind when dealing with situations that have the potential to explode. listen carefully, but don’t get involved in something that might compromise your reputation or an important relationship. if you judge others, you will be judged as well. 

Birthday Baby: you are determined, outgoing and sensitive. you are forthright and charismatic. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
RAWEY  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
TIBRO  

PANEWO HACTED  
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

Answer here: 

(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: GOOSE CURVE WEAKEN MANNERYesterday’s 
Answer: The children’s birthday party turned every sec­tion of the house into a — “WRECK” ROOM 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

to
 receive the observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable to and mail to: the observer p.o. box 779 Notre dame, iN 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name 
address 
city     state Zip 


NdsmcobserVer.com | FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2015 | the obserVer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Committee deserves chaos 

Alex Carson 
associate sports editor 
if everything goes accord­ing to plan this weekend, the college Football playoff’s selection committee will have about as easy of a job as it ever will. 
clemson will remain No. 1 with a win, while No. 2 alabama, No. 3 oklahoma and the winner of the big ten championship game between No. 4 iowa and No. 5 michigan state will follow the tigers into the four-team playoff. 
with a chock full final week­end of the season, the only scrutinizing the committee can expect to face will be its decision on whether oklahoma or the big ten champion will be seeded third to face the crimson tide. 
in a way, that’d be a little unfortunate. 
the playoff system we have now is inherently better than its predecessor, the much-maligned bcs, but that doesn’t necessarily mean the commit­tee is doing its job as well as it should be. 
in last week’s rankings, oklahoma made a big jump to No. 3, remaining there this week after the conclusion of their season. the sooners had previously been hurt by their loss to texas — but after a win over tcu, the commit­tee ceased its punishment of oklahoma for the bad loss oct. 10. 
the rationale was that the sooners had proven enough since that loss, such that the committee was willing to look past it — and more specifically at the team’s recent results. 
in short, what oklahoma did in october was no longer relevant, as it was playing so well in November to warrant its dismissal. 
but on the flip side, the com­mittee has still opted to punish North carolina for what it did in september, starting with a loss against south carolina and two wins over Fcs opponents. 
granted, none of that looks particularly great, es­pecially when considering those gamecocks lost to the citadel in November, but North carolina’s recent play has more than proven it’s worthy of be­ing in the picture for a playoff spot, even with its best wins coming against pittsburgh and miami. 
and that’s not to say the com­mittee hasn’t made the right call in putting the tar heels at No. 10 this week — quite frank­ly, i think it’s a fair spot — but if North carolina’s able to snatch the upset saturday, they’d be more than deserving of a spot in the four-team playoff, ahead of clemson, who they face in saturday’s acc title game, ohio state or a pac-12 cham­pion stanford. 
because here’s the thing: 
michigan state has played a couple top-tier teams al­ready — oregon, michigan and ohio state — and ran the table through those games. while the spartans might not be, or look, that great at times, they’ve proven this season they’re capable of beating the top teams in college football. 
that is to say, they may be the best team in the country. 
if North carolina wins saturday against clemson, it will have passed its only test of the season against a top-tier team. 
as surprising as it would be, that too would mean the tar heels may be the best team in the country. like michigan state would with a win over iowa on saturday, North carolina would be unbeaten against top competition this season. 
but would the committee throw the tar heels into the playoff over the same clemson team they beat, ohio state or stanford, none of whom would have as good of a win as North carolina would? 
it’d come down to whether or not the committee wants to follow the same rationale used to vault oklahoma to No. 3. 
teams like oklahoma state, tcu and North carolina have been punished in the rankings this year for what they did in september, playing weak non-conference schedules. 
and as long as a team hasn’t done anything particularly noteworthy since, that’s com­pletely fine. 
but if North carolina tops clemson on saturday, it will have amassed a win that should render its early-season adventures moot. 
over the last two seasons, the committee has exhibited its fair share of recency bias — favoring teams that are playing well at the time of the rankings 
— but has also punished a fair share of teams for playing weak september slates. 
it shouldn’t be able to have it both ways. 
so instead of watching clemson head coach dabo swinney dance saturday night, i wouldn’t mind seeing a tar heels win. 
Just so the committee has something worthwhile to do. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SMC BASKETBALL | beNedictiNe 48, smc 36 
offensive struggles doom belles in loss to benedictine 
By BRENNA MOXLEY 
sports writer 
saint mary’s fell 48-36 wednesday night on the road against benedictine af­ter hitting a second-half dry spell. 
the belles (0-7, 0-1 miaa) trailed by seven after the first quarter, and after scor­ing only four points in the third quarter they were un­able to make a comeback. 
belles head coach Jennifer henley praised her defense, but she said the belles’ in­ability to score following halftime eventually doomed the team. 
“i thought we did a great job defensively [wednesday] night,” henley said. “our offense went cold in the third quarter, and we strug­gled to overcome that.” 
the belles were lead by senior captain and forward krista knapke who had 12 points and six rebounds on the game. Fellow captain and senior guard maddie kohler had seven points, four rebounds and four assists while sophomore forward gabby diamond chipped in another six points, five re­bounds and a pair of assists. Junior forward kelsey ronan also contributed in the los­ing effort with five points, three rebounds, an assist and a steal. 
saint mary’s went 14-of-57 
(24.6 percent) on field goals, compared to benedictine’s 21-for-58 (36.2 percent). benedictine also held a 44­38 advantage in rebounds, including a 12-4 advantage on the offensive boards, but saint mary’s went a perfect 6-for-6 on free throws. the belles never led in the con­test, as ties at 2-2, 4-4 and 8-8 in the opening minutes of the first quarter were the closest the belles came to holding the advantage. 
the belles have their sec­ond conference game at calvin on sunday at 3 p.m. the knights are currently 5-1 and have scored more than 80 points in each of their games this season. 
Contact Brenna Moxley at bmoxley01@saintmarys.edu 
FIFA 
US prosecutors indict 16 more in FIFA scandal 
Associated Press 
washiNgtoN — as mem­bers of FiFa’s executive com­mittee prepared to vote on reforming soccer’s scandal-plagued governing body, swiss government agents swept into a luxury hotel be­fore dawn for a second wave of arrests on corruption charges in the wake of an­other sweeping indictment by 
u.s. prosecutors. 
Five current and former members of FiFa’s ruling executive committee were among 16 additional men charged with bribes and kick­backs in a 92-count indict­ment unsealed thursday that took down an entire genera­tion of soccer leaders in south america, a bedrock of FiFa and world cup history. 
“the betrayal of trust set forth here is truly outra­geous,” u.s. attorney general loretta lynch said. “the scale of corruption alleged herein is unconscionable.” 
led away by swiss federal police at Zurich’s baur au lac hotel were Juan angel Napout of paraguay, president of the south american confed­eration (coNmebol), and alfredo hawit of honduras, head of the North and central american and caribbean gov­erning body (coNcacaF). 
the arrests — at the same hotel where initial raid oc­curred in may — came just before FiFa’s executive com­mittee met to approve reform and transparency measures long resisted by soccer’s top leaders but ones that gained traction in the aftermath of the scandal. 
rafael callejas, honduras’ president from 1990-94 and a current member of FiFa’s tele­vision and marketing com­mittee, was indicted, as was hector trujillo, a judge on guatemala’s constitutional court. 
also among those charged was ricardo teixeira, the president of brazilian soc­cer from 1994-2012. teixeira is a former son-in-law of Joao havelange, who was FiFa’s president from 1974-98. in ad­dition, guilty pleas were un­sealed for former coNcacaF president Jeffrey webb and former executive committee member luis bedoya. 
the 236-page superseding indictment was handed up by a grand jury in New york on Nov. 25. 
eleven current and former members of FiFa’s executive committee have been charged in the investigation, which al­leges hundreds of millions of dollars in illegal payments over the past quarter-cen­tury that involved the use of 
u.s. banks and meetings on american soil. the last three presidents of coNcacaF and coNmebol have been indicted. 
“the message from this an­nouncement should be clear to every culpable individual who remains in the shadows, hoping to evade this ongoing investigation: you will not wait us out and you will not escape our focus,” lynch said. 
honduras said later thursday that the united states had requested callejas’ extradition and the central american nation would coop­erate with washington. 
“Nobody is above the law,” president Juan orlando hernandez’s government said in a statement. 
at a news conference in the capital, tegucigalpa, callejas said his lawyers were study­ing the accusations and con­sidering what steps to take. 
“i will fight unwaveringly to clear up my legal situation in the united states,” the former leader said. 
Fourteen men were charged in may, when four additional guilty pleas were unsealed, with prosecutors alleging bribes involving the media and marketing rights for the copa america, the coNcacaF gold cup, world cup quali­fiers and other competitions. eight more guilty pleas were unsealed thursday, includ­ing three by men indicted in may: webb, marketing execu­tive alejandro burzaco and Jose margulies, described by prosecutors as an intermedi­ary. also pleading guilty were former colombian federation president luis bedoya and former chilean federation president sergio Jadue. 
webb, a cayman islands citizen who has been released on bail and is largely re­stricted to his home in stone mountain, georgia, pleaded guilty to racketeering con­spiracy, three counts of wire fraud conspiracy and three counts of money laundering conspiracy. he agreed to for­feit more than $6.7 million. 



and stay focused,” bjork said. overtime periods against mcgraw said. “it’s kind of up to 
Hockey 
“it’s a long season and there the minutemen on home W Bball her pain tolerance, so we’re go­

coNtiNued From page 12 coNtiNued From page 12 
are a lot of ups and downs. ice. bjork afforded a weary figure that out.” 
ing to have to manage that and 

especially in college hockey, chuckle when asked about by against at home 75-72. given the injuries and tight 
“ego’s a bad thing, but it’s every team’s competitive. the circumstances sur­connecticut ran away from the games the team has played this 
also a good thing,” Jackson you just have to stay positive rounding that particular tilt. buckeyes, 100-56, in columbus, week, mcgraw said the big goal 
said. “we want to see [bjork] and not get frustrated. that “i think everyone’s think­ohio, on Nov. 16. for the irish right now is to find 
make the national junior applies both individually ing about it a little bit,” bjork as if the task of playing a way be productive in practice 
team. we want to see all and as a team.” said. “it was an unusual the huskies was not daunt-while giving everyone, like ju­
of our kids have success in speaking as a team, the game.” ing enough, the irish will also nior guard lindsay allen, the 
those types of situations. … irish will attempt to rectify bjork said his team is have to do so short-handed yet rest they need before saturday’s 
but the problem is that they this weekend what bjork ready for anything this time again. For the fourth-straight game. allen played 39 of the 40 
get wrapped up in trying to identified as a strange trend around. game the irish will be without minutes in wednesday night’s 
get the result before focusing for himself and his team-“anything can happen in reigning acc player of the year victory over ohio state. 
on the process. i think that’s mates. the irish have strug-a hockey game – you’ve just sophomore forward brianna “we got to rest a little bit,” 
what hurt anders: he was gled on home ice thus far this got to keep persevering when turner. mcgraw said. “[sophomore 
trying to get away from the season, an anomaly bjork those crazy things happen,” moreover, the team will soon forward kathryn westbeld is] 
details of the game. he was said the team hopes to cor-he said. find out if it can expect turner playing a ton of minutes inside. 
too busy pressing and trying rect starting this weekend. “still, hopefully it doesn’t back in the lineup at any point i think the guards can handle 
to score.” “something we’ve been happen again.” this season, irish head coach the minutes because we got 
bjork said he has learned trying to focus on as a team the irish open their mcgraw said. some depth at guard, but the 
a great deal in his still is to improve our record at home series against the “[brianna] is either going post is gonna have to rest a lit-
young collegiate hockey ca-home,” bjork said. “we want minutemen on Friday, at 7:35 to have [season-ending] sur-tle bit.” 
reer. he expressed as much to get some more wins and p.m. at compton Family ice gery right away, or try to play offensively, the irish plan 
wednesday when he ad-get the atmosphere better arena. the puck is scheduled in a brace,” mcgraw said. “she to continue practicing the 
dressed how he was learning around here.” to drop at 6:10 p.m. saturday can’t play in the next week or princeton offense that suits the 
to cope with the grind of the better perhaps, but not as night. so, so they’ll have some time to roster’s current makeup best 
collegiate hockey season. crazy as things got in the think it over.” in preparation for the huskies, 
“i learned a lot [last year] postseason last year, when Contact Brett O’Connell at missing turner’s presence mcgraw said. 
about how to be disciplined the irish fought through five boconne1@nd.edu in the interior forces the team “playing four guards is really to mix defensive schemes and great for our offense,” mcgraw play better team defense to pre-said. “ ... i think that we have vent conceding easy baskets, the stuff that we need, we just mcgraw said. have to work together a little bit 
“she makes such a differ-more in it. ence for our team,” mcgraw “i think that we’ll see some said. “we just don’t have the similar things that we saw shot-blocking, and i thought [against ohio state] defensive­[ohio state] made a lot of shots ly, so we got a good chance to around the basket that [turner] work on some of them.” maybe would have altered. we ultimately, mcgraw said the gotta do a better job of not let-most important thing for her ting them get that far. we gotta team is to carry confidence get more physical, help down, into the game and believe it trap the block and be a little can come away with the victo­more active defensively.” ry when the irish and huskies 
graduate student guard tip on saturday at 5:15 p.m. madison cable said the team at gampel pavilion in storrs, did not play strong team de-connecticut. fense against the buckeyes and “[belief] is really important,” needs to do more to compen-mcgraw said. “i think that’s sate for turner’s absence. such a big part of the game no 
“bri’s a really big presence matter who you play. you have around the hoop,” cable said. to believe in yourself and think “she either blocks the shot or you can win.” alters it, so we have to play bet­ter defense.” Contact Ben Padanilam at 
however, the injury bug has bpadanil@nd.edu been a challenge the irish have managed to play through and remain unscathed in the loss column thus far. and, on a more positive note, junior for­ward taya reimer continues to increase her playing time after being cleared to return from injury earlier this season, mcgraw said. 
“[reimer] is allowed to play,” 





NdsmcobserVer.com | FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2015 | the obserVer 


staying patient.” for us in that we got a couple 
note, finishing 13th in the Ncaa 

M Bball while noting ryan has losses out of the way. a cou­
Track 
championships and molly win­coNtiNued From page 12 
coNtiNued From page 12 

been humble about his im-ple bumps in the road, but 
ning the national champion-

pact, brey has been more i think we’ll be good going 
ship in the 10,000-meters,” 

six weeks of college basket-effusive about how big a forward.” 
all-americans from last season, turner said. “that’s kind of 

ball. although freshmen do difference the 6-foot-8 ryan said the key for him 
including senior molly seidel, carried on with cross country 

see the floor on mike brey-swingman has on the team through the ups and downs 
the women’s 10,000-meter na-on the women’s side. we had 

coached teams, not many already, more than just the of the early going has been 
tional champion, and junior that great freshman recruiting 

have seen it so often early 5.1 points he averages per learning from the other suc­
margaret bamgbose, who fin-class, we had two first team all-

on like ryan has, averag-game. cessful shooters Notre dame 
ished sixth nationally in the americans in cross and molly 

ing 15.3 minutes per game “i think he’s going to be fields in junior guards steve 
400-meter dash. turner, how-again, another national cham­

right off the bat. in a short a key guy for us,” brey said. Vasturia and demetrius 
ever said seidel, who won the pionship. and we finished top-

amount of time, ryan said “… i thought during our win Jackson and junior forward 
Ncaa cross country champi-10, which was one of our goals. 

he has already learned a lot. against a very good team in V.J. beachem. 
onship on Nov. 21, and most ... 

“[Number one thing is] iowa he was fabulous for us, “it’s great being able to 
of Notre dame’s top track per-“so we want to keep this mo-

just letting the game come and he rebounded for us. watch them,” ryan said. “a 
formers will not participate in mentum going and the key for 

to you,” ryan said. “if you the one thing he does is he bunch of veteran guys … 
the meet. me and my staff is keeping our 

try to force anything and can put his body on people [that teach] always mov­
“most of our distance kids kids, the ones we know that are 

play faster than you can, physically and defend. he ing in the offense, picking 
are not going to run, especially going to nationals ... keeping 

then you’ll mess up. you’ve can rebound, and we know your spot on the offense — 
ones that ran cross country,” those young ladies fresh and 

got to compete 100 percent he can make shots. i thought especially when demetrius 
turner said. “a bulk of the team healthy, and i think we’re going 

on the defensive end, but he made some big passes in is coming off so many ball 
on the track will be our mid-to have another record-setting 

on the offensive end you’ve the iowa game so i want to screens. interchanging with 
distance guys and girls and our year. i definitely think we can 

got to stay patient and play keep teaching and building the guys, not just standing 
short sprinters and obviously be a top-10 team indoor and 

within the offense, play his confidence because he’s still.” 
our throwers and jumpers. ... outdoor.” 

within yourself and trust a key guy for us.” while ryan has come 
margaret bamgbose, we’re just the irish men finished ninth 

your teammates.” the iowa game last week-a long way since he fist 
going to put her in the 60-me-at last year’s acc outdoor 

ryan will be the first to end was ryan’s best of the stepped foot on campus, he 
ter dash, she’s a first-time all-championship, and turner said 

admit he hasn’t shown off season, as he logged 26 min-will be the most inexperi­
american in the 400-meters. we the men’s team is eager for a 

everything he can do so utes and scored 11 points on enced in the rotation as the 
are kind of taking it easy with bounce-back year. 

far. the freshman said he 3-for-5 shooting. but ryan irish progress through the 
the superstar kids so to speak. “on the men’s side, last year 

is simply finding his role on has had some growing pains season. 
let them still get training in we had so many freak injuries 

the team and helping out in as well, totaling 18 minutes “i love our group,” brey 
during the break.” here and there, and we were 

whatever way he is asked. and zero points combined said. “my frame of mind has 
the “superstar kids” like trying to rebuild,” turner said. 

“i’m just being patient, in Notre dame’s two losses been teach, teach, teach, 
seidel and bamgbose will be “the men’s cross country team 

not trying to force any-so far this season. although and it will probably be the 
key to Notre dame’s success started off slowly, but they fin-

thing offensively,” ryan ryan wasn’t even on the case up through February.” 
this season as the women’s ished the season very, very well. 

said. “defending, rebound-team last year, he already maybe one day ryan will 
team looks to improve on a fifth ... their confidence is very high. 

ing, just doing whatever i sounds like a veteran when fully flourish in brey’s sys-
place finish at the acc outdoor our men’s team has had a pretty 

can. right now spotting up talking about the differenc-tem, setting records and 
championships last season. good fall so far, so i’m anxious 

shooting — that’s how i’m es between this year’s squad guiding the team as a lead-
turner said the irish will look to see what they can do.” 

helping the team right now. and last year’s. er. For now, though, he said 
to use seidel’s recent national the blue and gold invitational 

“… a few dribbles here “we had so much success he’s just trying to soak up as 
championship in cross country starts at 4:30 p.m. Friday at 

and there, get other people last year,” ryan said. “we much as possible. 
to give to give the team momen-loftus sports complex. 

involved whenever i can. know we’re a whole new 
tum for the track season. 

they don’t limit me, but i’m team. we lost a couple close Contact Brian Plamondon at 
“[the women’s team] finished Contact Marek Mazurek at 

just picking my spots now, games but i think it’s good bplamond@nd.edu 
the 2015 season on a very high mmazurek@nd.edu 
paid adVertisemeNt 





the obserVer | FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2015 | NdsmcobserVer.com 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Ryan developing into key player for Irish 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
Freshman forward matt ryan has only played in sev­en games for Notre dame, but a quick look at his bio on Notre dame’s official sports website and makes it seem like the cortland manor, New york native could one day etch his name in the irish record books. 
“a true pure and skilled shooter who could become one of the special scorers in the history of the program,” one description reads. “will be a player that will flour­ish in mike brey’s system at Notre dame given his shoot­ing ability,” says another. 
maybe one day ryan will be the big shooter brey hopes can stretch defenses along the perimeter, but for now he is just soaking in his first 
see m bball PAGE 11 


TRACK & FIELD 
blue and gold kicks off campaign 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
tomorrow marks the begin­ning of the track and field sea­son as the irish host the blue and gold invitational at loftus sports center. 
though the bulk of the in­door track season will come in January and February, irish head coach alan turner said he is ex­cited to see what his team can do in a competitive setting this weekend. 
“i’m looking to see where my team is at and their fitness lev­el,” turner said, “this serves a couple purposes. Number one, just to gauge where we’re at as a team in an actual competition. ... i have to stress with the kids, ‘this is a real competition, not an exhibition.’ 
“obviously we don’t have to move mountains and set re­cords, that’s not the goal here. i just want to see where we’re at before the break to confirm what we’ve been seeing in training and just break up the monotony of running against ourselves for the past three months.” 
competing against the irish at the meet will be a number of schools from the midwest in­cluding bethel, depaul, detroit mercy, marquette and Northern illinois. turner said he is hop­ing for a high volume of first-place finishes from his team, but he still expects the meet to be competitive. 
“i think we’re going to come away with a lot of first places,” turner said. “this isn’t a knock on the depaul, marquette, illinois, detroit mercy and bethel. their kids are going to come ready to compete. it’s like when we com­pete in any sport at Notre dame: when you come to Notre dame, when you face Notre dame, we’re getting the best out of our opponents.” 
the irish return 11 of their 15 
see track PAGE 11 
HOCKEY 

Nd to host umass for pair of games 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writer 
the irish continue their hockey east campaign this weekend as they host massachusetts for a pair of con­ference games. 
this series will mark the first time the two conference foes have met since last year’s hockey east tournament, when the irish (6-4-4, 3-1-2 hockey east) dropped the first game against the minutemen (6-5­4, 2-2-4) in what became the longest game in Ncaa history. current massachusetts senior forward shane walsh scored the game winner in the fifth overtime following 151 min­utes and 42 seconds of game play, over two-and-a-half times the usual 60-minute regulation time. 
the irish bounced back, how­ever, winning games two and three to claim the series. 
the two teams enter this weekend tied for third place in the hockey east, though massachusetts has played two more conference games than the irish. 
sophomore winger anders bjork has faced the minutemen five times in his young Notre dame career, tallying two as­sists against the minutemen. bjork paces this year’s irish squad in plus-minus and trails only senior assistant captain and center thomas dipauli and fellow sophomore winger Jake evans for the team lead in points with 12. according to irish head coach Jeff Jackson, bjork has noticeably improved since last year. 
“he’s been doing better,” Jackson said. “i think penalty killing is a part of it. he’s on the power play, he’s on the penalty kill — as a sophomore he has a lot of responsibilities. he just has to recognize that he has to do things a bit more disciplined, especially on the penalty kill, if he’s going to be successful.” 
bjork’s recent success comes despite some frustrations with pressing too much on offense, Jackson said, but the coach also said bjork’s ambition may open a number of doors for him, including a possible ros­ter spot on the 2016 u.s. world Junior championship team that begins play dec. 26 against canada in helsinki. 
see hockey PAGE 10 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame set to travel to top-ranked Huskies 
By BEN PADANILAM 
sports writer 
it’s not too often that a team’s biggest challenge comes in the eighth game of its season, but saturday’s game on the road against No. 1 connecticut in the Jimmy V classic might just be No. 3 Notre dame’s toughest test this season. 
Following tight wins over No. 24 ucla and No. 10 ohio state earlier this week, the irish (7-0) now prepare for a road test against the huskies (5-0), who have won 42 straight games dating back to last season and are the reigning three-time na­tional champions — a title they beat the irish to earn the last two seasons. 
on paper, the chal­lenge the huskies present is daunting. the last game they lost at gampel pavilion was in fact to the irish, but it was three seasons ago in the 2013 big east championship game. additionally, they dis­mantled the same buckeyes team the irish just squeaked 
see w bball PAGE 10 





