The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 79 | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Board of Trustees re-elects top leaders 
Jenkins, Burish, Affleck-Graves re-elected as President, Provost, Executive Vice President, respectively 
Observer Staff Report 
university president Fr. John Jenkins was re-elected to his third five-year term Friday at the board of Trustees winter meet­ing in naples, Florida, chairman richard c. notebaert announced in a university press release. 
Jenkins, the university’s 17th president, was first elected in 2004 after serving as a mem­ber of the notre dame faculty since 1990. according to the press release, he previously served as vice president and as­sociate provost at the university as well as a professor in the philosophy department, earn­ing a lilly Teaching Fellowship in 1991-1992. 
The board also re-elected university provost Thomas 
g. burish and executive vice president John affleck graves to new five-year terms Friday, ac­cording to the press release. 
The position of provost is the second-ranking official at the university and oversees academic affairs. provost since 2005, burish previously served as president of washington and lee university as well as the 
see presidenT PAGE 4 



dpac receives top rating 
By ALYSSA LYON 
news writer 
college degree search select­ed the debartolo performing arts center (dpac) as one of the “25 most amazing campus arts centers” in a recent post on their website, writing that it “truly embodies the attributes of the university of notre dame” as a “world class institution that embraces a broad liberal arts spectrum.” 
Ted barron, senior associate director for dpac, said the cen­ter allows students to engage in a wide variety of artistic and 
see dpac PAGE 4 





Panels explore pornography 
By JESSICA MERDES, MEGAN VALLEY AND GABRIELA MALESPIN 
news writers 
on saturday, a day-long conference convened in the mckenna conference center to address the role of pornography in modern society, titled “pervasive porn: exploring the personal and social costs of pornography.” 
The conference is spon­sored by students for child-oriented policy, politika,” sycamore Trust, love and Fidelity network, st. edward’s hall, Zahm house, morrissey manor, stanford hall, Fisher hall and the center for ethics and culture. 
the  Tocqueville  program  
for  inquiry  into  religion  
and  american  public  life,  
The  “irish  rover,”  “ethika  

according to the Tocqueville program’s website, this con­ference “seeks to provide sound scholarship along with personal testimony and 
see porn PAGE 5 

Heritage Week to showcase SMC traditions 
By KELLY KONYA 
saint mary’s editor 

“we promise you discovery: the discovery of yourselves, the discovery of the universe and your place in it. we promise that you will find these marked by the cross, that you will take posses­sion of them in the name of the holy cross, our legacy and your birthright.” 
This quote by the college’s third president, sr. madeleva wolff has now become synony­mous with the meaning of a saint mary’s education for stu­dents, student government as­sociation (sga) mission chair sarah prezek said. 
The quote was therefore an easy choice for this year’s heritage week t-shirts, part of the week-long celebration de­signed for students to consider the history and traditions of the college, dating back to its earli­est years, prezek said. 
“heritage week is one of the only times on campus where 
see heriTage PAGE 4 

KERI O’MARA | The Observer 






Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 


What would you like to see invented before you die? 


Camilla Tassi 
senior 
ryan hall 

“a machine to clone me so i could be at rehearsal and doing homework at the same time.” 

Cecilia Pesavento 
freshman 
pasquerilla east hall 
“Teleportation.” 

Grace Linzcer 
junior 
off campus 
“Teleportation device.” 


John Soisson 
senior 
morrissey manor 
“a time machine.” 

Kathryn Dennee 
junior 
badin hall 
“high-speed rail.” 


Sarah Philo 
junior 
howard hall 

“electronics that don’t have to be recharged.” 

Two people brave the cold between South Dining Hall and Dillon Hall on Sunday afternoon. Notre Dame felt the effects of Winter Storm Linus from Saturday night through Sunday, with expected snow accumulations between 12 and 16 inches by Monday. 


Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
kelly konya Zach klonsinski 


Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 



THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
madison Jaros mary green peter durbin greg hadley gabriela malespin 
Graphics keri o’mara Scene Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday allie Tollaksen 
Photo 

lucy du Viewpoint Tennis Match “Crafting a Strong Basketball Game Tennis Match “Crafting a Strong gabriela leskur 
Eck Tennis Pavillion Grant Proposal” Purcell Pavilion Eck Tennis Pavillion Grant Proposal” 5 p.m. - 7 p.m. Brownson Hall 1 p.m. - 3 p.m. 5 p.m. - 7 p.m. Brownson Hall Corrections Men’s tennis plays 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. Women’s basketball Men’s tennis plays 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. Illinois. Undergraduate takes on Wake Forest. Illinois. Undergraduate 
The observer regards itself as  a 

workshop. workshop. 
professional publication and strives for 
the highest standards of journalism at all times. we do, however, recognize that we International Poster “From ‘Awkward Mass in Spanish International Poster “From ‘Awkward will make mistakes. if we have made a Exhibition and Talk: Black Girl’ to Media Dillon Hall Chapel Exhibition and Talk: Black Girl’ to Media mistake, please contact us at Elizabeth Resnick Maven” 1:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. Elizabeth Resnick Maven” news@ndsmcobserver.com so we can Snite Museum Carey Auditorium Worship service. Snite Museum Carey Auditorium correct our error. 7 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. 7 p.m. - 8 p.m. 7 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. 7 p.m. - 8 p.m. 
Open to the public. Lecture by Issa Rae. Open to the public. Lecture by Issa Rae. 




Saint Mary’s formal features Hepburn theme 
By KRISTIE LeBEAU 
news writer 
saint mary’s students channeled their inner aubrey hepburn on Friday at the “splash of class” all-school formal held at the hilton garden inn. 
First year Jessica alberts attended the formal and said the dance provided opportu­nities for bonding. 
“it was a great time for good friends and great mem­ories,” alberts said. “it was so much fun to be yourself and dance with your friends. it was nice to see every­one dressed up and look so classy.” 
Junior lauren wells, who organized the dance as the formal chair of the residence hall association (rha), has helped plan the event for three years. 
“i definitely see it as our most successful year thus far,” wells said. “we [had] some incredible decora­tions, a free photo booth, hot chocolate bar … and of 
course we cannot forget the 
life-size  audrey hepburn  
cut-out.”  
wells  said  the  for­ 

mal requires months of preparation. 
“my co-president maureen 


“It was a great time for good friends and great memories. ... It was so much fun to be yourself and dance with your friends. It was nice to see everyone 
dressed up.” Jessica Alberts first year  
malarney and myself lected our committee september, and then  se­in we  

went from there,” wells said. 
wells said the classy theme played off the well-known “breakfast at Tiffany’s.” 
“being an all-girls school, we have a creative license to do themes that would tend to be more girly,” wells said. 
Junior lauren lindbloom expressed how much she en­joyed the theme of the night. 
“i love Tiffany’s stuff, so i thought it was really cute, and i thought they did a re­ally good job of decorating,” lindbloom said. 
First year susan kratzer 
said  her  first  formal  ex­ 
perience  surpassed  her  
expectations.  

“i didn’t know how many people would be there or what to expect,” kratzer said, “but it ended up being a lot of fun just being with my friends.” 
lindbloom also said the formal is a good night for building relationships with fellow saint mary’s students. 
“i think it is good for our sisterhood,” lindbloom said. 
wells praised her commit­tee for its attention to detail and hard work that went into choosing the theme and or­ganizing the event. 

Contact Kristie LeBeau at  klebeau01@saintmarys.edu 




students explore racial achievement gap in u.s. 
By GABRIELA MALESPIN 
news writer 
This year’s first soup and substance lecture, present­ed by student-led initiative Take Ten, explored the edu­cational achievement gap in minority students with a discussion titled, “soup and substance: The racial achievement gap in the u.s.” 
notre dame’s center for social concerns provides opportunities for discussion of important social justice issues while also providing food at soup and substance. 
at the discussion, mem­bers of Take Ten, a group dedicated to educating young students about meth­ods of conflict resolution, examined the nuances of the racial achievement gap, par­ticularly the socioeconomic factors and institutionalized racism that can lower aca­demic achievement. 
abby balmert, a sopho­more and member of Take Ten, said several studies demonstrate how poverty and lack of school resources are present at early stages of childhood, and these effects carry over to affect later ac­ademic achievement. 
“in america, not only does the racial achievement gap start before students even enter school, but over time, it gets more extreme,” balmert said. 

senior megan Fuerst said scholars debate whether “racial achievement gap” is the correct term. many ed­ucators and researchers argue it still implies inher­ent intellectual differences between minority students and affluent white students, as opposed to emphasiz­ing the widespread poverty minority students face. 
“some people say that ra­cial achievement gap is sort of a misnomer and more of a poverty factor,” Fuerst said. “however, the influ­ence of [racial] stereotypes that scholars have divided into direct influences and 
single  influences  is  still  
important.”  
Fuerst  said  that,  al­ 

though the term racial achievement gap might be misinterpreted, the effect of institutionalized rac­ism should not be ignored, as racism remains a promi­nent part of the debate over the educational achieve­ment gap. 
“what’s most important to remember is that while many people would attri­bute it directly to income level and socioeconomic status, there’s so many more nuances to it than that,” Fuerst said. 
senior kwame nuako said the racial achievement gap first became preva­lent with the advent of eu­genics and standardized testing. nuako said devel­opers of standardized tests during the early 20th cen­tury developed tests in order to “weed out” students who were deemed less capable, specifically minority stu­dents, immigrants and poor students. 
nuako said that, al­though some of the racial biases of standardized test­ing are not as explicit today, ideas of “inherent differenc­es in intelligence between certain minorities,” such as african americans and latinos, persist. 
nuako said the racial achievement gap is an issue that demands greater aware­ness and discussion. he said partnerships between edu­cators and the community are important in order to develop solutions. 
“i think it’s great to explore this topic because grow­ing up, you realize it’s such a pervasive issue no matter what background you come from,” nuako said. “i think it’s good, no matter your background, to explore this topic. There’s a lot of incor­rect information out there, and once you actually get to analyze this critically, you can start to analyze these problems. as notre dame students, we have the ability to make a difference.” 
Contact Gabriela Malespin at gmalespi@nd.edu 
Activist highlights climate change 
By MACAILA DeMARIO 
news writer 
Former iowa lawmaker and climate activist ed Fallon visited saint mary’s on Friday to discuss his journey from los angeles to washington d.c. and how it im­pacted him and americans he met along the way. 
Fallon spent march 1 to nov. 1, 2014, on a 3,000 mile walk from california to washington, leading 35 climate activists. in his presentation, Fallon intro­duced the audience to a fellow marcher, described the climate crisis and offered suggestions for more sustainable lifestyles in the “new climate era.” 
during the march, the group not only walked and talked about climate change, but they also personally experi­enced changes throughout their trip, Fallon said. 
Fallon said on the very first night of the trip, the group was unable to camp in a church’s parking lot because there had been a large amount of rain. The church then allowed the travel­ers to stay inside. 
Fallon said the unexpect­ed kindness shown by the church and the amount of rain california had produced that day were two inspiring rea­sons that led the group to keep walking. 
“what we’re dealing with is unprecedented,” Fallon said. 
Fallon also described the devastation and impact of wild fires and how they harm the environment, telling the audi­ence to “take action now” and begin to “change our lives.” 

sometimes, the group thought of themselves as the “paul reveres of climate crisis” after making this journey and sharing their knowledge, Fallon said. 
The walkers journeyed through california, colorado, nebraska and eventually, they made it to the white house, he said. while some of the march­ers only joined for bits and pieces of the trek, Fallon walked the entire route with the help of a walking stick made at a monastery. 
“it was an amazing experi­ence, and i don’t know how we did it,” Fallon said. 
Fallon said he was able to break through the political orientation of those he met throughout the country, as most could see the importance of cli­mate change and our need to take action now. 
when asked by a student how she could get involved on campus to take climate action, Fallon said leadership opportu­nities can help, but it is best to start with everyday things. 
This event was part of the saint mary’s Justice Fridays series, sponsored by Justice education, the department of political science, environmental studies and the office of civic and social engagement (ocse). 
Contact Macaila DeMario at mdemario01@saintmarys.edu 

The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Heritage 
conTinued From page 1 
there are numerous opportu­nities to really engage with the many belles who have gone be­fore us and who have shaped saint mary’s into the great place it is today,” prezek said. 
prezek, along with the student alumnae committee, planned the week’s events, which kicked off on sunday with a mass at 4 
p.m. in le mans chapel. 
“i remember my first saint mary’s mass as a freshman, and i barely knew anything about the college at that time, except that le mans [hall] used to func­tion as more than just a student dorm,” senior mandy gilbert said. 
“but now, after attending dif­ferent heritage week events and being aware of all of the history and traditions that surround the school with the convent and ev­erything, i was much more ap­preciative of the kick-off mass that set the tone for the rest of the week,” gilbert said. 
monday, the week begins with archive Tours in the basement of madeleva hall, led by college archivist John kovach. kovach, who specializes in the history of women’s baseball and also helps organize all of the exhibits in the cushwa-leighton library, will share information on the many trinkets and keepsakes from the early years at saint mary’s, prezek said. 
“The archives have a little bit of everything, from past stu­dent scrapbooks dating to the early 20th century to diaries and journals of former students and sisters,” prezek said. “every time i enter the archives, it’s like traveling back through time and seeing what the lives of all of my fellow belles were like in the college’s early years.” 
also on monday, and con­tinuing on Tuesday, is a photo-op event in the student center atrium, which will run both days during lunch time, 11 a.m.-2 p.m. The photo-op event is new this year, sparked by senior nora clougherty’s success with the idea for the promotion of “one day without shoes” for her own club, Toms smc campus club. 
The photo-op allows students to pose with large frames and/ or black and white photos of former smc students and then post the photos to social media sites to promote heritage week, clougherty said. 
“social media these days has become such a great way to spread news and share memo­ries. especially with the use of the hashtag, it makes it easy to see what other people have to say on the subject,” clougherty said. 
Tuesday, the week contin­ues with the ever-popular riedinger house teas, prezek said. riedinger house, a small english cottage on campus hid­den among trees and gardens, is an odd commodity for students, who continually wonder what the inside of the house is like. 
“riedinger house was origi­nally built in 1939 and used as laboratory for home economics students, which used to be a ma­jor here,” prezek said. “students would actually live there to prac­tice full-time domestic tasks, which is quite different from the uses of our other college ‘labora­tories’ now.” 
Two tea times will occur on Tuesday: the first at 2 p.m. and the second at 5 p.m. students must rsvp on orgsync, as there are limited spots, prezek said. 
wednesday continues with the annual heritage week dinner, which will be in stapleton lounge of le mans hall at 5 p.m. The dinner, featuring an upscale menu and business casual attire, is offered to juniors and seniors only, along with various mem­bers of the college faculty and board members. 
at the dinner, sr. veronique wiedower, president of the congregation of the sisters of the holy cross, will present a com­prehensive “history lesson” on the college’s traditions and heri­tage, prezek said. 
“i’m always amazed when i hear sister’s lecture, for she is so knowledgeable and there is truly so much that students don’t know about our school,” prezek said. “like, for instance, who knew that the school was actually founded in bertrand, michigan?” 
on Thursday, a “Then and now” poetry reading will take place in the top floor of the li­brary at 6 p.m., hosted in coun­terpart with the staff of the smc literary and art magazine, “chimes.” 
The reading will feature po­ems from past students that were published in “chimes” magazines dating back to 1892, which will be read aloud by vari­ous professors from the depart­ment of english at saint mary’s, prezek said. The poems address the theme of college life and aca­demia, as well as nature poems about south bend. 
in addition, a number of cur­rent students, including many from the “chimes” staff, have signed on to write original po­ems about what saint mary’s means to them in 2015, prezek said. 

“i’m really looking forward to the poetry event, because i am interested in seeing how poems differed in the past centuries versus the present day,” gilbert said. “it’s not often that students actually take the time to reflect on their time at saint mary’s, let alone in poetic form, so i think it’s a great addition to heritage week this year.” 
also on Thursday, wiedower will give heritage room tours at the convent at two times: 9-10 
a.m. and 4-5 p.m. 

Finally, the week concludes Friday with a saint mary’s trivia game during lunch in the dining hall, prezek said. The game is a fun way for students to put their knowledge of all the fun facts learned throughout the week to the test in an effort to win prizes. 
“we want to reward students for going to the events through­out the week and learning more about their saint mary’s heritage,” prezek said. “plus, this gives students a chance to think about smc trivia, even if they missed out on tours of the archives or other things this week.” 
Contact Kelly Konya at kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
DPAC 
conTinued From page 1 
performing experiences. 
“in terms of being able to expe­rience the full range of the per­forming arts — cinema, dance, live theater, music, opera — stu­dents are getting an opportunity [at dpac] to have access to major artists and really unique experi­ences,” barron said. “one of the things that [dpac] strives to pro­vide is a way for people to get en­richment in their lives that they don’t typically have access to on campus.” 
peter holland, associate dean of the arts for notre dame, said the opening of dpac completely changed the way the university taught the arts. 
“To be able to have a class on film in which every clip is up on a cinema screen with cinema pro­jection ... is absolutely extraordi­nary,” holland said. 
The college degree search also described dpac as a “ma­jestic center,” with which barron agreed. 
“i have been on many college campuses, and i have rarely seen a facility that is so well designed and so well cared for. That reflects the university’s genuine com­mitment to the arts as a priority on the campus,” barron said. 
holland said notre dame is “very, very lucky” to have an arts center that is so “brilliantly designed.” 
“it is the extent to which ev­ery detail of the building was thought through, not just as a performance space but also as a learning space,” holland said, describing dpac as a “massive teaching machine.” 
but, barron said, dpac does not just provide arts education for the film, television and the­atre (FTT) majors or the music majors, but to the whole notre dame campus. 
“when [dpac] shows a film and we have an opportunity to have a discussion after the film, i see people of all ages — student, faculty, retirees — are talking and engaging with the ideas that the film has presented.” 
“Those are the most exciting times and [we feel] like we are re­ally making a difference in peo­ple’s lives,” barron said. 
This impact extends to the south bend community as well, holland said. 
“This is a space that draws us closer to our community,” holland said. “... [dpac] was designed so it would be at the boundary of campus, so that when you come on to campus, what are you greeted by? The per­forming arts center. 
“That is the building that stands between campus and the community. it is quite a symbolic 


resources and university con-
President 
struction, according to the press 
conTinued From page 1 

release. affleck-graves joined provost at vanderbilt from the university faculty in 1986 1993-2002. and served for three years as the 
as the executive vice presi-chairman of the department of dent, affleck-graves oversees the finance and business economics. university operating budget and he has held the position of exec-endowment, as well as human utive vice president since 2004. 
that is part of the human spirit ... the arts opens doors. and dpac is the space where we can do that as a community.” 
Contact Alyssa Lyon at  alyon@nd.edu 
building in that way.” 
according to the college degree search website, dpac is “dedicated to the proposition that the human spirit needs to be nurtured on all levels.” 
holland said the arts contribute to that nurturing. 
“The arts shows us what is ap­palling and troubling and dis­turbing and subversive. it shows us what is terrible about human existence as well as what we can aspire to,” holland said. “all of 
paid adverTisemenT 



Porn 
conTinued From page 1 
therapeutic experience” in or­der for members of the com­munity to better understand the effects pornography has in society. The conference also aims to analyze the “means of addressing the porn prob­lem with a specific regard for the well-being of the youngest and most vulnerable among us.” 
The conference included four panels on various issues with pornography, includ­ing addiction and psychol­ogy, the negative effects on pornography’s participants, the theological perspec­tive on pornography and philosophical approach­es to the human dignity: “pornography addiction, industry, and relationship,” “pornography, women, and children,” “in principle: philosophy and the law” and “Theological perspectives on pornography.” 
Panelists address pornography addiction 
on saturday morning as the first panel of the day-long conference, three profes­sors addressed pornography addiction, the industry and relationships. The panelists included professor of psychol­ogy william struthers from wheaton college, associate professor of economics kirk doran from notre dame and associate professor of soci­ology mark regnerus from university of Texas at austin. 
struthers began the discus­sion by acknowledging the psychological aspect of porn addiction. 
“when you look at an mri, porn makes the brain light up in the same places that a drug addict’s brain will light up when the stimulus is present­ed to them,” struthers said. 
although pornography is re­jected by the diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders (dsm-5) as an ad­diction, struthers said he be­lieves this is likely to change in the future. according to struthers, things are addic­tive by acting on the brains neurons, and pornography “hijacks” those circuits in the brain to produce a supernor­mal response. 
doran continued the pan­el’s discussion by explain­ing the market structure of the pornography industry and possibilities of regulation. according to doran, there are 40,000 internet pornogra­phy sites which comprises a multi-million dollar industry in which consumers have a plethora of options. 
“we could stop the produc­tion of pornography right now, but it wouldn’t do anything because there is so much out there already,” doran said. 
doran also discussed the validity of a study showing that rape rates went down in areas where internet was more accessible or where penthouse magazine was available. These were both high-profile studies claiming there is less rape when por­nography is available. 
“There are serious flaws in these studies, and they defi­nitely do not prove that por­nography decreases rape,” doran said. “The penthouse 
“When you look 
at an MRI, porn 
makes the brain 
light up in the 
same places that 
a drug addict’s 
brain will light up 
when the stimulus 
is presented to 
them.” 
William Struthers 
professor of psychology 
Wheaton College 
magazine is available to peo­ple with p.o. boxes — but so is discover magazine.” 
according to doran, the best option for regulation is to deal with the internet ser­vices providers hosting this material. 
regnerus then explored how the use of pornography changes people’s perception of marriage from a sociologi­cal standpoint, elaborating on the findings of a survey titled, “The relationships in america.” 
“The survey showed us that women use significantly less pornography and that people use less as they age, which we refer to as the aging effect,” regnerus said. “but what is disconcerting is the change of attitudes towards marriage that we see correlated with pornography use.” 
according to regnerus, there is an inverse relation­ship between porn used last week and frequency of church attendance. men who use porn are more likely to support cohabitation before marriage, casual sex, “open” marriages and gay marriage. Furthermore, men who use porn think more about leav­ing their spouse and are overall less happy with life, he said. 
regnerus describes these findings as a “marital train wreck” in which people’s atti­tudes about relationships and marriage are changing. 
“it’s hard to say whether porn use directly causes these attitudes, but it is clear that even if you don’t watch porn, it still affects you,” regnerus said. 
Pornography’s effects on its actors, viewers 
in the conference’s second panel, titled “pornography, women and children,” three speakers discussed the effects of pornography in three dif­ferent contexts. mary anne layden, director of the sexual trauma and psychopathology program at the university of pennsylvania; donna hughes, a professor of gender and women’s studies at the university of rhode island; and mary leary, a law profes­sor at the catholic university of america all participated in the discussion. 
after a brief introduction by christine caron gebhardt, director of notre dame’s gender relations center (grc), layden began the pan­el discussion by speaking first on the psychological effects of pornography use. 
“sex is now seen as a prod­uct and the body is a commod­ity, ... if it is a product, you can sell it, and if you can sell it, you can steal it,” layden said. 
as a psychotherapist, layden said she has seen the psychological effects of pornography on its viewers. according to some of her own studies, the more pornogra­phy a man watched, the less jail time he thought was ap­propriate for rapists; this cor­relation was true for women as well. people who watched more porn were also found to think that behavior such as bestiality and sadomasoch­ism were practiced more reg­ularly than they actually are. 
next, hughes spoke about abuse and violence of wom­en during the making of pornography. 
“There was something that the feminists said in the ‘70s, and that is that pornography actually happens to wom­en,” hughes said. “when you see a film of someone who’s shot, they didn’t actually shoot that person. and when there’s fistfights, they’re not actually beating each other up. They’re able to do these things to make it look like something’s happening. but in pornography, what you are seeing is actually being done to that woman.” 
she went on to read state­ments from women who had acted in porn films and de­scribed how they were tricked or coerced into doing acts that differed from what they had first agreed to. she also discussed how the violence prevalent in pornography is becoming more desirable in real life. 
“They want girls with no taboos, meaning that they can do whatever they want. They’ve been conditioned to do everything,” hughes said. 
leary then continued the panel discussion by address­ing pornography and child sexual abuse images as they pertain to the law and our language. 
“language communicates values and morals. you call something ‘child pornogra­phy,’ a seemingly innocuous term that creates the sug­gestion that it’s pornography with young-looking adults. it’s not. it’s a child sex abuse image,” leary said. 
she also said such pornog­raphy has long-term effects on the victims, and the vic­timization doesn’t end. leary said the young actors have to live knowing the images are still being viewed. 
she ended by sharing the words of a victim who one of her colleagues repre­sents: “being sexually assault­ed, it was kind of like looking up and seeing people in a window, and they’re looking, and you think ‘oh thank god, they’re going to come and help me.’ but instead, they’re just being entertained.” 
’This is a form, I think, of self-mutilation’ 
professor of philoso­phy christopher Tollefsen, from the university of south carolina, and professor of law gerard bradley, from notre dame, reflected on the moral and legal implications of pornography in modern culture as part of the con­ference’s third panel, “in principle; philosophy and the law.” 
Tollefsen said pornography affects multiple dimensions of the human person, such as family well-being, health and the ability to explore and discern truth and freedom. Tollefsen said the presence of pornography on university campuses was ultimately de­structive to the nature of aca­demic institutions. 
“The university is a home for free inquiry into the truth. but pornography diminishes our freedom and erodes our grasp of truths of sex, mar­riage, family, self, society, reality and time, numb,” Tollefsen said. “The wide­spread use of pornography on a university campus, es­pecially at a catholic univer­sity, should be a source of very great concern.” 
Tollefsen said the emotions and sexual desires towards those who are not spouses that are produced by pornog­raphy are not only corruptive to human nature, but rather run contrary to the virtue of chastity. he said pornogra­phy principally aims to erode chastity, a virtue that implies unwillingness to commit in­fedility or seek gratification from someone other than one’s spouse. 
“The aim of producers [of pornography] is obviously to eliminate ... that unwilling­ness. chaste persons are of no use to producers to por­nography,” Tollefsen said. “Those who use pornogra­phy, as intended, erode in themselves this disposition that’s essential for human life. This is a form, i think, of self-mutilation.” 
according to Tollefsen, pornography distorts both our relationship to god and our understanding of the present and time in relation to gratification. 
“one is passive in rela­tionship to porn’s content,” he said. “The exploratory forms of engagement that characterize our relationship to the real world are absent when we render ourselves merely eyes for taking up images.” 

bradley then elaborated on the social and legal conse­quences of pornography and said while pornography has indeed been a destructive force in public and private life, the widespread dis­proval of pornography from the general public has the potential to curb the effects of pornography and create a comprehensive legal and so­cial response to it. 
“i’m talking about a social­ly responsible ethic so that even someone who believes himself/herself to be im­mune to the allures and dan­gers of porn should support a campaign to stigmatize it because that will help other people,” bradley said. 
bradley said in order to effectively combat pornog­raphy, there needs to be a collective response to porn that involves both strong social attitudes against por­nographic consumption and a secondary legal response. bradley said this secondary legal response should include legal measures against ac­cess to pornography on cam­
“The university 
is a home for 
free inquiry into 
the truth. ... The 
widespread use 
of pornography 
on a university 
campus, especially 
at a Catholic 
university, should 
be a source of very 
great concern.” 
Christopher Tollefsen 
professor of philosophy 
University of South Carolina 

puses and other public places and legal action against pro­ducers of pornography. 
“we should use the law in some essential but secondary ways to create and maintain a social, cultural stigma on pornography,” bradley said. 
Though bradley acknowl­edged the effects of pornog­raphy may vary by person and may not pose a threat to all, he said the dangers pornography poses to the population collectively still require a widespread con­demnation of its usage and distribution. 
“The burden of my re­marks really is to instill in the american people a sense of social responsibility for porn. For too long it’s been a matter of pure consumer­ism,” bradley said. 
Contact Jessica Merdes at  jmerdes@nd.edu, Megan Valley at mvalley@nd.edu and Gabriela Malespin at  gmalespi@nd.edu 


My honest resume 
Margaret Hynds 
associate news editor 

i’ll be honest with you; i didn’t make it to last week’s career fair. 
in all fairness, it was cold outside, and all of my nice shirts needed to be ironed. … and it doesn’t help that i have no idea what to do with my life (but i’ll save that story for another day). 
so while i was happy to find an al­ternative way to spend my Thursday afternoon, my doting parents took the opportunity to remind me that summer is just around the corner, and should i hope to have the means to support my penchants for coffee and pineapple pizza, i will need to acquire a job. 
last summer i did all sorts of things, but notably spent far too much time working a retail job that was ... not quite my cup of tea. highlights included get­ting a paper cut from a sweater (yes, you read that correctly; no, i’m not entirely sure how that happened, either) and be­ing harassed by the company insurance representative for a full three months after i left because, in July, i acciden­tally dropped a hanger on my foot and broke it. 
To clarify, i broke my foot; the hanger, thankfully, remained unharmed. 
so this year, i was going to try to get on top of the ball early. it’s still early­ish, right? sure. 
To potential employers, consider the following my formal application: 
nearly-20-year-old seeks summer employment. 
after a previous run-in with retail, she vows never again to return to the fashion world. unless that’s what you’re offering, in which case she will be forced to consider it. 
skills include (but are certainly not limited to): 
-crossword puzzles, as long as they’re from monday or Tuesday 
-biking one-handed to enable coffee drinking on the go 
-hide and seek (at 5’1”, i fit into all sorts of little hiding spots) 
-once held the record for most popu­lar yak on notre dame’s yik yak (i real­ize that isn’t a skill, but i would like to think it speaks to my wicked sense of humor. at least, that’s what my mom says). 
interested? let me know. 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Charlie Ducey 
english, channeled 

as is tradition, the oriel college whately debating soci­ety convened on monday evening to discuss contemporary controversies over red wine and the odd cookie-cracker hybrids that the brits call “biscuits.” The motion for de­bate last week: the world would be a safer place without religion. 
The alleged correlation between religion and violence is by no means a recent observation, though it has been granted currency by the recent atrocities in paris and nigeria. with renewed verve, critics of organized religion have been quick to point to the dogmatic doctrine of vari­ous faiths as the source of bloodshed and bombings. what i came to discover after two hours of alcohol-fueled debate was that many people are not in the position to make this allegation because many people — even at oxford — sim­ply do not know what religious doctrine is or, even more shockingly, what the word “religion” means. 
The etymology of the word “religion,” however, was brought up early on, having something to do with rever­ence and worship. The oxford english dictionary entry for the word is vast, tracing back to the latin “relegere,” meaning “to read over again,” and “religare,” meaning “to bind fast.” both words evoke the idea of ritual observance and communal tradition. From these definitions, religion seems to concern itself with unified structure of “reading” the world that brings adherents together in common prac­tices. how, then, might this sort of unification lead to or perpetuate violence? 
The whately society spent little time investigating this question, as we became increasingly caught up in spelling out just what was meant by religion. many disparate views emerged: some claimed that religion was a set of antique rules in need of modernization. others saw religion as a primarily personal experience. For still others it was a kind of social glue that allowed for unity. a particularly comical view equated religion to “the old sky cake routine,” bor­rowed from comedian patton oswalt, in which stone-age brutes were prevented from dominating their feebler cave-dwelling brethren by being told that if they behaved they would go into the sky after they died to eat as much cake as they could ever want. 
none of the views, unfortunately, examined any spe­cific religious doctrine, and the disarray of speeches was only kept in order by the rattling of a toy machine gun and frantic gestures directed at the board on which the all-but­abandoned motion of debate was penned in bubble letters. 
what the debate lacked was a unified understanding of the basic reality over which we opined. in a very narrow sense, we lacked a religion. 
i once took part in a notre dame seminar led by a university of indiana postdoc who defined religion as “any comprehensive, structured attempt to relate meaning to reality” — a definition so broad that it includes any world­view that asserts that life is meaningful. and nearly every­one hungers for meaning in life — as kurt vonnegut writes in cat’s cradle: “Tiger got to hunt, bird got to fly; man got to sit and wonder, ‘why, why, why?’” what religion does is orient itself around this desire and direct one’s quest for meaning outward, away from the self and toward a greater transcendent reality. 
The views that really are dangerous, after all, are selfish ones. desires for power, wealth and territory underlie hu­man conflict stemming all the way back to the alpha-male caveman whose power-hunger was allegedly quelled by religious doctrine. perhaps religion actually safeguards against individual greed. as david Foster wallace said in his much-quoted 2005 kenyon college commence­ment speech: “an outstanding reason for choosing some sort of god or spiritual-type thing to worship— be it Jc or allah, be it yahweh or the wiccan mother-goddess or the Four noble Truths or some infrangible set of ethical prin­ciples— is that pretty much anything else you worship will eat you alive.” 
let’s remember, however, that this message speaks about religion in an incredibly general sense. not all reli­gious doctrines unify personal interests around selfless­ness. indeed, just as religion can bring people together to overcome greed, it can also channel that greed into com­munal acts, turning a religious group into one selfish col­lective intent on conquering those outside itself. 
christianity, specifically, seems to concentrate on ser­vice to the non-self, exemplified in christ as the suffering servant. embedded in so much christian doctrine is the notion of self-denial and sacrifice, from the two greatest commandments to love god and neighbor to the call to take up one’s own cross and follow christ. 
each religion must be judged on its own specific doc­trines, but in a general sense, it seems fair to say that religion does perpetuate a violence of sorts — a violence against the more vicious desires of the self. 
Charlie Ducey is a junior studying the languages of John Henry Newman (English) and Immanuel Kant (German). For the next academic year, he is residing on the other side of the Atlantic Ocean in Oxford, UK. He welcomes your words. He can be contacted at cducey@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Progress the ‘China Policy’ 
This month, notre dame’s worker participation committee will be revisiting a long-held policy in the licensing codes of conduct regarding freedom of associa­tion. The policy states that no apparel with the notre dame name or monogram may be manufactured in countries that outlaw independent labor unions in accordance with catholic social teaching. This policy is known as “The china policy” because, while several countries are affected, china is by far the largest manufacturer on the list of countries. The worker participation committee is considering wheth­er to abandon the current policy and begin a pilot program in china where notre dame licensed apparel would be manufactured in factories with exemplary work conditions. This program would begin in hopes that notre dame could have a greater impact on the working conditions of indi­vidual factories in china. 
as it stands today, our university sits at a crossroads — and in a refreshing twist, we are not referring to the con­struction project on the southeast side of campus. as proud members of a community with a long and storied history of global service and promotion of catholic social teaching, we were thrilled to hear that executive vice president John affleck-graves had set his sights on re-evaluating the china policy in hopes of reaffirming notre dame’s continued interest in the promotion of safe and fair working environ­ments both at home and abroad. 
at the time of its creation, the china policy represented an attempt to ensure that all practices and industries that would bear the notre dame name or monogram would be conducted in factories where the workers did not have to fear oppression and were free to exercise their right to asso­ciate. unfortunately, over time it has become clear that the policy holds many flaws. 
dictating our involvement in industry via countries puts a great deal of weight on official legal designations of the free­dom to associate (or, in the case of states like china, the lack thereof) but it does not allow for examinations of anti-union sentiments that can so often be found in the private sector or otherwise separated from official government documenta­tion. we feel that the china policy as currently construed is restricted in this sense; that a blanket ban on certain states instead of a more holistic, nuanced plan in which factors de jure are considered does not suit the needs of a university that prides itself on its moral standing. in that respect, we are very excited to see what the future of the executive vice president’s committee will hold in terms of beginning to establish notre dame’s place as a leader in domestic and international labor rights activism in the 21st century. 
That being said, the members of the progressive student alliance wishes to express a statement of caution to­wards affleck-graves and the membership of the worker participation committee. 
we urge that any expectations or requirements put forth for all factories that produce official notre dame apparel (in china or otherwise) be re-examined and made far more stringent. as columnist billy mcmahon wisely pointed out previously in this paper, individual assessments without hard standards are ripe for abuse, either next year or next de­cade. The regulations and expectations established by this committee must be concrete enough to withstand the pas­sage of time and the transference of power. we recommend that all factories producing notre dame licensed apparel, regardless of country, allow an independent labor associa­tion or provide employees with a living wage. These factory-specific guidelines give the university the opportunity to make a real impact on working conditions around the globe: an impact that will only be amplified if the university re­news its attempts to persuade other institutions to engage in similar discourse on ethical industry practices and adopt like policies to those put forward by the committee. 
Further, we urge that the committee continue to uphold its promise to engage students, faculty and staff alike in their ongoing efforts to produce a policy that accurately reflects the needs and interests of notre dame as a university, a workplace and a global force for good. 
affleck-graves mentioned the consideration of the creation of a separate committee of students to evaluate the china policy going forward, and we encourage action to make this idea a reality. we implore that the worker participation committee remain willing to engage in pro­ductive dialogue through next Tuesday’s and decision and beyond. 
The progressive student alliance has submitted this state­ment to the committee, and now speaks exclusively to the students. we have certainly been frustrated with the admin­istration in the past for often neglecting to pursue student input, but that frustration must also consider the students who so often disregard the opportunity and the responsibil­ity to contribute to dialogue when called upon. 
when the administration unilaterally makes decisions about the commencement venue, a $400 million construc­tion project or the replacement of a beloved campus eatery with yet another au bon pain, students quickly object. however, now that there is an opportunity for student input in a decision about the morality of the university’s apparel manufacture, there has been a distinct lack of student discussion and attendance at committee events. Just as we seek honesty and active engagement from the worker participation committee, so too do we expect the student body at large to play an active role in sharing their opinions on this nuanced, non-partisan issue. without a complex, ongoing discussion between students, educators and staff, we cannot hope to achieve the sort of representation that we as members of the notre dame family so often crave. 
we look forward to seeing the china policy evolve to meet the needs of a 21st century academic institution like the university of notre dame. The ability to self-reflect and re-evaluate on an institutional, as well as a personal, level is crucial to remaining financially, academically and ethically relevant in this rapidly changing global society. executive vice president affleck-graves, every member of the worker participation committee and all of the students who con­tinue to strive for a safer, brighter world for all laborers, we thank you for your continued efforts and await the next opportunity to pursue positive social change in line with the university’s catholic mission as well as their affirmed belief in the sanctity of life. 
with great regard, 
Emily Flores 
co-president progressive student alliance Jan. 29 
a little thing called love 
Amanda Peña 
Find your voice 

we all know that February is the month of love. romantic dates and valentine’s hearts; candy, flowers and cards sta­tioned around stores to seemingly taunt the single people just trying to buy groceries. 
i’m not going to hate on valentine’s day because i’m single or because i don’t have a potential prospect to even change those circumstances. i’m not going to cry eating chocolates and watching The notebook because my heart was broken by a former love. i’m also not into the whole “focus-on-the­other-loving-relationships-you-have” alternative just for the sake of making single sound less lonely. There are all of these pressures placed on one day to polarize the population into groups of couples and singles — alleged winners and los­ers. what the public overwhelmingly neglects to recognize though is that this day actually just gets people to start think­ing and talking about the most important human sentiment 
— love. 

valentine’s day puts a microscope on the end goal of hu­man relationship — love — and encourages others to seek where it exists in their own lives. There are romantic and pro­fessional relationships, familial relationships, acquaintance­ships and friendships — each with their own dimensions of experiencing love and commitment. having been com­mercialized though, valentine’s day oversimplifies love by failing to address the spectrum in which love can be shared and experienced. we have been trained to understand love as purely romantic or purely platonic, making all of our re­lationships that fall between that gradient complicated and confusing. 
while there is no universal definition for love, we under­stand its definition by how its been experienced in different capacities. it can be simple like sharing a conversation with a stranger or deep like the care we show to significant persons in our lives when they are most vulnerable. when experi­enced in its purest, most sincere forms, love is the most em­powering and nurturing of human experiences. small but powerful moments with another being collect in ways that elevate our self-esteem, confidence and feelings of security. These moments become embodied in a person’s actions, words and other characteristics, probing us to experience eu­phoria when we think about or spend time with them. most importantly, we develop a fondness for the ways in which their existence draws out a pure and authentic part of our­selves that we could not have known existed without them. 
as social beings, our self-awareness is a reactionary pro­cess. The depths of the human soul are drawn out in com­munity when individual lives cross our paths and imprint ideas and emotions that we were unconscious to without that occurrence. Through music, film, stories and even our own experiences, we have subconsciously developed ex­pectations of love and the ways in which it should manifest at different stages of any relationship. we’ve romanticized ideas of perfect love and, as a result, experience pain when that love fails to meet our expectations or is removed from our lives. 
with valentine’s day upcoming, romantic love seems to be the most complicated to understand and navigate. in the four-year relationship i had throughout high school, i fell in love for the first time and my life has been forever changed. The loving stares, little notes and the warmth and security of his embrace made the developing stages of my teen years not only bearable but exciting, adventurous and fulfilling. he was my best friend and the only person who knew the most intimate levels of who i was. he wholeheartedly sup­ported my dreams and shared his own ambitions and vul­nerabilities with me. being two years older than me, though, we were riding different wavelengths into adulthood. at the time, i didn’t understand how our worlds were changing or why we couldn’t satisfy each other’s expectations to make the relationship work. by the time i became a sophomore at notre dame, he had joined the air Force and married a woman he met two years prior. 
he spent a total of six years in my life, the majority of which were during the crucial years of my young adulthood. initially, the heartbreak and devastation i experienced was overwhelming and damaging. i didn’t know who i was with­out him and struggled to understand what it was i loved so much about being with him. 
people telling me to get over it grossly misunderstood the point of love. love can’t be replaced because it is a profound experience that is shared between beings in a particular mo­ment in time. love is then strengthened as these moments persevere through new experiences, trials and life events. 
These last two years have been critical to my formation as an adult, grappling with the challenges and rewards of hav­ing caught a glimpse at the power of love. rather than focus on the love we don’t have, use valentine’s day to develop a long-term understanding of what love looks like where it does exist. 
Amanda Peña is a senior with a major in Sustainable Development. She can be reached at apena@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Allie Tollaksen 
scene editor 

we are inundated with films adapted from books, from bestsellers like “gone girl” and “50 shades of grey” to the more literary end of the spectrum with new re­leases of philip roth adaptations and p.T. anderson’s wild take on Thomas pynchon’s “inherent vice.” 
perhaps less noticeably, literature leaks into other kinds of media, sometimes un­beknownst to us entirely. i became curious about song adaptations of books for this very reason — after listening to a beauti­ful track from rock band camper van beethoven for years, i realized recently that i had no idea what the song was about. 
its lyrics were strange and specific, but went entirely over of my head. after dis­missing singer david lowery’s verses as nothing but word salad, i finally delved into some research to understand the song. it was only then that i learned the song was based off of Thomas pynchon’s famous novel “gravity’s rainbow.” 
being both an audiophile and a bit of a bookworm, i instantly started to wonder what other songs were literarily inspired, unnoticed by me. some of the songs on this literary playlist are obvious retellings of classic novels (it’s no wonder what kate bush’s “wuthering heights” is about), but others revealed themselves only through reading, research and sometimes nothing but very careful listening. 
i’ve always been one to associate books and music. with each book i read, i have a song or artist permanently associated. The folky americana of the band horse Feathers will always bring to mind willa cather’s fantastic novel “my antonia,” and The doobie brothers’ “black water” will summon memories of “The adventures of huckleberry Finn” years after 10th-grade english class. 
but there’s something about an explicitly literary song that makes that’s even more satisfying, especially when you’ve read the book (though i will admit, i haven’t embarked upon “gravity’s rainbow” quite yet). artists can retell a 600-word novel in a four-minute song, explore new perspec­tives of characters or appropriate a book’s theme for a whole new purpose. what’s best, these songs can stand alone, serve as a little literary vacation or even be inspira­tion to pick up that novel you’ve always been meaning to read. They may not quite be musical sparknotes, but if you don’t have time for pynchon or orwell today, check out these songs and expand your reading list. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at  atollaks@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 







“Wuthering Heights” 

Kate Bush Based on Emily Brontë’s first (and only) published novel, Kate Bush’s song is also a first: it was the singer’s first single. 
“All Her Favorite Fruit” 
Camper van Beethoven Though Thomas Pynchon’s novel “Gravity’s Rainbow” is never explicitly mentioned in the song, “All Her Favorite Fruit” explores the relationship between characters Jessica and Roger in the book. 
“2 + 2 = 5” 

Radiohead George Orwell has inspired several songwriters, especially through his powerful novel “1984.” The book served as an inspiration for artists like David Bowie and Eurhythmics. Radiohead was also inspired by Orwell’s dystopian tale. 
“Pet Sematary” 

Ramones Sometimes adaptations come in pairs. That was the case for “Pet Sematary,” a Ramones song written specifically for the film adaptation of Stephen King’s 1983 novel. 
“Tom Joad” 

Woodie Guthrie Like Orwell, John Steinbeck’s influence can be seen in music for years after his 1939 masterpiece. Guthrie used his expert folk storytelling to sing his version the American classic. 
“Lolita” 

Throw Me the Statue   Vladimir Nabokov’s “Lolita” is such an essential piece of lit­erature, its name has become iconic. Indie band Throw Me The Statue’s version of the story, however, is an interesting and oddly upbeat take on the novel. 
“Whip It’” 

Devo Pynchon’s legacy lives on in an unpredictable way in the clas­sic 80s hit “Whip It.” Band members Mark Mothersbaugh and Jerry Casale told an interviewer at music website Songfacts that “Gravity’s Rainbow” was the main inspiration for the band’s most famous single. 

By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
scene writer 

“i came into the office today to get my things and ev­eryone was here, and i was like, wait are we doing this again?” larry wilmore joked on the second episode of “The nightly show.” “i guess that’s what nightly means. i didn’t know.” 
Two weeks into his new gig hosting his own late-night show on comedy central, wilmore has already begun to carve out a niche for himself in the increasingly crowded late-night field. wilmore inherited the 11:30 p.m. time slot from stephen colbert, who will take over “The late show” on cbs this september. Throughout its nine-year run, “The colbert report” was consistently one of the smartest shows on television, with colbert’s right-wing pundit character brilliantly satirizing the most ridicu­lous aspects of cable news. 
succeeding one of the true comic geniuses of the past decade is a difficult task, but wilmore proves he is more than ready for the spotlight. he has been the “senior black correspondent” on “The daily show” since 2006 and served as showrunner for “black-ish,” this season’s best new sitcom, for its first 12 episodes. at the helm of 
KERI O’MARA | The Observer 

“The nightly show,” wilmore brings those years of ex­perience as well a much-needed diversity to the over­whelming whiteness of late night. 
The show’s first segment borrows from Jon stewart and colbert’s playbook, with wilmore commenting on recent headlines. This kind of opening monologue has become a fairly standard late-night staple, and he does not deviate far from “The daily show” format. nonetheless, wilmore has used the segment to deliver smart commentary on a number of issues, especially his unflinching take on the sexual assault allegations against bill cosby. 
“why aren’t people listening to these women?” wilmore asked during the segment on the Jan. 20 show. “is it just because they’re women?” 
it was one of the most incisive comments on the cosby situation and a good showcase for the distinct perspec­tive wilmore brings to late night. 
The second and third segments are where wilmore shines, presiding over a panel that discusses a different topic each night. so far, these panelists have included new Jersey senator cory booker, rapper Talib kweli and former white house speechwriter Jon lovett alongside a number of other journalists and comedians. wilmore oversees a debate on a particular topic — ranging from president obama’s state of the union and the cuba em­bargo to money in politics and the culture of lying in sports — and jumps in with off-the-cuff jokes. 
The debate is followed by a segment called “keep it 100,” in which wilmore asks each panelist a question related to the topic; the audience gets to decide whether each answer is “keeping it 100” or being dishonest. it’s exciting to see the show book guests other than actors promoting their latest film, and the panels have featured a diverse range of political views. guided by wilmore’s impressive improvisational skills, these segments have been both intelligent and funny, and the show’s risk to try something new has paid off so far. 
“it’s a show about underdogs,” wilmore told The new york Times, “and that happens in a lot of different forms, whether it’s race, gender or whatever.” 
Just two weeks into its run, “The nightly show” has al­ready found a confident, witty tone and will surely con­tinue to improve over the coming months. This focus on underdogs makes wilmore’s show a refreshing voice in late night and one worth returning to nightly. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at mmunhall@nd.edu 

The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Emilie Kefalas 
scene writer 

[Editor’s note: This article is part of a series called “Weekly Watch,” in which a Scene writer reviews a movie or show available on an in­stant streaming service each week]. 
ever seen “The black cauldron”? how about “The great mouse detective”? no? how have you never seen “The great mouse detective”? 
That’s alright. you were probably too busy running your vhs player raged re-watching “The little mermaid.” 
The truth is you are in good company when it comes to familiarity with the two former films mentioned. They were of an extremely rare and unusual species of ani­mated film releases. not only were they flops at the box-office — they were flops tagged to the walt disney animation studios. 
as disney film producer don hahn nar­rates in the brilliant stone circle picture documentary, “waking sleeping beauty,” the company once responsible for annual oscar sweeps and acclaimed critical reviews of the most groundbreaking methods of storytell­ing was suddenly being beaten out by care bear movies in the mid-1980s. 
“That day,” hahn narrates, “disney hit rock bottom.” 
The disney empire’s 87-year history always plays out as an incomplete epic, continuously fluctuating in style and experimentation with new influences, leaders and imagina­tions. The highest of highs for the company was, for many years, the release of “mary poppins” in 1964. The lowest low occurred just two years later with the death of the man, the myth, the maestro: walt disney himself. 
life at the walt disney company thereafter was a blind struggle to redefine and main­tain disney’s brand of unbridled entertain­ment while wandering (almost aimlessly) without that firm hand of leadership. Two decades passed as many disney veterans died off or retired from what seemed to be a wilting art form. 
most of disney’s original animation team, including the “nine old men,” continued to make safe, family-friendly animated films such as “aristocats” and “101 dalmatians.” however, “waking sleeping beauty” tells, a silent and deadly scent of predictability and uncertainty about these “safe” flicks leaked into the minds of disney’s animators. it ap­peared that the company was losing that sig­nature breath of spontaneity that set it apart from competing animations companies. 
as the walt disney company discovered in the early-to-mid-80s, the best way to wake up sleeping beauty was to hire a new prince. in this case, the knight in shining armor was a different breed of storyteller. company shareholders sid bass and roy e. disney, walt’s nephew, brought in michael eisner formerly of paramount pictures as ceo and chairman of the board with former warner brothers chief Frank wells as president to replace ron w. miller in 1984. 
a former colleague of eisner’s from paramount, Jeffrey katzenberg, was brought aboard not as an animator but as a business­man with a background in politics to take charge of disney’s motion picture division. while supervising the production of “The black cauldron,” katzenberg is credited with saying, “we need to wake up sleeping beauty.” 
The imagery in that statement perfectly captures what the company desperately needed at that point in its gradual ascent to a disney renaissance. 
it took several inconsequential animated films to reach “a whole new world” for disney, an uncharted and revived peak of in­novation in the animation industry. The walt disney company slowly regained its footing with new executives, hirings, firings and plans to release one film a year beginning in 1988 with “oliver and company.” The be­loved “The little mermaid” followed in 1989. 
outside of animation, disney experiment­ed in what was considered practically sacri­legious: re-releasing “pinocchio,” one of their coveted classics housed in the “disney vault,” on vhs tapes. it was a gold mine, marking the beginning of a decades-long marketing campaign profiting from similar vhs re-releases of disney animated classics. 
The live action pictures, the collaborations, the new theme parks and the capitalization of the classic home video release boosted disney’s brand, but animation, disney’s hall­mark, still felt like the company’s stepchild. where was the future of disney going? 
The birth of what is now referred to as the “disney renaissance” is a fascinating study in itself, but where “waking sleeping beauty” triumphs above other recounts of disney’s more recent history is its flavor of personal reflection. within the first few minutes, we are shown a vintage home video featuring an ensemble of young, hungry animators walk­ing us through the old animation building in burbank, california. 
The man filming it pipes in during intro­ductions, “i’m John lasseter!” The camera then turns to introduce a quiet, boyish look­ing man named Tim burton. glen keane, roger allers and ron clements also welcome the camera and its future viewers to watch them at work. 
not once do we see these great figures in disney storytelling speak directly to the camera against a neutral backdrop. all of the film’s footage is collected from old news seg­ments, interviews, television appearances and, yes, home videos. 
This story is an extensive one destined to be retold through the eyes of researchers and second-hand sources. if for anything else beyond pure curiosity into a company resur­rected from creative gridlock, consider expe­riencing the emotional magic carpet ride the ultimate entertainment comeback team rode all the way through the creation of a new era of beloved characters. 
Contact Emilie Kefalas at  ekefal01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
KERI O’MARA | The Observer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

It’s time to kill the MVP award 

Aaron Sant-Miller 
sports writer 
when the announcement came down that aaron rodgers had been named the nFl’s 2014 most valuable player (mvp), i had a knee jerk reaction. i saw a bias for the quarterback posi­tion being lived out once again. Quarterbacks score touchdowns, get the biggest endorsements, are the face of the league and have the biggest names. 
This knee jerk reaction led me right to J.J. watt. 
defensive players get no love for the biggest awards. no player who has lined up exclusively on defense has ever won the heisman Trophy. charles woodson is the only defensive player to win the heisman, but he also boasted a resume of impressive kick returns and splash plays at wide receiver. in the nFl, claiming the most prestigious honor is marginally less challenging. The only defen­sive nFl mvps are alan page in 1971 and lawrence Taylor in 1986. 
i have no reservations calling 
J.J. watt the best football player in the world. he had 20.5 sacks, while also forcing five turnovers (four fumbles and one interception). he had nearly 80 tackles at the defensive end position, while also producing six scores (one fumble return, one interception return, one safety and three touchdown receptions). The man was targeted on three passes and caught them all. For touchdowns. 
he finished the season with eleven pass deflections, the most of any defensive linemen and fourth among non defensive backs. he led the nFl in tackles for loss with 29 and was also best in the nFl in yards lost on sacks. 
These numbers, taken as a whole, are unprecedented; all while lining up for the houston Texans and facing consistent double-teams almost every game. you could not watch a game with­out feeling his presence, without him dominating the line of scrim­mage. he threw linemen around like ragdolls, crashed down the backside on running plays and de­stroyed plays at the point of attack. against the pass, he brought a full arsenal of moves as well as sheer athleticism. if you’re wondering, the defensive lineman weighs almost 300 pounds but had under ten percent body fat. 
J.J. watt looks and plays like someone you made in a madden player creator, a 99 overall with freak size. yet, he had no chance of winning the mvp. 
every year, in almost every sport, we’re reminded that the most valuable player award is not the best player award. who is the most valuable to their team? who is irreplaceable? 
This year, it was aaron rodgers. he had an incredible season, throwing 38 touchdowns and only five interceptions, while complet­ing nearly 66 percent of his passes for almost 4,400 yards. 
Quarterback is the most valu­able position. while a defensive end can be incredibly influential, to some extent, they function within the framework of an 11­man defense. They can make exceptional plays and often have plays designed for them, plays intended for them to make an impact. 
Quarterbacks have an almost unfair amount of responsibility. even before the snap, the man under center is expected to read an entire defense and make ad­justments at the line. in the nFl, passing windows are minuscule, and passers are forced to “throw players open.” The margin for error is unbelievable, where mis­takes give the other team points and take points away from your offense. Though a receiver can help fight for a badly thrown ball, the quarterback is the end all and be all, for the most part. 
defensive linemen have gap responsibility and are held ac­countable. if watt is sealed off, the running back can get an extra five to 10 yards, easy. but, if watt doesn’t win his one-on-one matchups on passing downs, other players can get after the quarterback. other players can make the tackle. his mistakes can be covered up. even defensive backs can defend the ball once it’s in the air. 
if rodgers misses a throw, the team doesn’t gain any yards. if he under throws a receiver, oftentimes the ball is intercepted. if he calls the wrong audible, the running back is blown up behind the line of scrim­mage. if a quarterback makes a mistake, everyone sees it because it always makes a tangible impact. 
These things are rarely up for debate. Quarterback is recognized as the most challenging position and the most important position. Therefore, mvp is a skewed award and it doesn’t represent the best player, yada yada yada. 
so, let’s get rid of the award. let’s change the most valuable player award to the player of the year award, going out to the best player. 
anarchy? maybe. am i over­throwing an award system that has been in place for years? yes. 
i am suggesting we try to elimi­nate a natural position bias in the most prestigious nFl award. That can’t be done within the frame­work of the mvp award, due to the concept of “value.” so let’s explore something entirely new, so a play­er like J.J. watt gets the recognition he deserves, as the best football player alive. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NBA | heaT 83, celTics 73; knicks 92, lakers 80 
whiteside’s efforts in second half boost heat 
Associated Press 

bosTon—hassan whiteside was hardly shocked when miami coach erik spoelstra de­signed a play for him late in the third quarter of a tight game. 
he was surprised when spoelstra kept doing it, though. 
whiteside scored half of his 20 points during a dominant stretch spanning the third and fourth quarters and miami heat held off the boston celtics 83-73 on sunday to snap a two-game slide. 
“he drew up a play and i scored on it, he just kept draw­ing them up,” said whiteside, who went 10-for-17 from the field. “i really think he started believing i can make plays down there.” 
whiteside also had nine re­bounds and blocked three shots, while chris bosh added 18 points and Tyler Johnson had 13, helping overcome the absences of dwyane wade and luol deng. 
wade missed his second game in a row with a strained right hamstring, while deng sat out his third straight with a strained calf. wade, who in­jured himself in Tuesday’s loss to milwaukee, is averaging 21.4 points and 5.4 assists per game. 
whiteside is more than making up for their absence, though, and spoelstra isn’t his only supporter. 
The 25-year-old has most of miami in a frenzy following a wild week that included a triple-double and franchise-record 12 blocks last sunday, and 24 re­bounds on Friday. 
it’s quite the story for the for­mer castoff who signed with the heat in november after playing in both lebanon and china last year. 
“he continues to surprise me,” bosh said. “he’s a talented young fellow. we want to con­tinue to push him and encour­age him to play and do well.” 
avery bradley and Tyler Zeller led the celtics with 17 points apiece, and brandon bass had 
15. it was boston’s third straight loss and fourth in its last five. 
“we’ve got to do a better job of finding our pulse at the defen­sive end regardless of whether the ball is going in the basket or not,” boston coach brad stevens said. “when you miss the num­ber of shots that we missed, i thought we let that affect how much we talked defensively. i could hear the silence and that’s a bad thing.” 
both teams were coming off their worst shooting perfor­mances of the season. miami was held to a season-low 33.0 percent in a loss to dallas, while boston shot 35.6 percent in a setback to houston. 

neither fared much better sunday, with boston shooting 37 percent and miami 41.6, but whiteside’s 10-for-17 perfor­mance fueled the heat’s third win in their last seven games. 
The suddenly surging 7-foot sensation was relatively quiet for the first two-and-a-half quarters before he began re­sembling the center who came in averaging 15.3 points and 
17.7 rebounds over his previous three games, including a triple-double line of 14 points, 13 re­bounds and a franchise-record 12 blocks last sunday. 
after boston erased a 12-point halftime deficit, tying it at 55 with less than three minutes to play in the third, whiteside had his way with the young celtics. 
he scored miami’s final four points of the third and opened the fourth by scoring six straight points, including a pair of long jumpers that restored the heat’s eight-point cushion. 
“i hadn’t seen him do that yet,” bosh said. “i don’t think he’s seen him do that yet. it was a nice move.” 
spoelstra didn’t seem to mind his big man’s decision to shoot from the perimeter. 
“if he’s wide open and they’re disrespecting him and it comes within the flow of what we do, i’m fine with that,” he said. 
Knicks 92, Lakers 80 
new york — carmelo anthony hears those voices say­ing he’s getting old, that he can’t jump like he once did. 
hard not to, since some of them are coming from right in his locker room. 
anthony answered in his own way sunday, scoring 18 of his 31 points in the third quarter as the new york knicks beat the los angeles lakers 92-80. 
he stared back toward his own bench in the second quar­ter after rising high to slam down a lob pass from Jason smith, revealing that his team­mates were teasing the 30-year­old forward recently after seeing him dunk. 
“They said they haven’t seen that before in a long time,” anthony said, “and we had this conversation before the game today, so it was just one of those moments where i had to look at the bench and let them know that i’ve still got it.” 
with kobe bryant out for the season and both teams among the worst in the nba, it was anything but a super sunday in new york, where the national Tv audience that was originally scheduled to see it missed the lakers shooting 35.5 percent from the field. 

anthony stood out above the ugliness, turning mostly to his jumper in the third quarter to help new york pull away. he shot 13 of 25 and grabbed eight rebounds. 
“melo got hot, had it going and gave them a nice cushion,” lakers forward carlos boozer said. “we tried to fight back a lit­tle bit but it was a little too late.” 
langston galloway added 13 points for the knicks, who have won five of seven and did it eas­ily, building their first 20-point lead since they were up 21 in a victory over philadelphia on nov. 22. 
boozer had 19 points and 10 rebounds for the lakers, who lost for the 10th time in 11 games. Jordan clarkson also scored 19 points. 
The lakers had snapped their nine-game losing streak with a double-overtime victory over chicago on Thursday but they remain lost on the road, where they fell for the seventh straight time. 
“we just got off to a bad start in the first quarter,” lakers coach byron scott said. “i thought new york’s energy was a whole lot harder than ours and their effort was a lot better than ours. They just played better.” 
The knicks are 10-38, slight­ly worse than the lakers’ 13­35 mark. missing half its star power with bryant sidelined after shoulder surgery, the game was yanked from espn 
— the knicks’ fourth consecu­tive game that was dropped from the nba’s national Tv schedule. 
it was derek Fisher’s first time coaching against the team he helped win five champion­ships, and now phil Jackson, the coach of those teams, will have to figure out how to build the knicks into contenders. Fisher said that doesn’t re­quire landing another star like the lakers did when they got shaquille o’neal or pau gasol, but acknowledged they may not be able to build gradually as teams such as oklahoma city and portland have. 
“i think you owe it to carmelo to do it the right way, but at the same time he just signed a con­tract for five years,” Fisher said. “he’s 30 years old. we don’t have 10 years to figure this out.” 
The knicks led 32-19 after one and pulled away in the third, when anthony scored 12 straight knicks points. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


TRACK & FIELD | raZorback inviTaTional 
Irish struggle to keep up with top talent 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
last weekend notre dame competed in the razorback invitational in Fayetteville, arkansas, where the women’s team finished tied for seventh place and the men’s team set­tled for 11th. 
many of the dozen teams competing in the meet were high-ranked programs such as no. 1 Florida, no. 3 Texas a&m and no. 5 arkansas on the women’s side and no. 2 Florida, no. 3 arkansas and no. 4 Texas a&m competing in the men’s field. notre dame head coach alan Turner said that his team learned a lot by racing against some of the best teams in the country. 
“we learned really quickly that a less than stellar showing on Friday wasn’t good at all,” Turner said. “we learned really quickly that if you don’t bring your very best effort against the best, it’s not going to turn out well.” 
despite where his team fin­ished, Turner said the irish im­proved on the second day. 
“we responded saturday,” Turner said. “it doesn’t reflect that in the team standing be­cause we were in such a big hole to begin with the team scores. 
The team finally woke up and competed. i think that team realized they can compete with the very best teams in the country, but its going to require their very best effort.” 
a bright spot for the irish was senior chris giesting, who broke the school record in the 200-meter with a time of 21.02 seconds to beat the former re­cord of 21.11 seconds. Turner said giesting is one of notre dame’s best athletes. 
“[chris] has been a big east champion in [the 200-meter] and now he’s all-acc,” Turner said. “he’s one of the top 20 guys in the country in the 200-meter. chris basically just proves that he’s probably the best overall sprinter we’ve had in school history. right now he currently holds in­door school records: 200-me­ter, 400-meter, 500-meter, 600-meter and the 4x4 relay. he’s one of notre dame’s all-time best, in my opinion.” 
another highlight for the irish was freshman Jessica harris, who broke the school record for the 800-meter event previously held by ju­nior danielle aragon. harris’ time of 2:06.91 also places her in the top six in the country for the 800-meter race. Turner said he is excited to see harris continue to improve. 
“we definitely expect [harris] to get better at it as she goes along,” Turner said. “i don’t think i’ve ever heard of a freshman have three dif­ferent races, three different events, three different school records. when i spoke to her after the race on saturday i said, ‘we just need to con­tinue to get better, continue to get faster.’ The goal is to try and win the acc title in the 800-meter.” 
The irish are now less than a month away from the acc indoor championships and Turner said the team’s per­formance in the razorback invitational will help the irish going forward. 
“[The razorback invitational] will help us tre­mendously going forward into the acc championship,” Turner said. “especially for our young folks who are on the verge of qualifying for the national championships.” 
The irish next com­pete saturday in the meyo invitational at loftus sports center. The action begins Friday at 4 p.m. and resumes saturday at 10 a.m. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 


NFL | paTrioTs 28, seahawks 24 
pats hold off seahawks with late interception 
Associate Pressz 
glendale, ariz. — Tom brady and the patriots made this super bowl all about football, not footballs. 
clutch football, spiced by a sensational fourth-quarter rally and a goal-line, game-saving interception. 
The record-setting brady threw for four touchdowns, including a 3-yarder to Julian edelman with 2:02 remaining sunday night, as new england rallied from a 10-point deficit to beat seattle 28-24 for the fourth super bowl title in the brady-bill belichick era. 
but the patriots (15-4) had to survive a last-ditch drive by the seahawks (14-5), who got to the 1, helped by a spectacular juggling catch by Jermaine kearse. Then rookie malcolm butler stepped in front of ricardo lockette to pick off russell wilson’s pass and complete one of the wildest super bowl finishes. 
brady leaped for joy on the patriots sideline after butler’s interception. 
“it wasn’t the way we drew it up,” said brady, who won his third super bowl mvp award. “it was a lot of mental toughness. our team has had it all year. we never doubted each other, so that’s what it took.” 
brady surpassed Joe montana’s mark of 11 super bowl touch­down passes with a 4-yarder to danny amendola to bring the patriots within three points. 
seattle, seeking to become the first repeat nFl champion since new england a decade ago, was outplayed for the first half, yet tied at 14. The seahawks scored the only 10 points of the third period, but the nFl-leading de­fense couldn’t slow the brilliant brady when it counted most. 
“he’s Tom brady,” edelman said. “he’s the greatest quarter­back on the planet.” 
it didn’t matter how much air was in the balls, brady was un­stoppable when the pressure was strongest. while pushing aside the controversy over air pressure in the footballs stemming from the aFc title game, the patriots toyed with seattle in the final 12 minutes. 
seattle didn’t quit — it never does — and kearse’s 33-yard catch with 1:06 remaining got it to the 5. marshawn lynch rushed for 4 yards, then backup corner­back butler, who was victimized on kearse’s reception, made the biggest play of his first nFl sea­son with 20 seconds remaining. 
“i just had a vision that i was going to make a big play and it came true,” said butler, an undrafted rookie from west alabama. “i’m just blessed. i can’t explain it right now. it’s crazy.” 
seahawks linebacker bruce irvin was ejected in the final sec­onds for instigating a near-brawl, delaying the celebration for the patriots. 
soon they were mobbing one another on the same field where their 2007 unbeaten season was ruined in the super bowl by the giants. They also fell to the giants for the 2011 title. 
but thanks to superstar brady and the obscure butler, they are champions again. 
brady has equaled montana with four lombardi Trophies and three super bowl mvps. he stands alone with 13 super bowl touchdown passes. he was 37 for 50 for 328 yards against the nFl’s top-ranked defense. 
he also was picked off twice; brady was intercepted a total of two times in his previous five super bowls. 
yet, he picked apart the seahawks on fourth-quarter drives of 68 and 64 yards, solidi­fying his championship legacy. 
his heroics offset those of chris matthews, one of seattle’s least-used players before the postseason. matthews recovered the onside kick that helped the seahawks beat green bay in overtime for the nFc crown, and had a breakout performance sunday. 
having never caught a pass in the nFl, matthews grabbed four for 109 yards and a touchdown. lynch ran for 102 yards, but didn’t get the ball at the 1 on the decisive play — a decision the seahawks will rue forever. 
“For it to come down to a play like that, i hate that we have to live with that,” coach pete carroll said, “because we did everything right to win the football game. 
The teams got down to football under the open retractable roof at university of phoenix stadium 
—
 the first venue to host an in­door and an outdoor super bowl 

—
 after dealing with distractions far beyond the typical super bowl hype. The patriots are still being investigated for using for those under-inflated footballs the aFc championship game. 


it was a game of spurts by both teams before a crowd of 70,288 that was clearly pro-seattle. 
Jeremy lane made the first big play to negate a nearly eight-minute drive by the patriots with a leaping interception at the goal line late in the first quarter. lane made his first pro interception, but left with a wrist injury after being tackled by Julian edelman. 

his replacement, Tharold simon, got torched by brady the rest of the way. 
wilson was getting no time to look downfield and he didn’t get off a pass in the first quarter. when brady completed his re­cord 50th postseason Td throw, 11 yards to brandon laFell against simon, it was 7-0. 
seattle went to its bench to help tie it. 
matthews’ first career catch, a reaching 44-yarder over kyle arrington and by far the longest first-half play for seattle, led to lynch’s bruising 3-yard Td run to make it 7-7. 
but brady to rob gronkowski made it 14-7 and seemed to fin­ish off a dominant first half for the patriots. except no one told the resilient seahawks. 
a dormant offense turned dangerous in a span of 29 sec­onds, covering 80 yards in five plays, including a late gamble. lockette caught a 23-yard pass and arrington was flagged for a facemask, putting seattle at the 10 with :06 remaining. carroll went for it and the new seahawks star, matthews, grabbed wilson’s pass in the left corner of the end zone. 
it was the most lopsided half­time tie imaginable. 

The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

FENCING | norThwesTern duals 
Notre Dame finishes undefeated at Duals 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writer 
The irish downed seven ranked teams en route to a perfect 13-0 record at the northwestern duals on saturday. 
after earning a pair of winning records at the nyu invitational last weekend, the irish women’s (20-2) and men’s (13-6) squads con­tinued to build momentum heading into their home meet this coming weekend at the decicco duals. 
The day started with a contentious round between the women’s squad and no. 3 ranked princeton. The irish took two of the three weapons in the match in the process of winning the match 14-13. This would prove the most contentious result of the afternoon for the irish women, who post­ed an 18-9 win against penn in the second round, fol­lowed by a 17-10 win against northwestern. notre dame’s women’s squad is now 3-0 in 2015 competition against northwestern. 
The irish set the tone for the day with strong prepara­tion for princeton, junior foil sarah Followill said. 
“we started off the day fencing our hardest school, princeton,” Followill said. “we had a bye in the first round, so princeton had al­ready fenced a round before us. we made sure we warmed up enough and fenced a lot beforehand, and we came out really strong, confident and loud in our first bouts.” 
The women’s foil squad posted a pair of 8-1 records in the second and third rounds of the meet and earned vic­tories in every round they competed in. 
“This weekend we were un­defeated overall, which was great,” Followill said.  “we really started off strong and kept the energy up through­out the day. coming into decicco duals, we’re confi­dent that we will do just as well.” 
The men’s squad started with a bye in the first and fourth rounds, but proceed­ed to earn victories in each of the other six rounds in­cluding a second-round win against the no. 7 princeton men’s squad. They also earned a 25-2 victory over cal Tech in the eighth and final round of the afternoon. both foil and sabre were an undefeated 9-0 against the cal Tech men, while the epee squad posted a record of 7-2. 
The men’s sabre line-up received national atten­tion in the week leading up to the northwestern duals, with freshman sabre Jonah shainburg earning honors as the acc men’s Fencer of the week. senior epee ashley severson won the women’s honor for the week as well. This marked the second time this season that the irish have earned both awards in the same week — fresh­man sabre Francesca russo and sophomore foil hazem khazbak earned the hon­ors following the ohio state elite cup in mid-november. 
“having a tournament at home is really great,” Followill said. “we are only able to travel 30 fencers to other tournaments, so when we fence at notre dame our other fencers get a chance to compete. we have a re­ally strong team this year, and our team is also very large. so more people get the chance to fence when we stay here. it’s also just more convenient when we don’t have to travel.” 


The irish stay home this coming weekend as they host the decicco duals at the castellan Family Fencing center. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 

MEN’S SWIMMING | shamrock inviTaTional 
irish close shamrock invitational with two wins 

Observer Staff Report 
notre dame took on three other teams this past weekend in the shamrock invitational at rolfs aquatic center. The irish (5-6) beat missouri state, 218– 150, and incarnate world, 293– 75, but fell by just 20 points to big Ten foe iowa, 195-175. 
The 100-yard breaststroke was one highlight of a wildly entertaining day for the irish, Tallman said. hawkeye junior roman Trussov out-touched senior Zachary stephens, 54.4 to 54.94, to claim the top spot on the podium. classmates patrick olson (third, 55.68) and cameron miller (fourth, 
55.77) finished right behind stephens. Junior andrew Jensen finished 10th (58.56). 
in the 200-yard breaststroke, stephens was again out-touched by Trussov (1:59.35), with miller and olson switch­ing places to finish third 
(2:04.26) and fourth (2:06.42), respectively. 
in the 100-yard backstroke, junior bogac ahyan earned a podium finish, coming in third with a time of 50.17. Freshmen rob whitacre finished sixth (50.76), and Justin plaschka finished 10th (51.86). 
Freshmen took the top two spots for the irish in the 100-yard freestyle. plaschka touched the wall first (45.31) and classmate Joseph krause claimed second (45.48). Freshman richard mannix finished 12th (46.67) while sophomore Trent Jackson fin­ished 14th (46.78). 
senior John nappi not only won the 1,650-yard freestyle but also broke the pool re­cord with a time of 15:21.60. The 800-yard freestyle re­lay c-team lineup of seniors kevin hughes, broderick kelly, patrick murphy and junior michael hudspith also broke a pool record in their winning ef­fort (6:35.03). The a-team was disqualified while the b-team finished sixth (6:55.17). 
in diving, sophomore Joseph coumos won the 3-meter event (377.50), and the irish also claimed second, fourth and fifth. sophomore James lichtenstein set a new person­al best with his 326.20 to fin­ish ninth, and senior michael kreft finished tenth (317.65). 

in the 200-yard butterfly, seniors Jonathan williamson and matthew deblasio and sophomores kevin bradley and reed Fujan all earned top-12 finishes. williamson swam to second place (1:50.07), bradley touched sixth (1:54.43), Fujan finished 11th (1:56.82) and deblasio came in 12th (1:57.25). 
Tallman said he was satis­fied with his team’s effort, but he admitted the team still needs to improve for upcom­ing championship meets. 
The  acc  championship  
meet  is  at  georgia  Tech,  
while  iowa is going to host  

the ncaa championships af­ter competing in the big Ten championship. 
The irish return to the pool saturday when they host cleveland state. The meet starts at 12 p.m. at rolfs aquatic center. 


M Bball 
us today; we could never get enough stops to really win 
conTinued From page 16 
the game,” brey said. “we 

were scoring the whole time key times.” and this group has been able 
down 71-63 with 3:05 re-to get stops, especially in the maining, irish senior guard last seven or eight minutes, Jerian grant had scored just to usually escape. we got five points, and notre dame a couple of stops but could was mired in its biggest never get enough to really hole of the afternoon. Then believe, and then they got re-grant reeled off nine straight ally confident offensively.” points and gave the irish the brey said he was curious to lead with 31 seconds left. see how his team would re-
with the irish leading by spond early saturday after-one, panthers junior guard noon after the thrilling win James robinson drove into wednesday. the lane and converted on a “we would have every rea­difficult spinning floater to son to be a little flat, a little vault pittsburgh ahead 73-72 under-energized, given what with 12 seconds left. we had to do against nc 
“The key defensive pos-state [in an overtime win session was, you get the stop Jan. 25] and tonight,” brey when robinson hits the run-said wednesday night after ner, and you win the game,” the win over duke. “if you brey said. get the one in pittsburgh, i’ll 
grant then motored up-start to refer to you as hav­court and kicked out to irish ing special qualities. i’m se­sophomore guard steve rious. human nature would vasturia for an open 3-point-say you’re not gonna be very er in the right corner — the good.” same location from which The irish weren’t, at least vasturia sunk a crucial tri-on the defensive end. ple during the waning sec-“not there yet. not there onds of the win over the blue yet. no,” brey said when devils. This time, vasturia’s asked about those special shot didn’t fall, and the irish qualities. “got a chance to lost. keep working on it. ‘in search 
“it was one of those games of being special’ is what i where i think we deserved said as soon as we got in the to lose by 15, and what i love locker room.” about our group is that we irish sophomore guard took the lead and took that demetrius Jackson paced shot down in the corner to notre dame with 15 points, Tirone at 11:54 of the sec-score once more before 
Hockey 

steal another one,” brey said. while grant, junior for­ond period, while bretzman notre dame could get on 
conTinued From page 16 

pittsburgh set season highs ward Zach auguste (12) and 
fired a slap shot from the the board. Foegele fed fel­for made field goals, field-vasturia (12) also reached 
point at 2:06 of the third pe-low freshman andrew goal percentage, assists and double figures. 
came out with much more riod after a stellar feed from potularski in the slot for a points in an acc game. The notre dame welcomes 
energy saturday, Jackson hinostroza. one-timer at the 12:11 mark panthers shot 68.2 percent in boston college to purcell 
said. senior right wing “it’s exciting to finally see of the second period. the second half. pittsburgh pavilion on wednesday at 7 
austin wuthrich opened the a puck go in the net for me,” when asked about his sophomore forward Jamel p.m. 
scoring for the irish with ostlie said. “i’ve been work-teams’ troubles, Jackson artis (20 points) led four 
2:14 left in the first period, ing hard and finally got pointed to their turnovers panthers in double figures. Contact Mike Monaco at  
good for his seventh goal of some glory.” and compete level. 
“i think our defense hurt jmonaco@nd.edu 
the season. Jackson said he The irish held on to the “There are no excuses,” 
stressed seizing the game lead, but not without a scare Jackson said. “we have to do 
early and not recoiling in from the wildcats. Just sec-a better job with the puck 
bettis played three seasons 

Hall of Fame 
the moment to his players. onds after new hampshire first and foremost.” for notre dame, recording 
“[i told them] the only failed to convert on a pow-notre dame showed life 
conTinued From page 16 
2,356 total yards and 27 total 

way you grow is to face ad-er play, sophomore right at the end of the second pe­touchdowns. bettis scored 20 
versity,” Jackson said. winger Tyler kelleher found riod, with goals by junior he was named the associated touchdowns and recorded 121 
notre dame quickly add-himself wide-open on the left wing mario lucia and press offensive rookie of the total points during the 1991 
ed to their lead 2:32 into doorstep and cut the lead to hinostroza in quick succes­year for the 1993-1994 sea-season, breaking single-season 
the second period, when 4-3 with 2:33 to play. sion. lucia potted one on son after he finished second program records in both those 
hinostroza found junior wuthrich, however, sealed the power play with :44 left, in the league with 1,429 rush-categories. 
center steven Fogarty with the victory for the irish where Tirone had no chance ing yards. he rushed for 1,000 with brown and bettis’s in-
a beautiful backdoor feed, with an empty net goal, to get across to lucia. with or more yards in eight seasons ductions, the professional 
a power play goal wildcats’ and helped katunar notch the period winding down, and recorded 13,662 rushing Football hall of Fame will now 
freshman goalie danny his first win since dec. 5. hinostroza closed the gap yards in his career. have 12 inductees with notre 
Tirone had no chance on. katunar stood tall when he to 4-2 with under :02 to bettis also totaled 1,449 re-dame connections. The last 
new hampshire leveled needed to, coming up big in go. That got the crowd at ceiving yards and 91 total inductee with notre dame ties 
the scoring, however, be-the third period for notre compton energized, but touchdowns in his nFl ca-was former irish tight end dave 
fore the halfway mark of dame, Jackson said. it was the closest the irish reer. he was selected to six pro casper, who entered the hall of 
the period. Freshman cen-“That’s what we’ve been would get the rest of the bowls and made the all-pro Fame in 2002. 
ter warren Foegele beat lacking,” Jackson said. “you way, as they eventually fell team three times. brown and bettis will join 
irish sophomore goalie have to have that ability to 5-2. “i played the game of football the hall of Fame with a class 
chad katunar five-hole on make that big save when it’s “after we got those two with passion, with the desire to of eight inductees, including 
a 2-on-1, while sophomore needed, and he made a few power play goals, we had a be a champion,” bettis said to former san diego chargers 
defenseman matias cleland of those.” period break,” Jackson said. The pittsburgh post-gazette. linebacker Junior seau and for-
netted a power play goal The start to Friday’s game “it would have been nice if “and in that drive to become a mer indianapolis colts general 
that was helped by a screen was much different for the we could have continued champion, i have now put my-manager bill polian. 
in front irish. They were victimized playing.” self on the most sacred ground The 2015 professional hall of 
of the net. by odd-man rushes and a notre dame returns to that a football player could Fame enshrinement ceremo­
notre dame responded turnover behind their own action next weekend when ever be in and that’s the hall of nies will take place aug. 8 in 
in the form of sophomore net, two areas that have they travel to maine for Fame.” canton, ohio. 
right wing ben ostlie and plagued the irish all sea-a pair of tilts Friday and freshman defenseman Tony son. after falling behind saturday that both get un­bretzman, both of whom 3-0, freshman goalie cal derway at 7:05 p.m. scored their first collegiate petersen was pulled in favor goals. ostlie’s came on a of katunar. Contact Brian Plamondon at redirect that trickled past new hampshire would bplamond@nd.edu 



The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
headed to the locker room, notre dame had pushed its advantage to 47-30. sophomore guard lindsay allen and junior guard Jewell loyd led the way into halftime with 14 and 11 points respectively. 
“i just tried to provide a little bit of energy for us in the beginning,” allen said of her quick start. “we were a little slow to start off.” 
loyd led the irish with 20 points, and allen finished with 18 points and four steals. 
“[allen] was great offen­sively, but defensively, i thought she really did a nice job,” mcgraw said. “she had a huge play i thought when [wake Forest senior forward dearica] hamby was about to get a wide-open layup, and she came out of nowhere to block it, steal it and take it down to the other end.” 
hamby entered the game averaging 20.1 points per game, third in the acc. loyd leads the acc with an aver­age of 21.4 points per game. 
“hamby is really a tough matchup for us,” mcgraw said. “she is a phenomenal player, really, really talent­ed, and she played well.” 
hamby (23 points) and sophomore forward milan Quinn (14) topped the demon deacons overall in scoring. 


The irish bench played an important role as it out­scored the demon deacons bench, 34-7. eleven irish players saw action, and mcgraw noted especially the bench contributions of senior forward markisha wright and freshman guard mychal Johnson, in addi­tion to cable. wright scored eight points and snagged five rebounds. 
“[wright] was our plan b for guarding hamby,” mcgraw said. “we felt like she could guard her away from the basket, she’d be physical with her inside, and we’d be able to bring the double team. and i thought she played well. she’s always ready. she’s somebody we can really always count on to be ready at any point.” 
The irish and demon deacons wore pink jerseys for notre dame’s seventh annual pink Zone game. over the past six seasons, the irish have raised $750,000 for the national kay yow cancer Fund and the south bend community. 
notre dame continues its acc slate Thursday against virginia at 7 p.m. at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 






CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 

DOME NUTS | alexandria wellman SUDOKU | The mepham group 



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to: 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: determination will help you follow through with your plans. use your imagination and you will come up with solutions to any obstacles you face. welcome change when it comes to your career, and be willing to experiment with new methods if you think it will give you the edge you need to advance. don’t be afraid to be different. your numbers are 7, 15, 19, 20, 32, 35, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): share your thoughts with others and work toward personal goals. a conversation with a trusted friend will help you approach an important decision. don’t let a relationship cost you emotionally or financially. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Taking part in community events or a good cause will lead to a very special encounter with someone who will change the way you think. visit an old friend or relative and you will discover insightful information regarding a health concern. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): keep busy and do your best to stay informed about what is happening in your field of work. don’t trust anyone who is passing on secondhand information. gullibility will be your downfall. make changes based on facts.  


CANCER (June 21-July 22): observe what others do and say, and you will know where you stand. romance is on the rise, and it’s a good idea to share information with someone you would like to spend more time with. iron out problems now and make a commitment. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): it’s all about partnerships, implementing positive changes, and stabilizing your domestic scene. Talk through any concerns you have and you can avoid drifting away from someone you care about. make an effort to maintain your status quo. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): it won’t do you any good to argue. Take what you know and do well and find an outlet that allows you to use your skills, knowledge and attributes fully. choose to be productive and passionate about whatever you pursue. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): your sharp intellect and quick response will help you bring about the positive changes that will make you feel good about your personal life and where you are heading. don’t let an emotional issue slow you down or hold you back. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): avoid letting what someone says bother you. Follow your heart and your creative dreams and don’t look back. you will learn from the experiences you encounter. love is in the stars, and an improved home life is within reach. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): listen to complaints and take care of your obligations early in the day. The positive changes you make to your home will allow you greater freedom to start a productive and prosperous sideline business. invest in your future. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): revisit an old idea, dream or professional goal. you can bring a plan back to life if you make changes that are more in sync with current popular trends. a past relationship will get a second chance if you are willing to compromise. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): re-evaluate your position and consider what you can do to increase your income and responsibilities. a partnership will allow you more time to spend on the things you enjoy and do best. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): an honest assessment regarding the way you feel, what you want and what you are willing to do will play a role in the decisions you make. remain true to your needs and be frank when dealing with others. 



Birthday Baby: you are secretive, thoughtful and attentive. you are creative and unique. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 

The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 
address 

city      state Zip 

The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S BASKETBALL | piTTsburgh 76, nd 72 
 Panther pitfall 
Notre Dame falls on road despite another late rally, Brey said team ‘deserved’ to lose 
By MIKE MONACO 
senior sports writer 
They’ve overcome double-digit deficits with relative ease all season, comebacks so commonplace that irish head coach mike brey has joked the irish have teams “right where they want them” when losing by 10. 
so trailing by eight points with 3:05 remaining against pittsburgh on saturday, it was only fitting no. 8 notre dame (20-3, 8-2 acc) came back once again and took a one-point lead with 31 seconds to play. but the panthers (14-8, 4-5) closed down the stretch and earned a 76-72 victory over the irish on saturday afternoon at the petersen events center in pittsburgh. 
“i’m proud of our group. it looked bad, and we fought through out of another hole to give ourselves a chance to win,” irish head coach mike brey said in his post-game radio interview. “but i don’t think our defense was good enough today, nor did we really deserve to win. if we would have won today, that would have been a theft.” 
Three days removed from a momentous win over no. 4 duke, notre dame rode its efficient offense into pittsburgh but faced a hot-shooting panthers club. pittsburgh shot 58.5 per­cent from the floor and as­sisted on 24 of its 31 field goals, appearing nothing like the team that lost to lowly virginia Tech on Tuesday. 
“i think the major story of this game is how well pitt played on both ends of the floor,” brey said to reporters afterward. “They were in a great rhythm offensively and were very good defensively at 
see m bball PAGE 13 

HOCKEY | new hampshire 5, nd 2; nd 5, nh 3 
ND grabs first win in nine tries 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
assistant managing editor 
a crowd braved the bliz­zard sunday afternoon to watch no. 4 notre dame take on wake Forest, and the irish rewarded their fans with a 92-63 win at purcell pavilion. 
The demon deacons (10-13, 1-8 acc) hung with the irish for much of the first half, but then notre dame (21-2, 8-1) broke out with a 14-0 run. The irish padded their lead with 42 points off 30 wake Forest turnovers. 
“i thought a lot of it was from us,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said of the demon deacons’ mis­cues. “i thought we, with our press and the pressure we put on them, i thought we came up with a lot of big steals, so i think we had something to do with that.” 
senior guard madison cable applied some of the pressure with a career-high six steals as the irish racked up 17, one short of their season high. cable also scored 12 points, in­cluding a four-point play. 
“i thought madison cable played as well as she’s played all year long,” mcgraw said. “That was a phenomenal game defen­sively; five steals at half­time. she just did a great job in the passing lanes. she was good in the press; she was really good in the half court, took a couple of charges that really saved us.” 
with just under nine minutes left in the first half, notre dame led by only one point, 23-22. wake Forest didn’t score for over four minutes after that, though, as the irish pushed their lead to 37­22 with a run capped by a jumper from freshman forward brianna Turner. 
“we got a little confi­dence in there, knowing we could score against them,” demon deacons coach Jen hoover said. “we ran some good stuff; we executed at different times; we had kids make some big plays, i thought, but we can’t give them those runs.” 
by the time the teams 
see w bball PAGE 14 


By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
sophomore center vince hinostroza tallied four points and the irish snapped an eight-game winless streak on home ice as notre dame split their weekend series with new hampshire at compton Family ice arena. 
new hampshire (9-15-2, 4-9-1 hockey east) jumped out to a 4-0 lead Friday en route to a 5-2 victory over the irish (11-14-3, 6-5-3). notre dame responded with a 5-3 win saturday night. 
saturday’s win was the first at home for the irish since a 3-2 win over no. 15 vermont on oct. 31, a span that saw them go 0-5-3. 
“it’s important for the mo­rale,” irish coach Jeff Jackson said of finally breaking through at home. “part of the reason we built this building was to create that level of excitement and energy, and we have to take advantage of that.” 
after falling behind 4-0 on Friday night, notre dame 
see hockey PAGE 13 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 92, wake ForesT 63 
loyd, cable lead irish in blowout 
FOOTBALL 
Bettis, Brown elected to HOF 
Observer Staff Report 

Former notre dame receiver Tim brown and former irish running back Jerome bettis were elected to the professional Football hall of Fame on saturday. 
brown’s selection came in his sixth year as a hall of Fame fi­nalist, while bettis was selected in his fifth year on the ballot. 
“you know you have to wait your turn,” brown said to raiders.com. “i came into this year hoping for better things and am delighted to be sitting here.” 
after being drafted sixth overall in the 1988 nFl draft by the los angeles raiders, brown spent all but one year of his 17-season career with the franchise. brown set raiders franchise records for recep­tions, receiving yards and punt return yards. over the course of his career, he recorded 14,934 receiving yards, 1,094 receptions and 100 touchdown catches. 
brown also made his mark on special teams, leading the nFl in kickoff returns, return yards and yards per return average in his rookie season. he was selected to nine pro bowls and recorded 75 or more receptions in 10 consecutive seasons. 
brown’s professional career followed a notre dame career in which he broke 19 different school records. brown com­piled a career total of 2,493 re­ceiving yards, a school record at the time, and caught 12 touch­down passes. he also recorded three career kick return touch­downs, averaging 23.4 yards per return, and returned three punts for touchdowns as well. 
brown won the heisman Trophy in 1987, becoming the first receiver to do so, and is still notre dame’s most re­cent recipient of the award. he was inducted into the college Football hall of Fame in 2009 and awarded an ncaa silver anniversary award in 2012. 
after being selected 10th overall in the 1993 nFl draft by the los angeles rams, bettis spent three seasons with the rams before moving to the pittsburgh steelers for the remainder of his 13-season career. 
see hall oF Fame PAGE 13 




