The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 116 | mondAy, APril 13, 2015 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
Associate dean dies 
Faculty and students remember associate dean of College of Engineering and Notre Dame alumna Pieronek 
said. served as director of alumni 
Observer Staff Report 
after earning her law degree, relations for the its law school as 
catherine pieronek, associate she took up the cause of Title iX well as the editor of its quarterly dean of academic affairs and in higher education and became publication, prior to which she director of the women’s engi-a leading expert on the topic, ac-served as a senior systems engi­
neering program in the college 
of engineering, died Thursday 
night at the age of 52 at memorial 
hospital in south Bend, according 
to a university press release sent 
Friday afternoon. 
pieronek graduated from notre 

dame in 1984 with a Bachelor of 
science degree in aerospace en-neer at prw, the obituary said. 

when she joined the faculty, 
pieronek established the women’s 
engineering program as part of 
her ongoing efforts to support 
women engineers on campus and 
spearheaded the initiative to con­
centrate female engineers in resi­
dence halls, the obituary said. at 

gineering and earned her law de-cording to the release. the time of her death, she was gree from the university in 1995, Before joining notre dame’s an obituary emailed to students teaching faculty in 2002, pieronek see dean PAGE 5 


Juniors host mothers at saint mary’s over weekend 
By MARTHA REILLY 
news writer 
This weekend, saint mary’s hosted Junior mom’s weekend, which allowed mothers and daughters to share a special weekend on campus together. 
Junior class president corinne craig said she began planning for this in september. The week­end helped moms and daughters grow closer, as it allowed moth­ers and daughters to experience saint mary’s together. 
“The main purpose of all the events is to show mothers how their daughters have fun during Photo courtesy of Maggie Crowe 
Saint Mary’s juniors pose with their mothers at dinner Saturday at see moms PAGE 4 Gillespie Center in the Hilton Garden Inn. 




Graduate students request dental coverage 

By EMILY McCONVILLE 
associate news editor 
The office of student affairs will hold a public meeting Tuesday to discuss the pos­sibility of reinstating a dental insurance plan for graduate students, in response to a stu­dent petition on the issue. 
The petition, submitted in January, asked the university to reinstate dental coverage after aetna, the company that provides student health insur­ance through notre dame, removed the option of a den­tal plan for graduate students after the 2012-2013 academic year and replaced it with a dis­count card. 
all notre dame graduate students are required to have health insurance, and students are automatically enrolled in a school-sponsored insurance program unless they opt out, according to the university health services website. But to receive dental coverage specif­ically, students had to sign up and pay a separate fee, accord­ing to sean phillips, the health chair of the graduate student union (gsu). 
phillips said aetna dropped the option for dental coverage in 2013 due to low enrollment. 
“a lot of students just didn’t pay into it, and just as any insurance mathematically works, if you don’t have people 
see denTal PAGE 5 


Lecture highlights struggles in North Korea 
By MADISON JAROS 
news writer 
liberty in north Korea (linK), a grassroots nonprof­it that works to improve the lives of north Korean refu­gees, described the situation inside north Korea as one of the “greatest challenges fac­ing humanity today” during a lecture at carey auditorium on sunday. 
linK representative Kirsten pulles said in addition to refu­gee assistance, the nonprofit also hopes to change society’s idea of what is going on inside the country and how they can help. 
“i’m sure for some of you, when i say north Korea, some of the first things that natu­rally pop into your head are scary weapons, scary dicta­tors with even scarier haircuts, and movies [like The interview that] you’re scared to watch with your family in the room,” pulles said. “That’s what you see on the news, because that’s the story and that’s what makes a great story. But … i want to replace those first impressions with the north Korean people 
— the hope that they have for their future, and the changes that are already happening at the grassroots level.” 
The united nations pub­lished a report last year that found “the gravity, scale and nature of the human rights vio­lations currently happening in north Korea reveal a state that is without parallel in our con­temporary world.” 
“[The report] went on to say that these crimes against hu­manity include ‘extermination, murder, enslavement, torture, imprisonment, rape, forced abortions and other sexual vi­olence, persecution based on political, religious, racial and gender grounds, the forcible transfer of populations, the forced disappearance of per­sons and the inhumane act of knowingly causing prolonged starvation,” she said. 
pulles said these conditions have contributed to a per 
see norTh Korea PAGE 4 





ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. Box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney alex Jirschele Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: lesley stevenson Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 

Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: Brian lach Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu lsteven1@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. Box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite type of facial hair? 

Mayra Martinez 
senior 
Badin hall 
“all over bushy beards and on neck too.” 
Diego Fernandez del Castillo 
sophomore 
Fisher hall 

“i’m a big fan of the soul patch.” 
Dulce Macias 
freshman 
welsh Family hall 
“i like the peach fuzz.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Julie Vidales 
freshman welsh Family hall 
“depends on the guy, but scruff or none.” 
Alex Morales 
freshman holy cross hall 
“The chinstrap and unibrows! yum.” 
Melissa Gutierrez 
freshman walsh hall 
“clean-shaven.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

haleigh ehmsen Zach Klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
andrea vale rachel o’grady gabriela malespin nicole caratas 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
Keri o’mara Jimmy Kemper 
Photo Viewpoint 

“Mothers of Bedford” Blood Drive “MFA Student “Dead Man’s Labor Cafe 
caitlyn Jordan rex shannon 

Geddes Hall Rolfs Sports Reading” Cellphone” Geddes Hall 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. Recreation Center Hammes Bookstore DebartoloPerforming 4:30 p.m.- 5:30 p.m. Film and discussion 11 a.m.- 5:30 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m. Arts Center Sponsored by Higgins 
Corrections 

with filmmaker Sponsored by South Sponsored by Creative 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Labor Studies 
The observer regards itself as Jennifer McShane. Bend Medical Center. Writing Program. Theatre performance. Program. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
“Getting Started in “Four: 7 Catholic “South Bend on a “The Hard Problem” ND Relay for Life 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Research” Fellowship” Dime” Debartolo Performing Compton Family Ice 
however, recognize that we will make 
Brownson Hall Cavanaugh Hall McKenna Hall Arts Center Arena 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
4 p.m.- 5 p.m. 8:15 p.m.- 9:30 p.m. 12p.m.- 1 p.m. 7 p.m.- 9:15 p.m. 6 p.m.- 11:55 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Undergraduate Student-led service. Panel with Downtown National Theatre Live. Fundraiser for cancer 
we can correct our error. 

workshop. South Bend. research. 


Volunteers rehab homes 
By AUBREY CLARK 
news writer 
a group of saint mary’s students gathered saturday to rehabilitate homes in south Bend as part of national rebuilding month, a month-long call to ser­vice. The office of civic and social engagement (ocse) hosted the community out­reach event to clean up and beautify homes in the local community. 
according to a college press release, the saint Joseph chap­ter of rebuilding Together began in 1989 and each year focuses on a different area of the county. more than 75 saint mary’s students were stationed at four houses in the olive street and lincoln way west neighborhoods to com­plete tasks such as painting, cleaning, raking and plant­ing at a home. The primary recipients of these home im­provements are those who might not be able to physical­ly or financially provide these changes on their own. 
erika Buhring, director of the ocse, said in the press release, “rebuilding Together is a wonderful opportunity for volunteers to make an immediate change in the lives of community members. By donating time and skills, vol­unteers not only make a dif­ference in the home itself, but they also learn how to collab­orate with others and give of themselves in the process.” 
First-years Katie long and liz mason said participating in this project allowed them to connect to members of the community and provided them the chance to give back for the support saint mary’s has from the neighboring areas. 
“The community here is so supportive and interested in what saint mary’s does,” long said. “i think we need to show our thanks for everything they do for us.” 


“i think it is important to volunteer and take time out of your week to give back to your community,” mason said. “working hard with our fellow students on these homes for rebuilding Together lets us do that.” 
First-year emma green said she recognizes the difference they can make through vol­unteer work in the commu­nity and why it is important to participate. 
“i feel like we live in a bub­ble here at school,” she said. “i want to experience what it’s like in the community we live in.” 
according to a college press release, saint mary’s has been participating in this program for ten years now, and will continue to offer participa­tion to the students annually. 
Contact Aubrey Clark at  aclark02@saintmarys.edu 
speakers discuss special needs work 
By MACAILA DeMARIO 
news writer 
saint mary’s Justice education department hosted maureen parsons and Tiffany amburg from hannah & Friends, a non-profit organiza­tion dedicated to raising aware­ness and compassion for the special needs community, to speak about the organization Friday. 
parsons, director of opera­tions at hannah & Friends, spoke about the financial dif­ficulties that families with chil­dren who have special needs are confronting. 
“as soon as their child is born and they are diagnosed, their first thought is, tomorrow. how do we get through tomorrow, get through elementary school? yet, they need to be planning for the next 15 years,” parsons said. 
according to parsons, there are funding waivers available for families of children with disabilities, but families can sit on waiting lists for more than 10 years. 
“indiana has changed it so that you receive less with the waiver so more people are al­lowed to receive those servic­es,” parsons said. 
parsons said resources are improving, but still lacking. 
“[at hannah & Friends] we try to focus on the ability of our participants, see where they can shine and then show that to the community,” parsons said. “each of them have something to share, as we all do.” 
Tiffany amburg, a spokes­person and participant at hannah & Friends, spoke about her experiences there and her lifelong challenge with down syndrome. 
amburg said she likes to write songs and speeches when she isn’t working as the receptionist at hannah & Friends. 
she wrote a song with Jeda cruz, the program director at hannah & Friends, called “she’s made of steel.” 
This song is about a girl who has her whole life ahead of her, amburg said. 
“it’s about overcoming obsta­cles and trusting other people,” she said. “and with my abil­ity to tell my story [about] what it’s like to be a person with all abilities that is what the song is about, overcoming all obstacles and inspiring other people to do the same thing.” 
parsons said when cruz performs the song in the com­munity, there is always an au­dience member who says they were touched and truly connect to the song’s message. 
amburg said she enjoys her position as a hannah & Friends spokesperson for many reasons. 
“i get to go out and talk to the media about our mission at hannah & Friends so that we can continue our future [as an organization],” she said. 
“it’s also important that we can come together to promote our mission.” 
Contact Macaila DeMario at mdemario01@saintmarys.edu 


students showcase robots 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer 
The compton Family ice arena was abuzz sunday afternoon as more than 100 students and pro­fessors showcased their robots for the fourth annual national robotics week event. 
“This event is really great be­cause it allows the community to come in and see the work and re­search being done at notre dame, so even though it looks like just a lot of robots, there are actually a number of areas that we focus on,” graduate student cory hayes said. 
hayes worked on a robot which can interact with people using gestures, utilizing microsoft’s Kinect program. 
“we’re really focused on the communications aspect of robots, and making communications be­tween robots and humans a little more natural,” hayes said. 
according to hayes’s research, making communication smooth­er can lead to safer practices in healthcare, specifically when ro­botics are used in surgery. 
“There are a bunch of different subsets for robots, and we really like letting the community see the research we’ve been doing,” hayes said. 
in another booth at compton was a programmable ‘puppy,’ which was able to bark, come, sit and dance. 
“our robot is named robopup, and it can do a variety of com­mands. depending on where the kids are standing in relation to the robot, that’s how it knows what to do,” senior nicole mariani said. 
during mariani’s demonstra­tion robopup spun around the ‘pen’ until it detects a person. upon detection, robopup mim­ics the action according to the programmed commands when facing the direction of the per­son in a the designated part of the pen. 
For example, if you wanted the dog to dance, you would stand in the ‘dance’ section of the pen and do any sort of dance, and the dog would dance with you, according to the information provided by the researchers. 
“This particular project actually took us about a couple of weeks, maybe a month to do,” mariani said. 
Focused on making robots that were more humanlike to aid autistic children, juniors carina suarez and Xinhuan ying show­cased a robot they programmed from aldebaran robotics, a com­pany that manufactures and markets humanoid and program­mable robots. 
“aldebaran gives us the robots, and then we program them. we basically had the semester to fig­ure out how to do this ... it’s a big task, but it’s really fun,”  suarez said. 
suarez said the robot’s ability to interact with people is a unique feature, and it’s particularly use­ful in programming the robots to work with autistic kids. 
“They look vaguely humanoid, obviously,” suarez said. “They can hear, they can speak, they have touch sensors, so it’s really helpful for kids with autism so they can interact, which is really neat.” 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at  rogrady@nd.edu 



nd alumnus finds passion in service, education 
By GABRIELA MALESPIN 
news writer 
azikiwe chandler, a teacher at veritas prep charter school in springfield, massachusetts and 1994 alum of notre dame, presented a talk on his search for his passion with his travels, his social justice work and his com­mitment to finding identity. 
chandler’s talk was hosted by wabruda, an organization based on brotherhood amongst african americans on notre dame’s campus, as their signa­ture event “Black man’s Think Tank.” The theme of the event was “finding your passion.” 
“we talk about finding your passion, however, for me there were three passions: travel, com­munity service and commu­nity development. These were the things i wanted to do, and i was figuring out how to tie these things together,” chandler said. 
chandler outlined seven les­sons in his presentation that were important to the process of discovering your passion. chandler said these lesson in­cluded knowing and loving yourself, knowing what makes your soul smile, understanding for whom and what will you work for, listening to the universe, recognizing what you want and what will you sacrifice to get it, finding your tribe and keeping the faith. 
chandler said he derived his inspiration and vocation from his service work from the ex­ample of his parents. chandler said his parents were heavily involved in their community in charleston, south carolina, and led several projects for the school and community residents. 
“while i realized that i loved architecture, my responsibil­ity is to go out and try to make the world a better place, and see how i can do that for african american men. i can’t be their father, and i can’t give them the mother and father that i had, but if i work with them and surround them with love and empower them and help them understand who they are and who they can be, i can do for them what my parents did for me,” chandler said. 
chandler said he credits his parents with providing him the environment and influence to not only pursue his academic as­pirations as an architect but also discover his vocation for service and community engagement. chandler recalled his exten­sive work in americorps, peace corps and habitat for humanity as a manifestation of his love of service and experiential learn­ing. chandler served as a proj­ect director and team leader for americorps for five years and as a teacher and youth leadership initiative developer for peace corps. 
chandler said he graduated from notre dame with a degree in architecture in 1994, but de­cided his vocation laid in service and engagement after spending several years after graduation performing service initiatives in central america. 
“i realized that the last time i really was happy was when i was backpacking through central america. i didn’t feel like i was doing worthwhile work because i was enjoying myself … so the universe was telling me “go on and try that again.” 
chandler also recalled how his love of travel helped him narrow and understand his pas­sion more fully. chandler, who has travelled to more than 30 countries in six continents, said his love of travel coincided with both his upbringing and his de­sire to engage more fully in rela­tionships with others. 
“all kinds of people say they want to make enough money to be able to travel, but for me, it wasn’t about making money and being able to travel two weeks out of the year, that to me wasn’t go­ing to make a difference. i want­ed to be somewhere for months at a time and be able to live with folks and have a conversation.” 
chandler encouraged audi­ence members to surround themselves with individuals who shared and welcomed their passions and recognize the ex­periences indicating where vo­cation and passion are found. 
“you have to surround yourself with people who have the same passion as you do,” he said. “ … find someone in the profession that you want to be in and talk to them, have them serve as a men­tor, because that what’s going to make things better for you in the long run.” 
Contact Gabriela Malespin at gmalespi@nd.edu 
moms 
conTinued From page 1 
the weekend,” craig said. “it’s very important to have this weekend junior year because at that time, students are older and more mature. They can have more fun with their moms.” 
craig said one of the most memorable parts of the week­end was “cupcakes and canvas.” art major students taught over 150 moms and daughters how to paint a pic­ture of le mans hall. she worked with a local bakery, yummy cupcakes, to provide snacks at this event. 
Junior veronica mcdowell said she served as an art in­structor for this event, suggest­ing certain painting techniques and helping to mix different colors. 
“art is a great way for people to bond,” mcdowell said. “it is a low-pressure environment where you can have a conversa­tion while also creating some­thing beautiful.” 
This creative portion of the weekend attracted many moth­er and daughter duos, but craig said other events included a wine and cheese reception, a yoga class, mass and a dinner at the gillespie center. 
according to mcdowell, the yoga event was especially fun for her because she and her mom love to exercise together but can never find the time. she said she enjoyed the scheduled activities, but she also recog­nizes the benefit of a weekend spent simply relaxing with loved ones. 
“it’s a time when you can put school on hold and focus on your family,” mcdowell said. “also it’s a chance to show your mom around school and give her insight on your college life. The weekend will be another great memory i can add to my time at saint mary’s.” 
craig said one of the best parts of Junior mom’s weekend was the opportunity to meet her friends’ mothers and bond with them outside of the sched­uled events. 
“it’s really fun to be with your mom and have your friends’ moms meet your mom,” she said. “you’re with a bunch of moms and daughters, so you can connect with everyone.” 
mcdowell, too, said the social aspect of this weekend was es­pecially meaningful to her be­cause it reminded her of all her family has done for her. 
“Junior mom’s [weekend] is important because it strength­ens appreciation for mothers and other family members who have taken care of you,” mcdowell said. “it’s always nice to spend time with the ones you love.” 
Contact Martha Reilly at  mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 

north Korea 
conTinued From page 1 
capita income in north Korea that is 20 times lower than that of their neighbors. Because of this, north Korean citizens are trapped in an enforced state of poverty. 
“This leaves an estimated one in four, or 28 percent of north Korean children, chron­ically malnourished,” she said. 
But the situation inside north Korea may be starting to change, in part due to a much greater access to outside me­dia and information, pulles said. outside media is often smuggled across the chinese border, where it is sold on ille­gal markets. outside informa­tion comes from north Korean refugees, who often send mon­ey and news to their families back home, pulles said. 
“in the mid-1990s, north Korea’s socialist economy col­lapsed, and this meant that among other basic needs, food rations from the government stopped being given to the people [of north Korea],” she said. “with their only source of food cut off, it’s estimated that up to one million north Korean people starved to death in the resulting famine. 
“people knew that if they were going to survive, they would have to get creative and learn to work around the sys­tem that they used to depend on. They began engaging in il­legal market activities, which led to a process led to marketi­zation from below. These mar­kets provided access not only to basic needs like food and clothing, but they also pro­vided access to new sources of information and a new place to meet and discuss new ideas.” 
This information cuts through propaganda that has successfully worked to subju­gate north Koreans in the past, pulles said. 
“[The north Korean regime] used to tell the people that south Korea existed only in an oppressive poverty, abused by their american colonial oc­cupiers. people were taught to feel sorry for the children who were supposedly starving in south Korea and to feel grateful to live in their so-called social­ist paradise. This propaganda narrative was effective for many years. But new sources of information showing the reality of the outside world are beginning to seep inside the country. south Korean films, Tv shows and dramas are shared secretly among friends and relatives. This is helping people see just how advanced south Korea and the rest of the outside world has become, while they were left behind.” 
The new information also helps to build networks of trust between north Korean people, bringing them together, pulles said. 
“in the past, the regime has tried to foster distrust among the north Korean people, en­couraging them to turn each other in or report each other,” she said. “and they also tried to prevent any groups from form­ing outside of their direct con­trol and supervision. But now, since people are getting their information from friends and neighbors, and they’re gather­ing in secret to watch this in­formation, it’s starting to build the very trust the regime has tried so hard to prevent in the past.” 
Contact Madison Jaros at  mjaros@nd.edu 



plan. of a scheduled wisdom teeth which is also offered through 
dean 

dental after the petition was sub-removal. aetna, has an annual pre­
conTinued From page 1 conTinued From page 1 

mitted to the university in “at the end of the day i had mium of $296 for a single January, the office of student to pay $2,500 out of pocket student and a copay of $5 for paying into the program, it affairs, which oversees uhs, to have my wisdom teeth re-most basic services, accord-
a fellow in the national society doesn’t become viable,” he convened a working group to moved,” duker said. “at the ing to aetna’s website. 
of women engineers and served said. “on top of that, the ben-review options for the rein-time, the graduate stipends “columbia to me was the 
as the club advisor for the cam­efits of the program weren’t statement of a dental plan. The were $18,500. now they’re a case study of somebody who 
pus chapter bearing the same necessarily what students group will submit a recom-little more. But that means has a similar — in fact, the 
name, according to its website. were looking for.” mendation to the university that you’re paying 12 per-exact same insurance pro­
“cathy pieronek was the Bry martin, president of the provost Tom Burish and vice cent of your yearly salary for vider and yet has these ben­
quintessential domer,” peter union of graduate historians president of student affairs a simple dental procedure efits,” martin said. “it goes to 
Kilpatrick, dean of the college (ugh), said he created the erin hoffmann-harding. that up until then had been show, this could be done and 
of engineering, said in the petition after seeing a dis-university officials are un-completely covered or largely is done.” 
press release. “she had an en­cussion on the organiza-available for comment until covered by the dental plan, martin said the goal of the 
gineering and a law degree, tion’s Facebook group about after Tuesday’s meeting. which neither the university petition is to get the university 
a fierce loyalty to our sports the lack of dental coverage. instead of a full dental nor aetna provided us any to explore options for provid­
teams and our students and a he said the purpose of the insurance plan, aetna cur-notice whatsoever that it was ing dental insurance. 
total embrace of the famous petition was to show that rently offers a discount card being dropped.” “This is something that 
‘irish prayer’ about the rains students are interested in a for teeth cleanings and other duker said he tried to ad-is ultimately going to be 
falling gently on your fields. she dental plan. services. according to a bro-vocate for a reinstated plan on the graduate students’ 
was also incredibly and lovably “it just seemed like i was chure for the program, the through the gsu over the shoulders,” martin said. “if 
human: committed, person-hearing back from a num-card costs $25 and generally next two years, and he par-they want this sort of op-
able, loyal, dedicated and al­ber of students that said they covers 15 to 50 percent of the ticipated in the discussion on tional dental insurance plan, 
ways thinking carefully and wanted [a dental plan], and cost of dental services, de-the ugh Facebook page that they’re going to have to sign 
deeply about the good of the at that point it just didn’t ring pending on the type of ser-led to the petition. up for it, and if that doesn’t 
other. we miss her terribly and true to me that there wasn’t vice and the provider. martin “we’re asking for a plan happen, then the plan will 
pray for the lord’s gentle and demand,” martin said. said the card is not enough that we will pay for, that won’t fail and it’ll go back to the 
loving embrace of her husband, The online petition, which for students who need dental cost the university anything, current position. … part of it 
chuck, and her family.” was signed by 133 students, care beyond cleanings. to organize as a group, to is getting word out to them so 
visitation will be held argues that low enrollment “students end up having ac-share risk,” duker said. ” … they can make that decision, 
sunday from noon to 8 p.m. in “reflected not apathy, but tual health issues with their openly, what we’re really ask-and if they decide that that’s 
Kaniewski Funeral home, 3545 lack of awareness.” The pe-teeth, and the current dental ing is that our teeth don’t fall not working for them, that’s 
n. Bendix drive, and a funeral tition asks the university to plan will shave off a little bit out of our heads over a period fine.” 
mass will be celebrated monday reinstate an optional dental of the cost, but it isn’t a true of [5 to 9] years of graduate The public meeting will 
at 9:30 a.m. in the Basilica of plan through aetna or an-insurance policy,” he said. school,” he said. take place Tuesday at 3 p.m. 
the sacred heart, followed other company and suggests adam duker, a history The petition suggests in the third floor conference 
by the burial in cedar grove university health services ph.d. candidate, said he columbia university as an room of st. liam hall. 
cemetery. memorial contri­(uhs), ugh and graduate found out the dental plan had example of a workable dental 
butions may be made to the programs work together to been dropped when he tried insurance plan. columbia’s Contact Emily McConville at  
pieronek Family scholarship inform students about such a to renew his insurance ahead optional student dental plan, emcconv1@nd.edu 
Fund at notre dame. 
paid adverTisemenT 



insidE Column 

Books over men 
Martha Reilly 
news writer 

unless you clumsily drop the entire box set of “harry potter” on your foot, you won’t suffer too many injuries from books 
— maybe a paper cut here and there from turning the pages too excitedly. compare that with the lasting emotional pain onset by heartbreak, and you will see that litera­ture clearly does less damage than men; in fact, it has the potential to better your life, even after you have quite literally turned the page and started a new chapter. 
yes, there are plenty of fish in the sea, but the 130 million books are relatively easier to swim to than the 3.3 billion men in the world. For busy college students such as yourself, simplicity is key, and a trip to Barnes and noble is far less inconvenient and confusing than a stop by “speed dating night” at legends. 
Bookstores, for instance, organize differ­ent pieces of literature into their respective genres so that readers always know what they’re getting themselves into; addition­ally, the inside cover previews what you can expect as you follow the protagonist’s excit­ing journey. men, unfortunately, are not sorted neatly into categories (gentlemen, jerks, funny, intelligent) and are not accom­panied by such helpful descriptions, leaving physical appearance to serve as an initial judge of character. Books, however, demand to be assessed based on what’s inside, mak­ing them a far less self-absorbed option con­cerned solely with outward attractiveness. 
it’s no secret that you can read several books in the same week without any judg­ment, or that you can end your fictional journey a few chapters in without feeling an ounce of guilt. plus, nobody throws a fit when you lend some of your favorites to your good friends. 
Best of all, you can bring almost any piece of literature wherever you go, without pay­ing for an extra meal or plane ticket. Books aren’t selective; they will do whatever you want. They will always keep you company and will never cancel plans last minute. why would you invite a man on vacation when a book fits so perfectly in your carry-on bag? 
Their accessibility and free schedules make books the easy choice, but some of you make the change in your lives, you might think “i wouldn’t be able to post my weekly #mancrushmonday instagrams.” rest assured, that’s for the best. Books are humble and independent, and they don’t expect constant attention. They understand that you will make time for them whenever you can, but that if you have a fifteen-page paper to write or an organic chemistry exam to prepare for, you cannot socialize for long. and sure, you cannot exactly dress up and have a night on the town with a copy of “pride and prejudice,” but novels can earn you a vip pass into one of south Bend’s trendiest weekend gatherings: Book club. 
Contact Martha Reilly at mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Our cross to bear 

Amanda Pena 
Find your voice 

i’ve often wondered, “what is the point of life?” it’s a centuries-old question, so it’s not like i’m asking something profound or groundbreaking. i’ve just al­ways thought about it more often than people know. i do believe, though, that the more important question is to understand why people start asking that question in the first place, and how they continue to understand it throughout their time spent alive. 
when i first started thinking about the concept of life it was because i was forced to consider death. around the time i was nine, my cousin alex lost his battle with leukemia at the age of 20. he was a missionary, a dreamer and had a beautiful soul with so much to offer the world. i didn’t know him all that well since i was so young, but his death affected me deeply because i saw how he impacted all of his family and friends gathered for his funeral. i asked my parents, “why does god let good people die?” They didn’t have an answer, and i started to wonder why we have to live if we ultimately have to die. if good people always seem to be the ones to die, it made sense why the bad people didn’t care to be good. 
enter middle school: puberty, bullies, an eating dis­order, life-altering issues at home and depression — the perfect recipe for a suicidal preteen. not surprisingly, i met a lot of middle school peers experiencing similar identity crises and home issues that pushed them to de­velop thoughts of suicide too. we thought, “what is the point of life?” popularity, relationships, cell phones and myspace (yeah, let’s not forget that was a thing) seemed to occupy the majority of our minds, and i just remem­ber it creating a lot of drama and hurting many people, myself included. what is the point of life if we spend so much energy trying to make it difficult for others to simply exist? i reached out to adults and catechists for the answers because they made all the rules. They gave out the punishments. They made the system. what did i know at 10 years old? 
Kids will be kids. Boys will be boys. Tough luck. These are cop out answers to brush sprouting destructive be­haviors under the rug. when a child is being bullied, or their identity is being challenged and they question their circumstances or just suffered a terrible tragedy, adults are given the chance to help make sense of the question, “what is the point of life?” for the younger generation. as an adult now, i’m starting to realize how adults know just as much as kids do when it comes to 
EditoriAl CArtoon 
the tough questions. we’re afraid to reveal how these unanswered questions and experiences are just as dif­ficult to deal with now as they were then. adults have an incredible capacity to bottle things up. we suppress pain and trauma. we become addicts to substance, por­nography, money and make idols of anything that quells the need to answer that age-old question, “what is the point of life?” 
This year the “show some skin: Tell me more” mono­logues delved even deeper into the cores of the notre dame community, asking us to articulate our innermost thoughts, emotions and questions that we often try to seal beneath the surface of our identities. whether it was an experience of abuse or inequality, race or gender identity, i couldn’t help but see that question lying be­neath the surface of everything we are afraid to admit aloud. 
at the end of the day, we’re all just a bunch of broken people carrying our own crosses, trying to understand why our cross exists in the first place. we like to believe our struggle is the only one that matters, but the sheer weight of the world’s problems highlight the fact that some of us carry heavier crosses than others. But the weight isn’t the point — the fact that we all carry one is. when we fail to remember to empathize with the strug­gle of another, we essentially recreate the passion. god dwells in the most vulnerable among us, as scripture reminds us, yet we cast stones and spit at the wounded christ while he falls under the cross of social oppres­sion, structural violence, poverty, hunger, abuse, heart­ache and rejection. 
how can one be pro-life if he is busy forgetting what it means just to be alive? Being pro-life requires us to constantly remember the value of not just our own lives and the lives of the unborn and elderly, but of the liv­ing. The world we create for the living is ultimately what makes life seem like a choice that needs to be made in the first place, whether for others or for ourselves. The resurrection celebrates the promise of everlasting life and asks us to prepare for the Kingdom on earth as it is in heaven. as christians, if we believe that christ truly saves us, how do we allow our brothers and sisters to come to know him if we don’t help each other under­stand this in their own lives? 
Amanda Pea is a senior with a self-designed major in Sustainable Development and minor in Poverty Studies. She enjoys having fruitful discussions on race, poverty, gender and interpersonal relations at apena4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The oBserver | mondAy, APril 13, 2015 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
A major identity crisis 
Charlie Ducey 
english, channeled 

one may as well begin with Brendan o’Brien’s apr. 10 letter to the editor: 
“we are surrounded by some of the most interesting people that we may ever know, but we are too wrapped up in our own lives to make an effort to get to know them.” 
o’Brien’s letter is titled with a seasonal question and its familiar answer: “how was your break?” “good.” as o’Brien identifies in the quotation above, this thread­bare exchange is all too often a symptom of the super­ficiality of peer interaction. sure, we cannot constantly stop our busy collegiate lives to listen to the innermost anxieties and aspirations of other students, but if our conversations do not move beyond such automated call-and-response, we will be missing an opportunity to connect in an environment and stage of life that especially enables connection. 
i want to add, on both a serious and humorous note, that our responses to another common question may be limiting our capacity to connect. what’s your major? 
i posed this question to a student in a notre dame saxophones shirt once (funny how we wear our group identity). “i’m an engineer,” he replied. 
“curious,” i thought. “why would he be in college if he’s already an engineer? shouldn’t he be working for some engineering firm, in that case? i could under­stand if he was studying engineering, but, by Jove, he’s already a full-blown professional.” 
what is an engineer, anyway? an engineer might calculate this or optimize that, but what is an engineer essentially, in a socratic sense? i’m fairly convinced it has something to do with trusses. Trusses lie at the heart of being of an engineer or, at the very least, keep the whole structure standing. 
naturally, i understood what he meant. “aerospace engineering student” is something of a mouthful, and engineering students probably come close to doing what professionals in their discipline actually do. But if engineering students call themselves engineers, what should we call people who actually work in the field of engineering? This is the problem of ambigu­ity. moreover, should physics students call themselves physicists and chemistry students call themselves chemists? This is the problem of inconsistency. 
in the British system, incidentally, nearly every stu­dent uses these professional labels. Those who study classics are classicists. Those who study theology are (oddly) theologists. i’m still trying to figure out what is meant by a ppe-ist. But this is the same country where they call a store that sells hygiene products and foot cream a “chemist,” so i wouldn’t necessarily follow the British when it comes to nomenclature. 
humor aside, the real problem with this question is that its quickly-provided answer tends to quickly invite stereotypes as we ascribe the standard qualities of an engineering student, english major or whatever else, to the person in question. stereotypes, of course, allow us to lazily label someone and assign him or her to a stag­nant category, as if to say, “oh, yes, an engineer. i know what they’re about. no more to be learned here.” 
The mere title of major says precious little about what a person is really like. more could be gained from asking what fascinates fellow students about their studies or why they choose to study what they do. even asking, “what do you study?” can help to avoid the stereotype-prone formulation “i am a (insert major here).” 
whenever we use a phrase that begins “i am a”, the indefinite article insinuates that we are just one something of a larger group of somethings with shared qualities. i am a republican. i am a feminist. These phrases imply a whole body of beliefs that sooner causes divisions than allows for connections. it seems we would be better off leaving the “i am” statements to spontaneously combustable mountain shrubs and the Johannine Jesus, who is not just a light of the world, but the light of the world. 
personally, i would prefer to hear about what people really do — what drives them and what inspires them 
— rather than who they are in a general sense. This is a call to foster a community with more meaningful con­versation by presenting ourselves not as academic cat­egories but as people who lead complex inner lives that cannot be compressed into monosyllabic responses. 
This doesn’t mean we have to eliminate small talk or spend 20 minutes in conversation with every student who asks how our break has been. however, if we are to know each other more fully, we need to move away from only considering our major life ambitions and only communicating through terse exchanges. we need to observe the epigram of e. m. Forster’s howards end: only connect. 
Charlie Ducey is a junior studying the languages of Oscar Wild (English) and Friedrich Hlderlin (German). For the next academic year, he is residing on the other side of the Atlantic Ocean in Oxford, UK. He welcomes your words. He can be contacted at  cducey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
uWirE 

get the most out of the end of the semester 
The Stylus 
The college at Brockport 

with the end of the semester swiftly approaching, students everywhere are scrambling to get in last minute extra credit and finalize plans for the upcoming break. Fortunately, there are tools and resources available to help students make the most of this important time. Below we have compiled several of the most overlooked strategies to help get an end-of-semester boost. 
1. 
digital learning Tools: utilizing digital resources is one of the easiest and most effective ways for students to step up classroom performance. platforms, such as cengage learning’s mindtap, are specifically designed to customize to each student’s unique learning style helping improve time management, raise grades and increase student success. digital learning tools use a combination of reading, multimedia, activities and as­sessments, to engage users and maximize understand­ing and retention. students who have integrated digital tools into their learning have reported significant im­provement in their grades and higher levels of engage­ment in their course work. 

2.
 e-portfolios: with the market for internships and jobs becoming more competitive, it is critical for stu­dents to differentiate themselves among other candi­dates and show potential employers tangible examples of the skills and knowledge they possess. To help students put their best foot forward, offerings like pathbrite, a 


portfolio learning platform, can help students package their accomplishments in a seamless and organized way in order to best highlight their soft skills and practi­cal experiences. presenting potential employers with a comprehensive demonstration of skills and accomplish­ments will give students the competitive edge to secure the top positions in their fields. as a bonus, any students using cengage learning digital solutions have free ac­cess to pathbrite’s complete online portfolio platform. 
3.
 Top-notch study materials: whether it is flashcards, study guides or pop quizzes, study materials are a key part to successful studying. unfortunately, for many students note taking and developing study materials can be a major challenge. luckily, online marketplaces like Flashnotes.com make it possible for students to access high quality, course-specific study materials written by their peers. This allows students to maximize engage­ment and understanding- with 94 percent of students reporting improved grades! even better, Flashnotes works with faculty and institutions to be sure content is accurate and fits school guidelines. 

4. 
peer Tutors: peer-to-peer learning is one of the most helpful ways to boost engagement and retention in the classroom. oftentimes, another student can explain a challenging concept or idea in a different way from a professor that makes it easier to understand or retain. with most schools offering free peer tutoring resources, students have access to support and advice from stu­dents who have already mastered the material. utilizing tutoring resources, even just once or twice, can have 


significant results. even better, studying with another student can result in better study habits or sharing of best practices to increase success. 
5. career center: more than ever, students are enroll­ing in college with the goal of securing a job after they graduate. with that in mind, getting practical, hands-on experience is crucial for landing a top job after gradu­ation. yet securing an internship can often feel like a daunting task especially with students today already juggling a myriad of other responsibilities. To help pre­pare and guide students through the process, many colleges have career centers to provide students with the resources and support to find internships that align with their skills and interests. moreover these centers have knowledgeable staff who can help students practice interview skills, polish their resume and provide helpful advice about what to expect. 
Being knowledgeable and taking advantage of differ­ent resources and tools that are available is one of the best ways for students to boost their grades, improve classroom performance or land the job or internship out of school. leveraging one — or all — of these tips can help students to make the most of the time left in the semester and get the last minute boost they need. 
The Stylus is the student newspaper serving The College at Brockport and its surrounding community. Please direct comments to stylus@brockport.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The oBserver | mondAy, APril 13, 2015 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

By KELLY McGARRY 
scene writer 

legend’s springboard music Fest closed strong with a saturday night performance by reel Big Fish: a ska/punk band which has not only demonstrated longevity with almost 25 years of activity, but also seems to have im­proved with experience, bringing to legends a complete set of instruments played by a brilliant group of musi­cians. The band experienced mainstream recognition in the mid- to late-1990s but is currently independent from a major record label and enjoys more of a cult following. 
concertgoers were greeted with an aggressive offering of stylish springboard t-shirts (i was given a bag of three and plan to tie-dye at least two). such a warm welcome helped to overcome the venue’s challenges. in a smaller venue like legends with a limited audience, a band with such gigantic musical presence can be intimidating, packing every corner of the room with powerful sound. it’s important for the audience to be engaged from the start. a distribution of glow sticks helped get everybody primed to party, because it’s hard to wear a glow stick without jumping around. 
reel Big Fish, calling themselves the ultimate party band, delivered everything a live band should. while their recorded albums have enjoyed lasting success, none of the recordings even come close to captur­ing the experience of a live performance by this band. instruments including saxophone, trumpet, trombone, guitar, all resting on excellent drum and bass that could be heard from south Quad (probably, but i was inside so i wouldn’t know), incited an irresistible urge to sway and jump to the infectious beat. The band was led by guitar­ist aaron Barret, its only remaining founding member from its start in 1991, who set a goofy, energetic tone for the show in his wacky glasses and patterned guitar. it was obvious that all band members had their hearts in the performance when they engaged the crowd in conversation and entertained with jokes between songs, i even witnessed some back-and-forth between saxo­phonist matt appleton (aka saxel rose) and a particu­larly enthusiastic fan in the front row. The chemistry of the band members was obvious both by their banter and the flow of their jam sessions, especially in the horn section. 
The energy of reel Big Fish was matched by the crowd, who bounced with the ska rhythm and complied when Barret instructed “everybody jump!” punk elements even incited a spirited mosh pit in the center of the crowd. “skanking” is the term for the ska style of danc­ing that originated in the 60s in Jamaican dance halls. it is unclear whether audience members at legends were aware of this style of dance, or if the ska rhythm natural­ly led to the kicking and elbowing motions of the skank. intentionally or not, the crowd at legends was skanking nonstop. 
The setlist maintained a lively feel through hits like “sell out” and the band’s other favorites. sarcastic lyr­ics complimented interesting beats played on an ex­citing array of instruments. The audience was held on edge when we were cleverly teased into anticipation of rBF’s hit song “Beer” with others about their favorite drinks such as “margaritaville” and “red red wine.” They kept things interest with snippets of classics, but stayed true to their biggest hit covers “Brown eyed girl” and “Take on me” to which everyone sang along. They demonstrated an impressive range of genre capabilities, playing one song in many different styles such as death metal and disco. you don’t have to be a fan of Jamaican calypso to enjoy a show like this; any lover of music found themselves entertained. 
it was clear by the infectious energy that both the crowd at legends and reel Big Fish just came to party down. 
Contact Kelly McGarry at kmcgarry@nd.edu 



KERI O’MARA AND CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 

The oBserver | mondAy, APril 13, 2015 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
scene writer 

Katie crutchfield has been playing music professionally since she was a teenager, and her songwriting reflects the decade she’s spent refining her craft. 
The 26-year-old musician’s solo project, waxahatchee, which takes its name from a creek near her parents’ house in alabama, grounds quarter-life crises in searingly spe­cific images. crutchfield displayed this introspective, emotionally honest songwriting on her debut, “american weekend,” a collection of lo-fi acoustic songs recorded dur­ing a snowed-in week at her parents’ home, and “cerulean salt,” a more polished album that has a sound harkening back to 90s alt rock. 
“ivy Tripp,” crutchfield’s third album as waxahatchee and first for major indie label merge, is her most mature work to date: she explores a more expansive sound without abandoning her self-reflective streak. signing with merge 
— the label home to neutral milk hotel, spoon and arcade Fire, among countless other indie rock heavyweights — will hopefully, and deservedly, allow crutchfield’s music to resonate with an even wider audience. 
For the recording of “ivy Tripp,” crutchfield rented a house on long island for a year and a half. she worked there with co-producers Kyle gilbride and Keith spencer of the philadelphia band swearin’ (crutchfield’s twin sister, 
By MIKO MALABUTE 
scene writer 

The most immediate headline news concerning Kim Kardashian and the rest of the Kardashian clan never seem too flattering nowadays. The family had re-upped with television network “e!” for four more years of their reality Tv series “Keeping up with the Kardashians” for a record-breaking $100 million-plus deal, much to the chagrin of middle america, who question the talent that warrants such a deal. people have taken delight in how hollywood has seen “no Kardashian parking anytime” signs appear in front of various businesses, in which the artist re­sponsible known as “plastic Jesus” justifies them as a comment on america’s pandemic obsession with celebrity. 
simply put, it’s easy to hate on the Kardashians: they’re getting richer, their celebrity-dom is on a dif­ferent stratosphere, and they set the bar for public appearance and beauty. yet, people have always and will always continue to question what makes them tick, the workings underneath the hood. For all of their outward beauty, what should we really like allison, is the group’s frontwoman). The result is a more muscular sound than her previous two albums, immedi­ately noticeable from the blast of static that accompanies opener “Breathless.” crutchfield’s evolution is there, too, on the breezy “la loose,” a poppy track backed by synth pads and a drum machine. closing track “Bonfire” returns to a more noisy sound, her harmonies floating over the buzz of guitar feedback. 
despite the more ambitious sonic territory crutchfield explores, “ivy Tripp” doesn’t sacrifice the intelligent songwriting that made her earlier work so compelling. Throughout the album, she reflects on unstable relation­ships and the aimlessness of one’s 20s, often saving the harshest criticism for herself. “i left you out like a carton milk,” she sings on the chorus of “air,” accepting blame for a failed relationship and creating one of the year’s most in­delible images. yet, by the song’s end, she’s more forgiving of herself, arriving at the realization they both failed to rec­ognize what the other needed: “you were patiently giving me everything that i will never need.” 
That same tension is present on “<,” which descends into a bridge marked by defiantly offbeat drums. “you’re less than me, and i am nothing,” she repeats in what is per­haps the album’s most devastating moment. it’s at once a self-deprecating remark and a vicious jab, characteristic of crutchfield’s ability to approach an event from both perspectives. 
about them underneath the fair skin and complex­ion? how can we relate to these celebrity superstars, when we seemingly have nothing in common? 
over the weekend, Kim Kardashian — along with Kanye west, north west and Khloé Kardashian — traveled to yerevan, the capital of armenia, for the first time to meet with the armenian prime minis­ter hovik abrahamyan. They were reportedly mak­ing the pilgrimage back to their homeland to make a documentary on the armenian genocide, which is recognized on april 24, and to connect with their family roots and heritage. 
They were dressed head-to-toe in beige, visiting various sites from their humble beginnings like the mother armenia statue in yerevan. 
“The mother armenia statue symbolizes peace through strength,” Khloé wrote on her instagram ac­count. “it can remind viewers of some of the promi­nent female figures in armenian history. who took up arms to help their husbands in their clashes with Turkish troops and Kurdish irregulars.” 
The Kardashians met with the prime minister to publicly announce their joint promise and efforts to have the armenian genocide become recognized 
“i think a running theme [on “ivy Tripp”] is steadying yourself on shaky ground and reminding yourself that you have control in situations that seem overwhelming,” crutchfield said in the album’s press release. “or just being cognizant in moments of deep confusion or sadness and learning to really feel emotions and to grow from that.” 
Throughout “ivy Tripp,” crutchfield grapples again and again with making sense of adulthood. on “grey hair,” she maybe finds an answer. despite the shaky ground of uncertainty and doubt, the one place that she can steady herself is music — which she has proven through her song­writing time and time again. “maybe, you’ll learn to live on stage … i get short of breath because i can’t slow down,” she sings. “ivy Tripp” makes abundantly clear that crutchfield won’t be slowing down anytime soon. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at mmunhall@nd.edu 
“Ivy Tripp” 
Waxahatchee 
Label: Merge Records Tracks: “Air,” “<,””Grey Hair” If you like: Swearin’, Girlpool, Angel Olsen 

internationally. 
“The Kardashians apologized for not speaking armenian but said they are learning their native language,” an armenian government statement said. “They pledged to continue the struggle for in­ternational recognition and condemnation of the armenian genocide.” 
This effort is still unfortunately a struggle in vari­ous other countries, namely Turkey. Turkey refutes the claim that it was an armenian “genocide,” as they maintain that just as many Turks died in the 1915-1917 struggle of the armenian people against the ottoman empire. 
Thus, in many senses many of us can find common ground with the celebrity megastar, especially those of us with immigrant parents. Kim Kardashian can be labeled a lot of things, but over the weekend she and her family were simply people who grew up in america who wished to learn more about their back­ground and heritage. and for that, we can respect her and their cause for international recognition of the armenian genocide. 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu 
KERI O’MARA | The Observer 



sPorts Authority 

Minors have major problems 
Aaron Sant-Miller 
sports writer 
most professional baseball players are poor, by definition. literally, the vast majority of professional baseball players are paid below the poverty line. To many, that seems like a very strange thing to hear. all we hear about is the glitz and the glam, the derek Jeter limousines and Tim lincecum condos. yet, an overwhelm­ing percentage of professional baseball players are not in the major leagues and are not making much money. 
at any level, playing a sport professionally is a year round commitment. even when the games aren’t being played, ath­letes must commit their time and energy to rigorous offsea­son training programs and constant skill development. so, even though a player is paid for their work in the season, it’s a full-time, full-year job. 
on average, most players in the minor leagues make some­where between $3,000-7,500. For comparison, the aver­age fast-food worker makes $15,000-18,000 a year. in other words, most professional base­ball players stand firmly below the poverty line, and many are forced to pick up a second job to help pay for their basic needs. 
For some, this fosters a re­occurring cycle, where the players in the minor leagues are forced to commit less time to honing their craft to make ends meet. as a result, they cannot improve enough to make it to the major leagues. 
i’m not going to sit here and tell you the horrors of life as a minor leaguer. many others can do a far better job. over the last few years, more players have stepped up to the plate to tell their story. Full books have been written, and many published articles by players themselves are easy to find. i encourage you to read them. 
in general, this idea seems so foreign, so inaccurate to us. That’s because the mini­mum salary of a major league baseball player checks in at $500,000. Though both minor and major league players are trying to play a game profes­sionally, the wage gap between the two is significant. 
last year, a lawsuit was brought to the table regarding player salaries in the minor leagues. currently, the case is still in the discovery phase and slated to enter the trial phase in February of 2017. That’s a long way off, but that void leaves time for a lot of eye opening. 
part of the problem is that the “work hours” are often viewed as just game time hours. yet, if you add up the hours a player commits to the game and the total salary they are paid, minor league base­ball players are well below the minimum wage line. here is where the dispute begins, as mlB argues minimum wage provisions of federal and state wage and hour laws were not intended to apply to profes­sional athletes. 
This wasn’t always as huge of a problem as it is today. since 1976, minor league baseball salaries have increased 75 percent. Though that seems reasonable in a vacuum, in that same period, we’ve ex­perienced an inflation of 400 percent. in short, minor league salaries, proportionally, have plummeted over the years. 
in the sporting world of today, the hot button issue is often pay for college athletes. That being said, before the public lens turns to the com­plex issue of college athletics, maybe we should examine the life of some of the profession­als in the system. we should make sure our professional system works before we con­sider where we draw the line between professional an ama­teur. Before we build a new system, let’s fix the other half of the one we already have. 
most importantly, we need to break down the schema that all professional baseball play­ers live a lavish lifestyle, rec­ognizing the salary of an alex rodriguez stands in stark con­trast to the salary of most pro­fessional ballplayers. we need to look more closely at an issue that has escaped the public eye for years, an issue that will be coming to a crux in a few short more. Because, whether we’re willing to admit it or not, most professional baseball players are poor. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu
 The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


smC lACrossE | smc 8, Trine 6 
Belles win despite second-half slow down 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writer 

The saint mary’s lacrosse team avoided their first losing streak since the beginning of the season, holding on despite scoring only a single-goal second half to tri­umph over Trine on saturday in angola, indiana. 
The Belles (6-6, 2-2 miaa) scored five times in the opening 20 minutes and added a pair in the closing minutes of the first half to establish a commanding 7-2 lead at halftime. First-year midfielder clare Theisen dictated the pace of the offensive attack, scoring four of the team’s first seven goals. her first came roughly four minutes into the match off a well-placed assist by fellow first-year attack hanna makowski, followed up by an unassisted strike four minutes later. 
sophomore attack emilie vanneste responded less than two minutes after Trine’s first score to reclaim the Belles’ two-goal lead with an unassisted tally of her own. The Belles dictated the pace of the game for the remainder of the half, scoring four more goals while only allowing one. 
despite the Belles’ attempts to contain senior midfielder Taylor gast, Trine’s leading scorer man­aged a hat trick, with all three goals coming on free position shots. The Thunder (3-5, 0-4) scored four consecutive goals as the Belles frantically attempted to maintain their lead. vanneste completed her hat trick with ten minutes remaining on the clock, saint mary’s only goal of the sec­ond half. The Belles prevented Trine from scoring again, result­ing in a contentious 8-6 win for the visiting squad. 
saint mary’s head coach amy long praised her squad’s ability to play strong out of the gate. 
“we got out to a great start at Trine,” coach long said. “our team was able to control the ball for extended periods of time dur­ing most of the first half. our players came out hard and gave it everything they had during the first half, which was great to see.” 
however, in what is becoming a trend the Belles’ solid play in one half failed to translate to the other. 
in last week’s loss against olivet, they managed only two goals in the first frame, while against Trine the Belles found the back of the net just once during the entirety of the second half. long addressed this trend of inconsistency as a potential area of improvement. 
“we did not play as well during the second half and will be work­ing towards playing more consis­tently as we go in to the last half of ourconference games,”longsaid. “if we can play our game consis­tently for a full 60 minutes, we will have great success as we wrap up our conference play.” 
The Belles are off until wednesday, when they host conference leaders calvin . The Belles are only one win behind the Knights, so a win wednesday could propel the Belles to a top-three position in the conference standings. 
saint mary’s and calvin are set to square off at the saint mary’s lacrosse Fields on wednesday at 5 p.m. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 
roWinG 

irish row into second place at lake natoma 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writer 

notre dame headed to california over the weekend and came home with a fourth-place finish at the two-day lake natoma invitational. 
The no. 16 irish logged seven runner-up finishes in 8 heats during the first day of races, posting competitive times against no. 3 california in the morning and no. 6 stanford in the afternoon. 
in the first session of rac­es, the irish competed with california and rhode island, finishing second to the golden Bears in each of the three finals; the rams fin­ished third across the board. The first varsity four boat, second varsity eight and first varsity eight all finished sec­ond to the golden Bears while in the final race of the morn­ing, the second varsity four qualified for the final, finish­ing just 4.5 seconds behind california’s boat. 
The second group stage pit­ted the irish against stanford and sacramento state, and the irish continued their trend of second-place finishes. The closest race of the afternoon for the irish came in the sec­ond varsity eight, where notre dame posted a runner-up time of 6:56.1, just two sec­onds slower than stanford’s winning speed of 6:54.6. 

in the day’s final heat — the second varsity four final 
— the irish lagged behind the competition. Brown up­set california and stanford with a winning time of 7:34.1; notre dame finished 11.7 sec­onds behind in fourth place. 
The second day of compe­tition saw more of the same from the irish in terms of placements, as they started their morning with another runner-up finish with a time of 7:34.8, this time in the first varsity four, finishing be­hind san diego and ahead of gonzaga. 
The irish’s second heat of the sunday morning, how­ever, brought about a rare moment as notre dame fin­ished in a dead heat with san diego, with both posting identical times of 6:47.0. 
irish head coach martin stone said the tie is an odd occurrence in the sport. 
“we tied san diego, which is a rarity in rowing,” stone said. “They couldn’t see who crossed first in the video.” 
The irish concluded their trip with yet another sec-ond-place finish, falling to gonzaga in the first varsity eight, finishing 6.2 seconds behind the Bulldogs. 
stone said his team was up­set with its results over the weekend. 
“we wanted to be faster,” he said. “i think that we’re disappointed in the results throughout the weekend. we’re missing something right now. … we’ve got two weeks to kind of figure that out.” 
The irish have next week­end off, giving them two weeks to train prior to their final regular season appear­ance of the season at the dale england cup in Bloomington, indiana. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 



mEn’s tEnnis | nd 4, clemson 3 nd WomEn’s tEnnis | miami (Fla.)  5, nd 2 
Irish eke out win over Clemson to start homestand 
By RYAN KLAUS 
sports writer 
notre dame started its final home stand with a tight 4-3 vic­tory against clemson on Friday afternoon at courtney Tennis center. 
The irish (13-9, 5-5 acc) started the match by winning two of the three doubles matches to take the doubles point against the Tigers (10-14, 1-9). 
after winning the doubles point, notre dame faced adver­sity when their no. 2 singles play­er, sophomore Josh hagar, was scratched from the singles lineup. 

as a result of hagar be­ing scratched, junior Kenneth sabacinski entered the lineup at the sixth singles spot, losing clemson junior luke Johnson. 6-0, 6-2, to clemson freshman pecor won the match in three sets, hampton drake. everyone else 6-4, 1-6, 6-0. besides junior Quentin monaghan “Josh is a core guy for us,” irish moved up a spot in notre dame’s head coach ryan sachire said. lineup. “he’s one of our best players and 
with the Tigers and irish tied competitors. any time a guy you 3-3, the contest came down to count on to give a really solid per-the third-position matchup be-formance every single match can’t tween irish senior Billy pecor and go, it does two things. number 
paid adverTisemenT 



one, it creates a little bit more pressure on some of the other guys, but at the same time it cre­ates some opportunities for some of the guys to step up, too. Billy is a really good example where he played higher in the lineup than he’s been playing and was able to step up.” 
monaghan, ranked 10th nation­ally, continued his hot steak and won his 11th-straight match by beating senior hunter harrington 6-4, 7-5. 
“The buzz saw that is Quentin monaghan keeps on rolling,” said sachire. “That guy [harrington] beat him really bad last year, so it’s a really a good indication of how much Quentin’s improved and how much better his level of ten­nis is in one calendar year. hunter harrington is a good player. For Quentin to beat him in straight sets like he did is awesome.” 
sachire said he was also im­pressed with junior alex lawson, who won in singles and doubles Friday. 
“alex started the year as a guy whose identity was maybe of a guy who was a really good doubles player and someone capable of playing really good singles, but he needed to learn how to win and win consistently,” sachire said. “a lot of that comes from self-con­fidence and really honing your game on the court. it’s been re­ally fun to see [him have success] because he is another really hard worker who is really dedicated to our team. it’s really fulfilling to see someone like that figure it out and have the success in terms of re­sults that you know they deserve. 
“we talk in our program all the time about the process and doing the right things on a daily basis to prepare yourself to win and he does. he believed in it and stuck to it and is doing a heck of a job for us.” 
notre dame returns to the courts Friday when it takes on acc foe wake Forest at courtney Tennis center, weather permitting. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at  rklaus1@nd.edu 
nd fails to finish against ‘canes 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
as the weather changed from clear and cloudless to cold and windy in a matter of an hour, notre dame’s fortunes changed with it. 
after securing the doubles point, the irish (14-7, 8-4 acc) fell in all but one singles match as they battled both no. 17 miami (Fla.) and the spring weather, at least until the match was forced inside. at the end of the day, notre dame was handed just its second loss in its last eight matches, 5-2. 
while still playing outside at courtney Tennis center dur­ing the doubles portion, the no. 27 tandem of junior Quinn gleason and sophomore monica robinson earned the vic­tory over the top duo from the hurricanes (13-6, 9-2 acc), se­nior monique albuquerque and junior clementina riobueno, 8-4, after jumping out to a 3-0 lead and weathering a late come­back from the hurricanes. 
“we went into it prepared with the right mindset of needing to play this like any other match,” robinson said. “we knew they were ranked before the match started, but we took it one point at a time, one game at a time. we see this as preparing for ncaas, and we take every match as pre­paring for that. it was amazing for us to get this win to be honest. it was really cool.” 
once junior Julie vrabel and freshman allison miller com­pleted a furious comeback by winning the last six games to take the match, 8-6, notre dame took an early lead into the singles portion of the afternoon. 
By the time the 10-minute break was over between doubles and singles, however, the weath­er had made both players and spectators miserable. The wind was starting to affect every point in singles play before rain forced the match to conclude inside eck Tennis pavilion. 
“The weather was a little omi­nous,” robinson said. “it started off beautiful even though it was very windy. during doubles there were some shots where the ball just turned around, we didn’t know what would hap­pen. when we played outside, i think we did well. once it started to rain, we had that delay, which was kind of a bummer for us.” 
only vrabel was able to keep her momentum going into the singles session, as she cruised to an easy victory over one of four ranked hurricanes, no. 67 riobueno, 6-3, 6-4. 
elsewhere, the irish were able to keep some of the matches close, as gleason, miller and sophomore mary closs all fell in three sets. gleason put up a fight against no. 11 junior stephanie wagner, 7-6 (7-5), 4-6, 7-5, while closs forced a tiebreaker with freshman silvia Fuentes in the third set, 6-2, 4-6, 7-6 (7-0) and miller hung with senior lina lileikite, 4-6, 6-4, 6-3. 
The irish have had a similar experience with the hurricanes, who knocked them out of the acc tournament a year ago af­ter also beating them in coral gables, Florida. But now the squad must turn its attention to next weekend and the last two matches of the regular season, robinson said. 
“i think the big thing for us is that we need to keep our heads up staying positive and motivat­ing each other,” robinson said. “we can’t let the loss get to us. This one was tough, but we know we have to be ready for accs. we won’t be as highly ranked as last year, but it’ll be fun going in as the underdog and seeing what we can do in the accs.” 
The irish return to the courts Friday when they travel to no. 20 clemson (14-8, 10-3 acc) be­fore coming back to campus for a match against no. 22 duke (14-7, 9-2 acc) on sunday. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 



The oBserver | mondAy, APril 13, 2015 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

trACK & fiEld | acc/Big Ten challenge 
Young team looks experienced in Kentucky 
Freshman parker english to race in acc championship. 
By MAREK MAZUREK 

sports writer headlined the day for the women “we’ll see how it plays out,” as she won both the 100-me-Turner said. “i’m still going to 
young faces were abundant for ter and 200-meter sprints with mix up the relays next week at the irish on saturday as notre times of 12.09 seconds and 23.71 georgia Tech and the following dame competed in the acc/ seconds, respectively. parker week at the drake relays. every Big Ten challenge in louisville, also led the 1,600-meter relay year i worry about who’s going Kentucky. The irish paired up team to second place with a time to be that relay, but it just seems with louisville and competed of 3:37.13. Turner said english to work itself out every year. The against the michigan state and has come into her own so far this four best ones rise to the top and indiana. ultimately the two Big outdoor season. that’s who we usually go with.” Ten schools came away with vic-“indoors, [english] had a few in addition to the sprints, the tories in both the women’s and little nagging injuries,” Turner irish also saw first-place perfor­men’s competitions. said. “The steep learning curve mances in multiple field events. 
notre dame and louisville lost she had early in the fall, learning senior mary esther gourdin won 89-76 in the women’s events, but my new drills, my new system, the triple-jump with a leap of notre dame rested many star it’s really starting to kick in right 12.54 meters, sophomore emily athletes including juniors molly now. she’s healthy. she’s confi-carson won the long jump with a seidel and margaret Bamgbose dent. i think this meet right here six-meter effort, and senior carly and senior Jade Barber. in their will be the springboard for her loeffel finished in first place in places, the irish featured some for the rest of her career at notre the javelin with a toss of 39.88 underclassmen who took ad-dame.” meters. Turner said he is count-javelin with a throw of 64.65 me-record and i think he’s like sixth vantage of the opportunity and The women’s 400-meter re-ing on his field athletes come the ters and senior Keith mesidor in or seventh right now in the acc. performed well, irish head coach lay teams also caught Turner’s acc championship. the long jump, who had a win-he’s just going to get better and alan Turner said. he attributed attention, and he said he has “i wasn’t surprised about mary ning jump of 7.29 meters. Turner better each time he throws. ” the performances over the week-tough decisions to make about esther,” Turner said. “she’s our said he is looking for continued The irish will split up next end to his younger athletes being who he wants on his top relay school record holder in triple success from both of the victors. weekend as athletes will travel more comfortable in the colle-team. This week, the quartet in-indoors and outdoors. mary just “Keith [mesidor] was just un-to the georgia Tech invitational giate environment. cluded english, senior michelle needs to show up for us when der 24 feet in the men’s long jump, in atlanta, georgia, the virginia 
“They’re just getting accus-rotondo, freshman Jordan we need her the most in the acc i wasn’t surprised about his per-challenge in charlottesville, tomed to competing now,” shead and senior amber lalla. championships.” formance,” Turner said. “i want virginia, and the mt. sac relays Turner said. “it’s our third out-however, Turner also has the all-on the men’s side, the Big Ten him to consistently get in the 24 in walnut, california. door meet. They’re just get-american Bamgbose and Barber claimed a 96-64 win, but the range and pop a 25-foot jump by ting more accustomed to doing at his disposal. The coach said he irish were given victories from the end of the year. [Bombara]’s Contact Marek Mazurek at  things.” is still working out who he wants freshman greg Bombara in the gotten better. he broke a meet mmazurek@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 






CHRIS COLLINS | The Observer 

Senior catcher Cassidy Whidden handles a low pitch during a March 21 doubleheader against Georgia Tech at  Melissa Cook Stadium. Notre Dame won both games, 6-1 and 13-0, respectively. 
softball 
conTinued From page 16 
sunday in relief, throwing four shutout innings while scattering four hits. 
haus said the wide variety of players able to contribute made it easy for the irish to avoid the traps of a three-game series. 
“The toughest thing about a three-game series is the fact that you have to see a team three times,” haus said. “a team’s play can change from game-to-game or day-to-day. if we take each game one at a time and play our game we should be fine.” 

The irish now own the lon­gest win streak in program history since 2005. But, haus said, there is one thing that the irish need to keep in mind. 
“i think we need to make 
paid adverTisemenT 

sure we don’t start to coast,” haus said. “we have been successful, but that doesn’t mean we can take it easy. we still need to come out with fire every game.” 
The irish are next on the diamond Tuesday against Bowling green. First pitch at melissa cook stadium is scheduled for 6 p.m. 
Contact Mike Ginocchio  mginocch@nd.edu 
AMY ACKERMANN | The Observer 
Sophomore Cortney Fortunato cradles the ball down the field during a 17-5 win against Detroit on Feb. 15. 
W lacrosse 
conTinued From page 16 
out really hard,” halfpenny said. “Kiera, off the bench, talk about needing a spark in the first half and having a junior come off the bench and give us two important goals.” 
The wolverines (5-9, 0-3 Big Ten) would never recover. The notre dame offense went off for 14 goals in the second half, in­cluding 5 of 7 free position shots and the milestone half-dozen from Fortunato. notre dame closed out the game with a 4-0 run. 
“it took us a half to warm up, but towards the end it came back, and we started playing like us again,” Fortunato said. “going forward, i think we just need to make sure we come out every game starting strong and playing like we have the past few games, and we should be good to go.” 
The victory was the third in a row for the irish after upsets of no. 8 virginia and no. 6 syracuse last week. notre dame will play the final two games of its regular season at home this week against no. 5 northwestern and no. 12 louisville before going into the acc tournament. 
“you hear a lot of people saying we’re heating up at the right time, but the truth is we’re just real­izing our potential so we’re not surprised about this,” halfpenny said. “we knew February was go­ing to take some time to get our chemistry together, and march was battling through and find­ing our identity, and now in april we’re starting to hit our stride. 
“it’s just the natural process of a team growing up throughout the course of a season.” 
halfpenny said she was es­pecially pleased with the team chemistry and cooperation she saw on the field sunday. it showed on the stat sheet as well, with irish players collecting 12 assists as a group. 
“we’re playing so together right now,” halfpenny said. “The reality is 21 goals is something else, but 12 helpers is something that we’re even more excited about because that’s tougher to defend.” 
notre dame’s next challenge is Thursday, when the wildcats visit arlotta stadium at 7 p.m. 
Contact Renee Griffin at  rgriffi6@nd.edu 




The oBserver | mondAy, APril 13, 2015 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

football 
conTinued From page 16 
sam mustipher and juniors John montelus and colin mcgovern. 
Kelly spent much of the practice with the offense and quarterbacks specifi­cally and said there was still room for improvement, in­cluding areas that haunted the irish in 2014. 
“what we didn’t like today is that we had two turnovers, and neither one of them can turn the ball over, and we had two turnovers in scoring position,” Kelly said. “But they’re building on what we see as the area’s that we’ve asked them to work on.” 
Prosise in the backfield 
Junior c.J. prosise com­pleted drills with the receiv­ers, running backs and punt return units and flashed signs of his cross-training with the running backs this spring during the scrim­mage, such as a 70-yard touchdown run in which he easily sprinted past the first-team defense. 
The usual irish running back tandem of juniors Tarean Folston and greg Bryant earned something of a warning from Kelly follow­ing the show by prosise. 
“if you watch c.J. prosise, if i was those two guys, i’d feel like they better be care­ful because he’s got elite speed at the second level, and we had [junior safety] max redfield chasing him today and couldn’t catch him,” Kelly said. “i think 
c.J. puts some pressure on both those guys, and i just want to create some more competition.” 
linebacker competition 
in the overloaded line­backers corps, sophomore nyles morgan took reps at the “mike” slot with the first-team unit, where he was joined by juniors Jaylon smith and James onwualu. 
graduate student Jarrett grace manned the mid­dle with the second team alongside freshman early enrollee Te’von coney and sophomore greer martini, and coney subbed in for smith on the first team in the latter portion of the scrimmage. 
That unit will become a lit­tle more crowded this week with the addition of gradu­ate student Joe schmidt, who was cleared for practice last saturday, Kelly said. 
“he’s cleared to be in­volved in all movement drills, seven-on-seven, non-contact drills — moving pretty good, so he’ll get his opportunity monday and wednesday to be involved in all those drills with non-contact,” he said. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
Baseball 
conTinued From page 16 
do their thing and trust them, and i do.” 
sophomore lefty scott Tully came in — the fourth irish pitcher on the afternoon — and calmly collected two strikeouts to put the sweep in the books before releas­ing a big fist pump as he walked off the mound at Frank eck stadium. This weekend’s success marked the first series win for notre dame (24-10, 9-9 acc) over a top-10 op­ponent since it beat then-no. 1 Florida state in the 2002 ncaa super regionals. coupled with last week’s three victories over pittsburgh, it was also the first back-to-back sweeps of confer­ence opponents since 2008. 
sophomore right-hander ryan smoyer got the nod for Friday’s opener and continued his recent string of strong outings, earning the 5-2 win for the irish. 
notre dame fell behind early after smoyer allowed a two-run home run to seminoles freshman third baseman dylan Busby, but he locked down batters after that. smoyer allowed just four more hits and struck out five before leaving after seven innings and 109 pitches. 
“i think a big thing for him is that he’s been on top of the baseball, so his fastball is kind of running downhill, and he’s done a good job of commanding the strike zone, which is unbelievably important against a team like Florida state, who’s so prolific at being able to draw walks, and their plate disci­pline is really, really good,” aoki said. “i kind of thought that ryan would be a good matchup for these guys because he is in the zone, and recently, he’s done a good job of working downhill, so it’s good.” 
sophomore right-hander ryan smoyer pitches against central michigan on march 18 at Frank eck stadium.michael yu | The observer 
sophomore right-hander ryan smoyer pitches against central michigan on march 18 at Frank eck stadium. 
The irish responded to Florida state’s deep ball with a two-run shot over the right-field wall from sophomore second baseman cavan Biggio in the third. in the next inning, a trio of juniors — shortstop lane richards, first baseman Zak Kutsulis and des­ignated hitter ricky sanchez — pieced together three consecutive two-out singles, with sanchez’s knock bringing home richards to give the irish the 3-2 lead. 
notre dame continued to come through in two-out situations in the seventh, when sophomore catcher ryan lidge rocketed a single to right field that plated two more runs. 
“i think that was lidgey doing a really good job of two-strike ad­justing, cut that change up and just stay right on it and drove it into right field there,” aoki said. “especially considering the in­ning before, we had bases loaded with one out, and we weren’t able to capitalize on it. … Two-out rBis are always important, and those two were huge.” 
Freshman lefty sean guenther relieved smoyer in the top of the eighth and notched five strikeouts to earn the save in the 5-2 win. 
The irish followed a similar pattern when they earned the series-clinching win saturday off another strong performance from the starter, freshman right-hander Brandon Bielak this time around. 
notre dame got on the score­board first in the second matchup off a two-out, rBi single to right field from senior left fielder ryan Bull, and it tacked on a second run in the fourth inning with a single to center by Kutsulis. 
The home team was up 2-1 headed into the game’s home stretch, and lidge cushioned that lead again with a two-out double to the left-field corner in the sev­enth that put the game at the 4-1 final score. 
“i just stay in that moment; i just stay with my approach, and it just so happens that i’ve been coming through, and i guess i’ll take it,” lidge said. 
The irish came into sunday’s finale looking for the sweep, and they earned it with a win-by-com­mittee-style game from the pitch­ing staff. 
Freshman Brad Bass started the game but, on a 30-pitch limit, came out in the second inning in favor of junior connor hale. hale, the winning pitcher, threw the next 3 2/3 innings and allowed three hits and one earned run in the top of the sixth. 
while hale was on the mound in the fourth, irish sophomore third baseman Kyle Fiala doubled to the left-field corner and ad­vanced to third on a fielding error, and he scored two pitches later on a double to the opposite corner by Biggio. 
The left-handed Kutsulis hit the eventual game-winner with an opposite-field home run into the left-field hedges in the fifth. 
The seminoles had the bases loaded with no outs after they plated their run in the sixth, and freshman evy ruibal entered the fray in relief of hale. ruibal in­duced a double play from the next batter, the team’s acc-leading 44th of the season, with the outs coming at home and first base, and a foul out after that to escape the inning unscathed. 
“That’s who we are — we’re a really good defensive club,” aoki said. “i mean, there might 


be teams that can make flashier  Tully came in to record the game’s  
plays or this or that, but i think  final two outs and secure the  
that the balls that are supposed to  sweep for the irish.  
turn into outs, they turn into outs.  notre dame returns to Frank  
The balls that are supposed to be  eck stadium for a midweek match- 
turned into double plays, for the  up with Toledo on wednesday.  
most part, are turned into double  
plays.”  Contact Mary Green at  
after  ruibal’s 3 1/3 innings,  mgreen8@nd.edu  

paid adverTisemenT 





CrossWord | will shorTZ 


hiGhly PunliKEly | chrisTopher BrucKer 
sudoKu | The mepham group 

domE nuts |  aleXandria wellman 

horosCoPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: Take things one step at a time. The changes you face are best contemplated carefully before you take action. emotional regret due to a change in status is likely to make you rethink your future plans. opportunities will present themselves if you consider incorporating what’s important to you into your new direction. you can make a difference. your numbers are 4, 18, 24, 31, 37, 43, 47. 
Birthday Baby: you are relentless, eager and sharp. you are quick, cautious and responsible. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): you must stand your ground and make whatever changes are necessary to help strengthen and protect your relationships with your family and colleagues. discuss ground rules and make sure everyone is clear about what’s expected. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): spend more time with the young and the old in your life. get involved in creative endeavors that will bring you in contact with people who share your interests. don’t give in to unfair demands or temptation. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): set aside time to organize your personal papers and get a new budget in place that will help ease your financial stress. make positive changes at home that will lower your overhead. a change will do you good. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t let moodiness dominate your behavior or lead you into an emotional battle. an unpredictable situation will escalate rapidly if you aren’t willing to compromise. Keep busy with physical activities that challenge you and take your mind off your troubles. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you’ll have a difficult time containing your feelings. Before you get into trouble, consider engaging in something that will add to your knowledge and experience while also bringing you closer to loved ones. self-improvement should be your goal. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): don’t fool yourself. dieting and getting in shape take work. don’t look for a quick fix for personal or financial problems. use your creative, detail-oriented mind to work slowly toward a practical and well­thought-out plan. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): empty promises will leave you feeling uncertain about your home, family and relationships with others. consider your legal position and revisit pending problems that require your attention in order to reach a settlement. you have to let go of the past to move forward. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): self-deception will lead to poor decisions. Take time to re-evaluate your current position and your next move. a one-sided romantic infatuation will not end in your favor. don’t lead anyone on or give in to a situation that is not in your best interest. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): help out someone who counts on you. don’t hesitate to negotiate and close deals. it’s up to you to put an end to a situation that has been holding you back. an investment or new financial enterprise will be prosperous. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you will be sentimental when it comes to your belongings, friends and relatives. your persuasiveness will get you into trouble if you haven’t done enough research before talking up something you want others to buy in to. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): stay in the background. you will make a much better observer than a participant. you can be more effective if you collect all the data and summarize how to use the information most effectively. love is in the stars. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): your biggest payback will come from helping the people you care about the most. a new relationship will develop if you participate in community events that will help improve your neighborhood. get involved in fund-raising. 

JumBlE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 




make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. Box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The oBserver | mondAy, APril 13, 2015 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
footBAll 

Notre Dame runs through live scrimmage Saturday 
By MARY GREEN 
assistant managing editor 
referees, big hits, long runs and quarterbacks in jerseys that weren’t red — notre dame’s practice saturday cer­tainly wasn’t a game, but it was about as close as the irish will come this spring until next saturday’s Blue-gold game. 
with both quarterbacks 
—
 graduate student everett golson and junior malik Zaire 

—
 live and the team competing in an 11-on-11 scrimmage for the last half-hour, head coach Brian Kelly said notre dame was able to run nearly 60 plays during the two hours outdoors at laBar practice complex. 


Zaire played with the first team and behind an offense line made up of, left to right, senior ronnie stanley, soph­omore alex Bars, graduate student nick martin, junior steve elmer and junior mike mcglinchey. 
golson took snaps with the second team, protected by a line of, left to right, junior hunter Bivin, sophomores Quenton nelson and 
see FooTBall PAGE 14 


nd softBAll | nd 5, Bc 2; nd 8, Bc 5; nd 10, Bc 2 
squad streches winning streak 
By MIKE GINOCCHIO 
sports writer 
if there is one word to de­scribe the irish at this point in the season, it would be rolling. 
coming into a weekend three-game series against Boston college, notre dame (32-11, 13-5 acc) was in the middle of a 15-game winning stretch, including 10 straight in the acc. Those streaks stayed unscathed through the conclusion of sunday’s game, as the irish swept the eagles (16-18, 1-11 acc) to extend their unbeaten spell to 18 and their in-conference run to 13. 
senior infielder Katey haus said she thinks the ex­planation for notre dame’s success is relatively straight­forward: the irish have the right mindset. 
“i think our key to success has been our focus on us,” haus said. “we’ve really made an effort to bring our ‘a’ game every game regardless of our opponent, and i think it has really paid off.” 
another key to the irish suc­cess has been their presence at the plate. over the course of the past 18 games, notre dame has outscored oppo­nents by a margin of 153-27 and outscored the eagles by a margin of 23-9, while the team hit .323 for the series. 
The irish also relied on mul­tiple players to produce at the plate. Freshman infielder morgan reed led the way dur­ing saturday’s doubleheader, reaching base five of seven times with an rBi triple and rBi double. senior outfielder emilie Koerner smacked her 70th career double in sunday’s game and tied a notre dame record for runs scored in a game by crossing the plate four times during sunday’s 10-2 victory. 
on the mound, the irish got a strong pitching performance from freshman Katie Beriont (3-1), who threw six innings in relief in the second game saturday, allowing only one unearned run on three hits and collecting a career-high five strikeouts in an 8-5 irish victory. sophomore rachel nasland (16-6) threw a com­plete game victory the first game, striking out nine in a 5-2 victory. Beriont returned 
see soFTBall PAGE 13 

nd WomEn’s lACrossE | nd 21, michigan 12 
Fortunato leads ND to victory 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
no. 13 notre dame rolled against michigan in a 21-12 win at arlotta stadium on sunday afternoon, led by sophomore attack cortney Fortunato’s six second-half goals. 
Ten different irish play­ers found the back of the net, with sophomore attack heidi annaheim and soph­omore midfielder casey pearsall each recording a hat trick and Fortunato ty­ing a school record for the most goals in one half. 
The sophomore was score­less in the first half before exploding after the break. in one five-minute period, Fortunato beat sophomore michigan goalie allison silber four times, and notre dame jumped from an 11-7 lead to a 15-8 advantage. 
“when defenses start to get too focused on cortney, i think that everyone around her is doing their job and stepping up,” irish head coach christine halfpenny said. “This week in prepara­tion, cortney was really tak­ing advantage of her dodges around the zone, and we saw that today. huge day for casey and big day for heidi. i thought that was outstand­ing to see those two really come alive.” 

with 6:15 left in the first half, notre dame (9-5, 3-3 acc) held a slim 5-4 lead. halfpenny called a timeout, and by the midway break, the irish were up 7-4 thanks to goals by annaheim and ju­nior attack Kiera mcmullan off the bench. 
“we got a little slower start than we wanted to, but i think you have to credit that to michigan coming 
see w lacrosse PAGE 13 

BAsEBAll | nd 5, Fsu 2; nd 4, Fsu 1; nd 2, Fsu 1 
Irish sweep Seminoles  with strong pitching 
By MARY GREEN 
assistant managing editor 
notre dame faced a jam in the top of the ninth sunday, with two Florida state runners on base and just one out. 
a sweep of the nation’s no. 8 team was on the line, but mik aoki wasn’t nervous. 
“i think i’m beyond that with this group,” the notre dame head coach said. “i just trust them to go out there and com­pete, and had one of those kids been able to take a ball and put it into the gap and we end up chasing runs in the bottom of the ninth, to be honest with you, i feel like we would’ve come back in the bottom of the ninth. 
“you get the nervous energy that you do anytime in competi­tion, but they work so hard, and the way in which they work has been so good that, at this point, you just let them go out there and 
see BaseBall PAGE 14 






