The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 109 | THURSDAY, MARCH 26, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Mendoza seniors launch charity project 
BlueBucket brings together local restaurants, charities to provide new avenues for donation 
By SELENA PONIO 
news writer 
earlier this month, mendoza college of business seniors mary cornfield, alisha anderson and caitlin crommett launched bluebucket, an organization that forms partnerships with restaurants to collect dona­tions for local charities. 
“it had originally come up last semester, and then this semester, i’m in a class called design & entrepreneurship … so i’m working on bluebucket in that class,” cornfield said. “we keep get­ting positive feedback from customers and restaurants, so we thought we might as well try it out.” 
restaurants participating in the program decide which items on their menu they want to list as bluebucket items. Then, whenever a patron purchases one of the designated bluebucket items, a portion of the price is donated to a charity cho­sen by the customer. 
“it’s nice to see something we’ve been doing in class ac­tually make it into the com­munity,” cornfield said. “it’s nice knowing that the prod­ucts we bring into market is actually helping charities raise money.” 
anderson said the creators of the bluebucket organiza­tion envisioned the program 
see bluebucKeT PAGE 6 




Aid worker speaks on CRS 
By MEGAN UEKERT 
news writer 
Joe weber, head of office for catholic relief services (crs) in bamiyan, afghanistan, spoke about his work in afghanistan’s central highlands and his experience working closely with impoverished muslim families in rural areas of the country wednesday night. 
weber has worked in afghanistan with catholic relief services for eight years, managing 10 
see crs PAGE 6 



Club examines gender roles 
By CLARE KOSSLER 
news writer 
men against sexual violence (masv), a club ded­icated to combatting sexual violence on campus, hosted a viewing of season two, episode four of the netflix series “house of cards,” fol­lowed by a panel discussion of character motives and gender roles wednesday in debartolo hall. 
The panel consisted of four speakers, including ph.d. students leanne macdonald and angel matos, alumnus and campus ministry pro­gram coordinator for anchor leadership program michael urbaniak and masv mem­ber alec pacelli, who moder­ated the debate. matos said the panel would look into the dynamics of political and personal character rela­tionships in the Tv show, a washington, d.c.-based dra­ma about politician Frank underwood. 
“we’re dealing not only with how the characters in­teract with each other, but how we perceive them as an audience as well,” matos said. 
see masv PAGE 6 

campus politcal groups talk immigration 
By GREG HADLEY 
editor-in-chief 

cooperation, civility and compromise: The words at the core of bridgend’s mis­sion statement formed the basis for an open debate on immigration wednesday night between sever­al student groups in the laFortune ballroom. 
The club, which strives to promote dialogue between students of different politi­cal philosophies on cam­pus, and women in politics invited five student lead­ers representing college republicans, college democrats, greend, notre dame right to life and notre dames to come to­gether and offer their opin­ions on all aspects of the immigration issue. 
“[The event] turned out great. The reason why is because ... people want to have a say in a really important, complex and sometimes confusing is­sue,” alex caton, vice presi­dent of bridgend said. “if the event and the ques­tions that came up during it showed anything, it’s that there are a lot of different angles that should be taken, and by inviting six different clubs to give a take on it, we clearly demonstrated that.” [editor’s note: alex caton is a viewpoint columnist for The observer.] 
mark gianfalla, represent­ing college republicans, and Tyler bowen, from college democrats, both stuck largely to their party platforms in addressing the issue. gianfalla said the most important aspect of the issue was securing the border, while bowen said immigrants currently liv­ing in america should have a path to citizenship. 
“... Those in line to achieve permanent residency 
see bridgend PAGE 6 


news PAGE 4 viewpoinT PAGE 9 scene PAGE 11 men’s basKeTball PAGE 20 FooTball PAGE 20 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor Business Manager
 Jack rooney alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin Asst. Managing Editor: lesley stevenson 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: brian lach Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu wlin@nd.edu, lsteven1@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college. editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
Name one woman at ND who best exemplifies the mission and values of the university 

Lily Crawford 
junior 
badin hall 
“ms. iris outlaw.” 
Matthew Farrell 
junior 
dillon hall 
“Joyce Zurawski.” 
Rachel Francis 
sophomore 
walsh hall 
“liz detwiler.” 


Sarah Price 
junior 
pangborn hall 
“sister mary donnelly.” 
Jack Szigety 
junior 
siegfried hall 
“mara stolee.” 
Chris Weber 
senior st. edward’s hall 
“mo mcKenney.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

margaret hynds alex carson Email news@ndsmcobserver.com
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: matthew mcKenna brian plamondon rachel o’grady marek mazurek 
Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday
mary mcgraw maddie daly 
Photo Viewpoint 

Art Battle LGBT Retreat Holy Half Marathon Solemn Mass Last Lecture Series
Kevin song rex shannon 

LaFortune Student Off-campus Campus-wide Basilica of the Sacred Washington Hall Center All day 9 a.m. - 12 p.m. Heart 7 p.m. - 8 p.m All day PRISM ND student-Benefits the South 9:45 a.m. - 11 a.m. Lecture by professor
Corrections 

Student competition. organized retreat. Bend community. Worship service. Maria McKenna. 
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and 

“The BIble, Narrative Baseball Film: Inherent Vice Women’s Tennis Workshop: 
strives for the highest standards 
and Modernity” Frank Eck Stadium DeBartolo Performing Eck Tennis Pavilion Presenting Your 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
McKenna Hall 6:05 p.m. - 8:05 p.m. Arts Center 12 p.m. - 2 p.m. Research
however, recognize that we will make 
All day The Irish take on 6:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Free admission and Brownson Hall 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Interdisciplinary Virginia. Open to the public. open to the public. 4 p.m. - 5 p.m.
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
conference.
we can correct our error. 



Priests, nun reflect on calling to religious life 
By ALEX CAO 
news writer 
last night at legends of notre dame, university president Fr. John Jenkins sat on a panel with mendoza college of business director of Finance and administration Fr. mark Thesing and sister lois delee, held in cel­ebration of the “year of the consecrated life.” 
Thesing, Jenkins and delee talked about their different experiences in adopting the consecrated life, the chal­lenges in realizing the vows of poverty, chastity and obe­dience, what inspired them to take those vows and what they found most rewarding in leading a consecrated life. 
Jenkins said realizing this common goal of leading a meaningful life is an impor­tant, rewarding and emotion­al undertaking — particularly in light of a recent campus tragedy. 
“one of the things that’s clear to me now is that this desire to live a meaningful life has been fulfilled in abun­dance,” Jenkins said. “last night — just an example, we had a memorial mass for lisa yang, who took her own life, and her family was there. we gave the family a diploma posthumously for lisa. it was just a ... i don’t need to say how much of an emotional time it was for them to try to come to terms to that. but to be a part of that and to try to help them to make sense of that is a great privilege, an undeserved privilege, to be part of such a meaningful time.” 
Thesing said while he start­ed pursuing priesthood when he first visited notre dame, he did not begin to fully ap­preciate religious life until the middle of his formation. 
“although i knew i want­ed to be a priest, and i knew i wanted to pursue that, i wasn’t quite sure where and how that was going to be lived out,” Thesing said. “now some 38 years after entering the seminary, i can’t imagine my life without it. i can’t imagine being a priest without having the support or the camarade­rie and the community that community life offered. 
“here i’m wearing my collar, and i’m representing some­thing, so i’ve got to be care­ful about that. it’s a public life that we live and we have to be conscious about that. ... i feel a little wiser now ... but i also realize that i’m living here with a bunch of students or young men, and it’s about calling them to a higher life.” 
delee said she was not fully convinced she would accept the challenges of religious life, but after starting forma­tion and eventually complet­ing her time as a novitiate, she him use us where he wants to take us and then know fear is useless. you just need trust and let god do his work” 


Jenkins also said the great­est joy of the consecrated life is how he has been able to im­pact people’s lives. 
“The wonderful thing about this calling, and sister [delee] spoke about this too with her, is that you’re invited into peo­ple’s life in a profound way,” he said. “you have the oppor­tunity to do what you can. you always have this sense of not doing well enough, or you’re not doing as you should, but still you have that opportu­nity to comfort them in their sorrows, rejoice with them in their joys and help them find the lord in an important way.” 
Contact Alex Cao at  acao@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 
said she found joy in spread­ing [god’s] teaching to her students and embracing god’s will. 
“one of my greatest joys is being able to see how my life somehow touched their lives and brought them success or brought them love from god to make their life worth­while,” delee said. “we all have relationships with the lord. we are his servants. let 

STUDENT GOVERNMENT SPARKNOTES 




STUDENT SENATE 

Vidal delivers State of the Student Union 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
student body president lauren vidal delivered her state of the student union address last night at the fi­nal student senate meeting of the 2014-2015 term. 
in the speech, vidal quot­ed a 1985 note from Fr. Ted hesburgh, describing the 10 commandments of student leaders. 
“i would like to introduce a note from Fr. hesburgh to the then-student body presi­dent and vice president,” the senior said. 
“‘politics is the art of the possible, so pick out some realistic goals and really go for them,’” she said, quoting hesburgh. 
vidal also thanked the senators, as well as the cabi­net that served under her and student body vice presi­dent matthew devine before highlighting some of this year’s successes, including the launch of the o’snap app and forming contracts with The new york Times and The wall street Journal as part of the student readership pro­
“There is an entire article, as well as a survey, about perfectionism at Duke, acknowledging that perfectionism exists and affects the majority of students who make it to elite universities.” 
Lauren Videl 
Student Body President 
gram. she also mentioned some of the most pressing is­sues the university still has to contend with, particu­larly the mental health of its students. 
vidal, devine and shannon montague, student union chief of staff, gave the spring board of Trustees presentation, which fo­cused on addressing issues with the mental health of notre dame students. vidal said they had reviewed an assortment of research of notre dame’s peer universi­ties, such as duke, to better understand the problem at notre dame. 
“many of [duke’s] profes­sors have published articles on the culture of their cam­pus,” vidal said. “There is an entire article, as well as a survey, about perfec­tionism at duke, acknowl­edging that perfectionism exists and affects the ma­jority of students who make it to these elite universities. perfectionism is linked to instances of depression and severe anxiety.” 
Two resolutions were pre­sented. The first, present­ed by vidal and montague, proposed the submission of an open letter from notre dame’s student body to the university’s peer institu­tions regarding the deaths of three muslim students 

Opera opens at Saint Mary’s tonight 
By AUBREY CLARK 
news writer 
The saint mary’s department of music will perform giacomo puccini’s one-act opera “gianni schicchi” this weekend. 
The show, which opens Thursday night, focuses on 
“Puccini’s music requires so much independence and commitment from everyone in the cast. It takes really solid musicianship to produce the lines correctly.” 
Dr. Laurel Thomas 
associate professor of music 
Saint Mary’s College 
the recent death of buoso donati, whose relatives have gathered to mourn him. The relatives call in gianni schicchi to fix the will of donati so that they can in­herit the riches that he left to a monastery. 
dr. laurel Thomas, asso­ciate professor of music at saint mary’s and director of the production, said while the cast has had fun with this particular show, it con­stantly presents new lessons and challenges. 
“puccini’s music requires so much independence and commitment from every­one in the cast,” she said. “it takes extremely solid mu­sicianship to produce the lines accurately.” 
auditions and casting be­gan towards the end of the fall semester, so the cast be­gan working on their indi­vidual parts over christmas break. The cast, crew and musicians have been offi­cially rehearsing since the first day of class in January. 
The opera, which original­ly takes place in Florence, will take on a local twist with a south bend setting. Thomas said the perfor­mance will capture the es­sence of the city throughout the whimsical journey. 
“we thought it would be more fun to refer to south bend than Florence,” Thomas said. “it is an anni­versary year for the town, so it seemed to make sense.” 
senior sarah miller, who will be performing in the show as the romantic lead lauretta, said all students will enjoy “gianni schicchi,” whether they are familiar with opera or not. 
“This opera is the perfect show for novice opera-goers and experienced music con­
“This opera is the perfect show for novice opera-goers and experienced music conoisseurs alike. It is short — only one hour — and is extremely funny. ” 
Sarah Miller 
senior 
noisseurs alike,” she said. “it is short — only one hour — and is extremely funny. The music is absolutely beauti­ful. The entire experience should be educational and entertaining.” 
both Thomas and miller said they have gained new knowledge and experiences throughout the process of preparing “gianni schicchi.” 
“i have learned a lot about the effort that it takes to put on an opera,” miller said. “There are a lot of hours that go into a one-act at the university of north carolina. 


several senators brought up their concerns with the letter, noting that it came off as “too introspective” and didn’t portray notre dame in a positive light, resulting in a discussion of different as­pects of the appropriateness of the letter. The resolution was not approved, and the letter will be edited again before being voted on. 
The second resolution, presented by morrissey hall senator brian cimons, was intended to clarify an ambi­guity regarding student en­dorsements of candidates or tickets, specifically to pre­vent succession planning. 
Kathryn peruski, president of Judicial council, said the am­biguity needed to be addressed but that this specific resolution was not adequate, partially because student groups, such as the student union and the student activities office, did not have rules outlined clear­ly enough. peruski also said that the resolution in general needed to be more clear. 
“Judicial council agrees this is a section that needs to be tackled,” peruski said. “it is ambiguous and caus­ing problems. it needs to be tackled slowly and carefully so the language is the best 
“Perfectionism is linked to instances of depression and severe anxiety.” 
Lauren Vidal 
Student Body President 
and that we are protecting the constitution and what is written here, and it doesn’t need to be tackled today.” 
The resolution was not passed, and the issue will be addressed next term. 
The newly-elected student senators will be sworn in for their first meeting next wednesday. 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 
production.” 
“a small group of talented people can really do any­thing if they put their minds to it,” Thomas said. “it’s all about the team.” 
“gianni schicchi” will run from march 26-28 at 7:30 
p.m.
 and march 29 at 2:30 

p.m.
 in the little Theatre of moreau center. Tickets can be purchased from moreau center for the arts online, over the phone or in person. The cost is $8 for students, $10 for faculty, $13 for adults and $12 for senior citizens. 


Contact Aubrey Clark at aclark02@saintmarys.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 

paid adverTisemenT 




MASV 
conTinued From page 1 
The primary topic discussed was the decision of the show’s lead female character, claire underwood, to announce dur­ing a live Tv interview that she had been raped and subse­quently had had an abortion. 
urbaniak said in one sense underwood, played by robin wright, used the interview to craft herself a public identity based upon the expectations of others. 
“she had to choose who she was going to be because she had to fit in a role, and she’s almost trying to fit in that role as she’s being interviewed,” he said. 
matos said underwood as­serted her personal and po­litical power in her interview, during which she was con­tinually questioned about the fact that she had no children. 
“she is deemed different just because she does not have children as the rest of the wives of the congressmen do or the rest of the politicians 
BridgeND 
conTinued From page 1 
should receive priority over those currently in the u.s. illegally,” gianfalla said. 
“anyone that wants to be an immigrant and enter into american society and can prove that they can do what they should be able to, and we should guaran­tee that,” bowen said. 
however, both agreed the cur­rent process for legal immigra­tion in the u.s. is desperately in need of reform. both wanted an increase in the quota numbers which currently limit immigra­tion into the country. gianfalla said he thought the num­ber should be from 650,000 to 690,000, and bowen said stream­lining the application process is the one aspect of immigration 
CRS 
conTinued From page 1 
international staff members and 350 national workers. he said when he was first presented with the opportunity to work in afghanistan, he had a very dif­ferent idea of the country in his head than what he experienced when he got there. 
“when i thought of afghanistan, i thought of tanks and desserts, and when i got there, they were none to be seen,” he said. 
“in college and in graduate school, i carried around this angst on my shoulders and i wanted to fix the world, and i worry if [this angst] still exists in colleges today.” 
weber said his team has been working on two projects. one of the projects is training two people each from multiple com­munities to manage a school and training select community 
BlueBucket 
conTinued From page 1 

as a community-building agent, linking local res-
tau ra nt s  a nd  cha r it ies.  
she sa id  bluebucket is a  
d i f ferent  k i nd  of  f u nd­ 

raiser because of one key element. 
“bluebucket is unique in that it incorporates the con­cept of consumer choice,” andersen said. “There are a lot of fundraising tech­niques out there — round­up, coin collection, credit card-point donations, etc. 
— but very few incorpo­rate the idea of consumer choice.” 
however, the process of launching bluebucket did not come without its chal­lenges. cornfield said they underestimated the diffi­culty of spreading the word about the organization, and anderson said the pro­cess of getting restaurants on board with the program proved to be not as easy as they had predicted. 
“The bluebucket concept seems obvious to us, yet to a customer that is walking 
“There are a lot of fundraising techniques out there — round-up, coin collection, credit card-point donations, etc. 
— but very few incorporate the idea of consumer choice.” 
Alisha Anderson 
founder 
BlueBucket 

into a restaurant, it is not so simple,” andersen said. “we need to make sure the restaurants and their em­ployees can effectively and clearly communicate the idea to the customer.” 
bluebucket works exclu­sively with independent restaurants. currently, 
“We hope that BlueBucket will be able to not only raise money for several extremely deserving local charities but also bring attention to the great work that they do and perhaps inspire community members to get more involved with such charities.” 
Alisha Anderson 
founder 
BlueBucket 
there are five restau­rants on board: sassy’s, indulgence, rohr’s (at the morris inn), rein Juicery and Thyme of grace. 
andersen said that from a charitable perspective, she hopes that bluebucket serves as more than just a fundraiser for the charities involved. 
“we hope bluebucket will be able to not only raise money for several extreme­ly deserving local charities but also bring attention to the great work that they do and perhaps inspire com­munity members to get more involved with such charities,” andersen said. 
“From a restaurant perspective, we hope bluebucket serves as a way for restaurants to appeal to millennials and the com­munity at large,” she said. 
Contact  Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 
do,” he said. 
however, matos said she used this to her advantage, reshaping the potentially rep­utation-damaging questions 
“[Clare Underwood] is deemed different because she does not have children as the rest of the wives of the congressmen do or the rest of the politicians do.” 
Angel Matos 
Ph.D. student 
about her lack of children into an opportunity to disclose her troubling past. 
“she’s recovering power through this,” he said. 
panel members also dis­cussed claire underwood’s marriage to Frank underwood, at one point comparing it to the marriage of one of the show’s major congress­men. urbaniak said the show 
reform he would most like to see move forward. 
alison leddy, president of notre dames, emphasized the emotional and physical damage many women who immigrate suffer and said legislators should consider additional laws to pro­tect them. 
“often immigration status is what allows domestic violence to occur,” leddy said. “ ... abuse is often a tool of someone who’s trying to take advantage of women, and without opportuni­ties women have no way to save themselves from a bad situation or report things to the police, so in terms of policy decisions, that’s definitely something to consider.” 
representing the right to life club, Kristina Flathers said while immigration may not typically be thought of as an topic related 


paid adverTisemenT 

members to be school teachers. in one month, weber’s group trained 47 communities to start up first grade classes, he said. 
The second project is improv­ing livelihood. weber said the rural villages in the mountains are completely isolated due the the aftermath of terrible winters and severe erosion. The condi­tions became so bad relief or­ganizations cannot reach them, and the amount of land use-able for growing has decreased. weber’s group achieved what he said seemed impossible and got 400 severely food-insecure fami­lies to construct and replicate a model of vegetable gardens. he said the group works with in­credibly impoverished families who have been greatly affected by famine. 
“potatoes are a main crop in the villages and due to the weather conditions, people were losing 60 percent of their potatoes,” he said. “it was one portrays the congressman’s marriage as “frail,” although it seems more the faithful of the two marriages. 
The underwood’s marriage, in contrast, urbaniak said “is made to look powerful, flashy, exciting, if not dark and dirty.” 
macdonald agreed, but add­ed that the two marriages of­fer surprising insight into the male characters of the show. 
“you have both men be­ing defined in terms of their marriages, in terms of their wives,” she said. “usually in a sort of stereotypical, male-centric environment, you ex­pect to see women defined by their relationships. This is an interesting reversal of that.” 
in the last minutes of the panel, pacelli said audience members should use the view­ing and panel discussion to reconsider gender roles and sexual violence on campus. 
“it’s important to use these [discussions] to promote ac­tion and change in our lives,” he said. 
Contact Clare Kossler at  ckossler@nd.edu 
to the right to life movement, it is fundamentally an issue of hu­man dignity, which is related to the mission of the club. 
“people migrate in order to cre­ate better lives for themselves ... societies should be oriented in ways that set up as few obstacles as possible for this to happen,” Flathers said. “and that’s the ba­sis of my proposal. i think we as a society must improve services like childcare and education to immigrants who are already here.” 
garrett blad, of greend, also said environmental issues re­lated to immigration in terms of migration patterns and the abil­ity of disadvantaged people to move away from areas affected by climate change. 
Contact Greg Hadley at  ghadley@nd.edu 
step forward and two back, so we brought in a national potato expert. he implemented simple adaptations and reduced the loss to 2 percent, and the new adapta­tions only costs six to ten dollars. Keyhole gardens began to sprout up all over the place. ... when you talk to the poorest families, you’re still not there. Then you talk to the women, and you pull the voice up from the voiceless,” he said. 
saint mary’s junior breanna elger described her job as a crs student ambassador in rela­tion to the talk and said the talk helped to achieve her objectives in that job. 
“our role as ambassadors is to educate, and he [weber] painted a picture with [catholic relief services],” she said. “he de­scribed tangible ways that they implement crs.” 
Contact Megan Uekert at  mueker01@saintmarys.edu 



u.n. presses europe to return to peacekeeping 
Associated Press 
uniTed naTions — russia’s aggressiveness in the east. The islamic state group’s sudden rise in the south. as europe finds new threats close to home, it’s now being asked by the united states to make a strong re­turn to peacekeeping around the world as well. 
The u.n. on Friday con­venes an unprecedented meeting of defense officials from more than 100 countries to seek support for the largest peacekeeping effort ever de­ployed, with nearly 130,000 personnel in 16 missions from congo to the golan heights. They face growing threats from groups like the islamic state that have little regard for traditional ideas of war and peace. 
Following up in september, president barack obama will chair a meeting on the sidelines of the annual u.n. general assembly of world leaders, with the goal of col­lecting countries’ peacekeep­ing pledges after Friday’s pitch by secretary-general ban Ki-moon and other top officials. 
obama’s envoy to the u.n., ambassador samantha power, this month made it clear that europe is expected to step up and is needed “more than ever.” Two decades ago, european nations contrib­uted more than 40 percent of 
u.n. peacekeepers, she said in a speech in brussels. it’s less than 7 percent now. 
This call from the united 
states,  easily  the  biggest  
contributor  to  the  u.n.’s  
peacekeeping  budget  at  

$2.5 billion, comes as tens of thousands of troops from european and other coun­tries emerge from years of war in iraq and afghanistan. in her speech, power en­visioned the german and dane helicopter pilots from afghanistan doing similar work in darfur, or romanian and czech patrols guarding bases in south sudan. 
if the u.n. had asked for this kind of help earlier, it would have been seen as competing with the u.s.-led military ef­fort of the past decade, said Jean-marie guehenno, a for­mer u.n. peacekeeping chief and the current president of the international crisis group. 
“now, when the u.s. says, ‘you’re our allies, and one of the best ways to show friend­ship is to contribute to the u.n.,’ that’s quite a signal,” he told The associated press. 
europe may need some convincing. The image many still have of u.n. peacekeeping is of twin fail­ures two decades ago. in the rwandan genocide, an 
paid adverTisemenT 
existing peacekeeping force was swiftly reduced from 2,000 to 270 after 10 belgian peacekeepers were killed. in bosnia, dutch peacekeep­ers were overwhelmed by bosnian serb forces who went on to massacre 8,000 muslim men at srebrenica. 
The u.n., which has no standing army, now heavily relies on troops from south asia and africa, whose coun­tries make up the top 10 con­tributors. bangladesh led the way with 9,446 peacekeep­ers as of the end of February. The united states had 119, less than any other perma­nent member of the security council except russia, which had 72. 
one problem in today’s peacekeeping, officials and observers say, is that sheer numbers are not enough against groups like al-Qaeda that blur borders. 
“who of you would have thought a few years ago we would not see gruesome vid­eos of hostages being be­headed on mediterranean beaches?” dutch defense chief gen. Tom middendorp told an international mili­tary conference this week, referring to the islamic state group’s emergence this year on libya’s shore. 
beyond manpower, the u.n. now needs peacekeepers who are skilled in, and equipped for, tasks such as intelli­gence work, strategic airlifts, medical evacuations and the growing use of drones. 
“many member states are still skeptical towards the u.n.’s ability to keep informa­tion classified and to prevent leaks,” said Joachim Koops, the director of the brussels­based global governance institute and the coordina­tor of a new research network called europe’s return to 
u.n. peacekeeping. 
That’s on top of wider con­cerns, some real and some outdated, about the u.n.’s ability to protect its peace­keepers and about the gap between european and non­european troops in fund­ing, training, equipment and even language, Koops said. 
The deaths of two dutch peacekeepers this month in a helicopter crash during the 
u.n. mission in mali didn’t help the call for europe’s as­sistance. The crash came just days after power in her brussels speech praised the netherlands’ recent deploy­ment of 450 troops in its big­gest return to peacekeeping since bosnia. 
The broader the base of troop contributors, the bet­ter, guehenno said. u.n. peacekeeping shouldn’t be seen as an extension of any of the powerful permanent members of the security council, but “it’s hard to see how traditional peacekeep­ing would continue to take more and more risks if the countries that pushed them were not prepared to share that risk.” 
both he and Koops point­ed to germany as a possible source in the coming years, and Koops said smaller european states like ireland, sweden and austria are ac­tively showing interest. 
The demand to reshape 
u.n. peacekeeping has also led to the first major re­view of its operations in 15 years. nobel peace laure­ate Jose ramos-horta leads the panel that is expected to present recommendations in september, as obama is set to chair the u.n. meeting. 
ramos-horta said he was struck by the fact that a u.n. peacekeeper costs about $2,000 a month, while a naTo soldier costs 10 times that. naTo does its own peace­keeping operations but also has strong interest in collec­tive defense at home. 
“This is not part of our mandate, but we believe rich­er countries should contrib­ute more to the global effort to end wars, protect civil­ian population, building vi­able states and long-lasting peace,” including through peacekeeping, ramos-horta said in an email. 


bergdahl may face life in prison 
imprisoned at guantanamo 
Associated Press 
bay, cuba. 

ForT bragg, n.c. — army The exchange set off a de­sgt. bowe bergdahl, who aban-bate over whether the u.s. doned his post in afghanistan should have released the five and was held captive for five Taliban members. little is years by the Taliban, was known about what the five charged wednesday by the have been doing in Qatar, 
u.s. military with desertion where they are being moni­and misbehavior before the tored by the government. enemy and could get life in some lawmakers have pre­prison if convicted. dicted that the five would re-
The charges are the latest turn to the battlefield. development in a long and wednesday’s announce-bitter debate over bergdahl’s ment brought further criti­case. They also underscore cism of the exchange from the military and political some lawmakers, including ramifications of his decision u.s. rep. michael mccaul, on June 30, 2009, to leave his r-Texas and the chairman of post after expressing misgiv-the committee on homeland ings about the u.s. military’s security. role, as well as his own, in the “president obama endan­afghanistan war. gered our national security 
bergdahl, 28, was captured and broke the law when he by the Taliban and held by chose to negotiate with ter­members of the haqqani net-rorists and release hardened work, an insurgent group enemy combatants from tied to the Taliban that op-guantanamo bay in exchange erates both in pakistan and for sgt. bergdahl — who many afghanistan. believed at the time was a 
last may 31, bergdahl was deserter,” mccaul said in a handed over to u.s. special statement. forces in afghanistan as part The obama administra­of an exchange for five Taliban tion appeared to stand by the commanders who were swap. 


The observer | THURSDAY, MARCH 26, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Your final days 
Maddie Daly 
senior scene writer 

here’s to the firsts of the lasts of my college career. This may be the last inside column i ever write for The observer. 
maybe tomorrow will be the last time i pass that one junior who was in my French class on the quad or the last “make your own pizza” i have in south. 
These next 51 days will be the last chance i have to spend time with some of the most intelligent and kind people i will ever meet. 
now that’s a lot to handle, even for a 22-year-old (i’ll let you in on a secret — being 22 in no way means you are a grown up with your life together). 
as i enter into my final few weeks of college, i am going to do everything in my power to make the most of ev­ery minute. 
as trite as that sounds, i think it is the only way to cope with such a dif­ficult period of transition. it’s time to let down all the walls; it’s time to say hi to that one shy student you remem­ber from your freshman seminar. go out of your way to make plans with someone you haven’t seen in months, maybe years, even if it’s “awkward” (it shouldn’t be). 
participate as much as possible in class, and go talk to your profes­sors during office hours because this could be the last academic setting you’ll ever be in. as un-fun as it may sound, go take a trip to the career center if you’re like me and still look­ing for a job — it’s only a matter of weeks until that resource will be even farther from you than Flanner hall is from west Quad. 
as much as i hate the word “re­gret,” i cannot hide the fact that there are some things i regret not doing. Firstly, i regret not having the chance to say goodbye to lisa yang, a mem­ber of my mcglinn hall family and a friend of mine at the beginning of our time here, before she passed away. i regret not keeping up with friend­ships i made in the first few weeks of school; imagine what senior year would be like if we still had all those connections we once made. 
so, fellow seniors, next time you have the opportunity to hang out with a forgotten Frosh-o friend, chat with your least-favorite professor or even just strike up a conversation with a stranger, please take advan­tage of it. 
make the most of your final days here. because once our time is up, there’s no going back. 
Contact Maddie Daly at  mdaly6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
on poverty and theo. requirement 
Christopher Damian 
ideas of a university 

i recently attended the united nations 59th session of the commission on the status of women. representatives from around the world discussed the relationship between poverty and the education of women. The western nations tended to present abstract arguments for “disaggregating data” and the importance of increased access of opportunity to education, political office and economic capital as a means of eradicating the poverty suffered by women in both developed and undevel­oped nations. indeed, access to education seemed to me a valu­able means to the empowerment of women until a nigerian delegate objected that “access to education” does not ensure “quality education.” 
even in america, the value of a high school diploma varies greatly according to the school. in many areas, young people graduate without the knowledge and skills necessary to sup­port themselves and their families. For these people, “access to education” is of little value, and the disconnect between wealthy policymakers and poor communities becomes apparent. 
This disconnect contrasts sharply with the tradition of the church, which for centuries has sent educated men and women to live among, love and educate the poor. according to the new york Times, “The roman catholic schools that have been shuttered in impoverished neighborhoods in recent years have produced enough lawyers to staff a white-shoe firm and enough doctors for a top-tier research hospital.” These schools have historically been run by priests and religious who dedi­cated their entire lives in humble service. They did not provide only access but love and quality education. 
speaking among delegates from the holy see at the session, former mendoza college of business dean carolyn woo dis­cussed the “loving and courageous people who went to the rest of the world to give an education” to her as a child in china. she “learned to read, write and have a voice of my own” from catholic missionary sisters. woo, now director of catholic relief services, discussed her organization’s work in empower­ing local communities through locally-based and long-term education and development. she does this work with the inspi­ration of the sisters who educated her. 
woo stressed that we cannot know about kindness and the common good “unless we have received it and seen it in ac­tion.” she saw and received it from these sisters. The service and example of the sisters both facilitated and provided her ed­ucation. These empowered women, the educated religious who left their homes to educate girls like carolyn, instilled within her a longing to serve the church through excellence and self-sacrifice. and just as the sisters left their homes in response to god’s calling, woo eventually left her home, notre dame, in a remarkable transition from dean of the country’s no. 1 busi­ness school to director of a catholic charitable organization. 
in another remarkable move, woo recently wrote in america magazine that notre dame “students cannot serve well what they do not love; they cannot love deeply what they do not know.” she argued, “Theology requirements are analogous to the keystone that holds the academic architectural archway together, not an offering amidst a buffet of dizzying choices to be assembled for the appetite of the day.” entering into the campus discussion over the core curriculum, woo wrote quite bluntly: “in all the efforts to define learning goals for a catholic university, how about ‘to know god’ as a starter?” 
of course, woo’s challenging question presupposes that the­ology at notre dame is more than simply an academic exercise. but a recent comment by mark roche, a member of the cur­riculum review committee, challenges this presupposition: “a primary task of theology … is to integrate advances in the in­dividual disciplines, and to encourage those disciplines to ask deeper, even ultimate questions.” roche is right to “explore how the catholic mission can be enhanced not by thinking about departments alone but by focusing instead on overarching learning goals.” but roche risks presenting to the curriculum the god of the philosophers, rather than the christian god. he presents an ephemeral being of integration and philosophi­cal “ultimate questions,” but this god falls quite short from the incarnate god of the catholic church. 
we need more. Theology, when pursued as an ecclesial discipline, resists the air-headed tendencies of the academic disciplines, concerning itself not merely with philosophical “ul­timate questions” but with a very real — even incarnate — god, who places real demands on real people through a real church. Theology, when driven by an incarnate ecclesiology and wed to the life of the church, bridges the gap between policy and com­munity, mind and heart. The question, in notre dame’s curric­ulum, cannot only be where we will find academic theology at the end of the curriculum review. it must be where we will find an ecclesial theology and whether we can find it currently. 
Christopher Damian graduated from Notre Dame in 2013. He is currently pursuing a J.D. and an M.A. in Catholic Studies at the University of St. Thomas. He can be contacted through his blog at universityideas.wordpress.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


Find something important and do it 
Matt Miklavic 
The maine idea 

like so many others, i too had my own memories of Fr. hesburgh. i had heard a thing or three about him and his work leading up to my time at notre dame, but i dis­tinctly remember seeing him at the opening freshman mass. i remember my mom’s amazement at his schedule despite his age. i remember shaking his hand when my class had the opportunity to visit him on the 14th floor of the library. like most, i will value my good fortune at having had the opportunity to meet him. 
The truth of the matter, however, is that these meet­ings weren’t particularly important. as memorable as my encounters with him were, their impact is dwarfed by his contributions — to his school, religion, society, country and, in turn, me — made long before we met. 
much has been spoken and written, much more elo­quently than i can, about the work of Fr. hesburgh’s 97 years. and while i could retell stories and anecdotes that aren’t mine, summarize contributions i didn’t witness or remark on speeches i didn’t hear, i won’t. rather, i’d like to talk about the lasting impression Fr. hesburgh imparted upon me. 
Fr. hesburgh has done more than just grow notre dame’s endowment or enhance its academic rigor. Fr. hesburgh’s lasting mark upon me, the thing that has allowed me to receive such an excellent education, is simple: to find something important and to do it. 
in his remembrance of Fr. hesburgh, alan simpson noted a credo that had helped guide their work together: “if you’re damned if you do and damned if you don’t,” he counseled, “then do.” 
There are countless causes and issues in our world whose solving will require courage. but there are many more for which the solution is as simple as our attention. 
a song on pandora just told me to “do something with your life.” JFK asked what we could do for our country. my dad has told me to get off my ass. regardless, the message is clear: we live on a planet not just in dire need of service but also in dire need of servants. 
and yet too often we fail to serve this need. There are a myriad of opportunities to stand up. yet we sit. There are countless chances to speak up. yet we fall silent. For all that great men and women accomplish, there is so much more to be done. 
The world is not built by those who passively gaze upon it but those who both see it as it is and envision it as it can be. insofar as this world will change, let it be changed for the better. insofar as this planet will be molded by its inhabitants, let it be by those among you with the heart and the mind to do good and to do so for many. 
in his remarkable time on earth, Fr. hesburgh, beyond all the anecdotes and supersonic plane rides, beyond his smile and beyond his powerful friendships, remained, most importantly, a servant. in his long life on this plan­et, he gave himself completely to the students he shep­herded. because of this, humanity has greatly benefited. 
so thank you, Fr. Ted, for all that you’ve given to me, to this school and to this world. as one of the legion of people whose life you have irrevocably made better, i’m left with much gratitude and several lessons. one of the most important is this: if you’re damned if you do and damned if you don’t, you may as well do. let’s give it a try. 
Matt Miklavic is a junior political science and finance major from Cape Elizabeth, Maine. He can be reached at mmiklavi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

“persisting challenges, new Frontiers” 
“persisting challenges, new Frontiers.” This is Frontiers” mean, and why is it relevant for our lives? new Frontiers” means not shying away from the in-the theme of the 2015 notre dame student peace “persisting challenges, new Frontiers” means criti-tractable and the insoluble but engaging intelligently conference, held on march 27 and 28 in the hesburgh cally confronting history’s narratives of injustice and directly in issues of peace and conflict, despite center for international studies. This conference and violence that occur time and time again and their vast complexity. will showcase panel presentations and roundtable employing innovative, comprehensive solutions with why is the theme relevant? because this is where it discussions by talented students from around the conviction. it means synthesizing our talents and starts. building a more secure, peaceful world starts world engaged in the field of peace studies, as well backgrounds to expand the framework in which we with voices who are willing to confront persisting as keynote addresses from impactful leaders such as contemplate the most pressing issues of peace and challenges and tread new frontiers. it starts with the serbian activist srdja popovic and un senior officer security facing our world today. it means challenging integration of ideas and the cultivation of construc­gillian Kitley. our assumptions, our biases, our roadmaps of conflict tive questioning. it starts with us. 
in a day and age where positive peace is threatened and inequality and exploring the unlikely, the contra-by strained diplomatic relations, struggles for power dictory and the counterintuitive. it means drawing Theresa Rinaldo and political inaction, it is important to question from diverse disciplines and working collaboratively pasquerilla west what the theme of this year’s conference truly stands to identify the conditions which foster peace and ex-              junior for. what exactly does “persisting challenges, new tinguish violence. ultimately, “persisting challenges, march 24 
Fighting for our futures 
my twin sister and i were excited about moving on to campus. as freshmen, we had a million questions running through our heads. what should we bring? were the football games going to be as exciting and wild as we imagined? were we going to survive several months without delicious home-cooked meals? how would it be like to live hundreds of miles away from home? as time got closer to moving in, and things began to fall into place, these worries faded to a single thought: what would college be like as an undocu­mented student? 
my sister and i were born in Zacatecas, mexico, and immigrated to the united states at the age of five. we moved into a tiny house in gardnerville, nevada, and went to a local elementary school, where we learned how to speak english through the head start program. The first year of school was hard because we could only speak spanish; however, as time passed, my sister and i became proficient in english and some of the best students in our class. Through middle school and high school, we continued to excel academically but did not know if we would ever go to college. 
we both knew we were undocumented since fourth grade. we didn’t quite understand what being un­documented was, but we were told not to mention it to anyone else. no one really asked about our citizen­ship status until we were in high school. maria and i were sitting at dinner with our friends when one of them asked where we were from. indifferently, one of us replied that we were born in mexico, hoping that the conversation would end there. unfortunately, one of the girls abruptly turned towards us and asked, “are you guys citizens?” before either of us could an­swer, another girl turned towards her and replied, “of course they are. otherwise they wouldn’t be so classy.” only a few people knew about our immigration status. if we told others, we ran the risk of facing hostility from students and teachers. 
when we received daca status in 2012, everything changed for us. daca stands for deferred action for childhood arrivals, and we are also commonly known as dreamers. with daca, we can work legally in the u.s. and are given temporary cards that must be renewed every few years. daca made college a pos­sibility, but it was not guaranteed. due to our status, we could not apply to most state schools, and we were limited to a few colleges. when we were accepted into the university of notre dame, we were given the opportunity to pursue our interest in chemical engineering. 
This year, there are 10 daca freshmen, including mauricio segovia, who is pursuing a major in phys­ics, and siegfried hall president carlos covarrubias, who is majoring in finance and economics. one of our greatest experiences as a group was meeting Fr. hesburgh before his passing. 
he told us about his greatest accomplishments, in­cluding the acceptance of women into the university. Fr. hesburgh told our group that we will also make the university proud for accepting us. having the support from a man who has faced much opposition in his life has given us the courage to tell others about being daca students. every time we walk by signs of the quote, “if Father hesburgh was for you, you didn’t care who was against you,” we are reminded that we have a responsibility to share our story in hopes that future daca students will be more welcomed into the university. 
as daca students, we want to share our story with others. immigration reform has been a big political is­sue at the federal level, and people often forget about the stories behind the issue. although not everyone supports daca, we hope that students are ready to hear our story and learn about the push-and-pull factors that cause families to emigrate from their home countries. Faculty members have constructed a strong support system at nd for daca students, which we are thankful for. we work hard so that one day we will be able to give the university as much as it has given us. Thank you, notre dame, for fighting for our futures. 
Maria A. Munoz-Robles 
pasquerilla west       freshman
         Brizzia G. Munoz-Robles 
howard       freshman march 25 



The observer | THURSDAY, MARCH 26, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
scene writer 

perhaps the most unexpected event of this year’s sXsw festival was the comeback of T-pain, who was the surprise headliner at the Fader Fort the night of march 
20. The artist, born Faheem rasheed najm, performed an incredible 42-song set that drew on his massive cat­alog of hits, from solo records “buy u a drank (shawty snappin’)” and “can’t believe it,” to guest appearances on “good life” and “got money.” backed by a fantas­tic live band and background singers who doubled as enthusiastic dancers, his set affirmed that we’re in the middle of the T-painaissance. 
while T-pain’s early singles like “i’m sprung” and “i’m ’n luv (wit a stripper)” were largely critically de­rided, he went on to score 15 Top-10 singles between 2006 and 2011, including three number ones. while he was inescapable on mainstream radio in the mid-to­late-2000s, he hasn’t placed a song in the Top 40 since “5 o’clock” reached number 10 in 2011. 
T-pain’s influence stretches farther than just a num­ber of radio hits, however. his music pioneered the use of auto-Tune to create chilly, robotic vocals. although T-pain wasn’t the first mainstream artist to use the pitch-correction software as a stylistic choice — cher’s 1998 hit “believe” started the trend — he was responsi­ble for popularizing its use in pop music. his signature 
By MARC DRAKE 
scene writer 

Though british folk singer-songwriter laura marling ended her last album, “once i was an eagle,” with the words, “Thank you naïveté for failing me again,” her new album indicates a serious growth in maturity. shedding this naïveté that once plagued her, marling makes the next step in her musical evolution on an album, “short movie,” that trades the soft ring of an acoustic guitar for a full band that backs marling on electric guitar. 
The album comes after a two-year hiatus from music, in which marling left her home in london and moved to los angeles. during this period, marling experimented with various other artistic media and questioned her commitment to music. she even went so far as to anony­mously apply to poetry programs, yet tasted rejection, learning for the first time what loneliness truly felt like. 
“you feel unwatched in la, which is nice, but then that becomes not nice all of the sudden,” marling describes in an interview with The guardian. “you feel unlooked­after. even the relentless sun. it feels like even god isn’t looking after you. i’m not actually religious, but he’s not even putting the protection of clouds above your head. you start feeling really exposed.” MARY McGRAW | The Observer auto-Tune warble began a trend that not even Jay Z, who name-dropped T-pain on his anti-auto-Tune track “d.o.a.,” could stop. 
over the past half-decade, the line between rap and r&b has become increasingly blurred, largely due to the influence of T-pain. T-pain inspired Kanye west to sing with extensive auto-Tune on his 2008’s “808s & heartbreak,” a minimalist record that utilized pitch correction to evoke a distorted, heartbroken sound. “808s” in turn influenced an entire wave of rappers, with drake at the forefront, who weren’t afraid to sing. The most recent wave of T-pain acolytes includes Ty dolla $ign, chief Keef and young Thug, who are as much vocalists as they are rappers and regularly ex­periment with their voices as instruments. 
in addition to the critical reevaluation of his in­fluence, T-pain has slowly returned to the limelight over the past year. The resurgence began in earnest in February of last year, when he released a remix of lorde’s “royals.” The original song was an anthem for middle-class teenagers who felt alienated by material­istic pop songs but aimed its criticism at signifiers of rap music. on the remix, T-pain and young cash sing about how their consumerism is a symbol of having es­caped poverty and being able to support their families and their communities. it's a brilliant defense and rec­lamation of the song for rap music. 
Then, in october of last year T-pain performed for 
The album begins in typical marling fashion with “warrior,” a track with quiet, almost secondary instru­mentation — with marling expressing her disinterest in a would-be lover. similar to other albums, a discussion of relationships is present at least in passing on almost all songs on the album. however, the album takes a quick turn with the drum driven track “False hope.” marling’s two-year hiatus shines through in this track as she asks listeners, “is it still okay if i don’t know how to be alone?” 
Questions related to loneliness and identity are at the heart of “short movie.” lyrically, the album represents a maturation for the 25-year-old songwriter. after re­cording her first album at age 16, marling has grown up under the watchful eye of her fans. “short movie” repre­sents a return to young adulthood, and the album allows marling to suspend her premature preoccupation with the worries of adulthood and comfortably exist within her own skin at her own age. 
Thematically, the album explores some issues that old fans will be familiar with: discussions of heartbreak and restlessness still color “short movie.” however, this album is markedly different from previous albums by the british folk singer. her departure from the soaring vocals layered over simple acoustic guitar melodies in exchange for more complex music arrangements is the npr’s Tiny desk concert series, singing sans auto-Tune. “i know everybody’s wondering where the auto-Tune is gonna come from,” he joked to the crowd of public radio staffers beforehand. “it’s okay, i’ve got it in my pocket.” when he started singing a stripped-down version of “buy u a drank,” though, his soulful natural voice was on full display. T-pain never used auto-Tune as a crutch; his real voice is gorgeous. The npr perfor­mance was a reminder of just how talented he is. 
For T-pain, the challenge now is building on this mo­mentum. he’s slated to release a new mixtape, “The iron way,” this Friday, and he’s working on his next stu­dio album, “stoicville: The phoenix,” which is due out sometime in 2015. whether these projects will elevate T-pain to his mid-2000s level of success is anyone’s guess. 
in an npr interview last year, T-pain discussed the period of depression he experienced after the sound he created was treated as a joke and he was dismissed as talentless. “i’m not gonna change my style because other people are starting to overuse it,” he said. “i’m not gonna do that so i'm gonna keep pushing. i’m gonna do what i believe in.” he already changed the sound of rap and r&b once, but here’s hoping that the T-painaissance continues and that T-pain keeps doing what he believes in for a long time to come. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at mmunhall@nd.edu 
most noticeable change, but the content of the album also shows a substantial change. on songs like “easy,” marling weighs the benefits of being alone and its impor­tance for self-growth, as well as aging. although the songs are less congruent than her previous album that unfold as almost one continuous track, “short movie” features some connected moments. “gurdjieff’s daughter” and “divine” unfold as if they are two halves of the same song. bright guitar riffs that appear on “walk alone” and the title track connect the beginning and the end of the album. both confessional and cryptic, marling is able to paint a story while still remaining tight-lipped about the particulars of her life. The result is lyrics that are unques­tionably marling but also act as an invitation to share in her struggles. 
listeners familiar with her previous work may be dis­appointed by this release — admittedly, i was initially dissatisfied with the titular single when it was released. however, the album certainly has grown on me, and it appears to be a balanced step forward: adventurous enough to garner attention and keep former listeners in­terested but similar enough to her previous work to sat­isfy those apprehensive to change. 
Contact Marc Drake at mdrake@nd.edu 



The observer | THURSDAY, MARCH 26, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By TOMMY ANDERSON 
scene writer 

disney has found and perfected its niche for true sto­ry lines about athletes as underdogs coming out on top, and “mcFarland, usa” is just that. 
based on a true story that began in 1987, “mcFarland” relives the tale of a high school teacher, Jim white, played by Kevin costner, who finds himself as the head of an athletic department in central california. To say that his position is less-than-desirable is an understate­ment, as the film follows the fish-out-of-water caucasian coach as he tries to settle into a latino community. of course, disney has sharpened all the jagged edges, es­pecially when dealing with race relations. i expected watered down one-liners intended to allow viewers to sit back in their seats instead of worrying about the play of racism, but to my surprise, the film scrutinizes sev­eral harsh realities. it is fair to say that disney has mas­tered meshing societal reality fiction with sports drama with “mcFarland, usa.” 
if you find yourself getting a bit bored during the film, realize that the initial slow pace of the movie is intentional. The viewer gets to sympathize with the group of mexican teenagers, as they spend every sun­rise and sunset bent over in a field, picking lettuce. but soon, cultures collide, and the momentum picks up, highlighted by a motivational training sequence. From an outsider’s view, the film is yet another one of disney’s formulaic melodramas. That is because from the begin­ning, we know that the bad boys are going to learn their lesson, that the coach will change himself and the kids, and the town in which they live will laugh at the crazy idea until it works. in defense of disney’s cinema em­pire, if the formula is working so well, there’s no reason to change it. but still, “mcFarland” delivers far more than expected. 
There is a moment when costner gets a shot at giving a pre-race motivational speech, but it’s small in scope and wonderfully centered on what the boys have ac­complished rather than some farfetched shot at chang­ing the world. costner is never hailed to the viewers as representing some godsend hero for these boys, as he shouldn’t be, but the boys recognize such strong, moral values themselves throughout the film and white’s pur­pose is simply a vehicle to discovering those. 
The film is extremely likable, and the story’s roots in the real world lend credence to the inspirational mes­sage and underdog-overcoming-obstacles story. There is no doubt that disney ventures very little from their formulaic underdog sports movie, but “mcFarland” is more than just a story about a bunch of runners. The film offers the opportunity to be touched and inspired by the little guy stuck in the grips of poverty. most of the film is exposition about the characters and more specif­ically about how difficult their lives are. if nothing else, “mcFarland” will leave you with an appreciation for their lifestyle and sympathy for what being stuck in the underbelly of the country is like. more impressively, the film details how success came out of what little they had and how it took an outsider to realize their potential. 
This is a feel-good movie that is expertly directed by niki caro, who has delivered some solid films in the past (“north country” and “whale rider”). caro hails as one of the many recent uprising female directors with a strong presence in hollywood and someone whose work i will be subscribing to in the future. 
Contact Tommy Anderson at tander18@nd.edu 
WEEKEND EVENTS CALENDAR 
THURSDAY 

Dante Lecture  Film: ‘Inherent Vice’  Sam Hunt Concert  
The italian studies program, in  come to dpac to watch the 2014  legends night club is hosting  
conjunction with the william and  film “inherent vice.” directed by  country night, bringing up-and- 
Katherine devers program in dante  paul Thomas anderson, the film stars  =coming country stars sam hunt  
studies, will celebrate dante’s 750th  Joaquin phoenix, reese witherspoon  and michael ray for an intimate con- 
birthday with a lecture on his more mi- and owen wilson, among others,  cert. a former college football player,  
nor works. This is the second session  and takes place in 1970 los angeles.  hunt is now a singer-songwriter with  
out of eight and will take place in the  The film screens at 6:30 p.m. in the  an album and upcoming tour. The  
special collections of the hesburgh  browning cinema. Tickets range  concert begins at 10 p.m., and en- 
library from 4:30 p.m. - 6 p.m.  from $4 - $7.  trance is free with a student i.d.  

FRIDAY 

SATURDAY 

SUNDAY 

ND Women’s Tennis 
come out to support the irish women’s tennis team as it takes on marquette. The matches will take place at courtney Tennis center, so fans will be able to enjoy the south bend spring weather. matches will begin at 12 p.m., and admission is free. 
MARY McGRAW | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Third jerseys need special art 

Zach Klonsinski 
sports editor 
There’s a special mystique around sports uniforms but, sadly, sometimes it’s pushed too far. 
That’s what happened to my favorite nhl team, the colorado avalanche, when it announced the organization is getting rid of its alternate home sweater. originally, i was disappointed, but after reflecting more on the deci­sion, i’ve realized it’s time to hang them up for good. 
over the last few seasons, the team has worn its third jerseys more and more, to the point where seeing the players skate out donning them just didn’t arouse any sort of special feeling in me anymore. 
really, the jerseys were no longer special. That can’t happen. 
even though a team wears its home jersey for almost ev­ery game, that uniform is still sacred. The green and gold up at lambeau Field never gets old, for example, or the bur­gundy and blue the avs regu­larly wear at pepsi center. 
i can even respect the jer­seys of teams i cheer for to lose every game. Though i don’t like the blackhawks, i have to admit the red coming out of the tunnel at united center every night gives me goose bumps. same with the yankees — there’s a certain amount of adrenaline that bubbles up in me seeing the pinstripes. i love to hate them. humans are visual creatures, and teams’ histo­ries are tied to jerseys, which keeps them special. 
The exact origin of the third jersey is hard to pinpoint. The boston bruins had an alternate home jersey as far back as the 1950s, though i’m far from certain those were the first. regardless, what the third jersey has become today is nothing more than a marketing ploy, a gimmicky cash grab in most cases. some team executives decide they want to freshen up their pockets, and one of the easi­est ways to do this is through merchandise sales. you can’t increase the number of seats in an arena, but you sure can increase the number of differ­ent team apparel worn inside. how do you get people buy­ing more merchandise? you introduce a new jersey. how do you get people to continue buying that jersey? 
you wear it. a lot. 
yet instead of reminding me how much i want that new jersey, seeing it all the time reminds me instead how much i don’t. There’s nothing special about a third jersey except its uniqueness. 
again with the blackhawks: There is a huge craze over the team’s green alternate jersey. when i saw them on the road in phoenix over spring break, there were many, many green jerseys mixed in with the tra­ditional red sweaters. 
yet the blackhawks only wear those jerseys once a year, in warmups before their st. patrick’s day home game. 
yes, you read that right: They’ve created a national phenomenon with jerseys they don’t even play an ac­tual game in. chicago sports fans — bandwagon fans though they are — love the green uniforms, but credit the blackhawks for keeping it that way by not overexpos­ing them. That is an alter­nate sweater tradition i can respect. 
another one is the using the alternates as sunday home uniforms in baseball. The sport’s place in american history is really all it has left for the average sports fan, but it’s hard to think of a more american summer sunday afternoon than sitting in the sun watching a ballgame. For a while the milwaukee brewers rode this nostalgia with their throwback alter­nates, uniforms they would never wear except on sunday home games. 
more important than tradi­tion, however, is the reality that a third jersey needs to inspire the team wearing it. if it were up to me, i would never tell a team when it was wearing the alternate jersey. instead, i’d simply have the training staff hang them up in the locker room so they are waiting when the players enter. There should be a mo­ment of surprise or shock on their face and then a sudden rush of adrenaline because the team knows something special is about to happen in those jerseys. 
simply put, there was no shock or awe from colorado’s third jerseys anymore, at least not from this fan’s point of view and apparently not from the team’s either. instead of the “mona lisa,” the jersey was a $10 print from iKea. 
The beauty and adoration of the sweater had been lost. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
OLYMPICS 

Rio de Janeiro reveals Olympic golf course 
Associated Press 

rio de Janeiro — rio de Janeiro’s mayor unveiled the city’s controversial olympic golf course on wednesday and laid out an ardent defense of a project that has been criti­cized by environmental activ­ists and is at the center of legal wranglings. 
The course, part of which has been carved out of a nature re­serve, had been kept strictly under wraps during a construc­tion phase that is nearly com­plete after more than a year’s work. 
gently rolling hills covered with lush grass that looked like it would be at home in scotland surrounded small islands of native plants. sprinklers were hard at work under a harsh midday sun during the visit by news media. 
The bucolic setting has been embroiled in a controversy stretching back years that has overshadowed what was meant to mark golf’s triumphant re­turn to the olympics after a 112­year absence. 
prosecutors have repeat­edly requested for work on the course to be halted over alleged irregularities in environmental impact studies, though a judge rejected the latest demand late Tuesday night. in a sepa­rate case, another prosecutor is weighing whether to bring charges against mayor eduardo paes for allegedly granting con­cessions to developers. still other questions persist about the ownership of the land. 
paes dismissed the allega­tions, insisting in an agitated, two-hour-long presentation that the course has been built in strict accordance with the law. 
“it’s hogwash, it’s a lie ... it’s a fallacy,” paes said, as he deliv­ered a barrage of facts, figures, photos and images of docu­ments about the golf course. “lies cannot prevail.” 
he pledged total transpar­ency, with brazil in the midst of an investigation into a massive corruption scheme at the state-run oil giant, petrobras, which has rocked the country with near-daily revelations. 
“rio city hall and i personally are very conscious that we are going to have to explain and re-explain (things) and prove ourselves more than we would have to if we were staging the london olympics, for exam­ple,” he said. 
paes also insisted that while some land from the nature re­serve was bulldozed to make way for the course’s grassy knolls, because the lion’s share of the terrain used to be a sand quarry, the course has actually increased the amount of native plant life in the area. 
“does this look like an en­vironmental crime?” he ex­claimed, arms akimbo, as he led reporters over the course’s spongy grass. earlier, paes projected aerial photos from the 1980s apparently showing what’s now the golf course dot­ted with concrete structures. 
environmentalists contend that hardy subtropical vegeta­tion had since retaken the area and that before the bulldozers descended it had become home to several endangered species, including species of butterflies and frogs. 
MLB | meTs 7, yanKees 2 

Mets outlast Yankees as spring training nears end 
Associated Press 
Tampa, Fla. — masahiro Tanaka is staying away from one pitch and working on another. 

Tanaka allowed three runs and four hits while pitch­ing into the fifth inning wednesday for the new york yankees in a 7-2 loss to the ri­val mets. 
The Japanese ace is not us­ing his higher speed four-seam fastball and instead is focusing on a slower two-seam sinker. 
“a lot of the four-seamers had been hit hard last year,” Tanaka said through a trans­lator. “i’m not a pitcher that throws 95 every single pitch.” 

WANTED 

TRIPLE DOMER NEEDS NANNY­-SUMMER ONLY, P/T, or F/T: ND family needs an energetic, outdoor-loving, reliable gal to travel to beautiful Jackson Hole WY from end of May/ early June to early August as our live-in nanny. Email: info@greymattersintl. com 
yankees manager Joe girardi said Tanaka is trying to improve his game. 
“i think there’s room for both,” girardi said. “sometimes you get some quick outs with sinkers. There’s more movement.” 
after allowing an unearned run in the first, Tanaka gave up a solo homer to John mayberry, Jr. in the fourth The third run charged to Tanaka came when struggling closer candidate dellin betances gave up Juan lagares’ two-run shot during the fifth. 
Tanaka struck out seven and walked one in 4 2-3 in­nings. The yankees’ expected opening-day starter, against Toronto on april 6, was com­ing off two starts where the he had given up two hits over 5 2-3 shutout innings. 
“i think i was able to get into the game a little bit more, the intensity of the game,” Tanaka said. 
alex rodriguez grounded a single to left in three at-bats as the designated hitter for the yankees, and is hitting .290 (9 for 31). 
new york general manager brian cashman said before the game that rodriguez has pushed himself into full-time dh consideration. a-rod, who turns 40 in July, missed last season serving a drug suspension. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FOOSBALL: Looking for high level players for foos. 574-257-4441 leave msg 
Here we stand,Worlds apart, Hearts broken in two, two, two, Sleepless nights, Losing ground, I’m reaching for you, you, you, Feelin’ that it’s gone, Can’t change your mind, If we can’t go on, To survive the tide, Love divides, Someday love will find you, Break those chains that bind you, One night will remind you, How we touched, And went our separate ways, If he ever hurts you, True love won’t desert you, You know I still love you, Though we touched, And went our separate ways, Troubled times, Caught between con­fusions and pain, pain, pain, Distant eyes, Promises we made were in vain, In vain, vain, If you must go, I wish you love, You’ll never walk alone! 


SMC GOLF 

Saint Mary’s to hit links over weekend in Illinois 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 
saint mary’s is set to com­pete in the fourth annual wusTl spring invitational at the gateway national golf links in madison, illinois, on saturday and sunday. 
Teams the belles will meet at the tournament include host no. 3 washington university in st. louis, depauw, huntingdon, wittenburg, central and fellow miaa op­ponent olivet. 
“heading into the wusTl tournament, i expect to see good efforts from our team,” belles head coach Kim moore said. “The last two weeks of practice have been very good, but it has been a challenge only being able to be outside twice. The unexpected spring snowstorm a couple days ago really put a damper on our practice plans. however, we still work hard during our practice sessions, regardless of the circumstances, so i expect nothing but a good showing.” 

The belles were last in ac­tion two weekends ago in the Jekyll island collegiate invite in Jekyll island, georgia, where they finished 15th. sophomore courtney carlson led the belles in the opening round with an 85, senior Janice heffernan had the best score on the team, 82, saturday, and junior Katie Zelinski led the team with a final round of 79 on sunday. 
“as a coach, i am hoping all of my players step up and play to their best potential every tournament,” moore said. “i have really been seeing some good things out of our fresh­man players, Kaitlyn cartone, Kelsey conkright and lydia lorenc, so i’m really looking forward to seeing how they step up this weekend. i also feel that our junior player, Katie Zielinski, can continue where she left off in [georgia] and shoot another great score.” 
The host school of the event, washington university in st. louis, is coming off a second-place finish at the Joe duncan rhodes invitational, which took place last weekend. Freshman erin drolet shot a 74 for the bears on the second day of the event to lead division iii’s third-ranked team. 
“every time we play in a tournament with [washington university in st. louis], i ex­pect them to be on top of their game and play the way a no. 3-ranked team in the nation should,” moore said. “i expect this tournament to be no dif­ferent, especially since this is an event they are hosting and will be played on a course they are very familiar with. 
“i really look forward to hav­ing our team play in such a quality tournament against some good quality teams. The competition for this event will be very good, and i am excited to have our team play with these quality of players.” 
The belles get underway in madison, illinois, on saturday evening with a shotgun start. 
Contact Michael Ivey at mivey@hcc-nd.edu 

SMC TENNIS | indiana wesleyan 9, smc 0 
indiana wesleyan silences belles 
By DAISY COSTELLO 
sports writer 
saint mary’s dropped a 9-0 home decision to naia-foe no. 14 indiana wesleyan on wednesday. 
while the wildcats (15-3, 7-1 crossroads) took every pos­sible set in the match, the belles (6-7, 1-1 miaa) got a strong per­formance out of junior andrea Fetters, who hung with wildcats junior Katie wilson at no. 1 sin­gles; Fetters lost 7-5, 6-3 to the 10th-ranked player in naia. on the doubles side, junior margaret Faller and freshman maddie minaudo lost 8-5 at no. 3 doubles, which was the closest result for the belles in the doubles flights. 
The belles head straight back to action saturday in battle creek, michigan, when they take on struggling olivet in a return to conference play. 
The comets (2-11, 0-2 miaa) are losers of six straight and have not come away with a win since Feb. 28 against concordia. 
heading into the belles’ re­turn to conference play, head coach dale campbell said senior leadership will play an integral role to the belles’ performance saturday. 
“i think it is significant when your leaders show great effort — who won 6-0, 6-0 in her match against alma this past week­end — was honored as the saint mary’s student athlete of the week following the team victory. 
campbell said singles play will be a key in the matchup against olivet. The comets have not been able to find their stroke in the singles game recently, dropping five of six matches in a recent loss to adrian. campbell said ability and grit in singles matches is a quality the top teams have. 
“That toughness in singles play ... is one of the qualities of great teams,” campbell said. 
campbell said he also sees the doubles matches as an area to improve and feels as though his team has a diverse skill set that can help them grab victories. 
“each player has differ­ent things to offer [the] team,” campbell said. “so we are just trying to see if that can equate overall to more doubles wins.” 
while the belles play a strug­gling opponent saturday, campbell said his team has to put in their best effort no matter what. 
“we want to play the best we can, no matter how the opponent is doing,” campbell said. 
The belles look to get ahead of .500 in conference play saturday when they head to battle creek, 


paid adverTisemenT 

and determination,” campbell michigan, to take on olivet. First said. serves are slated for 1 p.m. 
leadership for the belles has most recently come from senior Contact Daisy Costello at captain Jackie Kjolhede. Kjolhede mcostel4@nd.edu 
NBA | rocKeTs 95, pelicans 93 
Howard returns as Rockets win 
Associated Press 
new orleans — James harden had 25 points and 10 assists, dwight howard had seven rebounds and a block on anthony davis in his return from a two-month absence, and the houston rockets handed new orleans its fourth straight loss with a 95-93 vic­tory on wednesday night. 
davis had 24 points and 14 rebounds for the pelicans, but uncharacteristically missed eight free throws, including one that could have pulled new orleans to 94-93 with 7 seconds left. The pelicans still had a chance to try for a tying 3-pointer after harden missed a free throw with 3.3 seconds left, but corey brewer intentionally fouled eric gordon on the inbounds pass to force free throws. gordon made the first and purposely missed the second in hopes for a tying putback that never materialized. 
Trevor ariza had 22 points, nine rebounds and three steals, and donatas montiejunas scored 21 for houston, which overcame a 17-point first-half deficit. 
Tyreke evans scored 28 points for new orleans in his return from a sprained ankle that had sidelined him for one game. Quincy pondexter added 10 points, but new orleans missed 12 free throws in a loss that prevented them from gaining any ground on oklahoma city for the final playoff spot in the western conference. 
The pelicans entered the night 3 1/2 games behind the Thunder, who were at san antonio on wednesday night. 
after the game, davis came back on the court and worked on free throws for about 10 minutes. 



ND SOFTBALL | nd 9, ipFw 0 

Pitchers combine for one-hit gem 
Observer Staff Report 
For the second straight outing, notre dame pitch­ers threw a one-hitter, as the irish, winners of six straight, defeated lowly ipFw, 9-0, in five innings wednesday eve­ning at melissa cook stadium. 
on the heels of sophomore rachel nasland’s one-hitter sunday against georgia Tech, a pair of irish pitchers com­bined to achieve the same feat last night, with junior allie rhodes going four innings and freshman Katie beriont finish­ing the final frame to down the mastodons (0-24, 0-3 summit). 
The irish (20-11, 4-5 acc) tallied multiple runs in the each inning of the game, bat­ting just four times yet scor­ing nine times on 12 hits. sophomore left fielder Karley wester and senior center fielder emilee Koerner led off the home half of the first with a pair of singles and both scored on rbi groundouts – one by senior third baseman Katey haus and the other by junior first baseman micaela arizmendi — to take a 2-0 lead through one inning of play. 
notre dame’s bats stayed lively in the second frame as the irish plated three runs to stretch their advantage to 5-0. Freshman shortstop sara white led off the inning with her first career home run before senior second base­man Jenna simon and sopho­more designated player dana bouquet each notched infield singles, with simon advancing to third on bouquet’s hit. with runners on the corners, ju­nior right fielder megan sorlie singled up the middle to score simon and push the irish lead to 4-0. when the lineup rolled back around to the top of the order, mastodons sophomore Kaitlyn biere hit wester with a pitch, loading the bags for Koerner, who notched a sac­rifice fly to score bouquet and put notre dame up five. 
For the third straight inning, rhodes retired the mastodon hitters one-two-three in the top half of the frame, and the irish bats came alive in the latter half. arizmendi singled to right to get the offense un­derway before senior catcher cassidy whidden belted a home run to left field to take notre dame’s lead to 7-0. 
The mastodons spoiled rhodes’s perfect-game bid in the fourth inning when junior shortstop emily olszewski hit a one-out single through the left side of the irish defense. rhodes was unfazed, though, and sent the next two batters down to end the inning. 
notre dame stretched its lead even further in the bot­tom of the fourth with a pair of rbi singles. with one out, Koerner doubled to get her­self in scoring position be­fore sophomore pinch hitter Kimmy sullivan connected on a two-out rbi single to score Koerner and made the lead 8-0. The scoring was com­pleted for the day when junior catcher casey africano plated sullivan with a single through the left side. 
beriont came on in the top of the fifth and sent a trio of mastodons down to complete the mercy-rule, five-inning victory. 
TRACK & FIELD 

Notre Dame treks to Texas to open outdoor season 
By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports writer 

as the weather transi­tions from wintry to warm, the irish return to the track, kicking off their out­door season with the Texas relays in austin, Texas, and the bobcat invitational at Texas state in san marcos, Texas, this week. 
The Texas relays began wednesday with the wom­en’s heptathlon and men’s decathlon. senior carly loeffel and junior brent swanberg competed for the irish in the events. 
swanberg finished the day in 19th out of 22 com­petitors after five events, and loeffel is eighth of 19 after four events. both will conclude their final events today. 
loeffel, who deferred the indoor season so she could have a full indoor and out­door season next year in her fifth year, is making her return to the track this weekend. 
“carly has been training the whole fall and winter; she’s been ready to go,” irish head coach alan Turner said. “we think she’ll be a national qualifier in 2015 for us.” 
also making a return to the track this weekend after breaking her foot at the 2014 outdoor championships is senior Kaila barber. barber will waste no time getting acclimated, running indi­vidually in the 400-meter hurdles while also listed in as many as three relay events. 
like the razorback invitational during the indoor season, the Texas relays will host some of the nation’s top programs 
— Texas a&m and Florida are ranked first and sec­ond respectively in both the men’s and women’s rank­ings, while no. 5/3 Texas, no. 10/13 Texas Tech and no. 13/10 baylor round out the quintet of top-15 teams on both sides. 
“it’s going to be a very good test for us,” Turner said. “it isn’t anything new for our guys now — they’ve faced these top teams be­fore, and i think we’ll have a pretty good showing.” 
while the focus is on sprints and team events at the Texas relays, field events will feature a few other athletes, including senior thrower dominick padovano, whose specialty, the discus, is only an out­door event. 
Top irish competitors in other field events will be compete about half an hour away at the bobcat invitational. notre dame will send 18 athletes to san marcos. 
as the irish get the out­door season underway, Turner said he has high hopes for both the men’s and women’s teams. 
“i think our women’s team is going to be even stronger [with the return of loeffel and barber],” he said. “They’re both experi­enced and focused on what they’re doing, so they just make our team so much better for when we get to acc outdoors and regional meets. 
“The men’s team ended up being banged up this year, and we didn’t have the indoor season we wanted to. we rested them up, they healed up, and we’ll be a much stronger team” 
some returners to the men’s side include ju­nior Timothy ball in the 5,000-meter run, junior aaron dunn in the 400-me­ter hurdles and sophomore Jacob dumford in the 800­and 1,500-meter runs. after enduring multiple injuries that have sidelined him thus far in his collegiate career, sophomore andrew helmin will make his first appearance in the 110-me­ter hurdles later this season. Turner said the addition of these athletes should dra­matically improve irish team scores in the outdoor season. 
“we’re ready to get out­side and compete,” Turner said. “since indoor sea­son, with the sprints group, we’ve only been outside one day. getting out there in some 70-degree weather will serve us very well.” 
The Texas relays, which began yesterday, will con­tinue through saturday in austin, Texas. The bobcat invitational begins Thursday in san marcos, Texas, and will also end saturday. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 


MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
nd heads to iowa for championships 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame will embark on its final and biggest test of the season over the next three days, with three individual swimmers, one diver and a pair of relay teams set to com­pete at the ncaa champion­ships in iowa city, iowa. 
The irish — who finished with a 6-6 mark in dual meets this year — will send a pair of all-americans into the pool, as seniors Zachary stephens and Jonathan williamson re­turn to the championships for the third consecutive year. 
stephens qualified for the 200-yard individual medley with a time of 1:44.26, the 100­yard breaststroke with a seed time of 52.54 and the 200-yard breaststroke with a time of 1:55.49. 
his teammate williamson qualified for a pair of events, the 100- and 200-yard butter­fly, with qualifying times of 
47.48 and 1:43.57, respectively. 
last year, stephens finished 25th in the 100 breaststroke, while he was also a part of the 400-yard freestyle relay team that placed 21st. williamson took home a 24th-place finish in the 200 fly, while he was a part of the 800-yard freestyle relay team that finished 19th. 
sophomore Tom anderson was the only other irish indi­vidual to qualify for the cham­pionship and will be making his first trip as an individual swimmer; he was a part of a pair of relay teams last year. 
anderson will be competing in a trio of individual events 
—
 the 200-yard backstroke, the 400-yard individual med­ley and the 500-yard freestyle 

—
 in iowa city and qualified automatically for the 400 im at the last-chance meet three weeks ago. 


a quartet of swimmers — sophomores Trent Jackson and reed Fujan and fresh­men benjamin Jany and Justin plaschka — will travel as relay-only swimmers to compete in the 200-yard medley relay and 800-yard freestyle relay. 
sophomore Joseph coumos will also make the trip to iowa as a qualifier in the diving events. coumos finished in a qualifying position in the 3-meter dive at the Zone c meet earlier this month and will also be eligible to dive in the 1-meter and platform events. it marks the second trip to the championships for coumos, who also competed at the ncaas as a freshman. 
The ncaa champion­ships get underway today in iowa city and run through saturday. 

ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE | nd 18, marQueTTe 8 
Fortunato, Sexton lead Irish in rout of Marquette 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 

no. 17 notre dame de­feated marquette, 18-8, in milwaukee on wednesday for its third win in a row, build­ing momentum going into a matchup with no. 3 north carolina on sunday at arlotta stadium. 
irish head coach christine halfpenny said she was pleased with her team’s per­formance. notre dame’s at­tack unit has now scored at least 13 points in each of its last three games, including saturday’s win over no. 18 ohio state. 
“we’re really, really happy that we came out here and stuck to doing what we do and kept it simple,” halfpenny said. “we obviously finished it the way we wanted to. The 10-goal differential is huge — we haven’t done that all sea­son, so we’re really excited about that. The offense has really settled into their roles. our juniors and sophomores, who are all the low attackers, have really found their groove and found confidence.” 
sophomore attack cortney Fortunato and junior attack rachel sexton each tallied five goals for the irish (6-4, 1-2 acc), marking the first time since Feb. 15, 2008, that two different notre dame players have scored at least five goals in one game. 
“[Fortunato and sexton] both did a really good job quarterbacking down there,” halfpenny said. “They took advantage of what was given to them, and when they did get those double teams, they were effective in moving the ball out of them. Then they were executing and shoot­ing well when they got down there and just did a great job of getting the ball in the back of the net.” 
halfpenny also praised sophomore midfielder casey pearsall for her production in the game. 
“There hasn’t been much talk about casey pearsall, but her numbers — four points, eight draw controls, three caused turnovers and three ground balls — is a tremen­dous day for a sophomore,” halfpenny said. 
despite the team’s recent success, halfpenny said the irish need to be more care­ful in avoiding turnovers in upcoming games and win­ning more fights for ground balls. notre dame commit­ted 18 turnovers against the golden eagles and picked up the same number of ground balls as marquette (4-6, 0-0 big east) at 13. 
“as excited as we are about the win … we want to see our transitions cleaned up a little bit,” halfpenny said. “we feel like we should be winning the ground ball category with the talent we have. we can’t af­ford those unforced errors, so we need to work on ball security.” 
north carolina (8-2, 2-1) will offer a major challenge for the irish, who are 1-4 against ranked teams so far this season. 
“[The Tar heels] have multiple threats and a high pressure style that can rush your offense at times,” halfpenny said. “They have incredible speed from top to bottom and a lot of players that really are dynamic. They also have consistent coach­ing from Jenny [levy] and her staff, and obviously, winning a national championship two years ago really helps them with that confidence.” 
halfpenny said she was confident her team could take down the Tar heels, as long as it limits turnovers, wins the draw and goes after ground balls. 
“we have to limit the un­forced errors because north carolina will take advantage of any mistakes we make. we’re gonna have to really focus on draw control, and ground balls will be really important,” halfpenny said. “i like the way we match up — our defense matches up well with their offense. i really like the 1-v-1 matchups we have against them, so we’ll focus on that to limit the offensive talent that they have.” 
intangibles would also be a factor in the game, said halfpenny. 
“our team really has a strong identity, and we’ve built confidence, and we love playing at home, so we’re ready for the acc schedule we have coming up,” she said. 
north carolina visits notre dame at arlotta stadium on sunday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 




paid adverTisemenT 




Football 
conTinued From page 20 
injured group. “The guys that were out today will be back in short order.”
 Position battles 
For now, junior durham smythe holds the starting spot at tight end, Kelly said, looking to follow in the footsteps of the now-departed ben Koyack. 
smythe is being pushed by sophomore Tyler luatua, who is slotted as the backup, as well as sophomore nic weishar and graduate student chase hounshell, who are vying for the third spot this spring. 
“i think durham smythe is someone that we feel really con­fident as a pass-catcher in our offense,” Kelly said. “it’s been really more about consistency in the in-line blocking for him. Tyler luatua gives us that sec­ond tight end that kind of has a little bit more strength and size, [but] has not established him­self as the type of pass-catcher as durham.” 
hounshell joins the fold in his final year of eligibility after spending four injury-riddled years on the defensive line. 
“you know he wants to go out and attack like he’s a defensive lineman,” Kelly said. “but there needs to be a little more patience there.” 
The other significant battle taking place is at left guard be­cause graduate student nick martin has moved back to center after matt hegarty, who started the final 10 games last year at cen­ter, announced he will play his fifth year elsewhere. The compe­tition pits sophomores alex bars and Quenton nelson against each other and is one that Kelly said is too tough to call at this point. 


“Quenton nelson is an ex­tremely explosive, strong [player] and can overwhelm a defender,” Kelly said. “alex bars is extreme­ly efficient and technically so far above the normal redshirt freshman.” 
Quarterback philosophy changing 
although coy on who has the edge at quarterback, Kelly did describe what new offensive coordinator and quarterbacks coach mike sanford brings that is different from the past two quar­terbacks coaches, chuck martin and matt laFleur. martin em­phasized protection, and laFleur 
paid adverTisemenT 

focused on concepts, while sanford is spending more time on fundamentals, Kelly said. 
“There is that piece that was missing that is really being coached, and we’re seeing the development of some of the fun­damentals that maybe weren’t emphasized the way i liked,” Kelly said. 
New face at holder 
after well-documented, costly struggles at the holder posi­tion last year with senior hunter smith and junior malik Zaire, Kelly said someone new is getting a shot at the position this spring. 
“our focus [on special teams] has been on a lot of technique work, really working a lot on de­veloping our holder, [sophomore] deshone Kizer,” Kelly said. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 
BASEBALL | nd 8, wesTern michigan 3 
Lidge powers Irish over Broncos 
By ISAAC LORTON 
senior sports writer 
The irish put down western michigan, 8-3, at Frank eck stadium on wednesday night in a one-off game scheduled Tuesday. 
notre dame (16-7, 3-6 acc) was paced by sophomore catcher ryan lidge, who went 4-for-4 with two doubles, three runs and an rbi. 
“no matter what game it is, it’s always nice to come through in those situations,” lidge said. “i don’t change my approach or any­thing, but in those situations, i kind of embrace it a little more … do anything to help the team win.” 
western michigan (8-12, 1-2 mac) got close to making it a game with bases loaded in the sixth inning, but the irish were able to prevent any comeback and added three insurance runs in the bottom of the seventh inning to take a comfortable 8-2 lead. 
“it makes it more comfortable at the end and just kind of gives you a little breathing room,” irish head coach mik aoki said. “had that been a three-run game still and you open with the seeing-eye base hit and the error [in the ninth], you’ve got a little tighten up situa­tion. it was important for us to get some separation.” 
The seventh-inning scoring was sparked by lidge. he hit a ground-rule double to get runners on second and third, and western michigan intentionally walked freshman pinch hitter brandon bielak. after walking bielak, the broncos faced junior center fielder Kyle richardson, who hit a line drive back up the middle to score two runs for his second and third rbis of the night. Junior first base­man Zak Kutsulis capped off the seventh inning with an rbi bunt single to make the game 8-2. 
lidge said it was important to hold off the charging broncos and get the win. 
“nonconference games are just as important,” lidge said. “They still go on your record. at the end of the day, it’s a loss or a win, and i don’t think we changed our atti­tudes at all with these games. we keep the respect for every single team.” 
The broncos cycled through seven pitchersonthenight, includ­ing four in the first four innings, while notre dame used three. sophomore ryan smoyer got the start and pitched 5 1/3 innings, giving up two earned runs and striking out three, and sophomore scott Tully pitched notre dame out of some crucial situations in relief. Freshman sean guenther closed out the game, also giving up one unearned run. 
“i thought ryan was better than he was a week ago, so that was good,” aoki said. “Tully wasn’t quite as sharp as he’s been for us earlier on, but he certainly came in and got us out of a difficult situ­ation there. [guenther] was really good there.” 
western michigan took the early lead in the game on an rbi double from junior first baseman hunter prince. broncos senior right fielder Jared Kujawa took off on a 0-1 count, and prince roped a ball down the left-field line, suc­cessfully executing a hit-and-run to take a 1-0 lead. 
“They were fighting — western michigan is always a great team,” lidge said. “i think there is a sense of urgency with this team just nat­urally. we want to score runs, we want to score them in bunches, we want to score them in every inning. but i don’t think when they scored the run to take the lead anybody was pressing or anything.” 
notre dame responded in the bottom half of the second to tie the game up, 1-1. lidge led off with a stand-up double and was then bunted over by junior right fielder ricky sanchez. richardson grounded out on the next play to western michigan junior short­stop Kurt hoekstra, bringing in lidge and knotting the game up. it was richardson’s first rbi of the season. 
“lidge got us going, being able to answer that run we gave up,” aoki said. “and then the double he hit to center field [in the seventh] got us going as well.” 
notre dame’s bats ignited in the bottom of the third for four runs to take the 5-1 lead. after junior des­ignated hitter James nevant got on base with a leadoff walk, the irish took the lead on an rbi double from sophomore third baseman Kyle Fiala, who advanced to third base on the throw. irish junior shortstop lane richards then hit a laser off the glove of leaping broncos second baseman nick vogelmeier to score Fiala. 
senior right fielder robert youngdahl hit a single to right field, chasing broncos freshman left-hander Tanner allison from the game. lidge hit a gapper be­tween third and short off the broncos’ new reliever, freshman peyton gray, to score richards and make the game 4-1. The final run was brought in by sanchez, who hit a stand-up triple to left-center field. 
“i think it was important for us to come back out and play the way that we’ve been playing all year and get rewarded for it,” aoki said. “i think that was good for our guys.” 
The broncos chipped away at notre dame’s lead in the fourth to make it 5-2. prince tallied his sec­ond rbi of the night with a double. The broncos added a run to make it 8-3 in the top of the ninth, but that was as close as they would get. 
notre dame returns to action Friday when it starts a three-game series with no. 12 virginia at Frank eck stadium. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 



The observer | THURSDAY, MARCH 26, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Vasturia 
conTinued From page 20 
looked the part of a veteran. in a packed lasalle gym, the rookie scored 24 points in a 47-45 loss. 
Toward the end of vasturia’s illustrious high-school career, vasturia and his parents, John and Kathleen, arrived at notre dame for a recruiting visit. brey tabbed guard/forward pat connaughton to host the four-star prospect. 
before any visit, connaughton typically would ask brey for the honest truth about the recruit. 
do we want this kid? 
what’s he like? 
“coach was very honest with me,” connaughton said. “he said he’s a very tough kid. he re­ally knows how to play. so when he came in and played pickup with us, you could see it.” 
connaughton carted vasturia around and showed him campus. vasturia pledged to the irish in october of his junior year. 
“steve’s got a mature feel for the game, and he plays older than he actually is,” brey said on signing day roughly a year later, in nov. 2012. “he’s the complete package: shoots the ball well, puts it on the floor, is a good defender and moves without the ball.” 
somewhat of an afterthought in a recruiting class that included indiana standouts demetrius Jackson and v.J. beachem, it was vasturia who earned 12 starts down the stretch in his freshman season. despite the early impact, vasturia didn’t garner loads of at­tention outside the program. of course, he’s never really sought more attention. 
he’s never been tagged with a technical foul and almost hesitates with the phrase “T’d up,” as if he’s not sure what that is. 
he’s only dunked three — no, four — times in a game in his life. 
“selling myself short,” he jokes while recounting. 
ask teammates about any be­hind-the-scenes moments, any expressions of anger or frustration, and there’s nothing. 
low-maintenance and humble, vasturia was able to fly relatively under the radar this season, too. if it wasn’t senior guard Jerian grant or connaughton garnering the head­lines with their veteran play, it was the sophomore guard Jackson and junior forward Zach auguste with their encouraging development. 
vasturia? he doesn’t even aver­age 10 points per game, skeptics could say. vasturia acknowledges talk of his value but insists it doesn’t get to him. 
“it’s really not a big deal, espe­cially when your team is in the sweet 16 and have won however many games we’ve won this sea­son,” vasturia said. 
“The guy is unbelievable,” brey said. “he’s one of the most un­derrated, unsung players in the country.” 
a starter from day one this sea­son, vasturia has drawn increased attention in recent weeks. The 6-foot-6 wing followed a 16-point showing againstmiami (Fla.) in the acc tournament with a 14-point performance in title game against north carolina. one week later, vasturia poured in a career-high 20 points to lead no. 3 seed notre dame in the overtime victory over no. 6 seed butler in the round of 32. 
after the game, when vasturia checked his phone late saturday night, he had roughly 100 text mes­sages waiting for him, a far cry from the usual few that followed regular-season performances. 
“Kids you haven’t even heard from in a while,” vasturia said. “it’s definitely cool that they’re watch­ing and seeing what you’ve been able to do.” 
what vasturia has done is im­pressive, but those inside the pro­gram insist little has changed. 
“he’s the same old steve. he’s done the same things all the time,” connaughton said. 
vasturia said he hasn’t made any conscious changes in his game re­cently. against butler, the defense gave him more opportunities to score and attack, he said. 
The recent scoring surge and accompanying publicity com­pare favorably to connaughton’s early years. as a sophomore in the 2013 big east tournament, connaughton buried six 3-point­ers in wins over both rutgers and marquette. 
“i played a lot freshman and sophomore year, but the only time people noticed was in the big east tournament, when i had big tour­naments,” connaughton said. “he’s been the same way. he’s been just as important to this team last year and the beginning of this year as he has been these last few months. it’s just a matter of more people are watching our team, paying attention to the guys that we have.” 
connaughton is quick to point out he and vasturia are kindred spirits. after hosting him as a re­cruit, connaughton went to bat for vasturia as a freshman to brey. 
“i said, ‘coach, he’s a tough kid. he’s not going to let someone beat him. and that’s what you need,’” connaughton said. “he’s the epito­me of a kid who will do anything to win basketball games.” 
connaughton and vasturia are shooting partners, often hoisting extra shots after practices and lifts for up to an hour. They watch mov­ies on every single road trip — to and from games — trying not to repeat any favorites and, recently, trying not to be seen watching “Frozen” in the back of the airplane. 
“we actually thoroughly enjoyed it,” connaughton said. 
Kindred spirits, connaughton says he and vasturia are cut from the same cloth. 
“i might be a little more vocal. i might actually look like i have a pulse on the floor from time to time, but he’s just as tough,” connaughton said. 
Tough. underrated. The same words are often cycled through with vasturia. 
“he is the most all-around guy as a young guy i’ve ever had,” said brey, wrapping up his 15th season in south bend. “The one thing i love, i look next to his name and it says s-o-p-h. i got him back for two more years.” 
hard to believe — yet not. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
M Bball 
conTinued From page 20 

tournament, so we know we’re going to get a good game against a great team,” grant said. “They won their regular season, so they’re champions as well, so we just know we’ve got to be ready because it’s a great team.” 
Two years ago, the shockers reached the Final Four as a no. 9 seed. last year, they went undefeat­ed in the regular season, cruised through the confer­ence tournament and were handed a no. 1 seed by the selection committee before losing to eventual national runner-up Kentucky in the third round. 
despite the loss of for­ward cleanthony early, who led the shockers in scoring last season, wichita state has returned to the sweet 16 behind the play of junior guards ron baker and Fred vanv leet. 
“They’re a fabulous team,” senior guard/forward pat connaughton said. “They beat a lot of teams obvi­ously, but the way they play, the style of play that they have, the toughness that they have, that’s something they pride themselves on, so that’s as tough as any team that we’ve played. you look at the way butler played, and it’s a similar toughness, and they have just as many if not more athletes, and they’re here for a reason. so we’ve got to take this, it’s the most important game on our schedule, it’s probably the most important game in Jerian’s and myself’s lives thus far.” 
while the shockers are not one of the nation’s best offensive teams — they rank 108th in points per game and 102nd in field goal per­centage — they have been able to hone in on their defense, making it their strength, allowing just 56.7 points per game, ninth-best nationally. 
grant said that while the irish boast more of an of­fensive-oriented team, the defense has been a recent strong point, and the irish can win defensive-oriented games. 
“we got stops when we needed to against two great teams,” grant said. “i think that’s the great thing about it — we can win in different ways. we don’t need to score 80 points to win. we’re re­ally playing great defense right now, and i think we’ll find that level. we need to, to beat a wichita state team that is really good defen­sively. we are going to have to score some points, but just to know that we can rely on our defense will go a long way.” 
both grant and connaughton had the choice to leave notre dame last year but opted to return, 
paid adverTisemenT 
wanting to leave a positive legacy with the program. The irish were 15-17 last year; this year, they are four wins from a national title. 
“we came in together, we played together, we have gone through a lot, and we have similar interests,” connaughton said. “and those interests include winning, and i think with the way that we’ve gone at things since freshman year, we weren’t satisfied on the way last season ended, obvi­ously myself being a captain last year and having to, you know, go through a stretch where i wasn’t a good enough leader to put our team in those situations, and then to see the way Jerian felt about not being there to be able to prevent it as well, it made us that much closer in the sense that it wasn’t a joint decision, but at the same time, there was always that half-kidding, half-serious, ‘well, if you’re not coming back, i’m not coming back.’ [we said,] ‘let’s do this to­gether. let’s make sure that we write our own history in notre dame basketball as a collective one.’” 
grant, connaughton and their irish teammates will have the opportunity to fur­ther write their legacies to­night against wichita state at 7:15 p.m. at cleveland’s Quicken loans arena. 
Contaact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer SUDOKU | The mepham group 

DOME NUTS | aleXandria wellman 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: explore new interests, but don’t be fooled into thinking you can bring in extra cash by someone trying to get you to make an investment. caution is your best friend this year and can help you avoid a change that will weigh you down mentally, emotionally and financially. Know your limitations and move forward realistically. your numbers are 4, 9, 16, 22, 25, 34, 47. 
Birthday Baby: you are intuitive, intelligent and expressive. you are outgoing and proud. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): make plans to run errands and get little jobs out of the way. your friendly demeanor will help you draw positive attention and make new friends. Take part in whatever activities you enjoy, and an opportunity you least expect will unfold. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): check out what credentials are required to fulfill a professional dream. don’t let the work involved scare you. set your plans in motion and see where they lead. The only regret you’ll have is not making the effort, so get moving. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you’ll be emotional and sensitive to someone’s comments. Keeping your distance and refusing to retaliate will help you bypass an uncomfortable situation. Turn your focus to helping a cause you believe in, and you’ll boost your morale. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): do what’s expected of you. you will be blamed for something you didn’t do if you get involved in other people’s business. don’t get angry or act impulsively when your best response is to take care of your own responsibilities. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): make personal changes and express your thoughts to people who have something to contribute. don’t overreact if someone opposes you. everyone is entitled to an opinion. Focus on those who are already on your team. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): don’t let obstacles deter you. if you plan your actions carefully, you will out-maneuver anything that gets in your way. don’t make promises to avoid an uncomfortable emotional situation. you are best to do your own thing and learn from experience. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Form partnerships with the creative people who share your vision. a personal change will help you recognize what you want and whom you want to spend more time with. altering the way you live will enhance your life. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): put some thought into your investments. Find ways to cut corners or get rid of unnecessary expenses. downsizing or altering your lifestyle will help you get your life back in perspective. set new priorities. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Face emotional issues head-on and make whatever adjustments are necessary to move forward in a positive manner. ignoring the inevitable will only prolong the agony of a situation that needs to be dealt with now. Follow your heart. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you can get ahead if you take a different path. you are best to avoid anyone who is unpredictable or looking for a free ride. stick close to home and work on developing your game plan for the future.  



AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you will know what you want and how to go about getting it. don’t sit back waiting for someone else to make the first move. be brave and get the ball rolling. once you begin, the rest will be easy to achieve. 



PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): someone older or more experienced will give you a hard time. don’t back down or show emotion. instead, use your creative imagination to outsmart anyone who tries to belittle or criticize you. act with precision and confidence. 


JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 


The observer | THURSDAY, MARCH 26, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Notre Dame utilizes depth in spring practice 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
in springs past, attrition has meant notre dame would have to practice with a shortage of linemen. 
after several recruiting class­es focused in the trenches, this spring is different. 
with limited personnel losses and the addition of three early enrollees between the lines, the irish now have a plethora of linemen that have allowed head coach brian Kelly to institute more physicality and toughness in spring practice. 
“That’s so important in terms of controlling the line of scrim­mage and being able to really develop the kind of toughness that you want on both sides of the ball,” Kelly said. “i leave spring practice feeling so much better because you can work on so much more when you go and really allow your big fellas to get after it.” 
one of the defensive linemen that has impressed Kelly so far has been freshman Jerry Tillery, he said. Tillery has been working with the first team at times. 
“he’s just a unique player, one that i can’t remember that i’ve ever coached,” Kelly said. “i don’t want to put him in the hall of Fame. i’m so leery to talk about a freshman, but he’s a unique talent.” 
on wednesday, the only line­men who sat out of practice were on the defensive side of the ball 
— senior Jarron Jones, who is still recovering from a lisfranc injury, and sophomore andrew Trumbetti. 
others who did not partici­pate in practice included junior receiver corey robinson and graduate student cornerback matthias Farley. graduate stu­dent linebacker Jarrett grace, who has thus far participated in spring practice after missing the last 17 months due to a leg injury, was sidelined with a concussion. 
“some typical practice ail­ments, nothing that would keep anybody out for the remainder of the spring,” Kelly said about the 
see FooTball PAGE 17 


MICHAEL YU | The Observer 

Irish junior tight end Durham Smythe runs a route April 8 at LaBar Practice Complex. Smythe only tallied one reception for seven yards in 2014 but is eyeing the starting tight end spot for the 2015 season. 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

irish roll into sweet 16 looking to create legacy 
Grant, 


Vasturia stays Connaughton lead under the radar, 
ND as seniors keys Irish 
By MANNY DE JESUS By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer senior sports writer 
no. 3 seed notre dame will 

The boyish looks and the ba­have a chance to advance to 
by-face jabs are both telling and the elite eight for the first time 
misleading. in head coach mike brey’s 15­
irish guard steve vasturia year tenure when it faces sev­
hadn’t previously heard the “baby­enth-seeded wichita state on 
faced assassin” nickname head Thursday in cleveland. 
coach mike brey debuted a few The last time the irish (31-5, 
weeks ago, but it’s nothing new 14-4 acc) made it to the elite 
for the sophomore, who hears the eight, digger phelps coached 
barbs from opposing fan bases notre dame, which was a no. 
and friends alike. 1 seed in the 1979 tourna­
“it’s pretty funny. i’m not gonna ment’s mideast region. 
argue with it,” vasturia says with a led by senior guard Jerian 
laugh. grant, the irish have reshaped 
youthful? yes. their identity this season: 
mature? yes. The program took home its 
and it’s the way it’s always first conference champion-
been. as a freshman play-ship, won a school-record 14 
ing for st. Joseph’s prep in the conference games and won 
rugged philadelphia catholic 30 games for just the second 
league, vasturia was inserted time ever (1908-09) but will 
into the starting lineup for an put it all on the line tonight 
early February matchup against when they play the shockers 
lasalle, the hawks’ rival. one (30-4, 17-1 missouri valley), 
of prep’s best players and one of which have recently become a 
vasturia’s best friends was sus­force in march. 
pended for the game, and vasturia “well, they have a history of 
earned his first career start. Facial playing well in the KEVIN SABITUS | The Observer composition aside, vasturia 
The Irish starters — from left , sophomores Demetrius Jackson and Steve Vasturia, senior Pat Connaughton, see m bball PAGE 18 junior Zach Auguste and senior Jerian Grant — huddle March 19 during a 69-65 win over Northeastern. see vasTuria PAGE 18 




