The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 8 | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Community gathers in response to sexual assault 
Campus leaders respond to allegations of sexual misconduct over the weekend in prayer service at the Grotto 
By SELENA PONIO 
news writer 
last night, student body president bryan ricketts and vice president nidia ruelas led a prayer service at the grotto due to the recent re­curring appearance of crime alert emails in every notre dame student’s inbox. This past weekend, notre dame security police (ndsp) sent two out emails reporting three separate allegations of sexual misconduct. 
ruelas began the prayer service by talking about the various ways students could get involved on cam­pus to raise awareness on sexual awareness. she sug­gested greendot train­ing, a program run by an organization that aims to implement strategies of vio­lence prevention in certain communities. 
“get involved, sign up,” ruelas said. “what’s impor­tant for you to carry on from today is that the conversa­tion does not end here. it is up to us to make sure that we end sexual violence on this campus.” 
rose walsh, a senior and resident assistant (ra) in lyons hall, gave a reflec­tion and talked about her 
see groTTo PAGE 5 




students join clubs, explore groups at activities night 

By CATHERINE OWERS 
associate news editor 
more than 1,400 stu­dents stormed into the Joyce athletic and convocation center (Jacc) for activities night in the first 15 minutes of the event, student activi­ties program coordinator mia James said. activities night is hosted by the student activities office (sao) ev­ery fall to allow new and returning students the oppor­tunity to join clubs and orga­nizations on campus and in the south bend community. 
“it’s so important to get connected to your campus and the community outside,” James said at the event. “it’s a true showing of how involved notre dame students want to be, that it’s been 37 min­utes, and we’re flooded with 
see acTiviTies PAGE 4 


galvin takes over as dean 
By EMMA BORNE 
news writer 
in the third grade, dr. mary galvin said, she was told that she was not col­lege material; last month, she succeeded dr. gregory crawford as the william K. warren Foundation dean of the college of science. 
a chemistry major who spent her undergraduate career at manhattanville college in purchase, new york, galvin said she tried graduate school for chem­istry but left and decid­ed to study polymers and materials science at the massachusetts institute of Technology (miT). Though her interest in science be­gan in high school, she said miT cultivated her love for the subject, specifically for materials. 
“it was … at miT that i realized science was very interdisciplinary,” galvin said. “it involved communi­cating with people, going to meetings. … i liked that as­pect of science that people are unaware of. you really meet people from across the globe, and science unites you.” 
galvin said her favorite aspect of science is that it is 
see dean PAGE 5 


smc hosts prayer service 
By ALAINA ANDERSON 
news writer 
pope Francis recently announced that begin­ning this year, the catholic church will observe sept. 1 as the world day of prayer for the care of creation. on Tuesday, saint mary’s campus ministry held an ecumenical prayer service blessing the unity garden on the south side of havican hall in observance of this event. 
megan Zwart, assistant 
see garden PAGE 5 







Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com What should the seniors throwat the last football game instead of marshmallows? 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney alex Jirschele Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Santiago Martinez 
senior off campus 
“i really like marshmallows. it’s like the last winter for the seniors.” 

Nick Korompilas 
sophomore 
alumni hall 
“plates from the dining hall.” 

Luis Rosales 
sophomore 
alumni hall 
“a bike from a tree.” 



Kerry McCarter 
sophomore 
ryan hall 

“hundred-dollar bills.” 

Michael Schrock 
sophomore 
alumni hall 

“rotten tomatoes.” 

Clare Tennant 
sophomore 
lewis hall 
“strawberries.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
margaret hynds alex carson Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Jp gschwind ben padamilam megan valley 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
lucy du adam ramos 


Photo Viewpoint 

Conversation with Changing Mindset Heaney, Place and Football vs. Texas Men’s Soccer 
molly o’neill bianca almada 

Justice Sotomayor Hesburgh Center for Property Notre Dame Stadium  Alumni Stadium 7 p.m.-8:15 p.m. International Studies Hesburgh Library 7:30 p.m.-11 p.m. 2 p.m.-4 p.m. DeBartolo Performing 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 4 p.m.-5:30 p.m. Irish take on the Notre Dame vs. 


Corrections 

Arts Center Lecture with Guatemalan Memorial lecture by Longhorns in the first University of Alabama 
in the aug. 31 issue of The observer, Public conversation. ambassador. Christopher Morash. game of the season. at Birmingham. a graphic incorrectly stated that tickets for the conversation with 
Workshop with Artist Artful Yoga Men’s Soccer vs. USF Changing American Rejoice! Mass 
sonia sotomayor would be available 
Tom Bartel Snite Museum of Art Alumni Stadium Voter in 2016 Dillon Hall 
all day wednesday. Tickets will 

Riley Hall of Art and 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Snite Museum of Art   8 p.m.-9 p.m. 
be available starting at 6 p.m. 

Design Yoga among Transitory Irish take on USF 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Mass rooted in the 
wednesday. 

9 a.m.-4 p.m. Waterscapes in Mike Berticelli Part of Saturday African American Open art workshop. exhibition. Memorial Tournament. Scholars Series. tradition. 

ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2015 | The observer 




mcdonald center for student well-being opens 
By ABIGAIL PIPER 
news writer 
This semester, the university officially opened the rev. James e. mcdonald, c.s.c., mcdonald center for student well-being in saint liam hall. The facility, known as mcwell for short, was endowed last year by a $10 million gift from 1979 alumnus mark gallogly and his wife, lise strickler. 
Kelly hogan stewart, director of the mcdonald center, said the center aims to increase the well-being of campus as a whole. 
“we are prevention, not treatment,” stewart said. “so treatment is more about put­ting back together what may have become fragmented, broken or fractured. well­being is really about increas­ing a person’s capacity and their ability-thriving.” 
stewart said the center, housed at 204 saint liam hall, hopes to positively im­pact the campus through the implementation of its mission and the scope of its vision. she cited “wellness enhance­ment” and “risk reduction” as key elements in increas­ing well-being for college students, who are at an im­perative time in their lives in terms of learning how be well. 
she said the new center’s current priority is gain­ing recognition on campus through pushes like engaging students with creative events and programs throughout the year. 

paid adverTisemenT 
“we’re doing things like pet love, wellness expos or a spin-off cash cab,” she said. 
beyond events, stewart said the center will work to provide students with resources to pursue well-being. 
“a truly robust health pro­motion department on any college campus is very con­nected to many resources, whether it be the academy, the community, any other departments within student affairs, so that could include a variety of departments 
like  recsports,  the  gender  
relations  center,  msps,”  
stewart said.  

moving beyond the walls of saint liam, well-being com­missioners within the resi­dential halls will address the wellness needs of their own dorms and promote the mis­sion of the center, stewart said. 
“it really is our opportunity to provide services and re­sources directly into the resi­dential halls,” stewart said. “The commissioners will be the point people and engage with our department as an­other avenue for students to tell us what they need in their residential communities.” 
stewart said that in order for the center to be successful, students need to know how health promotion functions and works with students and other factors that affect health dynamics at notre dame. 
“The way i explain what is health promotion is it’s re­ally making the healthier choice the easier choice. it’s allowing people to live bal­anced within an imbalanced life,” stewart said. 
The mcdonald center for student well-being is look­ing to change the way notre dame addresses health and in effect change how students here address health for the rest of their lives, she said. 
“in the united states, our health care system and our mindset is structured to fo­cus on the broken and then they think the absence of be­ing broken is health,” stewart said. “but that’s just one piece of it. high quality health and well-being is actually living a life which is filled with flour­ishing and thriving.” 


Contact Abigail Piper at  apiper2@nd.edu 




saint mary’s athletics takes home academic honors 

By OLIVIA JACSON 
news writer 
six saint mary’s varsi­ty teams and 49 individu­als were recognized by the michigan intercollegiate athletic association (miaa) for outstanding academics in the 2014-2015 school year, the college announced in a press release. The release said six of the college’s eight varsity teams were recognized — vol­leyball, basketball, tennis, soc­cer, cross country and softball. 
director of athletics Julie schroeder-biek said this is the most teams in one year that she can remember being recognized. 
“we often have had three or four teams, but this is some­thing that we are especially proud of,” schroeder-biek said. 
schroeder-biek said a team must have a year-end cumula­tive grade point average of 3.3 or higher, and an individual must achieve a grade point av­erage of 3.5 or higher to be recognized. 
“The reason [these athletes] are here at saint mary’s college is to pursue a quality college education, and we cannot lose sight of that,” schroeder-biek said. “as ncaa division iii student-athletes, our philoso­phy supports balance between athletics, academics and full integration into their college experience. our athletes need to achieve in the classroom in 


paid adverTisemenT 
order to have the opportunity to compete in their sport.” 
senior basketball player and student-athlete advisory committee president Krista Knapke said being involved in athletics has taught her the value of time management. 
“balancing schoolwork and athletics can seem overwhelm­ing at times, but it is very re­warding when you are able to find some level of success in both areas,” Knapke said. “The number of student-athletes at saint mary’s who received this recognition shows just how valued academics are within the athletic program.” 
schroeder-biek said the miaa recognition supports the mission of the college. 
“[athletes] excel academi­cally while also developing their talent as they prepare to make a difference in the world,” she said. 
Knapke said the community in the athletic program helps students excel. 
“There are always team­mates, coaches, staff and ad­ditional resources available to provide academic assistance when needed,” she said. 


Contact Olivia Jackson at ojacks01@saintmarys.edu 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 



Expert panel offers insight into Greek crisis 
By ALEX CAO 
news writer 
last night, the university’s nanovic institute of european studies organized a panel at the hesburgh center auditorium titled “The greek crisis and the Future of europe,” which presented information about the economic crisis in greece. 
The panel consisted of professor of economics rüdiger bachmann from notre dame, professor of political science george Tsebelis from michigan, dr. christopher waller, the se­nior vice president and doc­tor of research at the Federal reserve bank of st. louis, and professor of compara­tive politics Jim mcadams from the notre dame. 
“what makes [the greek financial crisis] so fascinat­ing is that it’s multiple cri­ses,” mcadams said. “it was a crisis for the greek econ­omy, it was a crisis for the greek welfare system, it was a crisis for southern europe in different ways ... not just the eurozone but also what europe was since world war ii.” 
waller said greece’s fi­nancial issues started long 

“It was a crisis for the Greek economy, it was a crisis for the Greek welfare system, it was a crisis for southern Europe in different ways.” 
Jim McAdams 
professor of comparative 
politics 
before the 2010s as greece initially failed to meet all of monetary criteria needed to adopt the euro, though they were allowed in the follow­ing year. what waller said happened years later were investigations revealing large deficits in the greek gdp which led to to tumul­tuous default and recovery. 
“Their unemployment went from 5 percent to 25 percent. Their gdp fell 25 percent,” he said. “if you’re not aware, that’s [similar figures to] the u.s. great depression. They started doing better on tax collec­tions, cutting spending, lay­ing off civil service workers 
— if i remember correctly about 50 percent of the la­bor force. ... The economic conditions and the austerity were going to lead to social revolt.” 
Tsebelis said the revolt manifested in greece’s near-adamant refusal to agree to the conditions of the bailout, which the european union (eu) refus­es to alter and greece’s own parliament split on whether they should even stay with the eu. with elections com­ing soon and polling data unclear, Tsebelis said the political future of greece seems very unclear. 
“so it’s going to be a very difficult outcome to pre­dict,” he said. “what will these organizations produce after the elections? with re­spect to the euro now, the eu has not budged throughout the seven months of negoti­ations ... and they continue to not give greece money ex­cept on a conditional basis. 
“another thing the greeks don’t understand is the de­cision-making in the eu is through unanimity which means ... it’s another 28 peo­ple you have to persuade,” Tsebelis said. “even if they were able to make reason­able arguments — which the greek government was not able to do — they could only persuade one, two or five.” 
bachmann said there are better measures greece could take than tax hikes and privatization and find­ing the best way to get greece out of this crisis will take smarter policies with public investments. he said they could invest in growth, green energy and foreign in­vestment tax credits. 
“we need to think dif­ferently, and i’m trying to advertise some sort of stan­dard demand-side and stan­dard supply-side policies.” bachmann said. “ ... i think we’ll need an intelligent mix between ‘carrots’ and ‘sticks.’ we need to find the right amount of microman­agement and that is hard. 
“This is a question for european democracies that i unfortunately don’t know the answer, and i hope we’ll get closer in this debate.” 
Contact Alex Cao at              acao@nd.edu 



Activities 
conTinued From page 1 
people.” 
between 3,000 and 4,000 students attend activities night every year, and the event expanded its layout this year to allow for a eas­ier navigation, James said. clubs and organizations set up tables in the monogram room and heritage hall, in addition to the tables in Field house in the main level of the Jacc. 
“last year, we experiment­ed with a new layout, and the students were able to walk more and talk more,” she said. “we have about 300 notre dame organizations and clubs here and about 50 campus and community partners.” 
pauline hickey, german club president, said she hoped to gain new members for the club by emphasizing the fun events club members can participate in. 
“The great thing about german club is that we don’t have a ton of weekly meet­ings you have to attend,” she said. “we have a few big events, like oktoberfest, which we’re partnering with morrissey to host on south Quad. we’ll also have pretzel baking, a ‘sound of music’ sing-a-long and a trip to the christkindlmarket in chicago.” 
The german club current­ly has roughly 30 members, hickey said, but hopes to raise its numbers to about 50 members who will continue to celebrate german culture. 
“people don’t realize you don’t need to speak german to join the club,” she said. 
Juwan bepo, the african­american ministry intern with campus ministry, said although campus ministry has already established a significant presence, it has a table at activities night to encourage students to sign up for its weekly newslet­ter and so they can learn about programs, masses and choirs. 
“we can never have too many people sign up,” she said. “and the interns at the table are welcoming and giv­ing off a good vibe.” 
Freshman brady mclaughlin said he was looking to join groups simi­lar to those he participated in during high school, and he liked that activities night showed that notre dame had clubs “for pretty much anything.” 
“in high school, i was involved in cross coun­try and track, national honor society and campus ministry,” he said. “i’m also looking for one or two new activities to try.” 
sophomore erin Flynn said she was also looking to branch out and join more campus groups. 

“i’m here to find out ways to get involved in every as­pect of notre dame,” she said. “i signed up for a few clubs last year but didn’t go to many meetings, which is something i regret. … i’m also looking to join more things oriented around my major, with engineering and computer science.” 
James said sao adver­tised activities night with posters, through social media, and in The week@ nd, a weekly email news­letter sent to notre dame students, staff and faculty, as well as advertising to saint mary’s and holy cross students. 
“we wanted a good bal­ance of making sure peo­ple knew when and where activities night would be, but not shoving it in your face,” she said. 

Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 

Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmcobserver 



ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2015 | The observer 


because it is a reminder that all Zwart said there are many 
national science Fund. 



Dean 
Garden 

creation is a gift and we have a opportunities for saint mary’s galvin started the next 
conTinued From page 1 
conTinued From page 1 

responsibility to care for it. students to utilize the unity 
phase of her career aug. 17, 
professor of philosophy and co-leader of the saint mary’s unity garden, said there are dozens of unity gardens throughout the area where anyone can come and pick food for free. 
“unity gardens is a non-prof­it organization in the area that educates and empowers the community to grow their own healthy food,” Zwart said. “The goal is to promote physical, “in gardening, we partner with the earth in a way that 


“The goal is to promote physical, social and economic health through promoting healthy eating, sustainable local 
garden on campus. 
“students are most welcome to pick and eat whatever they would like; they are also wel­come to participate in planting in spring and putting the gar­den ‘to bed’ for the winter once the weather cools,” she said. “in the summer, students can pursue internships with unity gardens, which would include work on our garden.” 
Kimmet said she hopes the open to everyone. 
“i grew up very poor, one of seven children. my fa­ther had not finished ninth grade, but they wanted all of us to go to college, and we did,” galvin said. “and sci­ence is an area that you can come from any background, and if you work hard and as dean of the college of science at notre dame. 
“This a special place,” galvin said. “i was impressed with the university’s com­mitment to science and to engineering and to research and how that can enhance undergraduate education, how it can make a differ­ence in solving many of the problems we face in soci­ety from health to energy to 

have talent, you can go re­ally far in science. … There is a meritocracy in science that to me is very attractive.” 
galvin took at job at bell laboratories after miT and stayed there for 14 years, she said. From there, she spent eight years develop­ing a materials science de­partment at the university of delaware. she has also worked for air products and chemicals, inc., and the social and economic health 
prayer service will draw more 
sustainability.” 
galvin said she believes 
she is a good fit for the dean 
position because she has 
dealt with different disci­
plines that fall under the college of science and that she hopes she can use the position to have a positive ef­fect on students and faculty. 
“really what i want to do is work with the faculty, who are very talented, to allow them to reach the dreams that they and the adminis­tration have set for being a really top research univer­sity,” she said. 
Contact Emma Bourne at  ebourne@nd.edu 


food systems and 
through promoting healthy 
eating, sustainable local food attention to the unity garden 
and concern for all of creation. 
opportunities for 


those who are 
systems and opportunities for “sometimes events like these 
those who are disadvantaged.” 

disadvantaged.” can feel superficial; it’s just 
Jessica mannen Kimmet, a campus minister at the college, described the prayer service as wonderful opportu­nity for the saint mary’s com­munity to pray together. 
“[The prayer service] includ­ed a reading from scripture, a responsorial psalm, inter­cessions, a prayer of blessing and some hymns,” she said. “although it comes from a catholic resource, this rite is strongly based on scripture.” 
Kimmet said the unity garden was blessed on this day 
Megan Zwart Saint Mary’s assistant professor of philosophy 
resonates with the call of the creation stories in genesis,” Kimmet said. “gardening can be a source of wonder: even though we put a lot of work into it, the fact that these plants pro­duce food is something utterly beyond our control. … all of creation is an absolute gift from god and never something that we fully own or control.” 
one moment of attention in the midst of our unfailingly hectic lives,” Kimmet said. “if it’s true attention, though — if we re­ally give our hearts over to this moment of prayer — it has the chance to be transformative. 
“small moments of atten­tion help to form us and per­haps this day can, in small ways, inspire us to act out of a greater love towards the gift of creation.” 
Contact Alaina Anderson at aander02@saintmaries.edu 

affected by sexual assault during their college years. 
“when we think about the entire notre dame com­munity as our brothers and sisters, even one case in our entire student body is far too many,” witmer said. 
witmer said notre dame’s impressive image is an amalgamation of each member’s collective efforts and participation in the community but that sexual violence threatens notre dame’s ability to work in faith, justice and integrity. 
“sexual violence and other forms of power-based violence have no base on the notre dame community,” witmer said. “we all have the power to step up and take ac­tion as a united community.” 
Contact Selena Ponio at  sponio@nd.edu 



Grotto 
conTinued From page 1 
freshman residents’ disbe­lief at the sudden influx of sexual assault allegations. walsh said her residents asked her the question, “does that actually happen here?” 
“i was horribly embar­rassed that during their first week of class here at 


“What’s important for you to carry on from today is that the conversation does not end here. It is up to us to make sure that we end sexual violence on this campus.” 
Nidia Ruelas 
student body vice president 
notre dame, they’d already received three notifications that this new home we’re trying to bring them into and create still has a serious problem keeping students safe,” walsh said. 
walsh said the emails stood as proof that notre dame had yet to overcome its history of violence and that she could not help but worry that the freshmen in her hall, its newest resi­dents, would become afraid of a place that she loved. 
“have we tolerated or even created an environment that causes our newest stu­dents, our youngest broth­ers and sisters, to be afraid of saturday nights?” walsh said. “while prayer and re­flection and awareness are so important, absolutely nothing will guarantee the future safety of the students of our lady’s university be­sides a sincere and relent­less effort by each and every student, and classmate and roommate to step in, to speak up and to respect one another.” 
pierce witmer, a sopho­more and member of men against sexual violence (masv), displayed his wor­ry that the recurrence of the sexual allegation email has caused some people to view it as spam from ndsp. witmer then deliv­ered a statistic from the 
u.s. department of Justice that states 1 in 4 women on college campuses would be 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 



Pope shifts abortion policy 
Associated Press 
vaTican ciTy — pope Francis is applying his vision of a merciful church to women who have had abortions, easing their path toward forgiveness and say­ing he realizes some felt they had no choice but to make “this ago­nizing and painful decision.” 
in a letter published Tuesday by the holy see, Francis said he was allowing all rank-and-file priests to grant absolution dur­ing the holy year of mercy he has proclaimed, which runs dec. 8, 2015 until nov. 20, 2016. 
The roman catholic church views abortion as such a grave sin that it put the matter of grant­ing forgiveness for an abortion in the hands of a bishop, who could either hear the woman’s confes­sion himself or delegate that to a priest who is expert in such situations. 
now, Francis is making it pos­sible for women to bypass this formalized process in the ap­proaching special year of mercy while putting the stress on “con­trite” hearts. 
in a statement after the pope’s letter, the vatican made clear that “forgiveness of the sin of abor­tion does not condone abortion nor minimize its grave effects. The newness is clearly pope Francis’ pastoral approach.” 
in the united states, many bishops already allow priests to absolve women who have had abortions, while in other dio­ceses, bishops have reserved the decision for themselves, said the rev. James martin, editor­at-large of the Jesuit magazine america. 
The pope’s directive on Tuesday “reminds priests of the need for mercy, and it also takes a very pastoral tone toward women who have had an abor­tion,” martin said. 
new york cardinal Timothy dolan, who will be hosting Francis in the city later this month during the papal u.s. pil­grimage, noted that priests in his diocese have had the authority to forgive the sin of abortion for about three decades. 
“i hope that this announce­ment by the holy Father will en­courage many people to come forward to find the true peace and healing through this beau­tiful and tender sacrament of reconciliation,” dolan wrote on his blog. 
Francis made clear he isn’t downplaying the gravity of abor­tion, which the church essential­ly views as equivalent to murder. but he emphasized that abortion is an intensely personal, often anguished choice for women. 
“The tragedy of abortion is experienced by some with a su­perficial awareness, as if not re­alizing the extreme harm that such an act entails,” Francis wrote. “many others on the other hand, although experiencing this moment as a defeat, believe that they have no other option.” 
Francis drew on decades of pastoral experience with faithful in his native argentina, includ­ing as buenos aires archbishop. 
“i have met so many women who bear in their heart the scar of this agonizing and painful de­cision,” the pope wrote. 
“i am well aware of the pres­sure that led them to this deci­sion,” Francis said. “i know that it is an existential and moral ordeal.” 


Kentucky clerk denies marriage licenses 
Associated Press 
KenTucKy — invoking “god’s authority,” a county clerk denied marriage licenses to gay couples again Tuesday in direct defiance of the fed­eral courts, and vowed not to resign, even under the pres­sure of steep fines or jail. 
“it is not a light issue for me,” rowan county clerk Kim davis said later through her lawyers. “it is a heaven or hell decision.” 
april miller and Karen roberts, tailed by television cameras and rival activists, were there when the doors opened Tuesday morning, hours after the supreme court rejected the clerk’s last-ditch request for a delay. 
They hoped davis would ac­cept that her fight was lost and issue the licenses, ending the months-long controversy that has divided rowan county, where the seat of morehead is considered a progressive ha­ven in appalachian Kentucky. 
instead, davis once again turned them away. on their way out, miller and roberts passed david ermold and david moore, 17 years a cou­ple. “denied again,” roberts whispered in moore’s ear. 
ermold said he almost wept. They demanded to talk to davis, who emerged briefly on the other side of the counter. 
“we’re not leaving until we have a license,” ermold told her. 

“Then you’re going to have a david bunning ordered her to long day,” davis replied. issue the licenses, an appeals 
davis, an apostolic court affirmed that order, and christian, stopped issuing the supreme court on monday all marriage licenses in June refused to intervene, leaving rather than comply with the her no legal option to refuse. supreme court’s legalization and yet, she did. of gay marriage nationwide. “stand firm,” davis’ sup-
gay and straight couples porters chanted as a tense sued, saying she should fulfill standoff erupted in the lobby. her duties as an elected offi-“do your job,” marriage cial despite her personal reli-equality activists shouted gious faith. u.s. district Judge back. 


obama outlines climate change concerns 
Associated Press 
alasKa — president barack obama stared down a melting glacier in alaska on Tuesday in a dramatic use of his presidential pulpit to sound the alarm on climate change. 
From a distance, exit glacier appears as a river of white and blue flowing down through the mountains to­ward lower terrain. in fact, it’s just the opposite. The 2-mile-long chock of solid ice has been retreating at a fast­er and faster pace in recent years - more than 800 feet since 2008, satellite tracking shows. 
“This is as good of a sign­post of what we’re dealing with when it comes to climate change as just about any­thing,” obama said with the iconic glacier at his back. 
obama trekked up to the glacier in carefully choreo­graphed excursion aimed at calling attention to the ways human activity is de­grading cherished natural wonders. The visit to Kenai Fjords national park, where the glacier is located, formed the apex of obama’s three-day tour of alaska, his most concerted campaign yet on climate change. 
The president, dressed for the elements in a rugged coat and sunglasses, observed how signposts along the hike recorded where the glacier once stood and now only dry land remains. 
“we want to make sure that our grandkids can see this,” obama said, describing the glacier as “spectacular.” 
in another presidential photo-op brimming with theatrical potential, obama stood on the bow of a tour boat in resurrection bay in alaska’s Kenai peninsula, staring out at the serene waters and lush mountain vistas in both directions. photographers and reporters traveling with the president were brought alongside him in a separate boat to capture the moment in living color. 
obama is counting on alaska’s exquisite but dete­riorating landscape to elicit a sense of urgency for his call to action on climate change. he opened the trip on monday night with a speech painting a doomsday scenario for the world barring urgent steps to cut emissions: entire nations submerged underwater, cit­ies abandoned and refugees fleeing in droves as conflict breaks out across the globe. 
exit glacier has been re­ceding for decades at an alarming rate of 43 feet a year, according to the national park service, which has been monitoring its retreat for de­cades using photography and, more recently, by satellite. 
glaciers ebb and flow due to normal fluctuations in the climate, and even without human activity, exit glacier would be retreating. but the pace of its retreat has been sped up thanks to heat-trapping greenhouse gases blamed for global warming, said deborah Kurtz of the national park service. 
paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 




INSIDE COLUMN 


Faux pas abroad 


Emily McConville 
news writer 

here in rome, it’s pretty easy to tell i’m from somewhere else. 
i dress the part. i travel in a pack. i can’t roll my r’s. and when i speak italian, i tend to for­get the operative word, so a simple question (“are these the same thing?”) becomes an awk­ward linguistic dance (“so that one is that one, but is this one also that one?”). 
and i make american assumptions. like when i went grocery shopping for the first time, i grabbed my produce and got all the way to checkout before i realize that here, you weigh your vegetables and print out a barcode in the produce section, not at the register. also, i somehow misread the number 7 as the num­ber 4. i just hope the people behind me didn’t miss their bus. 
if i’d done a basic google search, i would have learned fairly quickly that yes, you are supposed to weigh your own vegetables in italian supermarkets. i also may have commit­ted the cardinal sin of touching them with my bare hands (though, thankfully, i took every­thing i handled). 
lessons learned. uncomfortably. 
but it’s the good kind of uncomfortable. other than grossing out a few of my poor roman neighbors (mi dispiace molto), i’ve been doing okay. in the supermarket, i only spent 10 euro for a whole lot of food. i had an entire conversation in italian. i’m more aware of the people around me and that i’m a guest in their country — but i also have a great story to tell. 
That’s what this year’s study abroad blog, observer passport, is all about: our stories. it’s our experiences abroad — our travels, our triumphs, our uncomfortable moments. it’s a how-to (or how-to-not) guide for current or future travelers. it’s a photographic record for the notre dame and saint mary’s experiences abroad. it’s easy, interesting and sometimes impactful reading, whether you’re in le mans hall or le mans, France. 
you’ll hear more from me, as i continue to apologize for my faux pas. you’ll hear from writers in england and ireland, in spain and Jordan. you’ll hear about trips, language, culture, politics, good and bad, scary and exciting. 
if you’re abroad, or if you’ll be abroad at any point this semester, we want to hear from you, too. send your writing, pictures or questions to abroad@ndsmcobserver.com. we’ll work with you and put it online or even in print. 
and wherever you are, have fun, but learn the local term for “whoops.” and don’t be afraid to be uncomfortable. 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


My mid-college crisis 

Erin Thomassen 
The examined life 
it was triggered by wanting to switch my the­ology class. as a first-semester junior, i was taking Foundations of Theology. why am i such a late bloomer? one might say my academic trajectory at notre dame has been slightly off-kilter. i came into college excited for … col­lege! i had no thoughts about what i would do afterwards. 
i entered the college of arts and letters as a gung-ho program of liberal studies and French double major intent. “hmmm,” adults would tilt their heads. “what do you plan to do with that?” 
i did not know. i was studying what sounded fun. i would figure something out when i gradu­ated. i had not thought that far ahead. 
my physics teacher suggested i pursue en­gineering, but i had heard engineers had miserable college experiences. They studied themselves to death. They spent hours hunched over tiny screens, editing code. That did not sound fun to me, and i had done what i consid­ered fun my whole life, dancing in tutus and singing “doo-doo”s in my a capella club. 
and school. i always loved school — every subject — and i wanted to be around other people who loved school, too. i was undeniably drawn to the humanities, where students stayed after class to exchange quirky quips with wise, wizened professors. 
come sophomore year, though, i was miss­ing math and science. i was tired of my sTem friends making jabs at my “arts and crafts” ma­jor. i could do math and science in high school, and i was actually awkwardly good at it. i even awkwardly enjoyed it. 
so i figured, hey, i’ll become an engineer. my parents did not mind. 
boy, was i in for a surprise. i could not believe that i, this ballerina with a bow in her hair, was not failing. True, when it came to programming, i was captain of the struggle bus. i had missed intro to engineering, aka intro to the wonderful world of matlab, so i was quite lost with all the lingo. i spent many a night wanting to squeeze the computers in the engineering library to death after getting a million errors and having no idea what they meant (die, unix, die). 
yet, i grasped the concepts of physics, calculus and even mechanics fairly well. surprise! i even performed well on tests. my solid mechanics bridge was barely long enough to span the gap between test machines, but i wrote a redeeming lab report. i still could not fix my bike. 
Fast forward this fall of my junior year, as i am finally catching up on university require­ments thanks to my late entry to engineering. in my second class meeting for Foundations of Theology, we watched four movie clips. danger danger: i felt my iQ dropping to concerning lev­els. i was thinking critically about the class in­stead of the text. This was not pls. 
i met with the director of the pls program, begging to be let into the pls theology class. could i please, please, please study Jewish and christian texts, expanding the historical, ana­lytical and spiritual part of my mind that i had neglected during my engineer year? 
pls theology was reserved for pls majors. i could take my chances with an open spot for a non-major, but with the growing size of the pls department, there were no guarantees. 
hey, i thought, i could double major — i could dual degree. i could do mechanical engineering and pls. i could do it all. 
i could not do it all. i would have to fund a $60,000 fifth year of school. i would prob­ably not walk with my class. i would be over­whelmed, torn between two worlds. hannah montana could have the best of both worlds, but i could not. 
i took an emotional walk on the notre dame golf course à la Zac efron, brooding over my life choices. why couldn’t i do everything i loved all at once? i could not pay. i could not convince. i could not get out of the golf course. 
a ndsp officer had just locked the gate and could not find the key. “looks like you’re gonna be fence-hopping tonight,” he told me. i thought he was joking. he was not. 
i felt a tiny tear in my pants as i wiggled over the top. i let an expletive slip. That was unlady­like, unerinlike. 
i was confused and alone. hot tears were ap­proaching the starting line. ready, set, go! drip, drip, drop. 
Thank god for dark nights. others were going out. i was going crazy. 
i needed god. my life was falling apart. i had a sudden desire to go to Jesus in the woods. i went. 
runaway tears mingled with goopy snot. i knew it: i was destined for poetic greatness. i blew my nasal discharge onto my recently purchased hipster green jacket (which appar­ently half the girls on the notre dame campus now own … there goes my make-believe hipster status). 
There were bugs crawling down my shirt. i phoned a friend, went back to my dorm and ate some of my roommate’s chocolate-covered dried mango slices. i typed out my feelings on my unfeeling computer. i closed the pls and class search tabs on my computer. i put my computer to sleep. melatonin put me to sleep. 
breathe in, breathe out. i am alive, no matter what happens. unless i die. but while i am hav­ing these thoughts, i am alive, so it is going to be okay. it is going to be okay. 
Erin Thomassen likes listening to string instruments tuning. Please come tune violins and cellos near her window in Pasquerilla East Hall, preferably in the next two years, as she is a junior. She can be reached at  ethomass@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 




demand candidates discuss human rights 
Elizabeth Hascher 
dignified response 

The 2016 race to hold the office of president of the united states has begun. even though there are more than 400 days until election day and the first prima­ries will not be held for months, most candidates have already declared that they are officially in. They are fundraising, campaigning and ready to do almost whatever it takes to get votes. some might cozy up to the Koch brothers or even take selfies with Kim Kardashian, if that is what it takes. 
as we enter into election season, history will re­peat itself, and the issues americans truly care about will come to the forefront. it is going to become clear where our priorities lie as a nation. candidates will try to address citizens’ concerns and propose new policy with the goal of assuaging fears and ensuring the ballots add up in their favor. some of the topics they will undoubtedly discuss include the growing global presence of the islamic state, immigration policies, president obama’s failures in office and donald Trump’s “hair.” 
while these issues certainly warrant in-depth discussion (especially the hair), matters of human dignity are often forgotten during election cycles. certainly, current debates such as the potential defunding of planned parenthood and the proper strategies to address islamic extremism inadvertently deal with this concept. however, most conversations concerning abortion and planned parenthood take turns for the worse when words such as “murderer” and “anti-woman” are thrown around, and the goal of protecting human dignity — including that of the mothers and families who are faced with tough decisions regarding abortion — is left behind. when it comes the most effective way to put an end to the atrocities committed by isis, discussions never seem to include the stories of innocent lives lost or dam­aged but instead focus primarily on military funding and nsa surveillance restrictions. 

we have lost sight of what is truly important: the protection of each human being’s inherent sense of dignity. we have stopped questioning how our next leader will work to do things like eliminate poverty, rid our country of institutionalized racism and en­sure that people feel safe walking around in their neighborhoods. instead, we would rather focus on the details of the bush political dynasty and Tonette walker’s stance on gay marriage. For the most part, human dignity is no longer a concern of presidential candidates. 
some may say that this should not be a pressing matter. They argue that our next commander-in-chief should be focused on issues such as the economy, foreign policy making and the maintenance of the united states’ position as a world leader. There is no doubt in my mind that these topics should be ad­dressed. however, we must acknowledge that every policy has the potential to affect real people and rob them of their dignity. 
if we do not first establish that every person has an inherent dignity and a fundamental right to have it protected, we are doing our fellow human beings a disservice. when we, as privileged citizens of the united states, get caught up in political scandals and neglect to protect the dignity of people abroad and in our own country, we are no longer doing our duty. we fail one another when we turn a blind eye to issues of poverty, inadequate healthcare and oppression. 
during Fr. hesburgh’s time as our university 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“when we pool our strength andshare the work and responsibility,we can welcome many people,even those in deep distress, andperhaps help them find self-confidence and inner healing.” 
— Jean Vanier      Theologian, humanitarian 
president, he spent a great deal of time dealing with humanitarian crises around the world and often con­fronting issues the american president at the time rarely addressed. while touring through Thailand in the early 1980s, he remarked that progress towards re­solving its current refugee crisis was blocked by politi­cal obstacles. in discussion with the king of Thailand, he asserted, “when politics rise above humanitari­anism, then civilization faces disaster.” These words were true when Fr. Ted spoke them in the ’80s and they still ring true today. 
according to the united nations development programme, more than 1.3 billion people live in ex­treme poverty (making less than $1.25 a day). The idea of civilization facing “disaster” and the low prioriti­zation of the protection of human dignity may be a distant concept for many americans, but it is an ev­eryday reality for billions of people around the world. 
Throughout american history, the power of the presidency has increased dramatically. not only does the office of the president have a much longer job de­scription, but it also comes with an unprecedented amount of influence over the citizens of the united states and the greater global community. 
it is time that we start demanding more of the peo­ple who wish to hold this office and focusing on the most important issues of our world today. it is time for human dignity to join the discussion. 
Elizabeth Hascher is a sophomore living in Lewis Hall. She hails from Grand Rapids, Michigan, and is studying political science with a minor in  international development studies. She can be  contacted at ehascher@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 




LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

bring taboo topics to the table every day 
i was early to class. it was our second time meeting as a group. one of my classmates sat a few chairs down from me, turned around and asked my name. our conversation continued cordially, discussing the past summer and our future plans. 
The natural lull soon arrived and she reached for her phone, ready to scroll. i paused, took a deep breath and said, “can i ask you a personal question?” she looked back st me. “you don’t have to answer if you don’t want to,” i quickly added. 
“of course,” my peer replied. 
“did you read the ndsp email? why do you think this is happening?” 
a pause. 

our conversation went deep quickly. we talked about alcohol, blurred lines and policy issues. i brought up pornography and our culture of immediate self-gratification and the role of technology in modern relationships. we brushed on philosophy and discussed people being used as means rather than ends. 
our words had purpose. we recognized the gravity of the issue of sexual assault on our cam­pus as well as its complexity. 
and then another student walked in, another face we did not know. we kept talking, but our words changed. no longer did we mention sexual assault, perpetrators, pornography. our tones softened. The discourse became generic and soon ended. 
i recounted this to a friend. he said i was bold to ask a stranger something so personal, that those situations can be too uncomfortable for others. maybe this is a problem we can add to the list. 
The more we avoid these conversations, the more likely it is that sexual assaults will con­tinue to occur. public discourse about sexual assault is good, but if this is an issue we really care about, why are we not discussing it in our normal conversations? 
To go beyond just raising awareness or ex­pressing general concern, how we can actually create an atmosphere that works against sexual assault? 
it makes us squirm as we acknowledge how much we contribute to this culture — it should. but the words exchanged between students are stronger than ideas published, and they last lon­ger than lectures. 
we live at a university that encourages dia­logue, and it is time for our dialogue to encour­age the university. 
Ellen Dahlby senior Lewis Hall Sept. 1 



Erin McAuliffe 
scene writer 

The atmosphere was vibrant at the misterwives concert in covington, Kentucky, the first stop on their scrapbook Tour. in an old mansion­turned-concert venue with an upper-level allowing for full 360-degree fan engagement, misterwives didn’t know what they were in for. Tears were shed, larynxes were tested, and words were lost. 
“girls just want to have fun” — the words echoed off mandy lee’s mic and were screamed from the audience as the five male members of her band took a seat at her feet. it was obvious that this girl was here to do much more than that: This was a lady ready to have fun while making great music, engaging the audience and sending a feminist message. 
girl power is topping the music scene these days. of the many girl-fronted acts i saw this summer (alabama shakes, phoX, speedy ortiz, courtney 

By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene writer 

“our own house” — begins with slow claps over your head — a go-to. Then, when the bouncy beat picks up, go for carlton arms (see “Fresh prince of bel-air”) and fan­cy footwork — criss-cross, The spongebob, whatever suits your fancy. 
“not your way” — you will hop up and down while fist pumping like you’re The situation or something — but it will be beautiful and freeing, and you won’t be able to stop even if you wanted. There is a part where you tango and a part where you can­can, sort of like a sneaky “cha cha slide.” 
barnett, bully), misterwives serves as the perfect example of a band with a female lead singer, excess energy and collaborative chemistry. even their name, a play on polygamous marriage/ the Tlc special “sister wives,” repre­sents how intertwined they all are. 
opening with “our own house” misterwives took hold of the concert right of the bat. The look of genuine awe and excitement on their faces was a spectacle in itself. 
“i think we’re all still in the mindset of playing in new york and calling up our friends, like ‘hey, come out to the show!’” guitarist william hehir said in a phone interview for scene. 
“To see everyone from different cities, singing the words to each of our songs and having a good time. That will al­ways blow my mind; i don’t know how anyone could get jaded enough to not appreciate that.” 
not only did they clearly appreciate their fans, they reciprocated their ener­gy, and the venue lit up — even though their set merely consisted of an album cover tapestry and some leis hanging 
“reflections” — as you probably know the lyrics/have contributed to some of those 41,145,917 listens on spotify, belt ‘em out. and do some magical hand-twirls to the “you”s — you know what i mean. Think the orb: you have a magic crystal ball in your hands and you’re caressing it and see­ing the future. 
“oceans” — as the title suggests, it is a track with more relaxed, seaside vibes. This is probably just a slow head-bob, hip swing song, you’re welcome for the break. Take note of the xylophone usage while you’re head-bobbing. 
“best i can do” — The running man. That is all. “it’s the best you can do.” 
from their microphones. 
They did cartwheels on stage — no, really. and somersaults. and push-ups. They even did an encore of “uptown Funk” that was fresh, exciting and fea­tured a saxophone jam session (i am in the process of developing a petition to have that live version take over the radio rotation of the overplayed original). 
although their new-wave, raspy and twirly sound is undoubtedly unique, hehir had some shout-outs to other pop bands: “no doubt, everything from their style to their attitude and how they play music. They’re huge, especially as a female-fronted band. also, walK The moon and Foster the people.” 
as a six-member band, misterwives puts forth a musical taste that spans the board and is reflected in their music. name-dropping everyone from The police to motown to aretha Franklin as acts frequently played on the tour bus, the influences are marbled throughout the album. 
hehir described their sound as having a “colorful pop-element” that contributes to “an effin’ dance 
“hurricane” — rock back and forth and alternate raising your arms up, reflecting the tugging of the back and forth, choppy vocals. move your body like a cyclone? 
“coffins” — This song is beautiful; sit down and take it in. (psa: please don’t take this too far like Kaitlyn on “The bachelorette” and actually sit in a coffin.) 
“no need For dreaming” — hop up and down. do it now. strut around for the slow­er, tambourine-dappled vocals, snaking your elevated arms around dramatically. 
“box around The sun” — get twirly. channel your free spirit. look up at the sun. is there a box around it? probably not, but keep checking just in case. 
party” — and that sums up their vibes perfectly. 
although the concert was “10/10, would recommend,” if you don’t have the chance to see them live, blast their album and have a dance party of one or three or “no more than 10” in a dorm room. according to hehir, this is a total­ly viable option as, “one thing we focus on is to make the record as live-sound­ing as it possibly can. and i think the best way to do that is to take a song, play it live with each other, get a feel for it and then get a feel for everyone’s parts.” 
i’m as much a fan of sage The gemini’s singles on rotation at parties as the next person (okay, maybe even more than most people), but this week, save the bump and grind tunes for the next hip-hop night and freshen up your playlist with these bubbly tracks and a specialized dance guide. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Erin McAuliffe at              emcaulif@nd.edu 
“imagination infatuation” — This song has electric undertones and a catchy cho­rus; make of that what you will. 
“vagabond” — my favorite. pick a partner. walk around each other (i.e. channel actual vagabonds). sing to each other. stare each other down. get emotional. get dramatic. 
“Queens” — pick a queen, any queen — or Freddie mercury, if that’s more your style. once you’ve channeled your inner beyoncé, or heck, mandy herself, strut re­gally and remember: you’re the queen, so you rule. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at                                   emcaulif@nd.edu 


LUCY  DU | The Observer 



By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
scene writer 

Ten years later, ‘late registration’ re­veals depths of Kanye’s ambition 
while accepting the video vanguard award at the mTv vmas on sunday night, Kanye west used his speech to re­flect on the consequences that have fol­lowed every time he’s spoken his mind. This week is a fitting time for west to reflect on the subject, arriving six years since he interrupted Taylor swift at the vmas and a decade since he claimed that, “george bush doesn’t care about black people,” on a live hurricane Katrina benefit — two moments that forever altered the public perception of west. yet just as he seemed to be apolo­gizing to swift, he veered right, instead calling out mTv for capitalizing on the incident and passionately defending all the moments he’s stood up for artistry and creativity. 
“i don’t know what i’m gonna lose after this,” west concluded toward the end of his nearly 11-minute speech. “it don’t matter, though, because it ain’t about me. it’s about ideas, bro. new ideas! people with ideas! people who 

By KELLY McGARRY 
scene writer 

drug culture has become a popular theme in Tv dramas from “weeds” to “breaking bad,” and now we have a new series focusing on the cocaine industry of the ’70s and ’80s. The new netflix original series “narcos” tells the story of colombian cocaine king­pin pablo escobar as he manipulates both cocaine smugglers and govern­ment officials of multiple countries to become arguably the most infamous drug lord in history. 
The history of pablo escobar in the mendellín cartel is fascinating, and “narcos” takes advantage of the believe in truth!” 
west’s second album, “late registration,” which turns 10 years old this week, is the best illustration that a desire for new ideas has always been at the heart of his career. arriving a year and a half after “The college dropout,” still one of the most cel­ebrated debuts of the century so far, “late registration” was even better and revealed the depths of his ambition. its release was the moment when west was revealed not to be just a promis­ing newcomer but a pop music auteur, hell-bent on pushing the conversation forward at all costs. 
west’s best quality as an artist has always been his skill as a curator, his ability to reach out to the people with the best ideas and incorporate them into his vision. on “late registration,” the most inspired move was recruiting Jon brion, best known for his collabo­rations with Fiona apple, as a co-pro­ducer. rather than just regurgitating the pitched soul samples of “college dropout,” brion lent orchestral gran­deur to west’s productions; his in­volvement resulted in a rap music “pet sounds,” a baroque-inspired album 
interesting backstory to create a pro­vocative drama. The details of the historical context make the story even more intriguing, but to convey those details the show relies heavily on nar­ration. in Tv series such as “grey’s anatomy,” “dexter” and even “how i met your mother,” narration has been prevalent, but perhaps never in such a documentary style as in “narcos.” 
To allow ample time for action to fo­cus on the drama, the historical con­text is conveyed through narration. The show inserts other bits of history as well, such as the real mugshot of pablo escobar, a video of the iconic “Just say no” speech and real crime scene foot­age, which is certainly a double-edged that revels in its rich sonic palette. 
This expert curatorial sense extends to the album’s choice of guests. west coaxes out Jay Z’s best verse of the mid-aughts on the remix of “diamonds from sierra leone” (with its instantly quotable “i’m not a businessman, i’m a business, man” line) and recruits nas and cam’ron for the triumphant “we major.” he even manages to make adam levine’s white-bread croon pal­atable on “heard ‘em say.” 
“late registration” explores the contradiction that’s always been at the heart of west’s work. it’s an album where the goofy crossover hit “gold digger” — which spent 10 weeks at no. 1 
— co-exists with “crack music,” a com­mentary on crack cocaine’s effects on black communities in the 1980s. “hey mama,” an ode to his beloved mother and the most affecting track of his ca­reer, is followed on the tracklist by the hedonistic “celebration” (“it’s a cel­ebration, b*****s!”). yet, west ensures that the album coheres through the sheer force of his charismatic person­ality, which is at turns funny, sensitive, political, arrogant, self-deprecating and celebratory. 
sword when it comes to making the show realistic. successful in driving home the fact that these events trans­pired in history, these historical im­ages create a disconnect as well. when presented with the real photo of pablo escobar, the man in the series is no longer “real” to us, and it takes some time to re-engage. 
The narrator of “narcos” is u.s. dea agent steve murphy (based on a real person) who is sent to colombia on a mission to capture escobar, setting up an interesting dynamic. Though pablo escobar is in a sense the hero of the se­ries, the narration of a dea agent gives the perspective of escobar as a villain. on the whole, this series seems to pay 
This is not to say that “late registration” is a perfect album; in fact, it’s far from it. at 70 minutes, the album runs long compared to the more con­cise albums that would follow. “bring me down” and “celebration” are pure filler, while the skits, about a fictional fraternity called broke phi broke, now seem dated. 
but none of this stops west from de­claring on the final verse of “gone,” “i’m ahead of my time, sometimes years out / so the powers that be won’t let me get my ideas out.” a decade later, his pre­diction does not seem so ridiculous. The album is not west’s greatest mas­terpiece — that honor still goes to “my beautiful dark Twisted Fantasy” — but it’s perhaps most representative of his career as a whole: sprawling, imperfect and full of contradictions, yet endlessly compelling, innovative and influen­tial. west’s speech at the vmas showed that he’s never stopped arguing for his own importance, and when you listen to “late registration,” you understand why. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at       mmunhall@nd.edu 
more attention to the game than its players, focusing on the effects of their actions instead of their inner motives. 
netflix is notorious for binge-watch­ing, but this series appears to be less than binge-friendly. paying attention to the detailed narration as well as keeping up with the disordered time frame is exhausting. The subtitles that non-spanish-speakers will have to rely on also pose a huge obstacle. The se­ries is now available on netflix and is definitely worth checking out if for no other reason than to brush up on your colombian drug lord history. 
Contact Kelly McGarry at                          kmcgarry@nd.edu 


LUCY  DU | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

rebuilds pay off for patient teams 

Michael Ivey 
sports writer 
The race for october in major league baseball is heating up, and several teams are fighting for play­off spots — and with the addition of the second wild card spot, the race is more exciting than it has ever been. 
The new york mets, houston astros, Texas rangers, chicago cubs and Toronto blue Jays are all teams that missed the playoffs last year that are currently in a playoff spot, a couple of which were among the worst teams in baseball last year. yet here they are on the cusp of october. 
how might this be, you ask? several of these teams have been going through a rebuilding process over the last couple of years that are finally coming to fruition. 
let’s start with the cubs, whose championship his­tory, or lack thereof, is very well known. They had some memorable seasons nearly a decade ago under manager lou piniella, but both the 2007 and 2008 campaigns ended with postseason dis­appointment. after three bad seasons from 2009­2011, management decided they’d had enough, and owner Tom ricketts cleaned house, hiring Theo epstein to become president of baseball operations. 
epstein, who led to red sox to two world series crowns as general man­ager, promised fans that the cubs rebuild might be long, but worth it. he then hired Jed hoyer to be the cubs’ general manager and dale sveum to be the new manager. in the first three years of epstein’s term though, the cubs fin­ished last in their division. however, during that time, epstein made many execu­tive moves that focused on the future. he completely rebuilt the cubs’ minor league system, which is now considered one of the best in baseball, through great draft classes, trades and free agency. 
after two years of dale sveum and one year of rick renteria as manager, in october, the cubs hired former Tampa bay rays manager Joe maddon to take over the same position. maddon is notable for his easy-going personality and unorthodox ways of man­aging, but still, the cubs weren’t picked to be a play­off team by many before this season. 
it is now september, and the cubs have the one of the best records in baseball, even though they are cur­rently in third place in their division. several of their top prospects have made their major-league debuts this season and have made big contributions to the cubs’ playoff run. it looks like after three long years, the rebuild is finally start­ing to show some results. 
The astros are a similar story. They finished with the worst record in all of baseball for three straight years before finishing last season with the fourth-worst mark. but they spent that time working on their youth, and their bad re­cords allowed them to make several high draft picks that have completely changed their minor-league system. They’ve also made several trades and free agent sign­ings and currently sit in first place of the al west. 
The blue Jays, who haven’t made the playoffs since their world series crown in 1993, are another example. nearly six years ago, the blue Jays appointed alex anthopoulos as their new gm. during his tenure, anthopoulos has made sev­eral notable trades, includ­ing sending roy halladay to the phillies, and acquir­ing players like José reyes, mark buehrle, r.a. dickey and Josh donaldson in oth­er trades. 
in July, anthopoulos traded reyes and prospects to the colorado rockies for all-star shortstop Troy Tulowitzki and pitcher laTroy hawkins. a couple days later, he traded for all-star pitcher david price. Those moves revitalized the blue Jays, and they went on a tear in august to overtake the new york yankees for first place in the al east. 
rebuilds come in all shapes and sizes. most are long and seem like they take forever. but if you’re patient enough, the wait eventually pays off. The second half of this baseball season is proof of that. so if your team is struggling, just be patient. good things come to those who wait. 
Contact Michael Ivey at mivey@hcc-nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
OLYMPICS 
U.S. Olympic Committee picks LA as 2024 candidate 

Associated Press 
los angeles — The u.s. olympic committee on Tuesday named los angeles as its can­didate for the 2024 games, re­placing boston’s soured bid and marking a comeback for la’s dream of becoming a three-time olympic host. 
The announcement by usoc ceo scott blackmun came under a summer sun at santa monica beach, where the city’s plan calls for staging beach vol­leyball on the site where the sport was founded. 
“i want to thank los angeles for standing up, once again, as america’s bid city,” blackmun said, adding that la’s proposal squares with the olympic move­ment’s goals of watching the bottom line while investing in projects that dovetail with com­munity needs. 
mayor eric garcetti said the city was inspired to bring the games back to the u.s. for the first time in 28 years. 
“This is a quest that los angeles was made for,” the may­or said. “This city is the world’s greatest stage.” 
earlier Tuesday, the los angeles city council cleared the way for garcetti to strike agreements for a 2024 bid. The 15-0 vote came about a month after boston was dropped from contention amid shaky public support and questions about taxpayer spending and liability. 
garcetti has said los angeles, home to the olympics in 1932 and 1984, would stage games that are both spectacular and profitable. 
The city’s selection as the 
u.s. nominee marks the start of a two-year competition. The international olympic committee will pick the host city in september 2017, and rome, paris, hamburg, germany, and budapest, hungary, are also in pursuit of the 2024 games. 
“The focus needs to be on con­vincing the 55 or so ioc mem­bers that los angeles is the best city to host the olympics. That process starts immediately,” usoc chairman larry probst told reporters in a conference call. 
a key issue has been whether approval of the resolution by the city council would saddle los angeles with potential cost over­runs for an event that historically runs over budget. council mem­bers were assured repeatedly that the approval starts a nego­tiation with olympic officials and does not commit taxpayers to future spending to stage the games. 
“This is the engagement, not the wedding,” council president herb wesson said. 
The city’s 2024 plan, which outlines over $6 billion in pub­lic and private spending, calls for staging events from volley­ball on santa monica beach to mountain biking in griffith park, one of the nation’s larg­est urban green spaces. as was the case in 1932 and 1984, the memorial coliseum would serve as the centerpiece of the games. 
a so-called host city contract, which essentially sticks the city and state — not the ioc — with the burden of any cost overruns, became an obstacle in boston. 
For los angeles, negotiating and striking a host city contract would come later, if the city is se­lected to stage the 2024 games. For now, that temporarily pushes aside looming questions about costs. 
“we are in this to win it, and i think we will,” said councilman paul Krekorian. “we can’t do that at the risk of exposure to our taxpayers.” 
MLB | diamondbacKs 6, rocKies 4 
gosselin’s big day leads diamondbacks to win 


Associated Press 
denver — phil gosselin atoned for his hitless debut with a big day at the plate. 
gosselin homered and drove in four runs, patrick corbin pitched into the seventh inning and the arizona diamondbacks beat the colorado rockies 6-4 in the first game of a split doubleheader on Tuesday. 
gosselin, who was acquired in a June 20 trade with atlanta, doubled home a run in the third, and then broke it open with a three-run shot off miguel castro (0-1) in the seventh. gosselin went 0 for 4 in his first game with the diamondbacks on monday after being activated from the 60-day disabled list. 
“i’m happy (manager) chip (hale) threw me back in there,” gosselin said. “last night didn’t go how i planned or the team planned so it was good to get an early game and get back in there.” 
his three-run shot to left went an estimated 434 feet and gave arizona a 6-2 lead. it was the sec­ond home run of his career. 

“he was having trouble throw­ing strikes so i figured he would come with a fastball at 2-1,” gosselin said. “he threw it over the plate and i didn’t miss it.” 
corbin (4-3) allowed two runs 
—
 homers by dJ lemahieu in the second and Kyle parker in the fifth 

—
 and seven hits in 6 1-3 innings. The left-hander is 5-0 in his last seven starts against the rockies. 


“Just hung a couple of breaking balls and they put good swings on them,” corbin said. “Today my changeup was good. probably the first game since i’ve been back i’ve got to throw it and use it effective­ly. Fastball command was good, just a couple of breaking balls. it seems like a lot of their hits were on that.” 
colorado left-hander yohan Flande struck out five while pitch­ing five innings of two-run ball. he gave up five hits and walked three. 
The 20-year-old castro was charged with four runs in 1 1-3 innings in his colorado debut. he was acquired in the July 27 trade that sent Troy Tulowitzki to Toronto. 
“big arm,” rockies manager walt weiss said. “he left a fastball over the plate and gosselin hit it out.” 
Jarrod saltalamacchia gave arizona a 1-0 lead after a little confusion on his drive down the left-field line in the second inning. it was initially ruled foul but after a review of 1 minute, 37 seconds, the call was overturned. 
hale was ejected by home plate umpire Tim Timmons before the review. hale said something was said from the bench and Timmons tossed him. 
“once i was thrown out i had a few choice words,” hale said. “somebody said something while he was going down the line to talk the other umpires that he didn’t like. i was trying to make sure he knew i would take care of that.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2015 | The observer 


W Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
thinking on the field, yu’s first instinct in regards to her injury was wrong; there was something she could do about it. 

it certainly wasn’t easy — going through physical prob-and getting stronger. acl injuries never are — and lems and pushing through “but mentally, you weren’t yu spoke to the difficulties of things is what we’re good at. getting on the field, you dealing with the mental side so going through the work-weren’t getting touches; you of a recovery. outs and seeing myself pro-were getting fitness in, but 
“mentally, i think, was the gressively get stronger each not playing soccer, so it’s toughest part for me, com-month and seeing the physi-hard to come back out and ing back, thinking i was ca-cal numbers and things like have confidence on the ball pable,” yu said. “as athletes, that, it was good to be back and believe that i was just as 
paid adverTisemenT 

paid adverTisemenT 
good as i was before i came.” 
Though it took her two sea­sons, yu is back and figures to be an important player for the no. 6 irish as they look to make an acc title run. yu already has two goals this season, one in a 6-0 win over valparaiso and the other in a 3-0 defeat of Toledo, and credits the strong sense of support she got from the team as a reason she has been able to come back. 
“i’ve always had my team­mates there for me, telling me to just keep trying and try­ing,” she said. “There’s been times when i just wanted to give up, but i kept pushing through, and it’s just great to be back out there, espe­cially with this group of girls. i feel like we’re something special.” 
at this point though, yu said she is simply thankful not to be thinking about her knee. 
“That’s the best part about this right now,” yu said. “right now, i absolutely do not think about it. i hardly ever think about my knee, and it’s relieving and exciting to think that it’s 100 percent. 
“… i guess i’m just fortu­nate and lucky.” 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Football 
conTinued From page 16 
“i think you’re going to see them all play,” Kelly said. “i think they will all get an op­portunity to contribute in some fashion, and some may play a little bit more than others, but they are all go­ing to get a chance to be in the rotation and play, and i think saturday will largely determine how that is doled out relative to the reps.” 
as for which coach will be calling the plays for those tight ends and the rest of the offense saturday, Kelly remained reluctant to pub­licly name himself, offensive coordinator/quarterbacks coach mike sanford or asso­ciate head coach/receivers coach mike denbrock, say­ing it will be a collaboration. 
“we are all going to be working off the same play sheet,” he said. “we are go­ing to all be working off the same openers. we are going to all be working off the same down and distance sheet. so whether it’s coming out of mike or mike or brian’s lips, is really immaterial as far as i’m concerned.” 
Special teams starters 
Two true freshmen swept up starting jobs on special teams: Justin yoon at kicker and receiver c.J. sanders at punt returner. 
sanders is listed ahead of junior receiver will Fuller as the returner, which Kelly said gives the irish two speedy options on special teams. 
“we are splitting hairs probably with both of them,” he said. “and i could see us going back and forth with both of them playing. … i just think c.J. just has kind of a unique knack of break­ing some tackles and hard to find sometimes and kind of comes out of there and pops out of there. That’s why we went with him.” 
sanders is also listed at kick returner, alongside graduate student receiver amir carlisle and senior running back c.J. prosise. 
To no surprise, high school all-american Justin yoon will start for notre dame at kicker saturday, and Kelly said he hasn’t shown a drop off during his practices with the irish. 
“i was thinking that as camp wore on with the tired leg, we would see a drop in that area, but he’s been sol­id,” Kelly said. “we’ve hit him with a lot of different situations. he’s responded quite well to all of them. 
“i think the thing that stands out with me as it re­lates to him is he is so fo­cused on just doing his job. There’s not a lot of things that kind of distract him. he’s extremely focused.” 
Under the lights 
For the first time in pro­gram history, the irish will open their season with a home night game, which Kelly said has a decidedly different feel than the typi­cal 3:30 p.m. kickoff at notre dame stadium. 
“it’s just electric,” Kelly said. “whether it’s Texas or usc or michigan, the ones that i’ve experienced, it’s just a different atmosphere. so i expect it to be an electric atmosphere, one that will be memorable for everybody.” 
Though the longhorns wrapped up last season with a 6-7 record in head coach charlie strong’s first year in austin, Kelly said he antici­pates a challenge saturday. 
“should be a great test for us in an opener,” Kelly said. “These are the kind of open­ers that really test you in everything that you do. you have to be fundamentally sound. you’ve got to take care of the football. and you’re playing against qual­ity, quality athletes that are well coached.” 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 





paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2015 | The observer 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


SUDOKU | The mepham group 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
happy birthday: prepare to implement changes. recognize what you want to accomplish and envision how you are going to reach your goal. a moneymaking opportunity will arise if you hone a skill or develop a service based on something you enjoy doing. let your creative imagination lead to financial freedom. it’s up to you to make things happen. your numbers are 4, 7, 13, 21, 26, 38, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): plan out your day and you will achieve what you set out to do. Take care of unfinished business and set aside time for conversing and relaxing with someone you love to be around. strive to be your best. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): avoid being enticed into a secret affair or hiding information that puts you in an awkward position. concentrate more on broadening your outlook and sharing skills and information with others. new beginnings will be positive and enlightening. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): step up to the podium and voice your opinion. greater involvement in a group that supports a cause you believe in will enable you to make a difference. romantic opportunities will surface if you are open about your expectations. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t be bothered by what others do. explore creative hobbies or check out something unfamiliar to you. gaining knowledge will make you better equipped to take on any challenges or competitors you face. plan an exciting day trip or vacation. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t wait around when you should be making alterations that will improve your life, your position and your reputation. offer your ideas to influential people and you will get the backing you need. money will come from an unusual source. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): let your intuition take over and you will make the right choices. negotiate smartly by looking over any fine print that can affect your earning potential down the road. don’t limit what you can accomplish by settling for less now. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): do something physical. participate in an event that will allow you to get to know your peers better. a positive change is apparent if you update your image and strive to maintain a happy attitude. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): work hard, but be mindful of someone who is feeling neglected. including the people around you in whatever you do will inspire and motivate them to pitch in and help. opportunities are apparent. send out your resume or negotiate a deal. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you are in the zone. put your plans in motion and make whatever decisions are necessary to take you to the next level. This is a perfect day to start a new exercise or self-improvement program that will snap you back into shape. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): expand an interest you have and consider how you can turn your expertise into a moneymaking venture. uncertainty will prevail if you let someone play with your emotions. listen carefully and don’t give in to a manipulative situation. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): consider ways to make your money grow. invest in something that will help you make positive changes to the way you earn your living. don’t settle for a handshake -- get what you want in writing. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): be willing to share responsibilities, and only ask for the things that you absolutely need. stick to the facts and keep your life from getting too complicated. a change in your image or appearance will help boost your confidence. 

Birthday Baby: You are outgoing, adventurous and entertaining. You are energetic and eloquent. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 






make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 


FOOTBALL 

Kelly names starters for season opener 

By MARY GREEN 
assistant managing editor 
For the most part, brian Kelly said his typical monday practices are lethargic and low-energy. 
but with Texas coming to town for notre dame’s sea­son opener saturday, the irish head coach said his team was ready to go for this week. 
“it was focused,” Kelly said. “There was an intent to really work on getting better in all phases. great communica­tion. high energy. very good monday. so you know that they are starting to see the light at the end of the tunnel.” 
Kelly revealed which play­ers will start against the longhorns this weekend, with sophomore daniel cage nabbing the slot at defensive tackle left open in the wake of senior Jarron Jones’ season-ending injury in august. cage won the starting job over freshman and early-enrollee Jerry Tillery, which Kelly said in large part was due to the improvements cage made be­tween his first two seasons. 
“he’s in much better condi­tion,” he said. “he’s so much more mature, understands our defense so much better. he was always off the charts in terms of his strength and foot quickness. now he’s bringing a lot of that for much more of the game in terms of number of plays.” 

however, Kelly said Tillery will still see playing time saturday, rotating with cage and senior sheldon day, add­ing that he’s taken on a big role for a freshman by learn­ing both the nose tackle and defensive tackle positions along the line. 
“did that hurt him a little bit? maybe, possibly, because we asked him to do two things and play two different posi­tions,” Kelly said. “i think you will not know, as you watch the game, you won’t be able to count up, well, cage played more than Tillery. it’s going to be pretty seamless.” 
at the crowded tight end position, Kelly named junior durham smythe the starter over sophomores Tyler luatua and nic weishar, graduate student chase hounshell and freshman alizé Jones. 
see FooTball PAGE 14 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

yu looks to contribute in return to pitch 

By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
The anterior cruciate liga­ment, better known as the acl, is one of four ligaments that controls the knee’s movement and, along with the posterior cruciate liga­ment, ensures that the tib­ia stays behind the femur when walking or running. 
while few understand the anatomy of a torn acl, sports fans everywhere know the duration: out for the season, done, no ques­tions asked. 
once upon a time there were precious few athletes who could successfully come back from an acl injury; however, thanks to more ad­vanced facilities and reha­bilitation programs, many athletes have successfully managed to return from acl injuries — Tom brady, adrian peterson and derrick rose are a few. and now, en­tering her junior year, irish midfielder sandra yu hopes to join those ranks. 
coming into college, yu was a highly touted recruit. as a two-time gatorade ohio high school player of the year, she led her high school, walsh Jesuit, to a pair of state championships and an espn rise national championship in 2010 and was invited to camp with the u.s. under-20 women’s national Team in april 2013. 
with her impressive re­sume entering the college scene, success might have seemed assured for yu. 
however, those plans were soon derailed before her freshman season properly got underway, when yu tore her acl in an exhibition against baylor. 
“when i [injured my acl] in the first scrim­mage against baylor, i knew right away,” yu said. “i felt it, and the first thing that went through my mind was ‘acl.’ and then they called me down on the side­line, and it kind of got me thinking maybe it wasn’t [an acl tear], but then we got it checked out. my first thought was, ‘There’s noth­ing i can do about it.’” 
Known for her quick 
see w soccer PAGE 13 





