The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 42 | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
GRC hosts annual ‘A Time to Heal’ dinner 
Gender Relations Center promotes discussions about relationship violence and support 
By SELENA PONIO 
news writer 
imagine something as or­dinary as a pair of shoes transformed into a sym­bol of both solidarity and hardship. 
senior Katherine mcmanus spoke as the keynote speak­er at the gender relation center’s annual “a Time to heal” dinner wednesday night and shared her story about converse sneakers and her sister, victoria, who died as a result of dating violence. 
according to the gender relation center (grc), “a Time to heal” has been an annual event that is part of the grc’s violence prevention initiative (vpi). it was started with the thought that gathering for a meal provides a comfortable setting for an otherwise dif­ficult topic, such as relation­ship violence. 
“i know these events can be heavy and two years ago ... i would feel the same way: uncomfortable, tired, think­ing i’ve heard it all before, but most of all, thinking this 
see heal PAGE 4 




Club celebrates Dia de los Muertos 

By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
saint mary’s editor 
Junior mariana davalos said la Fuerza, a student club at saint mary’s, decided to celebrate dia de los muertos, or day of the dead, this week even though the celebration actually falls on the first two days of november. 
la Fuerza’s mission is to educate the community on hispanic cultures and issues. 
davalos, vice president of la Fuerza, said the club hosts a variety of events from year to year, including an annu­al celebration of dia de los muertos to help hispanic stu­dents share their culture with the rest of saint mary’s. 
“we want to have the same traditions since we’re not at home,” she said. “[dia de los muertos] is a very family-oriented celebration, and we want to make represent our [latina] culture by bringing it to school.” 
davalos said her family has their own way of celebrating dia de los muertos. 
“at my house, we have a photo of the virgin mary in our entryway and during 
see la FuerZa PAGE 5 


nd school of architecture awards manzano prize 
By ANDREA VALE 
news writer 

australian-born ar­chitect donald gray has been named the 2015 re­cipient of the rafael manzano martos prize for classical architecture and monument restoration, an annual award pre­sented by the notre dame school of architecture and the richard h. driehaus charitable lead Trust. 
according to a notre dame press release, gray is a spanish citizen and works out of la alpujarra. some of his notable archi­tectural work includes the urbanización la virginia in marbella, spain; las lomas del marbella club, a city hall in pitres, spain; and the hotel la Tartana in granada, spain. according to a separate release from the notre dame school of architecture, his work is generally referenced as the “marbella architectural ensembles” and has con­tributed greatly to “the en­richment and recovery of andalusian architecture.” 
“donald gray began his career at a time when ap­preciation for traditional building was at one of the lowest points, and he has succeeded in creating new spaces that inspire and 
see archiTecTure PAGE 5 


saint mary’s panel confronts lgbTQ bullying 
By MARTHA REILLY 
news writer 

as part of its campus conversations initiative, which aims to raise awareness about underrepresented soci­etal issues, student diversity board (sdb) held a discus­sion panel about lgbTQ youth bullying at saint mary’s on wednesday. 
senior angela bukur, sdb vice president, said having open discussions about this topic can help the saint mary’s community take a stand against bullying. 
“i hope this event brings to light the harming effects bul­lying has on lgbTQ youth,” bukur said. “i hope students take away more of an aware­ness about lgbTQ bullying. i want students and faculty to be in support of lgbTQ students and actively make changes to show their support.” 
bukur said sdb and the sociology club decided to coordinate this session of campus conversations to in­form students and create a safe environment for them to express their thoughts. 
“lgbTQ youth bullying is especially an important topic because of the lack of knowl­edge and awareness some people have about this issue,” she said. “The statistics are staggering, showing that 56.7 percent of lgbTQ students did 
see lgbTQ PAGE 4 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 volleyball PAGE 16 women’s inTerhall PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green 
Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 

News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu,  wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 

What are you going to dress up as for Halloween? 

Josh Meyers 


Alyssa Smith 
sophomore 

senior 
morrissey hall 

holy cross hall 
“a bunny with spider legs.” 

“a frat star.” 
Jack Ryan 


Aaron Tarnasky 
junior 

senior 
Knott hall 

off-campus 
“superman.” 

“netflix and chill.” 
Michelle Mann 


Grace Garry 
junior 

sophomore 
breen-phillips hall 

ryan hall 
“salt, a friend is being pepper.” 
“a grape.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Katie galioto alex carson Email news@ndsmcobserver.com rachel o’grady manny de Jesus Kathryn marshall victoria llorens 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
lucy du Kelly mcgarry 
Photo Viewpoint 

Syria Speaks Labor Cafe Religion Seminar All Saints’ / All Souls’ Urban Plunge 
emmet Farnan scott olehnik 

DeBartolo Performing Geddes Hall McKenna Hall Day Mass Information Session Arts Center 5 p.m.-6 p.m. 9 a.m.-12 p.m. Dillon Hall Geddes Hall 11 a.m.-12 p.m. Explore social justice Discover links 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 
Corrections 

Learn about the Syrian issues with the Higgins between religion and Spanish Mass and Day Information on winter 
The observer regards itself as refugee crisis. Labor Program. jazz in America. of the Dead celebration. break service program. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Artist Lecture ND Women’s Soccer Saturday Vigil Mass Evening Vespers Respect Life Mass 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Riley Hall of Art and vs. Virginia Tech Basilica of the Sacred Basilica of the Sacred Basilica of the Sacred 
however, recognize that we will make 
Design Alumni Stadium Heart Heart Heart 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7 p.m.-8:45 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 5 p.m.-6 p.m. 7:15 p.m.-8:15 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Thomas Berding will The Irish take on the Celebrate mass with Evening prayer in the Pray for greater 
we can correct our error. 

discuss his exhibition. Hokies. fellow students. Lady Chapel. respect for human life. 



Lecture explores 
environmentalism in ‘Laudato si’’ 
paid adverTisemenT 

By DEVON CHENELLE 
news writer 
while earth day only has a history of 45 years, the catholic church’s value of environmental­ism grounded in genesis extends back 3,400 years, dan misleh said in his lecture titled, “praised be, usa: embracing and acting on ‘laudato si’.’” 
The lecture, given wednesday night in geddes hall, was pre­sented by the center for social concerns as part of a series of talks on “laudato si’” The talk explored pope Francis’ recent encyclical and the work misleh’s organiza­tion is doing to spread awareness about the pope’s message. misleh is the founding executive director of catholic climate covenant, a group he developed out of his own house. 
There are a number of nation­al catholic organizations that work to serve the environment, and catholic climate covenant strives to collaborate with and help organize the efforts of these bodies and the bishops’ confer­ence, misleh said. 
“when we first started the or­ganization, we thought, ‘it doesn’t make sense for us to try to build a whole new infrastructure when we can work through the exist­ing infrastructure to implement climate change activities,’” misleh said. 
among the activities of the catholic climate covenant is the st. Francis pledge, misleh said, which calls for prayer, action and advocacy from those who take it. misleh said the pledge has already had substantial success in the catholic educational community. 
“i think we have about 22,000 catholic individuals [and] ... 25, 26 or 27 catholic colleges and uni­versities, including notre dame, that have taken the st. Francis pledge,” he said. 
“laudato si’,” the papal encyc­lical released in may 2015 that calls for stewardship of the earth, echoes many things said about the importance of the environ­ment by pope Francis’ predeces­sors in a blunter language, misleh said. 
“it’s for everybody,” misleh said about “laudato si’.” “it’s meant to be a teaching document for ev­eryone. not just catholics, not just bishops.” 
misleh said pope Francis used strong language in the encycli­cal when describing the effects of pollution on the earth, including phrases such as “immense pile of filth.” such strong language, misleh said, is rarely seen in papal encyclicals. 
in spreading the message of the encyclical, catholic climate covenant focused on raising pub­lic awareness of the document by working with several major stakeholders, such as the u.s. conference of catholic bishops, the u.s. military and fellow en­vironmental groups, many of which were not faith-centered, misleh said. between the time of the encyclical’s release and the pope’s visit in september, catholic climate covenant did a series of press events surrounding “laudato si’.” 
misleh said it is key to convey the message of“laudato si’” and the goals of environmentalism through persuasion and conver­sion of viewpoints, highlighting the importance of nature in the lives of individuals. 
“There are places that we can go back to that we all probably remember. perhaps it was even a profound experience of meeting god in that sacred place,” misleh said. “oftentimes, those places are outdoors.” 
Contact Devon Chenelle at dchenell@nd.edu 


DEVON CHENELLE | The Observer 

Dan Misleh, the founding executive director of Catholic Climate Covenant, lectured Wednesday night on the themes of stewardship in “Laudato si’.” 



The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

LGBTQ 
conTinued From page 1 
not report experiences of bully­ing because they doubted an investigation [would be held]. This shows that there is a lack of support for the lgbTQ commu­nity in school systems where bullying is taking place.” 
bettina spencer, chair of the psychology department, said students should make efforts to end youth bullying because its effects can harm victims for the rest of their lives. 
“These early experiences can really shape how people approach the world and how they respond to people around them,” spencer said. “it be­comes a really additive cycle.” 
according to spencer, past encounters with bullies may cause stigma consciousness, the expectation that prejudice will continue to occur, as well as other social constraints and perceived barriers that prevent people from confiding in oth­ers. The lasting outcomes of bullying can make it difficult for victims to process traumat­ic experiences, she said. 
spencer said events such as campus conversations help encourage students to support one another. 
“it starts to build a commu­nity where we can have more open dialogues,” spencer said. “having events like this is kind of the first step and also one of the best steps we can do in sup­porting lgbTQ people, peers, allies and people who have been bullied in general. i think this a great way to start really talking and having good, thor­ough discussions with each other and generate ideas and hear people’s stories.” 
Junior maranda pennington said she works to make saint mary’s a welcoming and inclu­sive environment through her involvement with the straight and gay alliance and with jus­tice education. 
“a lot of times i feel like peo­ple are uncomfortable talking about anything lgbTQ relat­ed,” pennington said. “it is hard to feel validated when your identity isn’t even recognized.” 
pennington said even mak­ing simple changes, such as using more inclusive language, can unite the saint mary’s community. 
“i want saint mary’s to truly be a place where we embrace and empower women, regard­less of any aspect of our iden­tity,” pennington said. “i think this can only be done through education, empathy and honest dialogue.” 
Contact Martha Reilly at  mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 
Heal 
conTinued From page 1 

would never happen to me,” mcmanus said. 
mcmanus said prior to her sister’s death she thought of relationship violence as a top­ic for Tv shows and movies. however, she became aware of the reality of it as she watched her parents make decisions for her sister’s funeral. 
“To dwell on my sadness or move on in honor of her life was the choice that was put before me,” mcmanus said. “my choice was love, not anger. but with this choice also came change.” 
christine gebhardt, director of the grc, talked about the importance of this annual din­ner and stories like mcmanus’. 
“This is an annual event that is a collaborative effort intend­ed to acknowledge the effects of relationship violence ... but more importantly to embrace the survivors in our communi­ty and to celebrate the commu­nity of healing that we share as a campus,” mcmanus said. 
student body president bryan ricketts talked about the immense amount of sup­port visible within the notre dame community that be­came especially evident dur­ing the sexual assault prayer services at the grotto. he then stressed the importance of community involvement and how support, rather than blame, is necessary in cases of sexual violence. 
“avoid your curiosity be­cause you’re helping a person, not an event. They will tell you when they want to,” ricketts said. “The size of your action is not important, the fact that you’re doing it is.” 
erin hoffmann harding, vice president of student af­fairs, gave the blessing for the meal and led a prayer for all those affected by the injustice of relationship violence. 
“in the breaking of bread together, we offer each other a sign of your peace as we commit to a stance of intoler­ance for those violent acts of injustice towards human dig­nity that have no place in our community and this world,” hoffmann harding said. 
mcmanus ended her key­note speech on a hopeful note by commenting on the flood of support she received from her lacrosse teammates, family and friends. 
“There are not enough ‘thank you’s’ or words in this world to express my gratitude for the love and support that i received and have continued to receive even a year and a half later,” mcmanus said. 
mcmanus said that with­out her network of support from her friends and the notre dame community, she would have had a more difficult time moving forward. she said she made the decision to love the footsteps her sister had laid out for her instead of hating the man who took her life. 
“in my laughing, my breath­ing, my loving and crying, and living, she is with me,” mcmanus said. “i could go on and on. ... my support network made the choice to help me put my life together and define my new normal. 
“it’s hard to fall apart when everyone you know wears converse sneakers to a funeral because those were your sis­ter’s favorite shoes.” 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 





Architecture 
manzano prize formed life for those they serve, a in 2010, when manzano relevant theme in light of 
conTinued From page 1 

received the richard pope Francis’ recent encyc­
h. driehaus prize from lical, “laudato si.” celebrate the traditions of notre dame and met with “The ceremony will be how we live together and driehaus in chicago. held at the real academia how we build,” michael dreihaus, according to the de bellas artes de san lykoudis, the Francis and press release, was named Fernando,” marybeth Kathleen rooney dean of by barron’s magazine as Zachariades, communi­architecture, said. “his one of the top 25 influen-cations program director story is one of heroism as tial financiers of the twen-for notre dame’s school of he persevered undaunted tieth century. he has been architecture, said. “The cer­by the popular infatua-named an honorary mem-emony will include remarks tion with the avant-garde ber of the royal academy of from prize juror and [notre and the often castigating Fine arts of san Fernando dame] alumna melissa eye of the architectural “in recognition of his work delvecchio, on behalf of establishment.” to preserve the spanish dean michael lykoudis, 
according to the press re-heritage and his outstand-juror léon Krier, richard lease, the manzano prize ing patronage.” he is the driehaus and donald gray.” honors architects “who eighth recipient of that title “as a classical archi­defend and preserve ver-and the first u.s. citizen to tecture school devoted to nacular architecture and receive the honor. the idea of humanism, we reinforce spain’s architec-according to the press believe in and teach the tural heritage.” architects release, gray will receive enduring values that tradi­“of any nationality, who 50,000 euros in award mon-tional architecture and ur­submit works that respect ey and a medal during the banism embody,” lykoudis the landscape and urban-prize ceremony, which will said. “mr. gray has made ism of spanish cities, can take place on oct. 28 in an extraordinary contribu­be candidates for” the madrid. The manzano prize tion to the idea of the in-prize. The award is named is known as “the most gen-separability of urbanism in honor of rafael manzano erous in spain in terms of its and architecture. his work martos, a cadiz-born archi-prize money.” additionally, embodies the vitruvian tect who spent his career the prize establishes a two-values of beauty, utility and working towards “the pres-day seminar to be held at durability — all of which ervation of the architec-a later time. This year’s are necessary for the cul­tural and urban heritage of seminar, “architecture and tivation and sustainabil­spain through both the res-humanism,” directly ad-ity of the built and natural toration and design of new dressed architects and en-environments.” architecture based on this couraged them to use their heritage.” occupation as a means of Contact Andrea Vale at 
The origins of the enhancing the quality of avale@nd.edu 
La Fuerza 
conTinued From page 1 
this time, my mom will put a photo of her mother on a table with fresh flowers,” she said. 
starting wednesday, the group created an “ofren­da,” or altar, in the student center atrium. davalos said students have the opportu­
“We have the chance to explain our culture and be involved with other students and to share a moment together.” 
Mariana Davalos 
vice president 
La Fuerza 
nity to add photos of their loved ones to the ofrenda. 
“in mexico, people visit cemeteries and decorate graves with flowers and can­dles, but away from home, we create altars to remember our loved ones,” she said. 
wednesday evening, the group hosted a spanish mass in holy spirit chapel in le mans hall. davalos said there will be an al­tar in the chapel to remind students about the week’s celebrations. 
Thursday during lunch, students can decorate sugar skulls or make “papel pica-do,” paper designs to deco­rate the altar. davalos said the club bought more sugar skulls this year, after run­ning out of them last year. 
“some girls decorate in honor of loved ones that passed away, and other girls just really enjoy decorating them,” she said. 
a new addition to the tra­ditional dia de los muertos celebration is the showing of a film, “The book of life,” on Friday. davalos said the film showing is co-sponsored by student diversity board and is an animated love story that provides students with a fun, engaging way to learn about dia de los muertos. 
davalos said it’s important students know that la Fuerza is not exclusive to latina students. 
“it’s just interesting to know about other cultures. For us [members of la Fuerza], it’s enriching in a way — we have the chance to explain our culture and be involved with other students and to share a moment together,” she said. 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 

Thanks, Hermione 
Catherine Owers 
associate news editor 

This semester i’m taking a class on children’s lit­erature. it’s great; i’ve never loved being an english major more. our syllabus is arranged somewhat chronologically, so we’ve started the semester reading gulliver’s Travels and will end the semes­ter with harry potter. i’m expecting it to be a very enjoyable last week of classes. 
as we began the course, the harry potter series quickly emerged in our discussions to be a general favorite, which was no surprise. i was intrigued, however, to see how often harry potter continues to be referenced in everyone’s comments, includ­ing my own. of course i knew the series was wildly popular, but i never realized how deeply it shaped our generation’s conception of childhood litera­ture. Furthermore, i discovered that i have never really stopped to examine why i love the series so much. 
i can’t remember the first time i read “harry potter and the sorcerer’s stone,” but i think i read the first few books in the series after my older sister bought them. Thanks, elizabeth. i owe you big time. regardless of when it happened, at some point i fell in love with the series without realizing it. i do remember eagerly awaiting the publication of the latter books in the series, and i definitely preordered deathly hallows. i may have possibly locked myself in my room until i finished that glorious, maddening, wonderful and emotionally exhausting final book. now, with all seven books published, i annually engage in re-reading mara­thons over the summer or during winter breaks. 
having established myself as a bona fide harry potter devotee, i guess i should return to the ques­tion — why do i like the series so much? 
some people love harry potter for the complicat­ed and satisfying plot, other people praise harry potter for its exaltation of friendship, love and self-sacrifice. and i love the series for all of these aspects, and more, but i believe a large part of my affection for the series is due to hermione granger. 
aside from providing us with some of the best lines of the series (“i hope you’re pleased with yourselves. we could all have been killed — or worse, expelled.”), the female protagonist gave us the idea that girls could be intelligent, could have the same adventures as the boys and be interest­ing, complicated people. hermione is a multidi­mensional character with her own passions, like campaigning for the rights of oppressed minority groups, and shortcomings, like being a bit of a know-it-all. 
maybe these are simple qualities, but i don’t believe they were ever really articulated in chil­dren’s literature the way J.K. rowling did through hermione granger. Jo march, dorothy gale, laura ingalls, lucy pevensie, and nancy drew served as important role models in my book-filled child­hood, and in many ways hermione is a culmina­tion of the best in these girls. she’s the fictional character i most want to be friends with; she’s the fictional character i want to be. 
so, thanks, hermione. Thanks for reading hogwarts: a history, for punching draco malfoy, for confounding cormac mclaggen. Thanks for showing us that books and cleverness have their uses, but they can never trump friendship and bravery. 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Chalk wars for life or choice? 
Jennifer Vosters 
belleview 

saint mary’s sidewalks were more controversial than usual this week. smc right to life club covered them with quotes from popes, messages supporting life and their signature statement: “respect women, respect children, respect life.” by Tuesday, most of the sidewalk messages had been amended or part­nered with messages promoting the right to choose, encouraging women to empower other women’s choices, declaring that lives of minorities and women 
— “not just fetuses” — need defending. 

i guess i’m grimly supportive of the “pro-life”/“pro­choice” debate working its way into the mainstream campus conversation — we are a women’s college, af­ter all — but also annoyed to tread upon the women’s movement’s biggest weakness just to get to class. The split between “life” and “choice,” terms that exude punch over any real meaning, has divided what could otherwise be a colossal force in the face of discrimi­nation and inequality. both “sides” — in creating “sides” at all, in sweeping themselves into the polar­izing cesspool of the american political arena — miss the point. yes, we need to talk — and chalk — about it. but we write the same old arguments onto our side­walks, convincing no one, listening to no one. The conversation hasn’t just stalled; it’s stopped altogeth­er, with neither side giving any more thought to their own ideas than to the other. 
The saint mary’s chalk exchange sadly demon­strates this stalemate. Forums for expressing ideas 
— like sidewalks — have become soapbox battle­grounds, while meaningful discussion between friends, peers, family members and classmates has ceased. The reminders that “every life is precious” were clearly not meant to spark a debate, but when confronted with impassioned replies of “women should empower each other’s choices,” neither side could make any headway with the other. of course every life is precious. of course women should em­power each other. affirmations are not arguments. anti-abortion activists are not trying to limit or disen­franchise women. pro-choice activists are not wanton killers. instead of spewing verses, quotes and apho­risms, we need to reignite real discourse, a true give­and-take of opinion and information about “life” and “choice,” so these terms can have meanings again, meanings that don’t pit two necessities against each other. 
if the anti-abortion community wants a real discus­sion, it needs to abandon the same rhetoric that has long fallen on deaf ears. like it or not, quoting celibate men who in turn quote christian scripture — or quot­ing men from privileged backgrounds who have no concept of the difficulties of unplanned pregnancy 
— isn’t effective. Quote women, quote mothers and fathers, quote doctors and scientists. appeal to logic over emotion. There are plenty of biological, philo­sophical and sociopolitical bases for an anti-abortion stance that don’t require subscribing to a certain spirituality or belonging to a certain demographic. and before you call yourself “pro-life,” consider what else besides abortion you need to oppose to deserve that title: capital punishment, poverty, hunger, gun violence, sexual violence, ableism, racism, sexism, xe­nophobia and homophobia — intolerance of all kinds. only then can “anti-abortion” become truly “pro-life.” 
Those in support of the abortion option, likewise, need to reexamine their arguments. abortion isn’t a question of equal rights. There is no male equivalent to the right to abortion that women are denied. using “equality” as a pro-choice platform overshadows the actual inequalities facing women: the gender pay gap and the glass ceiling as well as underrepresentation in government positions, sTem careers, literature, art, theatre and film. 
lumping all issues concerning women into one abortion-stamped package — that every feminist must support or be kicked out of the club — does not empower women to make their own choices at all. Those who are anti-abortion are not anti-feminist, and abortion is not a cure-all for women’s rights viola­tions in this country. emblazoning “abortion” at the top of every list of injustices against women implies that — like generations of patriarchal societies before us — society cares more about the female reproduc­tive system than the female mind, heart or spirit. we are reduced to walking wombs, with no thought or care for anything else. To be “pro-choice” over “pro­abortion” demands respecting choices and opinions that are at odds with your own. 
so, saint mary’s chalkers, i agree with what you’ve written. all of you. because “women empowering women” means respecting each other enough to find the common ground that always exists. it means see­ing the wisdom and worth of your opponents even if you don’t agree with their stance. i don’t believe that protecting life and defending liberty are so diametri­cally opposed that we must stand up and dismiss instead of sitting down to discuss. surely we can agree that every life is precious. surely we can agree that women should support each other. and surely we can agree that we don’t need to agree in order to be re­spected, welcomed and heeded. 
Jennifer Vosters is a senior living in Le Mans Hall. She is an English major with minors in theatre and Italian. She can be reached at jvoste01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Never far from home 
Michael Fliotsos 
retained reflections 

another post-fall break notre dame homecoming, another stream of “how was your fall break?” inqui­ries. oddly enough, my response to this question seems to change each time i share it. after schedul­ing a few interviews over break to minimize my time away from school and to maximize my time to actu­ally explore the cities i was visiting, i wasn’t quite sure how i would be able to answer this question when i got back: would i be tired? stressed? happy? behind? 
my fall break turned out to be roughly equal parts busy, fun, productive, and even relaxing, despite the fact that i spent the vast majority of it in airport termi­nals and boeing and embraer airplanes. From eating more mcdonald’s in a week than the average person should to understanding the vast gaps in my airport­map-reading proficiency, i — who before this fall break had only been in an airport a number of times that could fit on two hands — became increasingly familiar with the culture of commercial air flight. my slight preference for the aisle seat was solidified as a necessity with each additional flight, and i began to understand the various iterations of “pretty please?” that would convince the flight attendant that it was completely fine to give me the entire can of Fresca for our hour-long flight. 
There was one aspect of my travel choices this past week that made the process of flying much easier, and it came from a decidedly unexpected source. no, it wasn’t the ability to check-in on the delta app and load my boarding passes to my iphone’s passbook, although that certainly was helpful. and no, it also wasn’t wearing slip off shoes to make the Tsa security check process quicker. rather, it turns out that the bits and pieces of the impressive array of notre dame ap­parel i have cultivated after three and a quarter years of being a student here provided the greatest source of comfort in navigating airports throughout the week. 
whether it was a family of five at the Fort wayne international airport whose youngest member is determined to play football for notre dame when he grows up or the class of ‘69 alumni reflecting on his days in dillion on a connecting flight from detroit to bradley, i found a relieving sense of comfort in being able to connect with these strangers while traveling to completely unfamiliar places. as my own version of dorothy’s ruby red slippers, something as simple as a T-shirt or crew-neck sweater allowed me to take a momentary trip back home when i was on the road. even though i didn’t know these people and would very likely never see them again, this past week i was reminded time and time again that the notre dame family we share is far broader than i previously 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Race does matter 
on a functioning plantation, shotgun-wielding white men on horses, dubbed “freemen” by their enslaved wards, oversee the work of cotton-picking young black men. when, if ever, these men are re­leased from their forced labor, they will return to the poor, completely segregated neighborhoods that formerly housed their slave ancestors. They will be unable to vote. before they can save enough money to buy the bootstraps by which they are told to pull themselves up, they will likely be again deprived of their liberty by technical restrictions akin in their overwhelming complexity to the nexus of post-recon­struction legislative impediments imposed on their ancestors. 
such is the lot of the survivors of american hyper-incarceration. in the present day, we are content with the fact that millions of african-american children will grow up fatherless, permanently marginalized, and for some, looking forward to the real possibility of functional enslavement by the state. nonetheless, they will apparently have been classified, in ac­cordance with the suggestion of mr. neil Joseph, by “what they can control.” i must therefore respectfully disagree with his assertion that the mere avoidance of stereotype-based judgments divorced from individual merit is the best starting point for improving race relations. 
rather, we must realize that race aggressively con­ditions the formation of individual identities and possibilities to such a degree that even the work of individual policies like race-based affirmative action is insufficient to make up for a lack of positive, sorrow- and empathy-driven, reconciliation-seeking action on the part of the privileged. This action necessarily begins with a dialogue that acknowledges our black brothers and sisters as most fully who they are: not an amalgamation of behaviors and choices, but fellow community builders formed in part by the experience imagined. 
going further, this phenomenon wasn’t limited to the airport terminal. even in business formal at­tire during interviews — where my affiliation with nd was far less apparent than when i was decked out head-to-toe in the airport — the notre dame name evokes both personal stories (“i remember the campus was unbelievably beautiful in the fall!”) and those of close friends and family members who have been touched by notre dame in one way or another. reflecting on these stories makes me smile, giving me a few more items to add to the long list of reasons why i am so fortunate to attend this school that means so much to so many, and in so many different ways. so, even after a crazy busy break where i was only physi­cally present in my home for a grand total of 54 hours, i was still left feeling rejuvenated and ready to tackle the remainder of my final fall semester. The lesson i learned this break is one many have already real­ized — there is no such thing as too much notre dame apparel. 
Michael Fliotsos is a senior science-business major currently living in Duncan Hall. He would sincerely ap­preciate emails with feedback or suggestions for future topics at mfliotso@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
of race on whom the privileged depend for the mutual flourishing of all. 
a discussion of stereotypes, when divorced from the reality of structural violence they help to maintain, is simply not very useful, preventing robust cross-cultural community building by blinding citizens to that privilege which is an empirical reality and absolving all parties of responsibility for the racially conditioned violence done by the state in their names. when faced with the reality of american incarcera­tion rates, relative life spans across races and relative social mobility, we are forced to conclude, in a spirit of humility, that it does not matter — as much as we thought it did — what we find to be true based on pure reason divorced from the experience of others. 
Daniel Passon 
senior oct. 26 

Join the honor code conversation 
dear Fellow students, 

if you were to ask a group of notre dame students how we build a sense of community here, many would likely talk about residence hall events, dorm masses, service projects and extracurricular activities. among the most popular answers you would probably not hear much about the academic code of honor. however, commit­ment to academic integrity is — and ought to be — at the heart of the idea of a university community. 
academic integrity is, fundamentally, about respect for our classmates and teachers and about driving ourselves and others to grow not only intellectually, but morally and spiritually as well. Thus, especially at a catholic university like notre dame, the codes and procedures designed to promote academic integrity have a pastoral, and not merely academic, purpose. while perhaps less visible than dorm events and extracurriculars, commit­ment to academic integrity is a crucial part of what the notre dame community is and aspires to be. 
This year, the university code of honor committee (uchc) is partnering with the student government to develop several avenues by which students can share their thoughts on what academic integrity means, on the extent to which academic dishonesty is an issue on cam­pus and on how well the student body understands the standards and procedures contained in the academic code of honor. The uchc is also particularly interested in discussing with students whether it should revise the code of honor’s procedures for adjudicating and resolv­ing cases of alleged academic dishonesty. by the end of the current school year, the uchc will use the insights gained from these conversations with students and fac­ulty to propose any necessary revisions to the academic code of honor and to develop new strategies to edu­cate the notre dame community about the norms and procedures the code contains. (To review the current academic code of honor, please see honorcode.nd.edu) 
Keep an eye out in the coming weeks for information from the student government about how to get involved in the campus-wide conversation on academic integ­rity. The uchc and student government are currently planning a series of informal coffeehouse conversations to give students a chance to share their perspectives. For those of you who will not be able to attend one of these conversations, we invite you to post your ideas on onward (found at studentgovernment.nd.edu), tagged with the word “honor.” we welcome your answer to the question, “how can we improve the academic code of honor and raise awareness among students about how it applies to our classes?” as well as any other thoughts on how we, as a university, can deepen our commitment to academic integrity. 
Abby Davis 

student co-chair university code of honor committee oct. 27 

The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

on its surface the album cover to Joanna newsom’s latest lp “divers” is de­ceptively simple. it lacks any semblance of her appearance, unlike all of her pre­vious three elaborate, genre-influenced album covers, and instead depicts a colorful, flowery riverbank, or possibly a mountain cliff. still, the fog that domi­nates the middle third of the image com­plicates an otherwise straightforward picture; it is wholly unclear what lies behind the thick clouds that fall over the majority of the cover’s scenery. 
much in the same vein as their covers, the music to newsom’s albums exhibits a similar relation. Foregoing the intricate syncopation and polyrhythms of 2004’s “The milk-eyed mender,” the epic folk tales of 2006’s “ys,” and the sprawling tri­ple-lp length of 2010’s “have one on me,” “divers” neatly floats by on its 52-minute, 11 normal-length tracks. as each song passes it’s easy to take for granted their delicate beauty and prescribe them just as such. but, like the album’s foggy cover, newsom’s dense lyrical content and in­tricately choreographed instrumenta­tion complicate “divers’” vast musical landscape. 
in recent interviews, newsom detailed the complex making of the album, giv­ing small insights into the five-year pro­cess — the longest period she has taken in between albums in her career. For The Fader, the singer-songwriter described a chart she used to write “leaving the city,” the album’s most single-like track. The song’s chorus, which shifts it from quiet, harp-led chamber music to a roar­ing, drum-backed tour de force, required interior rhymes to emphasize the down­beat, counterpoint syllabic emphases and exterior rhymes to anchor each in­dividual line. somehow newsom pulls all of this off, her soaring lyrics effort­lessly climaxing atop lush horns, dancing strings, shimmering keys and bursting drums. 
often, newsom shows a verbal com­mand and lyrical prowess akin to an unlikely point of comparison, rapper Kendrick lamar — which is not as sur­prising after reading she prefers contem­porary rap to indie music, currently. in the first verse of the waltzy “sapokanikan” alone, she juggles varied rhyme schemes (“The cause is ozymandian / The map of sapokanikan”) with alliteration (“is sanded and beveled / The land lone and leveled”), while playing with her lines’ syllables for rhythmic effects. meanwhile, each individual instrumen­tal contribution is meticulously com­posed and keenly placed, all serving an equally important purpose in the grand scheme of the album. what on the sur­face appears to be her most straightfor­ward work reveals in close listen to be one of her most carefully constructed. 

on the first few listens, like on newsom’s previous works, bits and pieces of her lyrics rise to the surface. it’s all that can hope to be made out of her dense poetics without the benefit of familiarity and close, repeated scrutiny of a lyric sheet. as a result, beautiful sen­tentiae like “Time is just a symptom of love,” coming from album closer “Time, as a symptom,” must be ascribed a more personal meaning by the listener, who latches on to them like lifesavers in stormy waters in hopes not to drown. at the same time, these short lines provide clues to larger narratives meticulously weaved by newsom. The two possibly di­verging concepts coalesce by newsom’s ability to tell ornate, intimate stories while implanting universally affecting sayings throughout, ones that can — and often do — also exist entirely on their own. 
The most immediate of these comes about three-quarters through the album. newsom repeats the mantra, “you will not take my heart alive,” during the song of the same name, and at first it sounds like a battle cry shielding herself from would-be romantic suitors. however, in the context of her general explanations of the album’s running concepts, it morphs into an idea surmised as, “if i fall for you, only death will do us part.” 
Joanna newsom has stated that the album is thematically about the concept of time, especially considering the way it transforms as a result of dedicating all that you have of it to another person. another line that pops out ahead of its peers is the repeated “Time is taller than space is wide,” from the sci-fi storytelling on “waltz of the 101st lightborne.” while scientifically incorrect, the futuristic ad­age speaks to the spiritual importance the vastness of time has over the physi­cally larger space with which it exists. no matter how expansive space continues to become, the passage of time guaran­tees that ideas, feelings, emotions will re­peat themselves. with “divers,” newsom compiles these concepts into a unified piece of work, as relevant to hundreds-year old lenape villages and world war ii infantry divisions as to contemporary lovelorn listeners and futuristic time-traveling colonies. 
Contact Matt McMahon at                              mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
“Divers” 
Joanna Newsom 
Label: Drag City 
Tracks: “Sapokanikan,” “Leaving the City,” “Divers” 
If you like: Devendra Banhart, Grizzly Bear, Julia Holter 


LUCY DU | The Observer 


By ADAM RAMOS 
scene writer 

within the past two years, los angeles­based musician garrett borns has been on the rise. after the release of last year’s lp “candy” borns — affectionately, “bØrns” — began garnering attention for his ethereal blend of psychedelic and electro-glam pop. The michigan native takes his name from the danish word for children, an appropriate moniker. with the october 16th release of borns’ debut album “dopamine,” borns stays true to his name, crafting an album that revels in the dreamy haze of childhood nostal­gia; an experience equal parts amusing and cathartic. 
i, like most of borns’ early follow­ing (including Taylor swift) was intro­duced to “candy” earlier last year and was hooked almost instantly. infectious 
By NICK LAUREANO 
scene writer 

steven spielberg knows how to start a film. From the blood-soaked beaches of normandy in “saving private ryan,” to the hectic, holographic offices of the pre-crime division in “minority report,” spielberg’s films have a rich tradition of opening with spectacular set pieces. set pieces that are often big­ger and noisier than anything seen in a bond film, yet also more narratively and technically nuanced. in regards to this tradition, his new film, “bridge of spies,” is both recognizably spielbergian and surprisingly fresh. 
The film’s opening depicts a non-chase chase. an elderly painter leaves his brooklyn apartment, easel in tow, and settles on a bench in the purlieu of the brooklyn bridge. it turns out painter is merely the guise behind which this man — or, should i say, this spy — op­erates, as the park bench is the site of a dead drop. classified documents switch hands, and the painter returns home. realizing half a dozen men in grey flannel suits are in tail, he meanders through backstreets and subway sta­tions. The opening minutes of “bridge of spies” are some of the tensest on screen this year. 
The level of technical mastery on display here can only be attributed to a handful of living directors, so it is no surprise spielberg is at the helm. The element that truly dazzles, however, is — to say it lightly — borns’ rich synth sounds and swinging falsettos are hard to pass on. yet at only 4 songs, “candy” could only satisfy so much of my pop fill, and i began religiously checking all my sources for new releases. Thankfully, my wait ended last week, and after rip­ping through “dopamine” on my daily walks from carroll to debartolo (approx. 8 hours, give or take), it seems my pop fill will be long-satisfied. 
borns’ ability to effortlessly craft suave pop jams stands at the cornerstone of the album, showcased on songs like “10,000 emerald pools,” “Fool” and of course the already-hit, “electric love.” yet, what is so distinct about the newcomer’s blend of pop is its dynamism. presently, the bane of most indie-pop albums has been homogeneity and tedium, yet in “dopamine,” every song provides new insights and perspectives. while pop 
spielberg’s restraint. he allows the scene to take its time; it unfolds at an almost excruciating pace. it’s a strategy beyond the scope of lesser directors, who would either direct the scene with clichéd verve or neuter any semblance of ten­sion in an attempt to capture the con­trarian quiet spielberg does. of course there are no superfluous camera moves or edits — this is steven spielberg, not michael bay, after all. but where “saving private ryan” and “minority report” opened with a certain loud immediacy, the opening of “bridge of spies” is near­ly silent, evoking the studied tension of films like “no country For old men” and “There will be blood.” The camera is often handheld, but never disorients the viewer like it did in passages from “saving private ryan.” 
This is not to say that “bridge of spies” is better than spielberg’s reigning two best films (it’s not, all hail “minority report”). “minority report” in particu­lar offered only a taste of its inventive­ness in its opening scene. “bridge of spies,” on the other hand, fails to ful­fill the promise of its opening. in fact, it is not until we reach the eponymous bridge nearly two hours later, in a scene that evokes the climax of “The bridge on the river Kwai,” that the film even ap­proaches the heights reached by that non-chase chase. Joel and ethan coen penned the script, and it seems they’ve picked up a few bad habits from aaron sorkin. Too much of the film merely depicts characters conversing (read: may be at the core of the album, soul, funk, brooding rock and glam permeate throughout, proving to be entertaining exploration. 

in many of the new songs, borns inves­tigates subtly, showcasing his songwrit­ing ability and artistic range. one such moment comes in “american money” 
— “we carved our love in the mountain­side/ we soaked our hearts in the rain/ and i, waited my life, for you.” borns mus­es over a chorus of ominous synth beats and a simple drum pad loop, reminiscent of lana del rey’s recent “honeymoon.” similar to del rey, borns has the rare ability to readily transition back and forth from these slow, soulful moments to catchy pop sing-a-long choruses. soul doesn’t mean boring, and subtlety doesn’t mean simple on “dopamine.” 
The strongest moment on “dopamine” comes early in the title track, “10,000 
preaching) in dark rooms. 
and yet, “bridge of spies” is a beau­tiful film. cinematographer Janusz Kaminski imbues the film with the same gritty texture as “war horse” and “lincoln” (two of spielberg’s other beautiful but simply adequate movies). The lighting is expressive almost to a fault—certain scenes overuse hues a la douglas sirk. 
as a cold war era thriller, “bridge of spies” addresses themes of identity and duplicity. (because don’t all non-bond spy flicks?) a russian spy, abel, is cap­tured and persecuted for crimes against the state. aren’t there americans doing the exact same thing in russia? (where, ironically, abel is considered a hero.) a lawyer — Tom hanks in a superb turn as Tom hanks — provides legal defense for abel. hanks’s character is promptly called a traitor … for keeping his oath to uphold the constitution. spielberg perfectly captures the tension between our different identities — war hero ver­sus spy, lawyer versus traitor — and our environments with the film’s open­ing shot. abel looks in the mirror as he paints a self-portrait. Three versions of the man are on display, each essentially the same, yet slightly different. looking at this near-perfect visual distillation of the film’s themes, i was immediately reminded of mimesis: the idea that art imitates life. abel’s portrait literally im­itates life, or, more precisely, life’s mir­ror image. “bridge of spies” itself, with its “inspired by true events” script, also emerald pools.” meticulously layering rich synths and wispy guitar riffs, borns accompanies the track with an irresist­ible plea of falsetto mastery, “you’re all i need to breathe.” The song crescendos to one of the most powerful moments on the album in the chorus, a chorus — to the chagrin of my roommates — one can’t help but belt out. 
yet it is important to remember that “dopamine” is still a debut album, a great debut, but a debut nonetheless. The album has some minor growing pains, but if anything it means we have more to look forward to. whether this means adventuring with new mediums or col­laborating with new artists, with borns’ remarkable talent and impressive start the possibilities are almost endless. 
Contact Adam Ramos at aramos6@nd.edu 
imitates life (or at least claims to). more notable, however, is its imitation of other films. in its seriousness, dramatic tone, length, darkness of themes, period setting, and of course, its “inspired by true events” script, “bridge of spies” im­itates its predecessors in the “prestige picture” (read: oscar bait) sub-genre. 
“The imitation game,” “The Theory of everything,” “american sniper,” “selma,” “The wolf of wall street,” “philomena,” “dallas buyers club,” “captain phillips,” “12 years a slave,” “lincoln,” “Zero dark Thirty,” “argo” and “django unchained.” in the last three years half of the films nominated for the academy award for best picture have been based on true stories. (well, not “django” … just checking if you are paying attention.) half of these films are also period pieces. Two of those true-story period pieces, “argo” and “12 years a slave,” won best picture. and, with the exception of “The wolf of wall street,” none of these films are all that great. can it really be that hollywood can’t come up with good original sto­ries at a rate greater than history can? apparently not, as each october ushers in a parade of movies that wear their “inspired by true events” badges with misguided pride. writers have the abil­ity to create worlds — to be gods — yet they keep imitating that which has al­ready happened. 
Contact Nick Laureano at nlaurean@nd.edu 
LUCY DU | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

expect wild coaching carousel 

Michael Ivey 
sports writer 
This college football sea­son has been unlike any in recent memory in terms of coaching changes. it isn’t even november yet and there are already seven Fbs college foot­ball programs that are look­ing for a future head football coach: usc, miami, illinois, maryland, south carolina, north Texas and central Florida. That number will probably rise when the season ends. 
miami fired head coach al golden on sunday after a 58-0 blowout loss to clemson at home the previous day. The last five years, golden led the hurricanes to an overall record of 32-25, including a 4-3 record through the first seven games this season. miami named tight end coach larry scott as the interim head coach. a number of names have already been mentioned as the pos­sible replacement for golden, including butch davis, who coached the hurricanes from 1995 through 2000. Former nFl pro bowl safety ed reed has already said he would be interested in becoming the new head coach. despite no previous coaching experience, reed played for the hurricanes from 1998 to 2001 and helped them win a national champi­onship in 2001. 
back in august, a week be­fore the college football sea­son was scheduled to begin, illinois fired head coach Tim beckman. beckman was fired over allegations of mistreating his players and forcing them to play while injured. during the three years he was head coach at illinois, beckman led the team to a 12-25 overall record. offensive coordinator bill cubit was named the in­terim head coach for the 2015 season. so far, cubit has led the Fighting illini to a 4-3 re­cord through seven games this season. 
This season has been so crazy that four head coaching vacancies were opened over the course of three days. 
steve sarkisian was fired as usc head coach oct. 12, a day after he took a leave of ab­sence to deal with an alcohol problem. The last two seasons, sarkisian led the Trojans to a 12-6 record, including a 3-2 record through the first five games of this season. offensive coordinator clay helton was named the interim head coach. 
randy edsall was fired as head coach at maryland on oct. 11. Through the last five years, edsall led maryland to an overall record of 22-33, including a 2-4 record in the first six games of this season. offensive coordinator mike locksley was named the in­terim head coach for the rest of the season. 
north Texas fired dan mccarney oct. 10. Through the last five years, mccarney led the mean green to an overall record of 22-32, including an 0-5 record to begin this season. offensive coordinator mike canales was named the in­terim head coach for the rest of the season. 
This season has also seen the ends of a couple of legend­ary coaching careers. 
steve spurrier announced he was retiring as the head coach at south carolina ef­fective immediately oct. 12. spurrier has been a head coach for the last 28 years and has coached a number of teams, including duke from 1987 to 1989, his alma mater, Florida, from 1990 through 2001, the nFl’s washington redskins from 2002 to 2004, and the gamecocks from 2005 until this year. he led Florida to a national championship in 1996. in the last 11 seasons, spurrier led the gamecocks to an overall record of 86-49, including a 2-4 record to start this season. assistant coach shawn elliot was named the interim head coach for the rest of the season. 
george o’leary resigned as head coach at ucF on sunday. o’leary had coached the Knights for the past 12 years, leading them to an overall record of 81-68. he led the Knights to a bcs bowl win just two years ago, when his Knights beat baylor in the Fiesta bowl, but started this season with an 0-8 record. 
expect this offseason to have one of the most memo­rable coaching sweepstakes of all time. The number of job va­cancies will continue to grow, and there are a number of young coaches who are look­ing to take the next step. some of the names being thrown out as potential new coaches for these programs are memphis head coach Justin Fuente, Temple head coach matt rhule, houston head coach Tom herman, Toledo head coach matt campbell and even philadelphia eagles head coach chip Kelly. expect these coaches to take the next step in their coaching careers, and expect these major programs to battle over who gets who. 
Contact Michael Ivey  at mivey@hcc-nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NBA | heaT 104, horneTs 94 
Heat top Hornets in season opener as Bosh returns 
Associated Press 

miami — Throughout the preseason, the miami heat kept being questioned about whether they had enough 3-point shooting. 
The answer, on opening night, was a resounding yes. 
chris bosh scored 21 points in his return after being forced to the sideline last February because of a blood clot and pneumonia, the heat took control with a 26-6 run fueled mostly by reserves in the sec­ond quarter and held on late to beat the charlotte hornets 104-94 in the season opener for both teams on wednesday night. 
dwyane wade scored 20 points, gerald green added 19 off the bench and luol deng scored 13 for miami. 
charlotte cut a 20-point defi­cit to five in the final minute, but deng’s 3-pointer with 38.8 seconds left helped seal the win and cap a 12-for-20 night for miami from behind the arc. 
The heat had 47 games last season with 20 3-point tries or more — and none of those games saw miami as good from long range as it was wednesday. 
al Jefferson scored all of his 17 points in the first half for charlotte, which cut a 20-point second-half deficit to five in the final minute. Kemba walker led the hornets with 19 points, Jeremy lin scored 17 and marvin williams had 10 points and 10 rebounds for the hornets. 
bosh said the game would carry no extra significance for him after his health scare, say­ing it was a thing of the past. he was his typically animated self, gesturing to fans as miami was in control in the fourth quarter and addressed the sellout crowd shortly before tip-off to thank them for their prayers and support during his absence. 
“it’s been awhile, huh?” bosh said, prompting the fans to roar. 
it was the first time bosh, wade, deng, goran dragic and hassan whiteside — the lineup assembled for miami’s playoff push last February — played together in a game that counted. 
but throughout the pre­season, the heat second unit has been all the rage, and it showed why. 
down 35-28 midway through the second quarter, the heat went up 54-41 after a barrage of 3-pointers — rookie Justise winslow got his first nba points on a 3 and a dunk to start the big run, then bosh connected from beyond the arc and green made back-to­back 3s to push miami to what was then its biggest lead. 
Tip-ins 
hornets: Jefferson topped 17 first-half points only twice last season, scoring 18 before half­time on dec. 17 and dec. 22. ... The hornets’ first timeout of the season paid immediate dividends: They turned an 8-2 deficit into a 10-8 lead out of that stoppage. 
heat: miami is now 14-0 at home against charlotte, in­cluding playoffs, since Jan 2, 2010. ... wade passed isiah Thomas for no. 53 on the nba’s all-time scoring list when he made a free throw with 8:26 left in the third quarter. Thomas scored 18,822 points in his hall of Fame career. ... The win was the 200th home regular-season victory for heat coach erik spoelstra (200-80). 
Stoudemire out 
heat F amare stoudemire was held out of the game, part of what the team is calling “re­habilitative recovery” to pre­serve his knees. stoudemire says he expects to play Friday when miami makes its only trip to cleveland this season. “we’re being cautious about the way i approach the game, and making sure i’m healthy for big games and playoffs,” stoudemire said. 
New faces 
lin, nic batum Frank Kaminsky and spencer hawes made their first official appear­ances for charlotte. winslow and green became the 218th and 219th players to get into a game for the heat. 

NBA | cavaliers 106, griZZlies 76 
Love leads Cavaliers past Grizzlies in rout 
Associated Press 

memphis, Tenn. — Kevin love had 17 points and 13 re­bounds, richard Jefferson had 14 points and the cleveland cavaliers built a big early advantage and wrecked the memphis grizzlies’ season opener with a 106-76 victory wednesday night. 
cleveland capitalized on memphis’ shooting woes, building a double-digit lead in the first quarter and extending the margin to 32 in the fourth. The cavaliers lost their season opener to the bulls 97-95 on Tuesday night. 
lebron James, Jared cunningham and matthew dellavedova had 12 points each, with James 4 of 13 from the field. Jefferson was five of six, including all three 3-point tries, part of cleveland shooting 45 percent from be­yond the arc. 
Zach randolph and marc gasol led the grizzlies with 12 points apiece. gasol and Tony allen (six points) were the only memphis players to make at least half their shots, and the grizzlies shot 35 percent. 
memphis erased part of the cleveland first-half ad­vantage, but the deficit was just too deep to overcome. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
FOR SALE 

Executive family home in the country on 10 acres, fin­ished pole barn, 5 bed 3 ½ 
bath,Edwardsburg  schools,  
68620  Leet  Rd.  Niles,  MI  
269-684-0885  $354,900  

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 
High School Geometry tutor. Flexible hours. Call 574-360-6910 
Halloween was confusing. All my life my parents said, “Never take candy from strangers.” And then they dressed me up and said, “Go beg for it.” I didn’t know what to do. I’d knock on people’s doors and go, “Trick or they dressed me up and said, “Go beg for it.” I didn’t know what to do. I’d knock on people’s doors and go, “Trick or treat.” “No, thank you.” 
- Rita Rudner 



MEN’S GOLF | Jerry murray/waTerville inviTaTional 
Notre Dame travels to Ireland, places fifth at invitational 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame traveled to waterville, ireland, over the break to compete in the Jerry murray/waterville invitational, where it fin­ished fifth in the six-team field. 
a trio of american univer­sities, notre dame, Texas a&m and unc-wilmington, joined a trio of irish univer­sities, maynooth, ulster and university college dublin, to compete at the three-round event. 
over the three days, notre dame shot a 76-over-par 940 and posted its lowest score, a 16-over-par 304, in the first round of play Thursday. 

Freshman ben albin led the irish on day one with a three-over-par 75, while a pair of five-over-par 77s from juniors matthew rushton and blake barens gave the irish three team players un­der the 80-stroke mark. 
on day two, rushton post­ed the low score for notre dame, an eight-over-par 80, while barens shot a 10-over­par 82 and albin struggled, carding a 13-over-par 85 on Friday. 
saturday’s final round saw rushton (six-over-par 78) and barens (seven-over-par 
79) creep back under the 80-stroke mark, while albin hit it on the nose, carding an eight-over-par 80. 
rushton’s tournament ended at 19 strokes over par, placing 18th, while barens (22nd) and albin (29th) fin­ished 22 and 24 strokes over, respectively. 
after a pair of 14-over­par 86 rounds Thursday and Friday, freshman Kevin conners rebounded saturday to shoot a final-round, five-over-par 77 to conclude his tournament. 
competing as individuals, sophomore Thomas steve and junior liam cox each placed in the top 30, carding 23- and 24-over scores for the tournament, respectively, while senior Zach Toste and Jens verhey each finished in the top 40. 
maynooth won the tour­nament with a team score of 904, while Texas a&m finished 12 strokes back as the top american finishing school. 
maynooth also had the tournament’s medalist, as first-year James sugrue fin­ished three strokes over par to win the tournament. 
The trip to ireland conclud­ed notre dame’s fall season; the irish will be back in ac­tion in February, when they travel to dade city, Florida, for the yestingsmeier match play tournament. 
NHL | senaTors 5, Flames 4 (oT) 
senators defeat Flames in shootout to halt four-game losing streak 
Associated Press 
oTTawa, ontario — mika Zibanejad scored the shootout winner to give the ottawa senators their first home win, beating the calgary Flames 5-4 on wednesday night. 
Zack smith, bobby ryan, Kyle Turris and Jean-gabriel pageau scored in regula­tion for the senators, who snapped a four-game los­ing streak (0-2-2). craig anderson made 34 saves through overtime. 
dougie hamilton, Joe colborne, Kris russell and sam bennett scored for the Flames, who have now lost three straight (0-2-1). Jonas hiller allowed four goals on 18 shots before leaving the game in the third with an injury. Joni ortio stopped all five shots he faced in relief. 

hiller was run into by ryan in a crazy third period that featured five goals and two lead changes. 
Trailing 2-1 to start the third, calgary regained the lead with two goals in a span of 57 seconds to quiet the crowd of 16,923 at canadian Tire centre. colborne got a stick on a loose puck to tie the game 4:23 into the pe­riod, and less than a minute later, russell scored to make it 3-2. 
The senators came right back and scored two of their own in 18 seconds with Turris tying the game 3-3 after beating hiller from in close at 9:50. pageau scored in a similar fashion right after as ottawa took a 4-3 lead. bennett tied it again with about 7 1/2 minutes to go. 
For the seventh straight game the sens gave up the first goal of the game. 
hamilton received a pass from Jiri hudler and beat anderson high glove side at 
4:15 of the second. 
smith took the puck from inside his own blue line, deked Kris russell and beat hiller far side to tie it 1-1 with just more than 2 minutes loeft. it was only ottawa’s ninth shot of the game. 
ryan, with his first goal in regulation, gave the senators a 2-1 lead with 14 seconds left in the second. ryan saw Turris behind the net, called for the puck and slid it under hiller. 
paid adverTisemenT 


NFL 
newton turns team around 
Associated Press 
charloTTe, n.c. — The carolina panthers easily could’ve thrown in the towel last season after going two months without a win and watching their record fall to 3-8-1. 
They didn’t. 
instead the panthers won four straight games, cap­tured the nFc south cham­pionship and even won a playoff game. They’ve car­ried that momentum over to this season, starting off 6-0. 
Their current 10-game regular season win streak is the longest in franchise history as they prepare to host andrew luck and the indianapolis colts on monday night. 
coach ron rivera said the panthers couldn’t have climbed out of the funk had it not been for the vet­eran leadership in the locker room and the hard work of his assistant coaching staff. he said players like Thomas davis, greg olsen, luke Kuechly, charles Johnson, ryan Kalil and even cam newton made sure others in the room kept on fight­ing and didn’t give up on the season. 
in carolina, the mantra is to “Keep pounding,” a line delivered by former panthers linebacker and later assis­tant coach sam mills as he was battling cancer. 
The panthers did just that. 
“we talk about doing things a certain way and sticking to it, and they do those things,” rivera said of his players. “after practice, the guys stay after and work, they come in early and do the extra things. They keep working.” 
safety roman harper said one of the things he no­ticed during his first year in carolina in 2014 is that the mood of the team never changed. They didn’t get too high, didn’t get too low. 
he said there was still that confidence things would turn around. 
“guys still came in with a positive attitude,” harper said. “listen, when you go two months without a win, there is not a lot of light at the end of that tunnel, be­lieve me — it’s very dark. but we kept believing in coach rivera, who said we still had a chance.” 


The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

SMC SPORTS 

Belles snatch second win of season 
By BEN PADANILAM and RYAN KLAUS 
sports writers 
Soccer 
after grabbing its sec­ond win of the season, saint mary’s dropped its next two matches to finish 1-2 over the break. 
The belles (2-12-1, 1-10-1 miaa) broke their seven-game winless streak against Trine, 2-1, on oct. 17 to open their fall break action. The belles managed to outshoot the Thunder (2-14-1, 1-13-1) 17-10 in the game, and they controlled possession for much of the game. 
The belles struck first when senior defender and captain lindsay rzepecki scored her second goal of the season off an assist from ju­nior defender lizzie cusick in the 29th minute to give the belles a 1-0 lead. Then, in the second half, freshman mid­fielder/defender mary Kate mccarthy entered the game as a sub and scored the first collegiate goal of her career to put the belles up 2-0 in the 65th minute. after conceding a goal to Trine just four min­utes later, saint mary’s was able to hold on to secure the 2-1 victory. 
Following the victory, belles head coach Ken nuber said he was proud of the re­silience his team showed in the win. 
“we played very well and had the game in hand with 20 [minutes] left when we gave up the goal,” nuber said. “Trine had a 10-minute run at us that really put us under pressure, and i credit them for that. The last 10 minutes was very professional, and we handled the game to get the win. very proud of the girls. it’s been tough, [but] the leadership of our three seniors has been good.” 
Following the win, the belles had a week off be­fore taking the field against calvin this past saturday. in the game, the Knights (15-2-1, 13-0-1) outshot the belles, 21­11, and held them scoreless in the 4-0 victory. The loss marked the 10th time this season the belles have been shutout by their opponent. 
despite the result, nuber said he felt his team played very well in the first half. however, the physical nature of second half put the game out of reach, nuber said. 
“calvin was a good game, but it got away from us in the second half,” nuber said. “we outshot them in the first half and had two very good op­portunities to score. we lost a few players during the sec­ond half to injury. The game turned extremely physical and, unfortunately, the game was affected by it. i’m proud of our belles in not retaliat­ing and handling themselves in a positive way.” 
saint mary’s ended their recent stretch of games with a matchup against hope on Tuesday. belles sopho­more defender rachel moore scored her first goal of the season for the belles in the fifth minute to level the score, but the attack of the Flying dutch (15-2-2, 12-1­
2) proved to be too much for the belles; they outshot the belles 17-5 on their way to a 3-1 win. 
given the strength of hope’s squad, nuber said the match was one of the best performances saint mary’s has put together this season. 
“hope is by far the best team in the conference, and we had a great game with them,” nuber said. “early and late goals soured a great performance.” 
next up on the docket for saint mary’s is a home game against adrian. The game will also be senior day for the belles, as three seniors 
— rzepecki and midfielders Kathryn lueking and maggie mclaughlin — will be recog­nized prior to the game. 
with just two games left on the year and the team out of playoff contention, these last two games for the belles are all about getting heathy and finishing strong, nuber said. 
“we are still not healthy, but we are hoping to get a few back for saturday,” nuber said. “we will finish the sea­son with pride and work to get a few results in the final two games.” 
saint mary’s is set to next take the pitch saturday at noon against adrian at Junior irish airport Fields. 
Volleyball 

saint mary’s went 2-1 over the past week, bookending a loss to no. 10 hope with wins over Kalamazoo and olivet. 
The belles (14-11, 7-7 miaa) traveled to Kalamazoo, michigan, on Friday to take on the hornets (1-23, 0-14). entering the match, the hornets were owners of a 20-match losing streak, in­cluding 13 in straight sets. They were unable to buck that trend, as the belles cruised to a three-set, 26-24, 25-19, 25-14 victory, marking its eighth such victory this season. Junior outside hitter meaghan gibbons notched a match-high 12 kills, while sophomore defensive spe­cialist mcKenzie Todd led all players with 19 digs. 
on saturday, the belles played the Flying dutch (22-5, 13-2) on the road. saint mary’s fortunes were reversed this time around, however, as the belles were swept in straight sets, 25-23, 25-16, 25-21. The belles were led by junior setter clare mcmillan, who recorded a double-double with team-highs in assists (13) and digs 
(15)
 in the match. 


The belles returned home Tuesday to take on the comets (14-12, 3-11). senior outside hitter and captain Katie hecklinski led the way for the belles, as her double-double in kills (17) and digs 

(10)
 propelled the team to a three-set victory, 25-20, 25­17, 25-20. 


saint mary’s will take the court to host alma on Friday in a match with major impli­cations. not only will it be senior night, during which hecklinski and defensive specialist angela bukur will be recognized, but it also represents the penultimate conference match for the belles. Just one game back of the final spot in the miaa playoff picture, the belles will likely need to come away with victories in both of their remaining matches to keep their playoff hopes alive. 
saint mary’s will take the court against alma on Friday at 7 p.m. at angela athletic center. 
Cross Country 
Following its week off for fall break, saint mary’s will return to action this weekend for the miaa championships. 
saturday’s conference championships will be host­ed by olivet and will take place at broadway acres golf course in charlotte, michigan. 

in their last meet, the belles finished 33rd at the wisconsin-oshkosh invitational. like she has done all season, junior brittany beeler was the top finisher for saint mary’s. beeler finished in 57th place overall in the field, while se­nior allie danhof, who ran a career-best time, finished in 196th, and junior Kaitlyn alessi, who finished in 248th, were also among the belles’ leaders. 
no. 10 hope leads the field, 
while  no. 24  calvin is the  
other  ranked  squad  in the  
field.  

The miaa championships are scheduled to begin 11 
a.m. saturday in charlotte, michigan. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu and Ryan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 


Volleyball 
conTinued From page 16 
currently riding a three-game win streak, with victories over miami, georgia Tech and clemson in their last three outings. The Tar heels are led offensively by senior middle hitter paige neuenfeldt, who has racked up 163 kills thus far in 2015. neuenfeldt was first-team all-acc following her ju­nior season in 2014. 
“we know that north carolina has some very good hitters and that they are go­ing to set them a high volume,” mclaughlin said. “we’re going to have to slow them down, we have to control the ball at a higher level both on the floor and in the air.” 
The wolfpack and Tar heels will have to find an answer for the most electric offensive weapon for the irish, sopho­more outside hitter sam Fry, who has accumulated 254 kills thus far this season. The irish have a narrow statistical advantage over the Tar heels with 889 team kills in 2015 compared to 885 for the Tar heels. 

“we’ve had to ride sam [Fry] quite a bit, but she’s handled it very, very well,” mclaughlin said, “she’s been tough and she is really working on hold­ing herself to that standard ev­ery day.” 
The irish travel this weekend to take on acc rivals north carolina and nc state. They play Friday in raleigh against the wolfpack at 7:30 p.m. be­fore traveling to chapel hill to take on the Tar heels on sunday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Daisy Costello at mcostel4@nd.edu 
WOMEN’S SWIMMING 

Irish hope to rebound against Spartans 
Observer Staff Report 

The irish will swim in their second dual meet of the sea­son this Friday, as michigan state visits rolfs aquatic center. 
The irish are coming off of a 158-104 loss at Florida gulf coast on oct. 23 and will be swimming in their third race of the season. in their opener, the irish won the dennis stark relays on oct. 9. 
The spartans come to south bend in pursuit of their first victory of the 2015 season. Through four meets, the spartans have yet to win against a myriad of tough big Ten opponents: purdue, michigan, iowa and illinois have all bested michigan state to begin the season. The Fighting illini handed michigan state its most re­cent loss, a 182-118 drubbing in east lansing, michigan. 
while the spartans struggled to cut their times in the pool, they shined on the boards, with junior diver madeleine swell winning the medals for both the 1-meter and 3-me­ter dives. her performance earned her big Ten diver of the week last week. 
The irish will return to the pool after suffering a loss to ranked Florida gulf coast just a week prior. senior catherine galletti brought home two medal honors for the irish, winning first-place in the 100­yard fly and second-place in the 50-yard free. The irish also had two other first-place fin­ishers, with freshman nicole smith earning top honors in the 200 medley relay and freshman alice Treuth win­ning the 200-yard backstroke. 
The irish will then trav­el down to west lafayette, indiana, to take on purdue and ohio state in a three-team race saturday. host purdue is 2-1 on the season, hav­ing defeated michigan state earlier in the season. The boilermakers’ latest victory was an easy 185-106 win over miami (ohio). 
ohio state will race in its third event of the year follow­ing a 211-85 thrashing of ohio on oct. 23. Junior lindsey clary was named big Ten swimmer of the week follow­ing her three first-place fin­ishes at ohio in the 1,000-yard freestyle, 500-yard freestyle and 200-yard individual med­ley. The buckeyes face Kenyon the night before traveling to west lafayette to take on the irish and the boilermakers. 
The irish return to rolfs aquatic center this Friday at 5 p.m. to take on michigan state. They then travel to west lafayette to take on purdue and ohio state on saturday at 
3:30p.m. 


XC 
conTinued From page 16 

finishing 53rd in the eight-ki­lometer race in 24:12.5. senior Timothy ball and junior chris marco also finished in the top 100 for notre dame, complet­ing the course in 24:17.8 and 
24:21.4 respectively, while sophomore Kevin pulliam and junior Jacob dumford placed outside the top 100. 
The acc championships begin notre dame’s slate of postseason play — after Friday’s meet, the irish will head back to madison in two weeks for the ncaa great lakes regional. 
on the men’s side, the field at apalachee county park in Tallahassee will feature a quartet of ranked schools: no. 2 syracuse, the defending champion, leads the field for the conference crown, while no. 7 virginia, no. 12 north carolina state and no. 18 virginia Tech are set to be the lead challengers. 
no. 7 virginia enters the meet as the highest-ranked team on the women’s side, while no. 8 nc state enters as second-favorite. no. 16 syracuse and the irish are the next-highest ranked teams in the field, while last year’s winner, no. 29 north carolina, gives the women’s meet a fifth ranked challenger. 
a year ago, seidel finished fifth at the acc champion­ships, leading the irish wom­en to a fifth-place finish while senior danielle aragon placed 19th. 
clevenger led the irish men to a seventh-place finish 12 months ago at the conference meet, placing 21st. 
The gun is set to go off on the acc championships Friday morning at 9 a.m. for the men’s race and at 9:45 
a.m. for the women’s race at Tallahassee’s apalachee county park. 


M Swimming 
conTinued From page 16 
239.15. 

For the dennis stark relays, the irish competed against olivet nazarene, wright state, iupui and oakland. Tallman says he knows michigan state will be a different type of opponent. 
“michigan state has given us fits in the past,” Tallman said.  “as an opponent from the big Ten, i expect them to come to rolfs on Friday and give us a good meet.” 
Tallman said his team has been preparing diligently over the past three weeks to perform at their best against the spartans. 
“we have been doing a great job on a daily basis to do well during the season while keeping the focus on being at our best when the season end and it matters the most.” 
Tallman said he expects the same type of perfor­mance out of every swimmer and diver on his team. 
“we are not expecting any­thing from any teammates in particular more than an­other,” Tallman said. “each guy on the team has their own individual goals and we will be evaluating each swim differently. 
“we are looking to improve in every event all of the time. it is easier said than done, but we have a talented group that still has some learning to do and some little things to fix.” 
Contact Michael Ivey at         mivey@hcc-nd.edu 



The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Interhall 
conTinued From page 14 
purple weasels play Farley at 4 p.m., while the wildcats will play lewis at 5 p.m. at labar practice complex. 
Contact Elizabeth Greason at egreason@nd.edu 
Welsh Family 27, Breen-Phillips 0 
By VICTORIA LLORENS 
sports writer 
under the lights and in the misty cold, welsh Family bested breen-phillips 27-0 in its last regular season game, solidifying its first-place seed in the playoffs. 
The whirlwinds (5-1) came out strong from the start, dominating the field on both offense and defense to clinch a win early on. 
with twenty points in the first half, the welsh Family offense controlled the game, which junior captain and quarterback rachel wimsatt said is an improvement from the start of the season. 
“on offense we kind of had a rough start to the season, but we definitely got back on board and figured things out,” wimsatt said. 
The babes (1-5) brought a stronger effort in the sec­ond half, smacking passes down and forcing the first whirlwind interception of the season. with aid from a pass interference penalty and a double-pass play, the babes got a first down in the last play of the third quarter. 
The fourth quarter be­gan with a welsh Family in­terception on the first play. after a 30-yard run for a first down and quick thinking by wimsatt to avoid a sack, the whirlwinds got their first touchdown of the half and followed with an extra point. The babes were unable to capitalize in the last few min­utes of play, and the game ended via the mercy rule. 
wimsatt said she was happy with her team’s accomplishments. 
“i think it was a strong fin­ish to our season, and we’re excited for the postseason,” wimsatt said. 
Tuesday’s game concluded the season for breen-phillips, but first-seeded welsh Family will play pangborn this sunday at 4 p.m. at labar practice complex. 
Contact Victoria Llorens at    vllorens@nd.edu 
Farley 12, Lewis 7 
By JOSEPH EVERETT 
sports writer 
Farley bested lewis on monday night under the lights of riehle Fields, 12-7. The Finest (5-1), led by team depth and a strong presence at the quarterback position, held off the chicks (3-2-1) in a battle of two playoff-bound teams. 
lewis started the game strong, intercepting and re­turning a pass attempt deep into Farley territory on the first drive of the game. The chicks converted the op­portunity with a seven-yard touchdown run to the out­side, and then converted the one-point conversion on a short pass play to stake them­selves to an early 7-0 lead. 
however, Farley soon found its groove thanks to a couple of key mistakes by lewis. The first mistake was an inter­ception that set up a touch­down pass for Farley, and the second was a bad punt that Farley again converted into a touchdown pass, thanks to another short field. 
The game was a defen­sive struggle from then on, with Farley benefiting from a questionable no-call on a 4th down that halted a promising lewis drive. The Farley de­fense came up big in the end, however, intercepting a pass on the final play of the game to seal the victory. 
lewis coach merrick Topping was disappointed by the outcome but saw some sil­ver linings for his team. 
“given that we already clinched the playoffs last week, had some rust coming off of break, and were miss­ing some key players, i liked how we competed tonight,” Topping said. “i think this loss could actually be a help to our team as far as a mo­tivational factor for the up­coming playoffs, so we need to come out and have a good week of practice”. 
Farley captain and senior ali buersmeyer was happy with her team’s performance and looked ahead to what’s next for the Finest. 
“[we’ve] had a great regu­lar season and i’m really looking forward to playoffs,” buersmeyer said. “we defi­nitely have some tough games coming up, but we’re going to come out with a lot of en­ergy and confidence to hope­fully make for a successful postseason”. 
both teams look to go far in the playoffs as lewis will play ryan at 5 p.m. this sunday and Farley will take on pasquerilla west at 4 p.m. at labar practice complex. 
Contact Joseph Everett at     jeveret4@nd.edu 
Howard 21, Badin 13 
By MAUREEN SCHWENINGER 
sports writer 
howard capped off its regular season with a 21-13 win over badin late monday night. 
although disappointed by the loss, the Frogs (2-4) are proud of their season. 
badin captain and safety Tina Techar said it was the best season she’s seen as a player, in enthusiasm and wins. 

“we’ve just had fun with it,” Techar said. “we did ev­erything that we’ve been practicing the entire year.” 
badin got off to a quick start with two back-to-back touchdowns. howard (5-1) responded with a 70-yard touchdown drive in the last minute of the half. howard quarterback and safety stephanie peterson was most proud of the ducks’ resilience. 
“we really adjusted well on defense, and we stopped them from scoring af­ter that,” peterson said. “manning up was key. on offense, we just found open players and did what we know how to do.” 
howard rolled out with a more consistent running game in the second half, and peterson threw for an ad­ditional two touchdowns to seal the deal. Techar and the Frogs were unable to turn the tide. 
“There was a lot more running, really good run­ning,” Techar said. “we’ve been used to heavier passing games, so that kind of threw us off a bit.” 
That diverse offense is now heading to the playoffs, and this is the ducks’ first year as the league’s no. 1 seed. howard will play cavanaugh this sunday at 5 p.m. at the labar practice complex. 
Contact Maureen Schweninger at mschweni@nd.edu LUCY DU | The Observer 

paid adverTisemenT 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy 

FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


make checks payable to and mail to: 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: you can make things happen this year if you are determined, precise and particular about who you do business with and what you strive to obtain. a no-nonsense approach will help clear the way for success. show everyone what you are capable of doing and you will become the go-to person. romance is on the rise. your numbers are 4, 15, 22, 28, 31, 39, 42. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): choose to use your entrepreneurial mind. start your own moneymaking business or find new outlets for the skills you’ve already mastered. plan to do something that will inspire you to believe in your abilities and what you have to offer. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): let your heart lead the way. use your creative imagination and sense of practicality to get the quality you want in whatever you pursue. a business trip will offer interesting alternatives that you hadn’t considered in the past. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t make assumptions. what you see is not what you get. get the lowdown, discuss your options, and be ready to adapt to whatever situation you face. being able to roll with the punches will help you excel. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): put detail, precision and originality into gear and make things happen. your contributions will be welcome and position you well for future projects. your great memory and experience will separate you from any competition you encounter. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t let emotional matters interfere with your ability to do your job. use your ingenuity and you will come up with solutions to any problems you face if you are willing to make the necessary changes. don’t give in to emotional manipulation. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): reconsider the way you’ve been living and you’ll find suitable alternatives. don’t be afraid to say “no” to demands. you’ll do better if you surround yourself with positive people. learn to accept yourself for who you are. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t put up with bullies or people looking for handouts. protect your health, your heart and your bank account. be willing to make changes that will improve your life and free you from the people who bring you down or hold you back. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): put your mark on whatever you do. your unique way of doing things will pay off and draw interest from someone who can help you advance. love is on the rise. celebrate with someone special. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): spend time at home making personal and stylistic changes that will bring you joy. don’t overdo it physically or let indulgence take over. rest, relaxation and enjoying what you have will give you the boost you need to recharge. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): explore different options and look at new possibilities. Form closer bonds with the people you know you want in your life and make a point to offer incentives to those who contribute to your world. love is in the stars. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): look over your personal papers and negotiate legal or contractual partnerships and you will find a way to move forward. making a couple of alterations will do you good. don’t let emotions well up. Tame your temper by taking on a physical challenge. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): stick close to home or make plans to spend time with someone you love. your best offers and suggestions will come from those you have a close relationship with already. good fortune will result from a solid partnership.  

Birthday Baby: you are determined, persuasive and fussy. you are practical and competitive. you will get stuff done if you put your mind to it. do not be afraid to commit. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
GIROR  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
SLOFS  

WOMEDA GRODAN  
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 


Print your “ 

” 
answer here: 


(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: WATCH DROLL ROTATE REBUKEYesterday’s 
Answer: Kids on Halloween are often — TREATED WELL 

The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 
address 

city      state Zip 

The observer | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Irish travel to North Carolina for weekend 
By DAISY COSTELLO 
sports writer 
This weekend, the Fighting irish will travel to north carolina to take on acc foes north carolina state and north carolina. 
The irish (6-16, 1-9 acc) are coming off of a tough 3-1 loss to virginia (19-25, 25-23, 25-11, 25-16) to cap off a five-match skid since defeating clemson on oct. 9 for the team’s lone acc victory of the season. The irish look to notch a couple more acc victories this week­end before welcoming virginia Tech and pittsburgh to purcell pavilion on nov. 6 and nov. 8. irish head coach Jim mclaughlin stressed that the key to and irish victory is lim­iting the number of unforced errors the team commits. 
“i’ve been saying it for a while, but unforced errors and consistency are certain things you have to do to not beat your­self first,” mclaughlin said. “you have got to learn to make opponents earn things and we tend to give points, so we’re learning to not beat ourselves. 
once you have that under con­trol, then you learn now to beat opponents.” 
The irish will travel first to raleigh, north carolina, to take on nc state on Friday. The wolfpack (13-9, 2-8) have just two acc wins, however, they snapped a five-match losing streak Friday in a straight-set victory over clemson (25-21, 25-22, 25-20). a trio of nc state players — freshman middle blocker blayke hranicka, sophomore outside hitter perry ramsey and sophomore outside hitter Julia brown — each notched 10 or more kills in the win. after its win over clemson, nc state dropped a 3-0 decision at georgia Tech on sunday. 
The irish will travel from raleigh to chapel hill, north carolina, to take on north carolina on sunday. The Tar heels (11-8, 8-2) have been dominant against acc oppo­nents thus far this season, with their lone two conference loss­es coming againstno. 15 Florida state and pittsburgh. They are 
see volleyball PAGE 13 


EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 

Sophomore outside hitter Sam Fry hits an overhead serve during Notre Dame’s 3-0 loss against No. 15 Florida State on Sept. 27 at Purcell Pavilion. Fry recorded six kills along with a serving ace. 
WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

Contenders play to scoreless tie 
Ryan 0, Pasquerilla West 0 
By ELIZABETH GREASON 
sports writer 
ryan and pasquerilla west faced off on Tuesday in a game with playoff im­plications for both teams, which ultimately ended in a scoreless tie. The game was highlighted by key defen­sive plays, failure to convert on solid drives and difficult weather conditions. 
while both the purple weasels (4-1-1) and the wildcats (4-0-2) had already secured places in the play­offs, the game was an im­portant one with respect to seeding. with a win, ryan would have secured the top spot in its division, but with the tie ryan fell to second seed and welsh Family took over the top spot. 
wildcat senior captain and receiver erin clark was pleased with her team’s per­formance after a long break. she said she was excited about the major defensive stands the team made, par­ticularly multiple blocked passes by junior shawn hall. 
“it’s hard coming off a solid two and a half weeks off,” clark said. “but we played fantastic defense. That was really big for us.” 
The weasels offense seemed poised to break through with a touchdown multiple times throughout the game, thanks to multi­ple diving catches by junior receiver Tess wemhoener and long runs by junior run­ning back monica busse. however, ryan came up with a stop on each occasion. 
weasels senior captain and defensive back bernie Jordan was pleased with pasquerilla west’s perfor­mance on both sides of the ball, but also said that the team needs to work on fol­lowing through and scoring after a good drive. 
“i thought our defense looked pretty good,” Jordan said. “we did well get­ting down the field; we just couldn’t convert for touch­downs. we got to the goal line three times and didn’t score.” 
both teams begin their playoff runs on sunday. The 
see inTerhall PAGE 14 
MEN’S SWIMMING 

nd readies for dual meet 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 

notre dame is set to host michigan state in a dual meet Friday night at rolfs aquatic center in the first dual meet of the season for the irish. 
“This is our first dual meet so it will be a new challenge,” irish head coach matt Tallman said. “we have put in a lot of work since the dennis stark relays. There was a lot of good during that competi­tion, but we are anxious to see how we have improved over the last three weeks.” 
The irish scored 200 points to finish in first place at the 51st dennis stark relays on oct. 9. in the 200-meter freestyle re­lay, the team of sophomore Justin plaschka, freshman daniel speers, freshman Tabahn afrik and junior Kevin bradley took home first place in 1:21.98, while in the 400-meter freestyle relay, the all-senior team of bogac ayhan, andrew Jensen, shane mcKenzie and michael hudspith finished second with a time of 3:25.90. also in the 400 free relay, the team of fresh­man connor brown, fresh­man Jack russell, freshman matthew grauslys and sophomore harlin bessire finished third in 3:29.11. 
in the 1-meter diving competition, the dive team of sophomore peter myers and Zane parker finished second with a score of 509.70, while in the 3-meter diving competition, they combined for a score of 
see m swimming PAGE 13 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

notre dame to run at accs 
Observer Staff Report 

notre dame returns to action Friday at the acc championships in Tallahassee, Florida, two weeks after its outing at the highly-competitive wisconsin invitational on oct. 16. 
in madison, wisconsin, notre dame’s 17th-ranked women’s team was led by a pair of top-12 finish­ers. senior molly seidel finished second with a six-kilometer time of 19:22.4 and freshman anna rohrer placed 12th, slipping in un­der the 20-minute mark at 19:56.9. 
The meet featured 25 women’s teams ranked in the top 30 at the time, and the irish placed 12th in the team standings, as the rest of notre dame’s 93rd in 20:55.7, while the other two scoring runners 
squad  fell  farther  back  
in  the  field.  sophomore  
rachel  dadamio  placed  

— graduate student Karen lesiewicz and sophomore sydney Foreman — both placed outside the top 100. 
notre dame’s men strug­gled in wisconsin, placing 27th in a field featuring more than half of the top 30 men’s teams in the country. senior michael clevenger led the way for the irish, 
see Xc PAGE 13 




