the independent to uncover newspaper serving the truth notre dame and and report saint mary’s it accurately 

volume 48, issue 113 | wEdnEsdAy, APril 1, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
new administration takes office 
Vidal, Devine  reflect on past year’s impact 

By MARGARET HYNDS 
news editor 
as their tenure came to a close march 31, outgoing student body president and vice presi­dent lauren vidal and matthew devine reflected on their year in office, sharing in hindsight the issues that proved to be their greatest triumphs and challenges. 
in particular, the two said, they took pride in the wide range of programming and initiatives they took on to respond to the diverse opinions and needs of the student body. 
“we’ve been able to meet 
see vidal PAGE 5 


EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 
Ricketts, Ruelas 
discuss plans for 



upcoming term 
By MADISON JAROS 
news writer 
bryan ricketts and nidia ruelas, who take office as pres­ident and vice president to­day, intend to leave their own unique mark on notre dame. 
ricketts and ruelas have waited nearly two months to assume their positions – the pair was elected feb. 5 on a ticket that focused on student identity and well-being. 
the president and vice presi­dent hope to address campus sexual assault through pro­grams that will especially em­phasize the education of the 
see ricKetts PAGE 5 



basilica prepares for holy week 

By KAYLA MULLEN 
associate news editor 
easter sunday at the basilica of the sacred heart is notable not only for its status as the most holy day of the year in catholicism, but also for its ability to draw crowds rival­ing a sporting event. 
“on easter sunday, we do a couple of things — we add a mass and we allow more times for the masses because the crowds are so big,” fr. peter rocca, rector of the basilica, said. “we have an 8 [a.m.] mass; the only other time we have an 8 [a.m.] mass is on football weekends — that’s the kind of crowd we get.” 
rocca estimates that over 1,000 people come to each of the three main masses offered on easter sunday. the crowds are so large that each mass must be dismissed in a spe­cific way, rocca said. 
see basilica PAGE 5 



HPC awards Walsh with ‘Hall of the Year’ title 
By KAYLA MULLEN 
associate news editor 

the hall presidents council announced the hall of the year awards at its weekly meeting tuesday, with walsh hall win­ning hall of the year, Keenan hall bringing home men’s hall of the year, and farley hall tak­ing women’s hall of the year, michael wajda, co-chair of hall presidents council (hpc), said. 
“all three dorms had en­thusiastic and sustained par­ticipation in their hall events, achieved in large part through their personal outreach to all members of the dorm commu­nities,” wadja said in an email. 
the dorms are selected by a committee consisting of the hpc executive board, the Judicial council president and two student senators, wadja said. the selection committee focuses on how the dorms em­bodied “mind, body and heart,” based on their hall of the year presentations and monthly rockne submissions. 
“walsh did an astounding job of engaging the women of walsh in mind, body, and 
see hall PAGE 3 


Panel discusses struggles of Vietnam War veterans 
By STEPHANIE SNYDER 
news writer 

saint mary’s hosted a panel on tuesday night titled, “the battle after the war: veterans in their lives and struggles,” to discuss veteran’s issues including ptsd, mental 
see panel PAGE 4 

MONICA VILLAGOMEZ MENDEZ | The Observer 

Vietnam War veteran Kent Laudeman (left), mayor of South Bend Pete Buttigieg and Rep. Jackie Walorski discuss veterans’ issues. 

news PAGE 3 viewpoint PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 football PAGE 16 men’s lacrosse PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney alex Jirschele Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: lesley stevenson Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: brian lach Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu,  lsteven1@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

the observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. the observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
the news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of the observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief  Greg Hadley 
post office information 

the observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
the observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
postmaster 
send address corrections to: 
the observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
the observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite April Fools’ Day prank? 


Josefina Durini-Wollak 
freshman 
lewis hall 

“a guy burned lots of fires at the mouth of a volcano, making the city think the volcano was active.” 


Erin Callaghan 
freshman 
breen-phillips hall 
“putting fake bugs in lampshades.” 
Rebecca Wiley 
freshman 
cavanaugh hall 

“a guy turtled everyone in his class’s backpacks.” 


Mel Ricker 
junior 
breen-phillips hall 
“putting a rubber band around a faucet to spray water.” 
Katie Mackin 
freshman 
breen-phillips hall 

“covering the toilets with saran wrap.” 


Corey Chiavelli 
sophomore 
morrissey manor 
“making a scavenger hunt for a friend to find his headphones.” 

Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

rebecca o’neil Zach Klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: madison Jaros marek mazurek Jennifer flanagan hunter mcdaniel 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
emily danaher maddie daly 
Photo Viewpoint 

MFA Student Reading “Behind the Beautiful “Prayer from Around The Paschal Vigil Easter Sunday Mass 
Karla moreno austin taliaferro 
Hammes Bookstore Forevers” the World” Mass Basilica of the Sacred 
7:30p.m.-8:30 p.m. DeBartolo Performing Coleman-Morse Basilica of the Sacred Heart Reading sponsored by Arts Center Center Heart 8 a.m., 10 a.m. and 12 
Corrections 

English Department. 7 p.m.-9:15 p.m. 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 9 p.m. p.m. 
the observer regards itself as National Theatre Live. Jewish Seder meal. Holy Saturday mass. Easter celebration. a professional publication and 
Softball 

strives for the highest standards 
Melissa Cook Stadium Mindful Meditation Stations of the Cross Easter Break Solem Easter 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
4 p.m.-6 p.m. Coleman-Morse Basilica of the Sacred Campus-wide Vespers 
however, recognize that we will make 
The Irish take on Center Heart All day Basilica of the Sacred 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Eastern Michigan. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 7:15 p.m. No classes in session. Heart 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Weekly meditation. For Good Friday. 7:15 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 
Evening prayer service. 



nun speaks out against death penalty 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
associate news editor 
sr. helen prejean, whose book about her experience as a spiritual adviser to two death row inmates inspired the academy-award-nominated film “dead man walking,” spoke about her spiritual jour­ney and anti-death-penalty advocacy at our lady of the road church in south bend on tuesday. 
the lecture was sponsored by the michiana coalition to abolish the death penalty, st. peter claver catholic worker and the center for social concerns. 
prejean said her story is one of awakening to a gos­pel of justice. she recalled a privileged childhood in louisiana during the Jim crow era, when she said she never questioned segregation or understood the legacy of slavery, which led to the dis­proportionate imprisonment of african americans. 
it was only later, after she became a member of the congregation of st. Joseph and the second vatican council emphasized a preferential option for the poor, that her “awakening” took place. 
“we have 10 major hous­ing projects in new orleans, and i had never been to one of them,” she said. “when i woke up — and that’s the first part of ‘dead man walking,’ was waking up — and i got it. the gospel of Jesus is about people that don’t have a voice, that people look down on, people despise, people call them los­ers — these are [marginalized] people.” 
prejean moved into the st. thomas housing projects, where she witnessed poverty and how the poor were affected by police brutality and bad education and healthcare. she said she realized then that liv­ing the gospel meant leaving her own privilege behind. 

“it was like the world, it was always there in the inner city, but i had no anchor to it,” she said. “… god put me there. we never wake ourselves up.” 
while she was working at st. thomas, prejean began a correspondence with elmo patrick sonnier, who was on death row for murdering two teenagers. prejean later visited him in prison and became his spiritual adviser, the only per­son allowed to spend time with him in the hours leading up to his execution. in the electric chair, her face was the last one sonnier saw before the hood was pulled over his head. 
“Knowing what i’d just seen, having learned, beginning to learn about the death penalty, how it worked, who got it, who didn’t and how race place a part and how poor people get — ev­erything i learned, i thought to myself — i wasn’t picturing your faces, but i was thinking of you, because i [thought] the american people will never be close to this, to see this,” she said. 
“executions are a secret rit­ual done behind prison walls, and people are never going to be there to see those things through. as long as we don’t see it, we don’t care — there was a crime, justice was done, and so we don’t even think about it because it’s so removed from us. i was a witness, i had to tell the story, and my mission be­gan that night.” 
prejean worked with many other death row inmates and started advocating against the death penalty. in 1993, she wrote “dead man walking,” about her experience with sonnier and another inmate, robert lee willie. the book found its way to actress susan sarandon, who showed it to her then-partner, tim robbins. working with prejean, robbins wrote the screenplay for the film of the same name and cast sarandon as prejean and sean penn as a composite of the two inmates. 
prejean said a person’s po­sition on the death penalty is often portrayed as a choice be­tween convict and victim. 
“when we hear about the death of innocent people who were killed in cold blood, there’s a part of us that experi­ences rage. ‘whoever did that, who carjacked that mother with those children, deserves it. that’s what the death pen­alty’s for,”’ she said. “do we de­serve to kill?” 
prejean said part of her own moral journey was learning to reach out to victims’ families as well as death row inmates. she was reluctant to contact the parents of the teenagers sonnier murdered, loretta anne bourque and david leblanc, especially after she learned the details of sonnier’s crime. 
“i felt this guilt ripple through me,” she said. “‘what am i doing? i’m with them. i’m a spiritual adviser to the two people who killed these inno­cent kids, what am i doing?’” 
prejean encountered leblanc’s parents at a hearing of the louisiana pardon board, where she was testifying on sonnier’s behalf. leblanc’s fa­ther asked her why she had not reached out to them before, but to her surprise, he also invited her into their lives. 
“this man takes me into his heart,” she said. “he was the first victim’s family, even though i had done him wrong, who takes me into his heart, and i go pray with him.” 
the leblancs, prejean learned, were under tremen­dous pressure to be in favor sonnier’s execution. instead of letting anger consume him however, leblanc’s father for­gave his son’s murderer, even visiting sonnier’s mother at her house. prejean said lloyd leblanc was the hero of “dead man walking.” 
“he was the first victim’s family that taught me that what forgiveness means — when you give it, is not so much what you do for the one who hurt you to relieve their burden, though it may in fact do that, but it’s to save his own life,” she said. 
prejean said she met many families like the leblancs; when new Jersey was in the process of eliminating the death penalty, 62 families tes­tified in favor of the ban. 
“when we meet those people who have been thrown in that fire, and we see the call of grace in them, it calls us,” she said. 
prejean ended the talk by telling the story of pope francis, who left his own life of privilege to work with the poor in buenos aires, and en­couraging those in attendance to advocate for the end of the death penalty. 
the talk also featured misty wallace and Keith blackburn from bridges to life, an or­ganization which connects victims of crimes with prison inmates. in 1992, blackburn shot wallace in an attempted carjacking and spent eight years in prison. wallace later found blackburn on facebook and forgave him, and the two now travel together, discussing forgiveness and redemption. 
Contact Emily McConville at  emcconv1@nd.edu 
paid advertisement 
Hall 
continued from page 1 
through their harry potter week, their brother-sister broomball and their soul sister discussion series,” wadja said. 
“their ‘i am wild’ initia­tive also highlighted all of the cultures within the dorm in a way that was inclusive and engaging.” 
according to the hall of the year results on the hall presidents council website, farley placed second, trail­ing walsh by half a point. 
“farley engaged both the women within the dorm as well as the greater campus community with their va­riety of events and invited all residents to ‘come share life,’ their new hall motto,” wadja said. 
“farley’s award affirmed the attitude that has been seen in farley all year,” casey skevington, president of farley hall, said. 
“‘farley’ -just one word makes me smile,” skevington said. “to me, it means home, family and friends all wrapped into one loving environment. i have been blessed to watch and be a part of the growth of our community all year long. 
“i could not be more proud of the women that live within the finest dorm on campus.” 
Keenan placed third in the overall competition but first out of all men’s residence halls and earned the high­est presentation score of all dorms as well, according to the results. 
“Keenan in particular re­vealed that they made it their goal to reach out to individuals who might not necessarily be the first ones to participate in events but are members of the com­munity nonetheless,” wadja said. 
howard came in fourth but earned the highest score in rockne category, accord­ing to the website. 
“we heard from so many presidents and vice presi­dents about events, pro­cesses and structures which reflected the unique cultures of their residence halls,” Kathleen clark, co-chair of hpc, said at the awards. 
“they each found a per­sonal leadership style which matched the greatest need of their dorm. we will give out three awards tonight, but we are immensely proud of each of you and what you were able to achieve this year. all of you deserve recognition for a job well done.” 
all three winners will re­ceive a monetary award from hpc, wadja said, while Keenan hall and walsh hall will receive dome dances next year. 
Contact Kayla Mullen at  kmullen2@nd.edu 



the observer | wEdnEsdAy, APril 1, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Panel 
continued from page 1 
health, homelessness, em­ployment, caregivers, servic­es and policies. 
the event — which was organized by stu­dents in the social work 236 human behavior and social environment ii class — included panelists such as south bend mayor peter buttigieg, who took a leave of absence to serve in afghanistan in 2014; 
u.s. representative Jackie walorski, who is known for her services in the house armed series, veteran’s affairs and agriculture committees and chairs the nutrition subcommittee; and dr. Kent laudeman, who served in the u.s. army since 1968 and is currently as a re­tired lieutenant colonel. 
despite the speakers’ vari­ety of perspectives and per­sonal experiences of working with veterans, they all advo­cated making a difference by working as a community first. 
“regard veterans not as liabilities but assets. this will help more veterans to find a place in the commu­nity,” said buttigieg. “we can do right by everybody who serves by welcoming them into the community more than just saying, ‘thank you for your service.’” 
laudeman currently serves as the director of the robert l. miller sr. veterans center, which is connected to the south bend center for the homeless. the tempo­rary housing hosts veterans in need of help for two years without having to pay a cent. 
“the goal of the facility is to get them back on their feet with shelter, food, a warm shoulder and a warm show­er,” laudeman said. 
laudeman said his person­al experience from fighting in vietnam for a year in­spired him to begin working with veterans. 
“there are some experi­ences that i don’t want to remember, but i wouldn’t trade it for anything in my life,” said laudeman. “i’ve grown.” 
walorski went on to discuss the problems that veterans face after coming home from war. twenty-two american veterans commit suicide per day, she said, and more than half of the suicides are due to sexual assault. 
“there are tens of thou­sands of veterans today that have suffered sexual trau­ma that have never been reported,” said walorski. “the greatest catastrophe is the issue of suicide.” 

laudeman agreed and said that another major issue of homecoming troops is drug and alcohol abuse. most cases are the result of ptsd, of which one in every five soldiers is a victim because they are trying to numb the pain of their memories, said laudemand. 
“there are mountains fac­ing our veterans when they come home,” said walorski. “i have such a profound 
“Regard veterans not as liabilities but assets. This will help more veterans to find a place in the community.” 
Pete Buttigieg 
Mayor of South Bend 

respect  for  the  american  
reserves.”  
buttigieg  said  although  

every veteran’s return home is different, they are all dif­ficult. the south bend may­or said civilians should set aside common assumptions that they have. 
“you come home, and you come to this radical change,” said buttigieg. “there’s no question there are heroes — the things they did with no regard for their life or safety. in our rush to be complemen­tary, we’ve created the t-ball effect, where everybody gets hit [with gratitude] — but not everyone comes back feeling like a hero. not everyone is damaged either; most veter­ans don’t regard themselves as victims. everyone has a very different experience.” 
walorski said that whatev­er the condition the soldiers are in when they come home, they need help from civilians to advocate for them so that they can get as little or as much help as they need. 
“we have a half a million veterans and their families in our state [indiana],” said walorski. “it’s the greatest reward i’ve ever had to sit across from a veteran. 
“we want to do them right for the sake of right.” 
all three panelists said they were frustrated about what the government is do­ing to help veterans on a na­tional level. 
“we are passionate about veterans because we are outraged,” said walorski. “i think there’s a way that saint mary’s can rise up and be a part of a national model in a way that people have never seen.” 
walorski said she wants to implement a new national program that more veterans could have advocates to get the help they need. 
“i think it would be in­credible if we could start a national model through saint mary’s students,” said walorski. “we could get so-cial-work students at saint mary’s to be an advocate for so many of our veterans across the country.” 
freshman anna riddle said she found walorski’s idea ap­pealing and inspiring. 
“i think it would be a good idea if we get saint mary’s involved in the national program,” riddle said. “i think it would show that it doesn’t just have to be the government providing aid. people have the power to provide aid.” 
sophomore abbie spica said she was concerned about peers who were just entering the military. 
“personally, i have com­munity members i know enlisting, and they have con­cerns about problems com­ing back, i like the idea of first focusing on community involvement,” spica said. 
Contact  Stephanie Snyder at  ssnyder02@saintmarys.edu 
paid advertisement 




ricketts 
continued from page 1 
freshman class, ruelas said. 
the pair will also create an ad hoc department that addresses mental health at notre dame, ricketts said. this new resource, combined with a confrontation of the climate that surrounds stu­dents struggling with mental illnesses on campus, aspires to increase the ease with which these students can pursue help. 
“we have to say, ok stu­dents with mental illness … are we in a climate where they feel comfortable seeking treatment and talking openly about it?” ricketts said. “and students, when they recog­nize someone [struggling with mental illness], are they ready to respond? we don’t think we’re there yet. and that’s going to be our goal to make that a reality.” 
ricketts said the team also plans to create an online fo­rum which they hope will al­low greater communication between students and cam­pus administrators. 
“[the forum will] create a way to bridge the gap be­tween students and admin­istrators, so people know what’s going on and can ap­preciate the work that ad­ministrators are doing for the students, and students have a way to say, ‘these are our concerns,’ and know that they’re being heard,” ricketts said. 
ruelas said she and her partner are especially looking forward to talking to the students themselves. the team’s office is open “for whoever, whenever, all the time,” she said. 

“i think the question [of what will be most exciting] is always so overwhelming, because there are so many things to get excited about,” ruelas said. “i’m really excit­ed about senate and chairing senate – that’s one of my big­ger responsibilities. and i’m really excited to get to meet all the representatives from the dorms. but in addition to that, just all the day-to-day things, like interacting with people — that’s really my passion, i think, and why i ran for this position.” 
although the pair’s distinct vision for the next year in of­fice separates them from out­going student body president lauren vidal and vice presi­dent matt devine, ricketts and ruelas hope their term will have a similarly positive effect on campus, ruelas said. 
“i feel that we have a very distinct vision, that’s the one we articulated throughout our campaign, and we firm­ly stand by that,” she said. “we want to carry that out through the entirety of our term. and in terms of meet­ing with matt and lauren, they’ve been great resources; they’re wonderful leaders. and we just hope that we can fill their shoes and hopefully come with new initiatives to student government and also have the same effect that they had.” 
Contact Madison Jaros at mjaros@nd.edu 
Vidal 
continued from page 1 

so many people and to learn many perspectives and stories through all the different things that we’ve done this year,” devine said. 
Highlights 

in particular, vidal said this administration tried to focus on community, both on campus and in the greater south bend area, by tackling issues such as the alma mater policy after foot­ball games and the 29 for 29 pro­gram, which paired residence halls with needy families from the south bend community. 
“at the beginning of the year, we sat down with the football unity council and looked at the alma mater policy and why it was eliminated after home games and then discussed all the concerns in a very hon­est conversation,” vidal said. “going forward, we essentially assured that we would be pro­moting a supportive environ­ment in the stands.” 
the football unity council will continue to address the alma mater policy annually. 
devine said he and vidal hope the 29 for 29 initiative would go beyond the holiday season and become a permanent fixture on campus. as of right now, a stu­dent government focus group has been assembled to review the program, and vidal estimat­ed that 10 to 15 residence halls are still actively engaging with their assigned families. 
“[29 for 29] was a really or­ganic effort to bridge our under­standing of how students see the south bend area but also at the same time develop really strong relationships with needy fami­lies around the area and to bring them to campus to be honorary members of the dorms,” devine said. “the goal was to enrich students’ understanding of south bend, but also to develop those personal connections.” 
Challenges 
vidal said throughout the process of working with the worker participation committee — which addressed the university’s “china policy” 
— she and devine struggled to connect the feelings of the stu­dent body with the university’s administration. 
“we really tried to engage the campus, really giving it my all,” she said. “ … we did get some pushback after the fact; stu­dents were discouraged by the fact that they thought that they didn’t have enough of a forum for conversation or input. we understand that a gap between students and the [university] administration has always been present. 
“that’s something that every [student government] adminis­tration has struggled with, try­ing to bring the two together. what we’ve learned is that the [university] administration is extremely open to speaking with the students at all times. 
“i think there’s work to be done building that communi­cation. … it’s just something to maintain and keep healthy.” 
Moving forward 
although the two are free from nearly all their student govern­ment obligations for the rest of the year, they have several lin­gering commitments, including their board of trustees report and communiversity day. additionally, vidal will chair the campus life council for the re­mainder of the academic year. 
looking forward to next year, devine predicted several key is­sues would remain at the fore­front of the minds of students and community members. 
“one of the big conversations we’ve had is surrounding cam­pus safety, but also with stu­dents moving off campus and the considerations they have for campus safety and out in the community as well,” devine said. 
“something that i think will come up a lot next year — and has begun at the end of this year — are students of different socioeconomic backgrounds as well as undocumented students. that’s something that’s been publicized more recently, but i think that will continue to be something the university talks about.” 
‘An extreme privilege’ 
of the team’s year in office, vidal said she was grateful for the ability to speak with and learn from so many of her fellow students. 
“this has been an extreme privilege,” vidal said. “matt and i have really been given a unique opportunity to have input on be­half of our peers and on how the university is moving forward, and we’ve seen that as a great honor. we haven’t taken one day for granted … we’ve really tried to give it our all, every day. … we’ve learned, truly, what a spe­cial place this is.” 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 
Basilica 
continued from page 1 
“what is interesting is that at the end of that mass, i make an announcement on how to exit the church because peo­ple are asked to exit through 
only  certain  doors,”  rocca  
said.  
“at  the  other  doors,  there  

are hundreds of people wait­ing in line to come in [for the next mass].” 
however, while the easter sunday masses draw the largest crowds, the basilica has many events planned for holy week, rocca said. the basilica begins the paschal triduum, the period of three days between sunset on holy thursday and sunset on easter sunday, with the mass of the lord’s supper, rocca said. 
“that mass is most noted for two things,” rocca said. “first, the washing of the feet, which is symbolic of our call to ser­vice. then, we celebrate the institution of the eucharist and how that should touch our lives. 
“as we eat christ’s body and drink his blood, we do not only do it for ourselves, but we take that strength, that grace [from communion] to serve others, and that is beautifully portrayed in the mass.” 
following this mass, the basilica holds tenebrae, latin for “shadows,” at 11 p.m. holy thursday. 
“this is a prayer service that originated in the middle ages in the church, and it took place in the early, early hours of the morning of holy thursday, good friday and holy saturday,” rocca said. 
“the monks would gather in their monasteries in dark­ness with candles and would sing psalms and listen to les­sons from the old testament, during which they would ex­tinguish these candles.” 
one candle would remain ignited but would be hidden, plunging the whole monas­tery into darkness, rocca said. 
“the monks would take their books and bang them on their choir stalls to create this loud sound, called strepitus,” rocca said. “it was supposed to be symbolize the chaos that ensues when darkness reigns supreme. 
“then the candle would come back in, and the banging would stop. it would then be placed in the candlebra and would symbolize the light of christ that would shine ever so bright at the easter vigil.” 

students pack this service, rocca said, because it is so un­like anything else they have experienced in church before. 
“the music is very classical 
— a lot of chanting from the book of lamentations, a lot of polyphony, a lot of latin,” rocca said. “it is just a dif­ferent kind of music than we would normally hear at mass.” 
last year, bishop Kevin rhoades of the south bend-fort wayne diocese presided over the tenebrae service. he loved it so much that he asked to preside over it every other year, rocca said. 
“it is just great for all of the students to be able to see our chief pastor, our diocese bishop, there, and he does such a wonderful job,” rocca said. 
this service concludes around midnight, rocca said, leading into good friday. the chief celebration on good friday is the celebration of the lord’s passion at 3 p.m. 
for those who cannot make the celebration of the lord’s passion, the basilica also of­fers stations of the cross at 7:15 p.m., rocca said. no events are planned for holy saturday, since it is meant to be a day to commemorate the lord’s death and burial, he said. at 9 p.m., the community gathers in the basilica for the easter vigil. 
“what we celebrate, in ad­dition to the resurrection of christ, is the elect, also known as catechumens, and their re­ception into the church by receiving the sacraments of baptism, confirmation and holy communion,” rocca said. 
following the homily, the elect receive the rites of bap­tism and confirmation, rocca said. when communion be­gins, the elect come forward to receive their first holy communion, rocca said. 
“this is just a glorious cel­ebration; the liturgical choir sings and there is just so much energy,” rocca said. 
there will also be a 9 p.m. liturgy specifically for stu­dents, rocca said. 
“this was started years ago by a former director of campus ministry, fr. richard warner, who is currently our superior general and lives in rome. 
“he just thought it was a great idea to bring the whole community together, espe­cially since it is geared for the students.” 
it is important, however, to remember the celebrations for holy week represent one lit­urgy, rocca said. 
“the mass on holy thursday night does not really have a dismissal,” rocca said. “the liturgy just pauses and people come back to continue the lit­urgy with good friday. 
“it is basically three sepa­rate liturgies — the mass of the lord’s supper, the celebration of the lord’s passion and the easter vigil — but the church considers it one continuous liturgy over those three days.” 
to conclude the celebra­tions of the holiday, the congregation of holy cross ordains some of their dea­cons on the saturday follow­ing easter, rocca said. there are six deacons becoming ordained priests this year, he said. 
“it is just a great time — be­ginning with holy thursday and easter sunday and end­ing with easter saturday — it just is a wonderful time for the holy cross community.” 
Contact Kayla Mullen at  kmullen2@nd.edu 

Winter is here 

insidE ColuMn 
Joy in failure 
Jimmy Kemper 
scene writer 

i was walking down the street near sunset. the sky was painted blood red, and a cathedral bell echoed in the dis­tance. i was the only person in sight. i turned the corner not entirely sure what to expect. a man with a vague resem­blance to freddy Kreuger was waiting for me and jumped at me before i even have a chance to react. i died quickly and painfully. 
over the weekend i began “bloodborne,” the latest video game by legendary designer hidetaka miyazaki and his team at from software, the makers of the infamous “dark souls” and “demon’s souls” games. 
like miyazaki’s past works, “bloodborne” is a cruel, grueling and honestly horrifying game and prob­ably one of the most miserable gaming experiences i have ever encountered. monsters of all shapes and sizes are always lurking around the corner, wait­ing to strike and end whatever traction you’ve gained in the game. experience does not add up unless you make it to one of the game’s few safe havens. “bloodborne” forces you to play by its rules and punishes you severely when­ever you make even a slight mistake. 
a massive “you died” appears on the screen each time you fail, and it feels like the game is mocking me for even trying. the game seems to hate my guts, but i can’t put it down. 
every time i fail, i learn something new. maybe i should have dodged left when the freddy Kreuger-esque char­acter charged at me instead of fighting him head on. maybe i should have taken a different pathway. each failure gives me an opportunity to learn something new about “bloodborne” and about my­self. the missteps make the game that much more worth it though, because the defeats add up to a much more satis­fying experience when i finally achieve a goal. 
failure is as integral to any part of our lives as it is to “bloodborne.” whether it be a bad grade on a test, a rejection letter from a dream job or a poorly writ­ten inside column, failure is bound to occur at some point in our lives. fortunately none of these missteps have a giant “you died” message attached to them. 
rather, failure just means another opportunity to try again or the option to explore a new path. if we believe in ourselves, we can take these opportuni­ties and make something wonderful out of them. so relax and take joy in failure, knowing that each defeat shapes us, and lets us grow into who we are meant to be. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Christopher Newton 
stepping out of the cave 

incessant warnings about looming catastrophe typi­cally have the unintended and counterproductive effect of desensitizing people to an issue. think of warnings about climate change or the effects of binge drinking on your liver function. better yet, consider the game of thrones refrain “winter is coming.” said so often, they tend to be ignored until calamity strikes. as i’ve argued in this column before, my own personal mantra has been “yemen is collapsing.” lo and behold, the country now stands at the brink of not only a multi-sided civil war, but also a hobbesian war of all against all. already a state resting on crumbling foundations, and the tectonic geopolitical shifts across the broader middle east are now toppling the entire edifice of the yemeni statehood and threatening numerous others. 
the poorest of the arab states, yemen possesses the second highest guns per capita in the world, depleted oil reserves, a rapidly dwindling national water supply and incorrigibly corrupt government institutions. in a land filled with guns, but lacking exportable commodities, water and any means of nonviolent redress, violence and extremism have become aspects of daily life. repeated rebellions in the north, a sim­mering secessionist movement in the south and the world’s deadliest al-Qaeda franchise are hallmarks of modern yemeni politics. 
houthi rebels, members of a minority sect of shia islam, have moved from their mountain redoubts to not only seize the capital, sana’a, but major ports such as mocha and a string of military bases. they now march south, engag­ing military units loyal to former president ali abdullah saleh, who was ousted in the arab spring protests, as well as those who remain faithful to current president abd rabbuh mansur hadi. al-Qaeda in the arabian peninsula (aQap) continues to control its own southern and western territories, waiting for the opportunity to expand its influence amidst a growing security vacuum. 
as the fighting intensifies, with each faction backed by various states and other organizations, the violence will fur­ther distract yemenis and the international community from the country’s real problems. its economy and natural re­sources will continue to suffer from neglect and exploitation, and in turn, feed back into the basic motivations for violence. as geopolitical concerns assume greater prominence in the conflict, this downward cycle will only grow in speed and intensity, much to the detriment of the average yemeni. 
following in the footsteps of syria and iraq, yemen is rap­idly becoming yet another battlefield for the region’s major powers, an opportunity to extend one’s own influence and to reduce one’s rivals’. iran, saudi arabia and the rest of the gulf coast council, egypt and the united states have flocked to the state, proffering interventions of various forms alongside platitudinous claims of safeguarding yemen’s sovereignty and regional stability. in a region where several centers of power have vied for supremacy since the close of world war ii, any instability is akin to blood in shark-infested waters. 
iran backs the shia houthis, providing intelligence and logistical support and seeking to expand its reach deeper into saudi arabia’s backyard. the gulf states do not so much back the irrelevant yemeni government as they oppose iranian en­croachment, with their airstrikes targeting iranian facilities more than strategic houthi positions. the united sates, al­ready forced to close its primary special forces base, schizo­phrenically seeks to counter iran’s moves in yemen while also allying with its involvement in iraq and negotiating a possible nuclear deal in switzerland. egypt’s abdul al-fattah al-sisi is more than willing to commit egyptian ground troops to the fray to serve its own interests. aQap seems to have been almost lost in the shuffle. 
yet yemen stands as one arena among several in the broader arab world. libya, iraq, syria, lebanon and the occupied palestinian territories all present opportunities for the extension of this or that regional power’s influence. with so much instability, it appears to many westerners that the arabs may be experiencing their own, tempered version of europe’s thirty years’ war. when pan-arabism died with gamal abdul nasser following the debacle that was the yom Kippur war, the ideological void was filled with a dichotomy of secular autocrats like hafez al-assad, saddam hussein and hosni mubarak on one side and dynastic theocrats like the house of saud and the iranian ayatollahs on the other. 
this dichotomy held throughout the 1980s, 1990s and early 2000s until its contradictions boiled over with the rise of violent islamic fundamentalism and the arab spring upris­ings. these trends swept away the post-nasser paradigm, ushering in a new period of political reorganization, histori­cally a bloody affair. not only has despotism been questioned as a legitimate form of rule, but also sykes-picot itself is in jeopardy. 
yemen is the canary in the coalmine, the first alarm to sound of catastrophe over the horizon. if there is indeed to be a geopolitical reshuffling of the arab world, yemen will not be the only failed state. libya is about to follow suit, syria stands at the edge, iraq is at risk for dismemberment and lebanon remains ready to implode at a moment’s notice. yemen has collapsed, just as climate change is a reality, our livers may need a check-up and winter will fall upon westeros. what will follow will likely not be a peaceful series of events. 
Christopher Newton is a senior formerly of Knott Hall. He is a political science major and international development studies minor. He can be reached at cnewton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
lEttEr to tHE Editor 

Dangers of ditching diplomacy 
march 31 was the deadline to reach a nuclear agreement with iran. it is necessary to recognize what exactly is at stake. 
one need only consider the alterna­tives to diplomacy in order to see that any efforts to undermine a deal with iran would be a major mistake. the alternative to the current negotiations with iran on its nuclear program is no deal at all, an outcome detrimental to all parties involved. 
experts such as ali vaez, the international crisis group’s senior analyst on iran, would agree that without a deal, iran will have the op­portunity to increase its uranium en­richment capacity. that means if the 

u.s. and iran fail to reach an agree­ment — which several members of congress are trying to ensure — iran would be several steps closer to ac­quiring a nuclear weapon and bring­ing the nuclear club to 10. 
if we back away from the negotia­tion table too quickly, it is likely that harsher sanctions will be imposed on iran, resulting in further isolation and the potential for hostilities. the dan­gers of ditching diplomacy are real. abandoning a deal with iran could escalate into a march to war — with costs far greater than any of us can af­ford. as president of global Zero: notre dame, i’m committed to supporting negotiations with iran because we know what is at stake. i hope our elect­ed officials do too. 
Theresa Rinaldo 
junior march 31 



lEttEr to tHE Editor 

Thoughts on the RFRA 
something with which i’m sure many of you can sympathize is the utter disconnect that one feels from the outside world while being a college student. i am often so immersed in my courses that i have a complete lack of awareness of the entirety of national and world events, leaving me with only twitter as a barometer for inflam­matory incidents. as i’m sure many of you have become aware, the religious freedom restoration act is this week at the top of the list of things that are prompting rants and blow-ups on twitter and other social media. Just today, in fact, i read a headline that read, “mike pence legalizes lgbt discrimination.” i then continued to scroll to see more and more statuses saying, “whatever hap­pened to separation of church and state?” and “i thought this was supposed to be land of the free,” and, my personal favorite, “i’m moving out of indiana.” while all of these opinions are valid with regard to that particular headline, as it re­lates to painful and enraging imagery from the events of civil rights issues that have polluted our history and poisoned the integrity of the culture of our great nation, i cannot help but see the flaw of this particular uproar. many are petitioning to kill the bill and recall mike pence, but have they even read the bill? do they even know what it’s about? i’ve taken the liberty of giving it to you. the bill states the following, as shown on the indiana general assembly 2015 session website: 
“religious freedom restoration act. provides that a state or local government action may not substantially burden a person’s right to the ex­ercise of religion unless it is demonstrated that applying the burden to the person’s exercise of re­ligion is: (1) essential to further a compelling gov­ernmental interest; and (2) the least restrictive means of furthering the compelling governmen­tal interest. provides that a person whose exercise of religion has been substantially burdened, or is likely to be substantially burdened, by a state or local government action may assert the burden as a claim or defense in a judicial proceeding, regardless of whether the state or a political subdivision of the state is a party to the judicial proceeding. allows a person who asserts a burden as a claim or defense to obtain appropriate relief, including: (1) injunctive relief; (2) declaratory re­lief; (3) compensatory damages; and (4) recovery of court costs and reasonable attorney’s fees.” 
basically, it just states that if you feel that your right to act in a manner congruent with your reli­gious beliefs is being threatened or extinguished, you have the ability to not participate in that in­teraction. as you can see, there is no mention of lgbt populations or values related to a particular religion. the idea behind the bill is to protect a person’s right to act in a way that is in keep­ing with their personal religious views in their churches, homes and workplaces. for instance, let’s say you’re an anesthesiologist. you’re being asked to anesthetize a girl for an abortion, but you have deep personal convictions about abor­tion and simply don’t believe it’s right. this bill gives you the right to abstain from participation in what you believe is morally wrong according to your religion. let’s say you belong to a Jewish family that owns a sign making company. if you were sent in an order that asked you to print a sign with an anti-semitic message, this bill would protect you from having to do so. so while talk of lgbt discrimination may bring concerns, for instance, that a same-sex couple would be ejected from a restaurant simply because they are gay, that is surely not the content or intent of the bill. the place of the law is to protect the rights of the individual, not impose the particular opinions of any group on the individual, and i think this law does just that. if the girl wants to be anesthetized for her procedure, she can still have that done by another anesthesiologist. if the anti-semetic customer wants his sign printed, he can go to any other sign maker to get that done. it would be out of line for him to pick on the sign maker for not participating in his prejudice and legally harass him for lack of accommodation, would it not? 
for those of you who still have concerns that this bill puts lgbt individuals in a negative posi­tion, i have a one-word solution: capitalism. if a company or business has a policy that you dis­agree with, take your business elsewhere. better yet, organize a boycott. america is the land of the free. people have the freedom to express them­selves how they want, hence why we have narrow-minded individuals and why we have prejudiced jerks. if we who combat those close-minded men­talities are to truly give ourselves credit for being accepting and tolerant, we have to engage in ac­ceptance and tolerance even when it’s uncomfort­able for us. our tolerance must include those that we disagree with (after all, isn’t that the funda­mental nature of tolerance, enduring that which you don’t necessarily personally subscribe to?). while the law can’t necessarily legislate to the degree of the moral convictions that you feel, it is absolutely within your power to contribute to a positive change in culture where we, the people, stand up for one another in the face of injustice. it is the responsibility of the people to promote the values with which we expect one another to respect one another. so be vocal and be bold, but make sure you’re directing that audacity towards the source of the problem, which is the organiza­tions that participate in discrimination, not the bill that protects someone’s right to believe and act as they desire. when you accidentally take aim at the wrong issue, you become the oppres­sor who shoots down freedoms instead of the defender who promotes them. and finally, when you allow yourself to be swept up by extremely biased second- and thirdhand information, like intentionally inflammatory headlines, you under­mine your own deliberateness and credibility, so be cautious and selective with what you choose to fuel your passion.
   Gabrielle Weldy
       freshman march 27 
uwirE 

powdered alcohol approved for sale 
Nashwa Bawab 
the daily texan 

the u.s. alcohol and tobacco tax and trade bureau recently approved the sale of powdered alcohol, which is expected to be available to purchase this summer, although possibly not in texas. 
powdered alcohol, or palcohol, is a powder that can be mixed with liquids  — similar to the way Kool-aid is mixed with water  — to create an al­coholic beverage that can have alcohol content levels equivalent to a shot of vodka. 
six states have banned the product, while more than two dozen others have introduced bills to do the same. the house licensing and administrative procedures committee approved a bill monday banning the product’s sale in texas. 
palcohol has the same potential dangers as normal alcohol, according to Jessica cance, chairperson of the high risk drinking committee for ut’s wellness network. 
“technically it’s just alcohol, so we know what alcohol does to us,” cance said. “Knowing what potential side effects powdered alcohol could have on individuals or the public at large, we don’t know yet.” 
students might be enthusiastic about the new product because it can be an alternative to wait­ing in long drink lines at concerts, according to government senior Javier abrego. 
“if it works the same way as alcohol, then i don’t see what’s wrong with it,” abrego said. “colleges have been known to have alcohol problems and drug problems on campus, so i guess it’s easy to conceal or hide powdered alcohol versus if you have a whole bottle of alcohol.” 
english senior miles hosanna, director of the pearl street co-op, said he does not see powdered alcohol gaining a lot of popularity because alco­hol is already easy enough to obtain at parties. 
“i don’t reckon you can buy a keg of powdered alcohol, so i don’t think it will affect us at all,” hosanna said. “i guess i can see it being some­thing on sale at a convenient store, which would be cool, but i don’t know if it will ever be quite the same as a beer or anything.” 
as long as students are cautious and stay edu­cated on the project, there shouldn’t be trouble, cance said. 
“i’m really hesitant from the public health per­spective to say that something is horrible and to sound the alarms,” cance said. “there are rea­sons to be cautious about this product, and, as with everything, i think having the combination of education and surveillance of the data is the best thing we can do.” 
The Daily Texan is the student newspaper serving University of Texas at Austin’s community. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 




By DANIEL BARABASI 
scene writer 

in this time of oscillating winter and summer, a sea­son many other areas of the world can simplify call “spring,” it gets difficult to keep your outfit on fleek from one day to the next. for when the sun’s rays actually do break through the indiana permafrost, check out a few of these style tips to best show off your winter weight room investment. 
the Jean Jacket 

it’s iconic for a reason. you see it on runways, at metal concerts, on the backs of boy band members and on the ruggedest of dudes out there. what’s awesome about a jean jacket is that it’s simple in design, but it adds a boat­load of character with the colors and accessories you choose. black and blue are awesome, but if you’re look­ing to be extra bold try on a white and a tan one, or even change up the material! 
for the chillier days, throw on a snugly fitting jacket as another layer, replacing the vest portion of a three-piece. then, as the sun shines brighter, it can be mixed with a button-down and tie to channel your inner urbanite. and if you get too hot in the mid-day sun? go cali on your jacket and tie it around you waist for bonus sartorial 
By KEELY BERGIN 
scene writer 

“the casual vacancy” by J.K. rowling was released under a pen name in 2012 where it was greeted with minimal fanfare and was generally not well reviewed, even after she was revealed as the author. it was called “not only disappointing — it’s dull,” according to “the new york times.” rowling also released another book under a different pen name, called “cormoran strike,” which was received much more enthusiastically. the negative reviews that “the casual vacancy” received may have prevented some rowling fans from actually giving the book a shot. it may be that when reading “the casual vacancy,” many potter fans were looking for that same sense of magic which they simply did not find in the bleak village of pagford. 
however, new life has been breathed into the book by hbo and bbc one. the book has been trans­formed into a three part miniseries. there seems to be brighter prospects for the story as a miniseries, with the adaptation credited to sarah phelps, who wrote scripts for “great expectations,” “camelot” and “eastenders.” 
the cast brings in “harry potter” alum michael 
EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 
points; it won’t care. Just don’t go canadian tuxedo on me. 
Measuring your shorts 

don’t let your shorts get confused with your chubbies. this means that the “below the tips of your fingers” rule from catholic school doesn’t apply to shorts in the same way as it did to skirts. this summer, keep the hems of your britches cut above the knees. any longer, and you have the horrid capris on. shorter? Just consider how lit­tle sun your thighs got this past winter. 
for styling: slim and printed. t-shirts aren’t the only place for graphic designers to go wild, and shorts are a great location to show off some creativity. stripes and polka-dots are good for beginners, then go for some heavy prints as you get more comfortable. checking out a sail­boat-printed pair? those are for people who either own a boat or at least know how to use one. plan accordingly. 
the little things 

time to give yourself the “pop” you may have been missing. my personal goal is to invest in my wrists this summer. no apple watch for this college student, which means the focus is on “dumb” watches and bracelets. all on a budget. 
some of my shopping pet peeves are the accessories 
gambon. gambon previously starred as albus dumbledore and will now star as howard mollison, owner of a delicatessen in the seemingly idyllic town of pagford. rory Kinnear, who recently starred in “the imitation game,” will take on the role of barry fairbrother, a councilman whose death opens the series. other cast members are up and coming stars, like abigail lawrie. while the cast may not be com­pletely stacked with huge names, the trailer for the se­ries looks promising. the illusion of the idyllic town is stripped away quickly, with the plot revolving around the town’s reaction to fairbrother’s death and the ever present resentments within the town of pagford. some considered the story to be too dark — almost an antithesis to “harry potter” — but it can also be viewed as dealing with many of the same struggles present in “harry potter” from a more “muggle” per­spective. within the story, there is a wealth of strug­gles among all manners of people: rich against poor, teenagers against parents, students against teachers, to name a few. while these struggles are used in many different mediums, rowling’s darker take on these is­sues creates a more compelling drama for television. 
for those who have read the book, don’t expect it to be a word for word translation. as with most that high-end stores peddle, where they offer a leather bracelet for the price of their finest suit. to save your cash for a dapper blazer, try creating your own wrist bling. black and brown leather strips are available at most hob­by stores, and just by adding a clasp you could be ready to go. if you have an ache for something fancier, try weaving a few leather strips together or making a minimalist bead bracelet. 
for watches, diy is less of an option. to avoid blowing your ring-by-spring budget on your tick-tock, check out timex’s collections. the weekender collection puts an affordable $40 price tag on casual watches with great de­signs that will be with you through both summer camps and internships. although the brand isn’t the best for formalwear pairings, the “timex originals” can get you through a black-tie event if needed. 
for the rest of the body, look for better lapel pins and rings that make even frank underwood jealous. a floral fabric pin or a metal badge adds extra styling to your go­to suit and comes as an easy way to match the liveliness of the season. for rings, experiment according to your comfort level. i’m a minimalist guy, so i’m on the hunt for a simple, cast-iron-esque piece until i can start knocking my class ring around. 
Contact Daniel Barabasi at dbaraba1@nd.edu 
adaptations, allowances must be made for the me­dium the story is told in. phelps has revealed that she had to change the “grim, grim, grim” ending of the novel and put in “some kind of redemptive moment” to make the story work for television. 
rowling fully supports phelps’s adaptation choic­es, calling her “a writer at the top of her game.” rowling had discussed phelps’s vision of “the casual vacancy,” making rowling “happy and confident to hand over the job” of shaping the story for television. 
the series has already been released in the united Kingdom, and the reviews are promising. “the telegraph” describes it as a “biting, blackly comic drama” with “an elegiac feel.” it might not be a feel-good series, but given the past successes of rowling and phelps, as well as bbc one and hbo in the pro­duction of mini-series, “the casual vacancy” will un­doubtedly be an excellent production. 
the series was released in the united Kingdom on bbc one on february 15. Just in case you wanted to do some pre-reading days procrastination, the first two parts will be released on hbo on april 29, and the third part is due april 30. 
Contact Keely Bergin at kbergin1@nd.edu 




Matthew Munhall 
scene writer 

on monday afternoon, Jay-Z assembled a cabal of a-list musicians in new york to announce the relaunch of tidal, the swedish streaming service he bought for $56 million earlier this year. the press conference and the accompanying promotional video had the star power of an illuminati meeting framed with the sig­nificance of a historical event. alicia Keys delivered a speech filled with the vague platitudes of a high school valedictory address, calling the day “a moment that will forever change the course of music history.” then, all of the artists present went up one-by-one to sign a document commemorating the launch, as if they were the founding fathers signing the declaration of independence. 
tidal is being touted as the first “artist-owned” music platform and represents a growing pushback against the low payouts to artists from streaming services like spotify. Jay-Z, Keys, beyoncé, madonna, arcade fire’s win butler and regine chassagne, Kanye west, nicki minaj, daft punk’s thomas bangalter and guy-manuel de homem-christo, rihanna and Jack white are among tidal’s founding owners, who all have an equal stake in the company’s equity. 
“the challenge is to get everyone to respect music again, to recognize its value,” Jay-Z said in an interview 
By KELLY McGARRY 
scene writer 

we could have guessed from the title, “carrie & lowell,” that sufjan stevens’s new album would be something deeply personal. the names carrie and lowell refer to sufjan’s mother and stepfather, respectively, though the album focuses mainly on sufjan’s mother, who was spo­radically present in his life, and his complicated experi­ence with her death in 2012.  in the opening track “death with dignity,” he repeatedly warns us “i don’t know where to begin,” and thus begins a confused exploration through a dark tangle of emotions. 
in a sort of coming-of-age work, he abandons the clutter of fantastical lyrics and electronic experimentalism of his recent albums to embrace a raw autobiographical expres­sion of his own experience. returning to his guitar-based with the new york times. “everyone knows that the pay system is unfair to artists.” 
in one sense, Jay-Z is correct in his assessment that the internet has conditioned listeners to expect music for free and that streaming services do not fairly com­pensate artists. last year, taylor swift’s decision to pull her catalog from spotify, which she classified an “experi­ment,” was well publicized. scott borchetta, the ceo of swift’s label big machine, alleged the label received less than $500,000 from streams of swift’s music on spotify over a 12-month period. 
yet, it’s not swift, or the artists onstage at the tidal launch event, who are ultimately hurt the most by streaming services. even with spotify’s payout range — which the company states is between $0.006 to $0.0084 per stream — swift was still receiving six-figure sums. it is the independent artists who receive nowhere near the number of streams as major-label acts who are hurt the most by streaming services’ devaluation of their music. 
in addition to the involvement of artists, tidal is attempting to carve out a niche for itself with a neil young-like obsession with high-fidelity audio and ex­clusive content. at its launch, these exclusives included daft punk's 2006 film “electroma,” a video of the white stripes’ first tv performance and curated playlists by Jay-Z and beyoncé. unlike spotify, however, tidal does not offer a free option — a “premium” subscription starts at $9.99 per month, with a $19.99 per month tier offering higher sound quality. 
folk roots, stevens's resulting music is bare to the point of being criticized as boring. the consistent lightness and ease of the melodies and vocals are sharply contrasted with the unease of the lyrics. the album is certainly not fun to listen to, but it is definitely worthwhile as it cap­tures a deep and painful journey. with a title that refers so explicitly to sufjan’s mother, no part of the album can be disentangled from her memory, so by necessity it main­tains a serious, genuine tone. 
in modern music, we’ve come to expect most religious references to have a mocking attitude, but sufjan is known for having a strong connection with his religion. the ref­erences in “carrie & lowell” can be interpreted as sincere and deeply personal. he includes religion as an influ­ence in the discussion of suicide, expressing that it is “the only thing that keeps me from driving this car, half-light, jack knife into the canyon at night.” he also references a 
tidal foreshadows a splintering of content among different streaming services. it’s not difficult to image that rihanna and west, who are both due to release new music this year, might make their albums available to stream exclusively on tidal. apple plans to launch a subscription service this summer and reportedly hopes to have a similar focus on procuring exclusive content. the idea of a single service that offers listeners access to nearly every artist’s discography on demand is likely to be threatened as these multimillion-dollar companies compete over the next few years. 
for me, the act of buying and owning music, both physically and digitally, holds more appeal than ever. even if an artist pulls their music from a service, you can still play vinyl on a turntable or an mp3 on your com­puter. owning music is also an ideological act of sup­porting artists whose music enriches your life; it signals a conscious decision to recognize the work of artists whose music resonates with you on some level. despite the ri­diculously grandiose rhetoric surrounding tidal, it none­theless brings attention to the necessity of reimbursing artists for their work. whether the service succeeds or not, it will hopefully continue conversations about fairly compensating musicians, especially independent artists, and what value music should have in the digital age. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at mmunhall@nd.edu 
dependence on his religion, pleading “Jesus, be near me, come shield me,” and an experience with doubt, asking, “how, god of elijah?” 
the entire album showcases a hushed battle with grief. the music itself is slow, almost hesitant. it doesn’t attempt any grand claims. it proceeds steadily throughout, with no definitive climax. in the album’s fifth track “eugene,” sufjan himself wonders, “what’s the point of singing songs if you know they’ll never hear you?” he identifies the whole album as an exercise in futility, acknowledg­ing there really is no purpose. faced with grief, there is no definitive response. this album is instead an honest ac­count of the maturity caused by loss. though it may not necessarily be the album we want to listen to on every oc­casion, it’s the kind that we sometimes need to hear. 
Contact Kelly McGarry at kmcgarry@nd.edu 

EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 


sPorts AutHority 

MLB navigating rule changes 

Samantha Zuba 
senior sports writer 
when it comes to tradition in baseball, change is tricky. 
the sport needs changes to keep tradition alive in a new era. but too much change can push away the folks who’ve been watching for ages and liked the game the way it was, thank you. and if the changes don’t bring in new view­ers, well, then major league baseball loses everybody. 
this season, mlb will intro­duce the pace of play rules it experimented with during the arizona fall league and spring training. a play clock of sorts will give teams 2 minutes 25 seconds, or 2:45 in games on national television, between each half inning and pitching change. fines could punish those who violate the clock. 
players also won’t be allowed to leave the batter’s box if they didn’t swing at the previous pitch unless the umpire gives them permission. 
thank goodness. 
baseball is all about find­ing a groove, but batters can groove in the batter’s box and not waste an inordinate amount of time. the quirks of players’ between-pitch rou­tines will live on, although perhaps with less velcroing and un-velcroing of batting gloves. 
mlb.com reports these mea­sures took an average of over 10 minutes off arizona fall league games, and it should be a success in the majors this upcoming season. 
for those who don’t want to meddle with baseball’s slug­gish traditions, have no fear. in 1960, the average baseball game lasted just under 160 minutes. in 2013, the average game took over three hours, according to statistics com­piled on foXsports.com 
the average game length hasn’t been on a continuous upward trend; there have been peaks and valleys. but since around 1978, the average game length generally has climbed and has never dipped back below that year’s average. 
the point is, there’s a good deal of baseball history before 1978 featuring shorter games. 
now, the mlb should be careful here and not get car­ried away with introducing clocks and time limits. much of what makes baseball in­teresting are the mind games between pitchers and batters. (am i going to pitch now? how about now? or now!) 
micromanaging the game would take away players’ indi­vidual styles and also the re­laxed dimension of the game. 
the key is to remember what baseball is not. it is not foot­ball, driven by high-octane physicality. really, baseball is weird. 
on one hand, baseball provides october drama, the suspense of the bases-loaded­two-outs-bottom-of-the­ninth situation and new york yankees fans who just excused themselves to run over their red sox fan neighbor’s flowers. but baseball also provides the opportunity for lazy sunday outings in July and the “i just came here for a hotdog, a sun­burn and some americana” attitude. 
baseball fans tend to enjoy both the intense and laid-back elements of baseball, believing each type of game-watching experience has its place. 
because of this, i mean it when i say good luck to the executives trying to run base­ball. it’s an odd, finicky sport that’s difficult to manage to everyone’s satisfaction be­cause it means a lot to a variety of people at different times. 
hopefully, the new pace of play rules work. some fans won’t like it, and shaving time off games won’t instantly draw in more fans, but it should push baseball in a positive direction. 
baseball games will always take a while, and that’s part of their charm. but that doesn’t mean players should have the liberty to waste tons of time for the fun of it or because of sluggish habits. the new rules are geared to cutting down on unnecessary delays, not the game’s character. 
the changes are tricky, but they should pay off. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu
 The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


nd woMEn’s Golf 

irish head to greensboro for bryan national 
By SEAN KILMER 
sports writer 

after an eighth-place finish at the lsu tiger classic, notre dame looks to rebound over easter weekend at the bryan national collegiate in greensboro, north carolina. 
irish head coach susan holt said the team did not adjust well to the conditions in baton rouge, louisiana, but also gained valu­able experience through the struggles. 
“we really weren’t pleased with our results at lsu,” holt said. “we should have played better; we’re a better team. we have good players, and we just didn’t get it done. we shouldn’t have finished any worse than fifth, which is where we were after the second day. day two was a great round of golf, but the wind wasn’t blowing. we managed it re­ally well. but it really blew in round one, and it really blew in round three, and that took its toll on us. we just didn’t manage it very well. 
“we had a few kids lose their composure a little bit, which is going to stick with you for a few more holes than it should, and you make some more bogeys than you should, and the conditions were so difficult that it was really hard to make birdies.” 
however, holt said she was con­fident the team would move on and learn from its mistakes this weekend and beyond. 
“we’ve talked about it, and the girls know it,” holt said. “i hope they all learned from it. i think they did, because moving forward we just have to respond better to conditions and situations like that, and i’m pretty confident that they will.” 
as for the bryan national collegiate, holt said she was ex­cited for the program’s return to the event after a five-year absence. the tournament gives the team a chance to adjust to a new type of grass and scout some acc foes before the conference champion­ship, she said. 
“we played in [bryan national collegiate] i believe five years ago, and we did not play well,” holt said. “it’s a very challenging golf course, very difficult. we were for­tunate enough that wake forest extended us an invitation, and ac­tually that pretty much coincided with us getting into the acc last year, which we’re very apprecia­tive of them for including us in the field, and for our program it’s going to be really good for us to go down there and play in greensboro a week and a half before the acc tournament because it’s going to be the same kind of grass. they have different grass down there, and the greens are different, so i think it’s great. 
“it’s going to be really good prep­aration for acc. it’s a really good field, and we’ll have a great oppor­tunity. if we show up and play the way we’re capable of, i think we’ll be very competitive.” 
the program is ready to take the next step into becoming a top-25 team, holt said, and she believes they have the talent to be one. 
“[this tournament] really works well with our schedule for fin­ishing up the end of the regular season and getting ready for the ncaa tournament,” holt said. “i think it’s great whenever you can put yourself against top-25 com­petition because that’s who we want to be, and if we can put our­selves in those positions and we compete as a team, we’re going to be able to get there.” 
notre dame travels to greensboro for the bryan national collegiate this weekend. play is scheduled to begin friday and continue through sunday. 
Contact Sean Kilmer at skilmer@nd.edu 

sMC softBAll | smc 5, adrian 4; adrian 9, smc 5 
Belles split conference doubleheader with Adrian 
By DOMINIC BUSH 
sports writer 

saint mary’s began miaa play tuesday with a trip to adrian, michigan, to square off with the host bulldogs for a weekday dou­bleheader that saw both games reach extra innings. 
the two squads split the games with the belles (10-6, 1-1 miaa) claiming the first in eight in­nings, 5-4, while adrian (11-5, 1-3) emerged victorious in the second eight-inning game, 9-5. 
Junior sarah burke took the hill for the belles in the first game and went five innings, giving up four runs. freshman Jessica alberts re­placed burke in the sixth, with the game knotted at four. 
the game remained in stale­mate until the eighth inning, when belles freshman morgan raymer, who entered the game as a pinch runner, belted a liner to right field and drove in fellow freshman Jamie young. 
belles head coach Kelli Zache said she was not surprised at all raymer provided the game-win­ning hit. 

“she is a competitor and a good hitter,” Zache said. 
raymer, along with freshman cassie young — who went 2-for-4 with a double and an rbi — pro­vided a much-needed offensive spark in the absence of junior catcher/first baseman Jillian busfield, who leads the team in home runs and rbis. alberts pitched a scoreless eighth to re­cord her second victory, improv­ing her mark to 2-1 on the season. 
in game two, alberts did not enjoy the same success as she did in her previous outing. she was tagged for three homers for a total of four earned runs in the first in­ning. raymer, the game one hero, quickly replaced alberts in the first and settled things down for the belles. 
despite spotting thebulldogs an early four runs, the belles took the lead with a five-run fifth, capped off by a two-run double courtesy of freshman infielder Kayla raymer. the bulldogs struck back in the seventh with an rbi single by se­nior brooke stewart, sending the game to extra innings again. 
the bulldogs exploded for an­other four-run inning in the top of the eighth. with saint mary’s unable to get anything going in the bottom of the eighth, morgan raymer was credited with the loss, dropping her to 2-3 on the year. 
the belles now turn their at­tention to wednesday’s home doubleheader against non-con­ference opponent defiance. while the lady Jackets (4-12, 0-4) are currently last in the heartland collegiate athletic conference, Zache said her team is not taking any foes lightly. 
“i don’t like to take anyone lighter because the moment you do, is the moment it can hurt you,” Zache said. 
saint mary’s and defiance will play their doubleheader at saint mary’s college softball field, with first pitch scheduled for 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Dominic Bush at dbush@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


MEn’s tEnnis 

Irish set to take on Blue Devils 
By RYAN KLAUS 
sports writer 
notre dame continues its final road trip of the season friday in durham, north carolina, against no. 5 duke. 
the irish (12-7, 4-3 acc) picked up two road victories last week in close matches against miami (fla.) and florida state. against the hurricanes (7-10, 1-5), notre dame pulled out a 4-3 win that was capped by a victory by soph­omore Josh hagar at the third singles spot. the irish also beat the seminoles (16-6, 4-3), 4-3, af­ter junior alex lawson clinched a comeback victory at the fifth sin­gles spots. following the two vic­tories, notre dame’s conference record is above .500 for the first time this season. 
“we were really proud of the effort of our guys last weekend,” irish head coach ryan sachire said. “to be able to come out of that weekend with two wins was really significant for our team. particularly against florida state, we faced a lot of adversity, and we were really able to overcome that adversity.” 
despite four consecutive victo­ries and two conference wins last week, the irish face a daunting challenge ahead of them when they take on the blue devils (17-3, 5-2), who have yet to lose at home thisseason and are led by the11th­ranked singles player in the na­tion, junior nicholas alvarez. 
“duke is a very talented team, obviously,” sachire said. “they have a number of players that have been nationally ranked through­out their careers. we know it’s go­ing to be a great challenge, but we also believe in ourselves a lot and know that if we play a good match and compete the way we’re ca­pable of competing, we’re going to have a chance to win.” 
notre dame is no stranger to facing highly ranked opponents this season. in addition to its matches in the acc, notre dame played a nonconference schedule that included matches against current no. 3 illinois, no. 11 ohio state,no. 21texastech andno. 24 northwestern. 
the matchup between the irish and the blue devils will be high­lighted by an individual battle be­tween alvarez and notre dame’s Quentin monaghan — ranked 17th nationally — at the top sin­gles spot. monaghan was named acc player of the week last week and won both of his matches at singles against miami (fla.) and florida state. 
“everybody that Quentin has played recently has been really good, and that comes with the territory of playing number one at a program like notre dame,” sachire said. “for Quentin, it will be business as usual. he’s used to playing really high-level oppo­nents. he’s going to have to be at or near his best to be successful, and he’s done a masterful job this season of performing well in ev­ery match he’s played for the most part. we really believe in him a lot and are confident that he can do well onfriday.” 
the irish and blue devils are set to square off 2 p.m. friday at ambler tennis stadium in durham, north carolina. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu 
MEn’s Golf 

underclassmen look to step up at invitational 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 

notre dame heads to nashville, tennessee, over easter break for the mason rudolph invitational, its fi­nal tournament of the regu­lar season. 
irish head coach Jim Kubinski said he was excit­ed about his team’s chances this weekend when it trav­els to the legends club in nashville for vanderbilt’s annual spring tournament. 
“there’s a lot of strong competition at vanderbilt, which is what we’ll face at accs,” Kubinski said. “this week offers us another chance to get out and com­pete, which is part of the development process with a young group. our guys are hungry for success, so ev­ery time out is exciting for us.” 
once they get to nashville, Kubinski said the irish have a plan of how to finish the season strong. 
“we’re a team that needs to keep building confi­dence and trust. that’s our no. 1 goal now,” Kubinski said. “whether in nashville or here on campus, we’re excited about every oppor­tunity to compete. it’s com­petition that offers young players the most. it looks like one starter, [junior] cory [sciupider], will be out this week with an in­jury, but that should also provide an opportunity for another young guy to step up.” 
Kubinski, while ap­proaching the end of the long regular season, also took the time to look back on the progress this team has made over the course of the year thus far. 
“this has been a transi­tional season for us, playing so many young and devel­oping players. even play­ers who had played some in the past were in new roles this year, so we had some bumps in the road early on,” Kubinski said. “it’s ex­citing, though, to see the evidence of our players im­proving in recent weeks. we didn’t have a senior in the lineup over the two-tour­nament spring break. 
“we had a sophomore [blake barens] and fresh­man [thomas steve] lead us last time out in naples. in fact, blake had an oppor­tunity going to his last hole of the tournament to set his career best score three days in a row over break [a 71 in san diego, a 70 day 1 in naples and needed a par for 69 to finish on day 2]. i don’t think we’ve ever had a player set his personal best on three straight days. the development of blake and thomas, with [sophomore] matt rushton’s strong play over our fall season and bookending break with a 69 to start in san diego and finish in naples shows the progress of our young guys. their development will give us an opportunity for success at vanderbilt but, more importantly, with our long-term goals as well.” 
Kubinski even compared his squad to the same de­velopment the men’s bas­ketball team went through 
last  year  before  finding  
such  tremendous  success  
this season.  

“we all look at how ex­citing and successful our men’s basketball team was this year — such a great ride for our whole cam­pus,” Kubinski said. “lost in all that excitement was the development time play­ers like [Zach] auguste, [demetrius] Jackson, [steve] vasturia, et cetera, went through last year. they all improved a great deal through their hard work and competitive op­portunities. our boys are in that process now. it’s fun to come to work each day and watch young players improving.” 
the young and improving irish will try to cap off their transitional regular season with a strong showing in tennessee in anticipation of both the acc champi­onships at the end of the month and a new season in the fall. 
the mason rudolph invitational will tee off friday morning and last through sunday afternoon at the legends club in nashville. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 
nd woMEn’s tEnnis 

ND prepares to face Demon Deacons, Hokies 
By BEN PADANILAM 
sports writer 

notre dame hits the road this weekend for a pair of conference matches, first heading to meet up with wake forest on friday fol­lowed by a sunday matchup with virginia tech. 
the irish (12-6, 6-3 acc) are coming off a pair of wins at eck tennis pavilion this past weekend, when they cruised to a 6-1 victory over acc foe north carolina state on friday before sweeping their individual matches against marquette on sunday en route to a 7-0 victory. 
given that both matches ended in decisive wins for his team, irish head coach Jay louderback said he was very pleased with his team’s performance, particularly in the singles matches. 
“the thing that was re­ally good was to see our singles play really well,” louderback said. “i mean, our doubles have been good all year, and we’ve had a lot of matches where we win the doubles point and then win just three singles [points] to win those types of matches. it was good to see the singles play well. we thought we could win both matches, but it was nice to see us win eas­ier than we thought it would be.” 
now, as the irish prepare to take to the road for their next two conference match-ups, louderback said he ex­pects both teams to present a challenge, especially on the road. first, the team will travel to winston-salem, north carolina, on friday to take on the demon deacons (12-9, 2-7). wake forest has lost each of its last three conference matches by the score of 7-0 but also holds a record of 9-4 in home match­es. louderback said he be­lieves the demon deacons will present yet another tough conference match for the irish on friday. 

“wake [forest] has struggled [in conference play], but they’re good,” louderback said. “they’re good enough to beat a lot of teams. especially with us on the road, i feel like they’ll be tough.” 
notre dame will then play its second match of the week­end sunday when it travel to blacksburg, virginia, to battle the hokies (12-5, 4-4). the hokies are strong on their courts, boasting a 10-0 home record on the year and are coming off a 4-3 victory over no. 16 miami this past sunday. louderback said he and the team expect a tough match sunday. 
“virginia tech has been up and down [this season],” louderback said. “they just had a great win over miami, and miami had beaten virginia two days earlier, and virginia was top 10. for virginia tech to get that win was big for them, so we got to be ready for them. the thing for virginia tech against miami was that they won four singles matches and one at the top [of the singles lineup], so we know they’re going to be tough.” 
one advantage louderback said he believes the team will have this weekend is both matches are expected to be outdoors, weather per­mitting. he said his team excels when playing outdoor tennis. 
“we’re hoping we’ll get to play both teams outdoors,” louderback said. “i feel like we’re better when we’re out­doors, so we’re hoping we get good weather. [virginia tech] is especially good in­doors at their place, so we’re hoping we can get them outside.” 
the irish will take to the courts friday at 12 p.m. when they take on wake forest at wake forest tennis center, followed by the matchup with virginia tech at burrows-burleson tennis center on sunday at 12 p.m. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 



trACk And fiEld 

Irish look to improve at Stanford Invite 
By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports writer 
after kicking off their out­door season at the texas relays and bobcat invitational last weekend, more than 50 irish athletes will travel to palo alto, california, to take on a large field at the stanford invitational, beginning friday. 
coming off its opening meets of the outdoor season in texas, notre dame had a combination of positive and negative take­aways, irish head coach alan turner said. 
“[last weekend] was a little bit mixed,” he said. “some peo­ple performed extremely well, and there were other perfor­mances that it just looked like we were out to lunch a little bit.” 
among the standout perfor­mances was senior Jade barber, who topped her own school record of 12.93 seconds in the 100-meter hurdles, finishing second at 12.81. 
turner also noted how senior all-american chris giesting ran impressive splits in the 4x400-and 4x200-meter re­lays, just as junior margaret bamgbose ran a strong split in the 4x400. turner said he feels like barber, giesting and bamgbose are all coming into top form as the outdoor season gets underway. 
“my really, really good kids are ready to run fast this week­end at stanford,” he said. 
turner said he was also im­pressed by senior carly loeffel, who finished seventh out of 18 in her return to the track in a heptathlon field turner de­scribed as “stacked.” adding to the list of promising outcomes from the first weekend was freshman greg bombara, who finished second in the javelin throw (59.61). 
turner said he was disap­pointed, however, by the fi­nal scores of some of the relay teams. 
“i’m looking for much better performances [this upcoming weekend],” he said. 
in the upcoming stanford invitational, there will be roughly 100 colleges repre­sented, though many teams will only be bringing a few athletes. those bringing full squads includes texas a&m, ranked first on both the men’s and women’s sides, as well as no. 6/7 arkansas, no. 14/12 stanford, ohio state, minnesota, wisconsin and a mixture of smaller california schools. 

“competition is going to be very good this weekend,” turner said. “it’s not quite as deep as other meets, but in almost every event, there’s probably going to be someone who’s already an all-american in it.” 
after taking a week of rest while teammates were in texas, the distance runners will return this weekend at the stanford invitational, and turner said he expects to see some good times. 

Junior molly seidel, who earned indoor all-american honors, will compete in the 5,000-meter race on the women’s side; meanwhile, ju­niors michael clevenger and a returning timothy ball will compete in the 5,000 meters on the men’s side. 
Junior danielle aragon will represent the irish in the 1,500 meter race. 
“this should be a good meet for our athletes,” turner said. “everyone will get a good chance to [compete in] their main events, in good weather against good competition.” 
the  stanford  invitational  
will take place  friday and  
saturday at the  cobb  track  

and angell field in palo alto. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 

paid advertisement 



opposing hitters’ weaknesses 

softball 
defensively. continued from page 16 
“i think we need to make sure we’re hitting the ball in been and will continue to be good counts, not allowing too successful if the irish focus on many strikes to go by,” gumpf beating opponets in two out of said. “i think pitching-wise, three categories: pitching, hit-we need to be sure that we’re ting and fielding. forcing their hitters to hit the 
“usually, when we do two of ball where we want them to hit those things better, we’ll win it.” ball games, and that’s what we if the irish are to complete have done recently,” gumpf the perfect home stand — and said. extend their overall win streak 
seven out of the past nine to 10 — they will have to con-victories have come against tain eastern michigan’s strong acc opponents, something offense, gumpf said. gumpf said will help the irish “eastern michigan can hit as they advance toward post-the ball well — they’re a live-season play. hitting team and they score 
“every game is important, a lot of runs,” gumpf said. [but] obviously we want to “we need to control their hit-put ourselves in a good posi-ters and be certain that we’re tion for the acc tournament taking care of the ball on the shots to match a career to qualify. in addition to 
w lacrosse 
high. the irish will face an-virginia, notre dame also and get a good seed, so that’s pitching end.” 
continued from page 16 

something we’ve been focused notre dame will face off 
other goalkeeper coming has no. 7 syracuse, no. 6 on,” gumpf said. against eastern michigan on 
off a strong performance northwestern and no. 10 and although the irish have wednesday at melissa cook 
last saturday against the in virginia’s rachel vander louisville among its final won nine straight, gumpf stadium. first pitch is sched­
tar heels at arlotta stadium. Kolk. the freshman earned five games, meaning the said there are always things uled for 4 p.m. 
halfpenny said after this acc defensive player of the irish need to beat at least she believes the team can 
loss her team emerged with week honors yesterday in two teams ranked in the top improve upon: better at-bats Contact Benjamin Horvath 
a renewed sense of fight and large part due to her 18-save 10 and unranked michigan offensively and exploiting at bhorvat1@nd.edu 
determination. performance in virginia’s to qualify. 
“all 32 kids come away 15-13 upset over previously-“here we find ourselves going, if we can [play like unbeaten boston college now in april,” halfpenny against north carolina] ev-on saturday. the cavaliers said. “we got our legs under ery time out, we have the were outshot 41-26 in the us in february, we learned a confidence now to under-game, but rode vander Kolk lot about ourselves in march, stand that we’re position-to victory, a talented back-and now it’s time to really ing ourselves to continue stop halfpenny said the just grab this identity we to earn a spot in the ncaa irish are well aware of. have … and find sixty min-tournament by winning “[vander Kolk] was a utes of that against another these games,” halfpenny great goalie in high school,” no. 4 team in the country.” said. “by closing these out, halfpenny said. “i remem-while the irish are des­by making a couple more ber recruiting her … and perate for a win this week-plays, that’s all we’ve got to now she’s getting her oppor-end, there is also a chance do. tunity at virginia. … you’ve at history in charlottesville. 
“there was some serious got to make this goalie move neither halfpenny — in­spirit out there. there was though, because she does cluding her time at william another level of speed that i really good holding, she’s & mary and notre dame — hadn’t seen yet.” got great hand-eye coordi-nor the notre dame program 
against the tar heels, the nation, and so we’re defi-have ever beaten virginia irish not only managed to nitely going to have to move on the road. don’t try to tell overcome a six-goal deficit, her and get this ball around halfpenny though. but they also won many of her.” “i know it’s going to sound what halfpenny called the halfpenny said this boring, but [a win] just “hustle stats.” notre dame weekend will be important means we’re 7-5,” halfpenny outshot unc 31-18 in the for the irish to keep their said. “ … we’re just focused game, including a 14-6 edge postseason hopes alive be-on getting that seventh win in the second half — as well cause the ncaa mandates right now.” as winning the ground ball a team be over .500 before notre dame looks for its and turnover battles. it will even be considered seventh win against virginia 
notre dame also rang for the ncaa tournament. at 1 p.m. saturday after-five shots of the post over notre dame currently sits noon at Klockner stadium in the course of the game, and at 6-5, and with a sched-charlottesville, virginia. opposing tar heel sopho-ule 16 games long, the irish more goalkeeper caylee will need to win three of Contact Zach Klonsinski at waters stopped 13 irish their remaining five games zklonsin@nd.edu 





football 
continued from page 16 
but returned to south bend for one more workout, which he said he would do at the nfl combine in february. 
“i feel like [today] went good,” daniels said. “i did bet­ter than i did at the combine, which was my goal. everything went well.” 
daniels ran the 40-yard dash in 4.57 seconds, leapt 11 feet and 1 inch in the broad jump and posted a 39.5 inch verti­cal. he was also one of several players to run routes for for­mer irish quarterback andrew hendrix. 
daniels is projected as a late-round pick in the nfl draft, with analysts praising his physical abilities but critiqu­ing his academic trouble. 
“i just want to be put in a good situation,” daniels said. “anywhere i go, i know what i can do, and i’m just going to give that team my all. 
“regardless of what hap­pened and stuff, i think we all handled it the right way and moved on and made good de­cisions to turn our lives around and took something positive out of it. i came out here today and took another step in that direction.” 
linebacker Kendall moore, who also lost his 2014 season due to the academic investiga­tion, worked out as well, post­ing an unofficial 40 time of 4.57 and bench pressing 24 reps of 225 pounds. 
“mentally, i’m pretty solid,” moore said. “right now, i’m just ready to get on to this next step, and we’ll see what happens from here. hopefully, i’ll get an opportunity, and i’ll do my best with it.” 

the top 40 time of the day, however, belonged to corner­back cody riggs, who was not invited to the combine. in two attempts, he ran 4.45 and 4.46 seconds. after the second run, however, he pulled up with a leg injury and skipped the three-cone drill. 
another irish player not invited to the combine, run­ning back cam mcdaniel, participated in every drill. his three-cone time of 6.78 was faster than any mark by a run­ning back at the combine, but mcdaniel said his focus on the day was more on demonstrat­ing skills he did not always display in the notre dame backfield. 
“i really want to show people my elusiveness,” mcdaniel said. “i really think i’m a versa­tile guy who can catch the ball out of the backfield, do things out of the backfield, can run smooth routes. 
“ … scouts watching the tape see that i can run the ball be­tween the tackles fine. … and so i really wanted to show peo­ple today that i can run routes out of the backfield, catch the ball, make plays on the pe­rimeter and give linebackers nightmares.” 
mcdaniel and daniels were part of a group of five players to catch passes from hendrix on tuesday. tight ends Jake golic and alex welch last played for the irish in 2012 and 2013, re­spectively, while ben Koyack started for the irish in 2014 and hauled in 30 receptions for 317 yards and two touchdowns in his senior season. 
Koyack, who is projected to be a mid- to late-round draft pick, caught every pass dur­ing his position drills and ran a 4.72 40-yard dash. 
“i’m just trying to show [the scouts] my name should be called sooner, not later,” Koyack said. “i’m trying the ce­ment myself as a guy they see as talented, see as versatile, see as someone they could put into any situation.” 
the lone player to venture outside on the day was kicker Kyle brindza, who worked out at labar practice complex. brindza kicked both field goals and kickoffs, connecting on 10 of 12 attempts from 33 yards or longer and missing a touch-back just once on his kickoffs. 
while it is usually difficult for kickers to get drafted at all, brindza said he had met with several teams who were in­terested in his ability to both kick and punt and said he was “draftable.” 
“i have worked my butt off so hard this offseason to pre­pare not only for the combine but for pro day and just con­tinue to elevate my game,” brindza said. “i’m not too wor­ried about being drafted, being undrafted, being a free agent. the biggest thing i’m worried about is being able to prove that i’m able to go into camp and compete my butt off and win that job.” 
defensive linemen Justin utupo and ethan Johnson also participated in the pro day, with utupo working out at ev­ery drill and Johnson missing only the 60-yard shuttle. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 


Baseball 
continued from page 16 
baseman Zak Kutsulis. 
“it felt like those were situ­ations where we need to do it; we just need to be able to go up there with the proper approach and execute,” aoki said. “it doesn’t always end up with the appeal of a hit, but those things are just as important. the name of the game is not trying to get a great batting average; the name of the game is trying to cross home plate more times than they do.” 
notre dame was aggres­sive on the base paths early, recording four steals in the first three innings. a stolen base in the second inning set up notre dame’s first run, as senior right fielder robert youngdahl stole second and then made it home on sopho­more catcher ryan lidge’s bloop single to right field. 
aoki said the irish were able to get good jumps against eastern michigan freshman left-hander adam hornstra, who was making his first col­legiate start. hornstra was removed with no outs in the fourth inning after surren­dering four runs on five hits. 

“if the numbers add up right, [hornstra] was pretty slow to the plate,” aoki said. “ … i thought that his move was pretty readable, so we were able to put some pres­sure on him that way. we just looked at it as an opportunity that presented itself, so we tried to take advantage of it.” 
smoyer, notre dame’s usual midweek starter, out­lasted his former career-high of 5 1/3 innings pitched in tuesday’s complete-game performance. smoyer al­lowed hits in all nine innings 
— 10 hits for the game — but repeatedly pitched out of trouble, something aoki said is one of his strengths. 
“that’s kind of who and what ryan is,” aoki said. “ryan’s a kid who throws a lot of strikes — he relies on his ability to command pitches, whether it’s a curve-ball, slider, fastball, that sort of thing. 
“he gives up a hit, but he manages it. he does a good job inducing some groundballs.” 
notre dame recorded its only two extra-base hits in a two-run eighth inning. youngdahl drove in senior left fielder ryan bull with a double, and two batters later, Kutsulis slammed a triple to score youngdahl. 
notre dame will look to re­bound from its last two con­ference series — sweeps at the hands of no. 7 louisville and no. 9 virginia, respec­tively — when it travels to pittsburgh this weekend to face the panthers (11-16, 4-8). 
despite their recent con­ference struggles, this week­end’s series isn’t any more important or crucial for the irish, aoki said. 
“i think we just continue to sort of stay the course,” he said. “we went through a stretch with two elite pitch­ing staffs. in one of those series, we didn’t have two of our better offensive players. 
“i think we just continue to concentrate on having quali­ty at-bats and making quality pitches and playing defense, and i think when it’s all said and done, we’ll be fine.” 
notre dame and pittsburgh will meet in a three-game se­ries at charles l. cost field in pittsburgh starting friday at 3 p.m. saturday’s game is also scheduled for 3 p.m., while sunday’s series finale is set for 1 p.m. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
M lacrosse 
continued from page 16 
is on both sides of the ball. 
“we look to play both ways,” near said. “we have offensive guys who can play defense, and i think that’s going to be impor­tant as we go down and make a playoff run. it puts a lot of pres­sure on the other teams.” 
sophomore goalkeeper shane doss, who made 12 saves against the orange on saturday, said the plan for the rest of the season is for the team to continue to maximize the abilities of everyone on the team. 
“it’s incredibly hard on other teams to game plan against [us],” doss said. “there’s no way for other teams to really predict what’s going to hap­pen, so that makes us a really dangerous team, and that’ll be good for us going down the road for the rest of the season.” 
the blue devils can be just as dangerous of an offensive team saturday. the defending national champions already have four players who have notched 20 goals or more on the season — freshman attack Justin guterding (33), junior midfielder myles Jones (26), ju­nior midfielder deemer class 

(23) and sophomore midfielder Jack bruckner (21). Jones has also tallied a team-leading 22 assists so far. 
although duke is coming off two straight losses to syracuse and no. 8 north carolina, irish head coach Kevin corrigan said the irish are very aware of duke’s abilities as a top-tier acc team. 
“we compete like hell monday through friday,” corrigan said. “i love this con­ference because every game is a big game. every game is mean­ingful, and that’s the challenge of it, but it’s also the joy of it.” 
in the battle between two po­tent offenses, notre dame will to travel to durham to take on duke in a rematch of last year’s national championship game at 5 p.m. at Koskinen stadium. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 
Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmcobserver 


Crossword | will shortZ 


HiGHly PunlikEly | christopher brucKer 

doME nuts | aleXandria wellman sudoku | the mepham group 



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to: 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 

HorosCoPE | eugenia last 
Happy Birthday: good fortune is heading your way. put more time and effort into your skills, knowledge, experience and getting ahead professionally. you can make a difference to your standard of living if you are astute, competitive and willing to learn as you go. adaptability will prove to others that you have what it takes to be successful. your numbers are 6, 10, 16, 25, 29, 33, 42. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): size up your situation and make an educated guess at the best route to take. sitting still and waiting for someone else to make a move will not help you get closer to your goal. do your own thing and make it count. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): not everything will be crystal clear. dig deep and find out what everyone wants. listen and learn. move in a direction that interests you. don’t let mundane jobs take up all your time. do something that appeals to you. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): present what you have to offer. the moves you make will help you get your way. a partner will show greater interest and contribute to something that means a lot to you. a competitive challenge will end up in your favor. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t take your eye off the ball. as soon as you let down your guard, someone will step in and take over. you have to use your imagination and stay ahead of any competition you face. don’t give in to pressure. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): do something to update your image or to make what you have to offer more appealing. use your insight, knowledge and skills to get what you want. a self-confident attitude will lead to victory. 



VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): emotions will surface, putting you in an awkward position. look at the big picture and you’ll get a better idea what to do next. love is highlighted, and making a romantic gesture will improve your personal life. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): you’ll be tempted to take a risk or to get involved in something that will cause problems at home. think before you take a leap of faith and follow someone who is offering something that sounds too good to be true. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): a challenge will get you heading in a new direction. consider ways that you can use your skills and talent to bring in extra cash. a partnership with someone with a lot to offer will result in greater cash flow. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): take on whatever comes your way. your ability to challenge and compete with anyone who tries to match what you have to offer will lead you to the winner’s circle. changes at home will be in your best interest. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): put your money in a safe place. build your assets and protect your possessions. focus on self- and home improvements, not on trying to change others. stick close to home and be conservative in your approach to helping others. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): take a look back, attend a reunion or just get together with someone you haven’t seen for a long time. your memories will be a reminder of what you wanted to aspire to. it’s never too late to begin something new. 


pISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): focus on learning, sharing information and visiting people who can help you get ahead. refrain from taking on too much or offering to help someone else when you should be trying to make your own dreams come true. invest in your future. 


Birthday Baby: you are entertaining, giving and loyal. you are helpful, expressive and energetic. 
JuMBlE | david hoyt and Jeff KnureK 

the observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 
address 

city      state Zip 

footBAll 

BAsEBAll | nd 6, eastern michigan 0 
eleven former players 
Notre Dame shuts 
return for pro day 
out Eagles 
By GREG HADLEY 
editor-in-chief 
as sheldon day looked on tuesday, the group of 11 former irish players he considered join­ing this winter went through the paces of notre dame’s pro day at loftus sports center. 
scouts from 28 nfl teams were present, but the absence of day and senior offensive line­man ronnie stanley, who both decided to return for their final season, from the drills meant two of notre dame’s top poten­tial prospects were not on the field. 
five of the 11 players who did participate suited up for the irish in 2014, but perhaps the biggest name present was some­one notre dame missed all season: davaris daniels. the re­ceiver spent the entire year un­der investigation for suspected academic dishonesty 
see football PAGE 14 


By BRIAN HARTNETT 
senior sports writer 
small ball was the name of the game for notre dame on tuesday night at frank eck stadium, as the team uti­lized walks, stolen bases and sacrifices to open up an ear­ly lead en route to a 6-0 vic­tory over eastern michigan. 
sophomore right-hander ryan smoyer also continued his success as a midweek starter with his first col­legiate complete game and shutout. 
“i think situational hitting is a big part of what you need to do to win ballgames,” notre dame head coach mik aoki said. “you’re not going to go out there and roll out 15 hits every game and put up big numbers, so when you have the opportunity 
to convert with runners on 
CAROLINE GENCO | The Observer 

third base and less than two 
Former Irish receiver DaVaris Daniels jogs at Notre Dame’s Pro 

outs, just moving guys over 
Day at Loftus Sports Center on Tuesday. 

[is important].” 
notre dame (17-10, 3-9 acc) broke open the game with three runs in a fourth inning during which it only hit two balls out of the in­field against the eagles (9­17, 2-4 mac). 
leading 1-0, the irish load­ed the bases in the bottom of the fourth on a hit by pitch, walk and bunt single down the third-base line. irish junior centerfielder Kyle richardson laced a single up the middle to put notre dame up by two runs. 
Junior designated hitter ricky sanchez then drew a bases-loaded walk, one of the four free passes the irish had on the night. sophomore third baseman Kyle fiala ended the scoring in the inning by hit­ting a sacrifice fly to left field, driving in junior first base­man Zak Kutsulis. 
see baseball PAGE 14 
MEn’s lACrossE 

ND seeks revenge in Durham 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
after defeating syracuse in double overtime saturday, newly christened no. 1 notre dame will take on no. 6 duke on saturday in durham, north carolina, in a rematch of last year’s na­tional championship game. 
in four of the last five years, the irish (6-1, 2-0 acc) have had their championship goals have been cut short by the rival blue devils (7-3, 0-2 acc). two of those losses in­clude a 6-5 loss in the 2010 national championship and last year’s 11-9 defeat in the title game. 
despite the shortcomings in the playoffs, notre dame has started off its season strong with wins over no. 7 virginia and no. 2 syracuse already under its belt. a big part of the team’s success so far has been a small change in its offensive philosophy. last season, the irish were led by all-american junior attack matt Kavanagh, who carried the load offensively, scoring 42 goals. however, this season, Kavanagh has contributed 14 goals while leading the team in assists with 17. 
“it’s something i’m doing different,” Kavanagh said of his changing offensive mentality. “we’re running a really good team offense. when everyone’s out there, we have confidence that anyone can put the ball in the back of the net, and that makes my job easier. i don’t have to go out there and just shoot it every time.” 
against duke in last sea­son’s championship game, notre dame struggled to find the back of the net, scoring just nine goals on 32 shots. it wasn’t until the fourth quarter that the irish offense broke through, scor­ing five goals to close the gap against the blue devils. this season, duke’s defense is al­lowing 12 goals per game, while notre dame stacks up with the ninth-best offense in the country. 
senior midfielder Jack near, who scored the game winner in last week’s dou­ble-overtime victory against the orange, said the key to this team is how balanced it 
see m lacrosse PAGE 14 

nd woMEn’s lACrossE 
irish ready to battle uva 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports editor 

a week after its comeback bid fell short against no. 2 north carolina, no. 17 notre dame gets another shot at knocking off a top-five opponent when it travels to charlottesville, virginia, on saturday to square off with fourth-ranked virginia. 
the irish (6-5, 1-3 acc) trailed the tar heels (10-2, 3-1) 7-1 with 
8:30 remaining in the first half when head coach christine halfpenny called a timeout. from there the notre dame 
nd softBAll 

comeback was on. with 5:08 left in the game, a goal by junior at­tack rachel sexton finally drew the irish even at eight. however, tar heel fifth-year senior mid­fielder brittany coppa respond­ed just over a minute later with what ended up being the de­ciding goal, forcing the irish to settle for a 9-8 loss. 
“i think they built a lot of con­fidence off that one,” halfpenny said of the north carolina game. “i’m not going to lie, it still feels like — waking up the next day — did that really hap­pen? we didn’t win that one? 
we got so close, and we knew we were right there, and we totally felt like we were going to win, ‘we got this game.’” 
saturday against the cavaliers (8-4, 2-2) will mark the fourth game notre dame has played against an opponent currently in the top five this season. the irish are 0-3 in those games so far, falling 17-3 on march 1 to no. 5 duke in durham, north carolina; to boston college 15-6 on march 7 in chestnut hill, massachusetts, and 
see w lacrosse PAGE 13 

ND wraps up homestand 
By BENJAMIN HORVATH 
sports writer 

notre dame will conclude its nine-game homestand this afternoon when it takes on eastern michigan at melissa cook stadium. 
the irish (23-11 overall, 7-5 acc) have won nine straight contests and have the chance to complete a perfect homestand if they come away with a victory against eastern michigan (8-18). 
irish head coach deanna gumpf acknowledged it would be impressive to com­plete the stretch undefeated, but said it is more important to her that her team is play­ing well right now. 
“every game is impor­tant, and obviously it’s nice to win at home, but i think we’ve just been focused on playing well during this last stretch, and we’ve done a good job of winning ball games,” gumpf said. 
the irish are averaging eight runs per game over the length of the streak, outscoring their opponents 72-7 in that span and outhit­ting them 89-30. 
notre dame opponents have tallied just one hit in two of the past nine victo­ries, as well as one no-hit performance by sophomore pitcher rachel nasland. five of the wins have also been shutouts. 
gumpf said her team has 
see softball PAGE 13 




