The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 103 | TUESDAY, MARCH 17, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND continues to challenge HHS ruling 
Supreme Court orders a circuit court to revisit initial lawsuit against the contraceptive mandate 
By MADISON JAROS 
news writer 
last monday, the supreme court called the 7th circuit court of appeals to revisit its earlier ruling on notre dame’s case against the department of health and human services (hhs). notre dame’s court case, which the university ini­tially filed in may 2012, asks for an exemption to the mandate in the affordable care act that requires that employers pro­vide their employees with ac­cess to birth control. 
universityspokespersonpaul browne said the 7th circuit court previously denied notre dame’s request for a temporary restraining order regarding the mandate, which browne said violated the university’s religious tenets by requiring participation “in a regulatory scheme to provide abortion-inducing products, contracep­tives and sterilization.” 
“notre dame continues to challenge the federal mandate as an infringement on our fun­damental right to the free ex­ercise of our catholic faith,” browne said. 
associate professor of law and political science vincent muñoz said the supreme court’s decision is promising, although there is still much to 
see hhs PAGE 4 

  KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


Former irish president explores peace process 
By JENNIFER FLANAGAN 
news writer  
Former  irish  president  
mary  mcaleese  discussed  
her  experiences  as  a  pri­ 

mary advocate for the irish peace process monday in the mckenna hall auditorium. 
as the first president of ireland, mcaleese served two consecutive terms from 1997 to 2011, ruling the na­tion during the Troubles, a time ravaged by civil war be­tween unionists, who were predominantly protestants, and nationalists, who were predominantly catholics. 
as a leader of a deeply di­vided nation, mcaleese, who was born and raised in upper-level education, and we were now going to apply our brain power to a very dys­functional society in which catholics were excluded,” she said. 
mcaleese said she credited her ability to focus on peace building to her foundation of gospel values. 
“i was fortunate the core of gospel values always pulled me back,” she said. “The voices of calm helped me. i was angry enough to go the other way [toward anger].” 
mcaleese said her strategy to build peace in ireland in­volved forging relationships between opposing protestant and catholic communities. 
“peace building is essen-



Program encourages faith formation among Latinos 
By SELENA PONIO 
news writer 
The institute for church life 
(icl) at the university of notre dame has launched camino, an online faith formation pro­gram for latino catholics. 
camino program director esther Terry has developed camino from its early stages, she said. 
“The program has been in the works for a long time and the pilot phase started in 2012,” Terry said. “The pilot phase started with just one course that was adapted from a course that we have in english.” 
according to its website, camino is an online program of catholic theology courses designed by university pro­fessors and leaders in latino ministry. a facilitator, who must have a master’s degree in theology, instructs the course, which can last anywhere from four to seven weeks. 
camino stems from notre dame’s satellite Theological education program (sTep), a program developed in the ear­ly 1990s that aimed to provide high quality theology courses at affordable prices. 
“For a long time, people had 
see camino PAGE 4 


Notre Dame announces Laetare Medal recipient 
the medal each year to a university president Fr. 
Observer Staff Report 
catholic “whose genius has John Jenkins described The university will ennobled the arts and sci-neville as a man who uses award grammy-winning 
his own strengths to express 

northern ireland, said the tially about relationship 
singer aaron neville the 
struggle for peace was at  building,” she said. “it starts  laetare  medal at its 2015  
the core of her presidency.  with a belief — proven to be  commencement, director of  
describing the theme of her  well-founded — that people  media  relations  sue  lister  

time in office as focused on can change their minds, 
announced sunday. 
“building bridges,” mcaleese which is very important, be-
The laetare medal is 

his faith. 
“aaron neville proudly em­
braces and honors his faith 
through his god-given musi­
cal talents,” Jenkins said in 
the press release. “Through 

said her role in activism be-cause otherwise, there would 
the oldest award given to 
tumultuous times in his life, 

gan at an early age. not be a point.” 
american catholics, hav­
aaron turned to god, the 

“i was part of the first gen-while it took years to 
ing originated in 1883, ac-ences, illustrated the ideals blessed virgin mary and st. 
eration of young catholics 

cording to the press release. of the church and enriched 
to have the advantage of see ireland PAGE 3 
The university awards the heritage of humanity.” see laeTare PAGE 5 

news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 men’s baskeTball PAGE 16 women’s baskeTball PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                Jack rooney                             alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin            Asst. Managing Editor: lesley stevenson 
News Editor: margaret hynds 
                        Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts                                 Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe
                   Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: brian lach Online Editor: kevin song Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez Systems Administrator: Jeremy vercillo 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu wlin4@nd.edu, lsteven1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
How’s the weather? 

Louis Bertolotti 
sophomore 
keenan hall 
“as hot as you are.” 
Phillip Gilroy 
sophomore 
sorin college 
“could be better.” 
Gracie Williams 
sophomore 
pasquerilla east hall 
“it’s un-notre dame-like.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Michael Cannon 
sophomore 
keenan hall 
“b-e-a-utiful.” 
Kristen Ringwall 
sophomore 
lewis hall 
“beautiful.” 
Caroline Kurtz 
junior 
badin hall 
“it’s not too hot and it’s not too cold. all you need is a light jacket.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief  Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 


Today’s Staff 

Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

carolyn hutyra Zach klonsinski 
Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
katie galioto mike ginocchio kayla mullen brian plamondon Jp gschwind christine mayuga 
matthew mckenna 
Graphics Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday keri o’mara Scene 
John darr 

Photo “Russia: Empire Poetry Reading “Leadership in Baseball Game Hawaii Club Luau 
John darr Viewpoint 

Upside Down” Eck Center Auditorium the 21st Century. Frank Eck Stadium Stepan Center 
Tabitha ricketts 
Pasquerilla Center 7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. a Fighter Pilot’s 6:05 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. 5 p.m. - 8 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. Notre Dame Review Perspective” The Notre Dame Dinner and 
Corrections 

Lecture. Book prizewinner John Hayes-Healy Center baseball team takes entertainment. $10 per 
The observer regards itself as Shoptaw. 8 p.m. - 9 p.m. on Louisville. student. a professional publication and 
Lecture. 
strives for the highest standards 
Tennis Match Film: Sewing Hope Film: Selma Lacrosse Game 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Eck Tennis Pavilion DeBartolo Performing WHAM! BAM! DeBartolo Performing Arlotta Stadium 
however, recognize that we will make 
5:30 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. Arts Center POETRY SLAM! Arts Center 12 p.m. - 2 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Men’s tennis takes on 8:30 p.m. - 10:30 p.m. Snite Musuem 9:30 p.m. - 11:30 p.m. Women’s lacrosse 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Texas Tech. Documetary film. Auditorium Historical drama film takes on Ohio State. 
we can correct our error. 

5:00 - 7:30 p.m. on the Selma march. 


Ireland 
conTinued From page 1 
penetrate the core of the sectarian divide, mcaleese said she made progress by emphasizing her goals of building and sustaining re­lationships for the long run. 
in  april 1998, the  irish  
government  created  the  
belfast  agreement,  end­ 

ing the civil war. although mcaleese described the 
“I have not a vision nor have heard a vision for an independent Ireland, and I do not know where it would sit.” 
Mary McAleese 
former president 
Ireland 
agreement as fair and de­cent, involving huge conces­sions on both sides, she said it lacked perfection. 
a main hindrance to the peace-building efforts is a reluctance to forget the past, mcaleese said. 
“The demography of northern ireland and its social life is still strongly 
paid adverTisemenT 

related to the past,” she said. “ninety-three percent of all people inhabit areas essentially defined by their religion, [making] social in­tegration very difficult.” 
mcaleese said the cur­rent sectarian environment of northern ireland lacks opportunity for truly meet­ing and befriending one an­other. she said the current situation in ireland is reflec­tive of the recent scottish referendum. 
“we are working toward a referendum, and when it happens, i hope it hap­pens like the scottish ref­erendum, a democratic dialogue,” she said. 
mcaleese said she hopes the referendum does not favor the nationalist approach. 
“i cannot see an indepen­dent ireland quite frankly,” she said. “i have not a vision nor have heard a vision for an independent ireland, and i do not know where it would it would sit.” 
whatever future ireland holds, mcaleese said her greatest wish is that it is conducive to the human dignity of all its inhabitants. 
Contact Jennifer Flanagan at jflanag2@nd.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 17, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Camino 
conTinued From page 1 
been taking these courses in english, and they had been re­ceiving requests for courses in spanish,” Terry said. 
on camino’s website, notre dame professor of theology Fr. virgil alizondo said camino is “a great way to use media and technology to give learn­ing opportunities beyond the university.” 
The sTep program worked in collaboration with the southeast pastoral institute in miami (sepi) to develop camino. various dioceses are also involved with advertis­ing the program to potential participants. 
“The people that take our courses are typically catechists, readers [and] serve in the music ministry,” Terry said. “[They] 
“It’s been so exciting to see people engage in Scripture and engage the Catechism and see the sense of wonder and excitement that they have.” 
Esther Terry 
director 
Camino 
usually have some position in their parish and they want to have ongoing faith formation.” 
Terry said the program prides itself in the flexibility and ac­cessibility of its courses. she said many of camino’s partici­pants live in rural areas or other places where learning resources in their native language are limited. 
“i think the flexibility of hours for taking an online course and the quality of what we are able to deliver in places where it would be very difficult for them to have this formation experi­ence makes [this program] very important,” Terry said. 
Terry said she enjoys contrib­uting to camino. 
“it’s been so exciting to see people engage scripture and en­gage the catechism and see the sense of wonder and excitement that they have and how digni­fied they feel to be taking an on-line course with notre dame,” Terry said. 
Terry said her hope for camino and other theological programs like it is that the intel­lectual resources at notre dame and other partners and affiliates are made available to an even more diverse group of people. 
“we want to share those re­sources with people in the pews, your average catholics, and help them to see the beauty and the joy of our catholic faith so that they can share that with others,” Terry said. 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 
HHS 
conTinued From page 1 
be decided on in court. 

“The supreme court ruling certainly makes it more likely that notre dame will receive a more accommodating [deci­sion] than has been previously offered, but how exactly hhs will adjust the law in light of notre dame’s recognized legal protections is yet to be deter­mined,” muñoz said. 
it is not uncommon for the supreme court to allow a low­er court to reconsider its pre­vious ruling on a case without approaching the case directly itself, political science profes­sor rick garnett said. 
“This [decision] does not necessarily mean that notre dame will prevail, but it is a good sign,” garnett said. “at the very least, it is a wel­come development that the lower court opinion, which contained inappropriate asides and unnecessary rheto­ric, is vacated.” 
garnett said notre dame’s case against hhs bears resem­blance to hobby lobby’s case in 2014, in which the supreme court ruled that hobby lobby was not required to provide contraception to its employees because of its religious objec­tions. however, there are some differences between the two cases, he said. 
“notre dame’s case is dif­ferent [from the hobby lobby case] in the sense that, first, the university is a non-profit with a clear religious charac­ter and, second, the precise actions being compelled by the government are different,” he said. “That said, the basic form of the arguments is the same.  in each case, the claim­ant is saying that a particular government action imposes a substantial burden on re­ligious exercise and that the burden is unnecessary and therefore unlawful.” 
Those following the case should remember that notre dame is not arguing that the hhs mandate is unconstitu­tional, but that it violates a par­ticular statute, the religious Freedom restoration act (rFra), garnett said. 
“it is probably not uncon­stitutional for the federal gov­ernment to require employers like notre dame to provide the coverage in question,” he said. “but, the act provides increased protection for re­ligious liberty and religious objectors and — in my view — the best arguments lead to the conclusion that the mandate violates the act.” 
law professor orlando snead said the supreme court likely called on the 7th circuit court of appeals to review its previous decision because the original decision was not in line with the rFra. 
“rFra prohibits the federal government from restricting religious freedom unless it does so for the most compel­ling reason imaginable and by following the least restrictive means to accomplish this pur­pose,” snead said. “whatever one might think about the government’s purposes in maximizing access to contra­ceptives and drugs or devices that the Fda labeling suggests might function by causing the death of a newly-conceived embryo, it is clear that there are less restrictive and coer­cive ways to accomplish this goal than to compel notre dame to facilitate such access by modifying the operation of its health plan. 
“accordingly, my judgment is that the hhs mandate fails the careful balancing test es­tablished by rFra.” 
Contact Madison Jaros at  mjaros@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



Laetare 
conTinued From page 1 
Jude for strength, forgive­ness and salvation. 
“his example of repentance and devotion shine bright for all who see him perform.” 
in his prolific career as a mu­sician, neville released four albums that achieved plati­num status, created four top 20 hits in the united states, won the 1989 grammy award for best pop instrumental performance and best pop performance by a duo or group with vocals and was named a 2015 grammy hall of Fame recording inductee. 
The 74-year-old attend­ed catholic school in new orleans as a child and dedi­cated each of his albums to the apostle st. Jude, patron saint of hope and impossi­ble causes, the press release stated. 
in winning the laetare medal, neville joins the ranks of other american catholics including president John 
F. kennedy, dorothy day, walker percy, martin sheen and many others. 
The university’s 170th commencement ceremony will be held may 17 in notre dame stadium. 

Officials identify crew in Florida crash 
Associated Press 

new orleans — members of a seasoned, louisiana-based national guard crew who died last week in a helicopter crash off the Florida coast had done tours of duty in iraq and afghanistan and par­ticipated in humanitarian missions after gulf coast hurricanes and in the re­sponse to the catastrophic 2010 bp oil spill, military of­ficials said monday. 
The louisiana national guard identified the pilots and crew of a black hawk he­licopter that crashed march 10 in the santa rosa sound along Florida’s panhandle in a nighttime training exer­cise in dense fog with seven elite marines aboard. all 11 in the black hawk died. 
“i couldn’t have put up a finer crew,” said col. patrick bossetta, a commander over aviation units for the louisiana national guard. “let me put it this way: i would have put my son up with them.” 
maj. gen. glenn h. curtis, the national guard’s adjutant general, announced the soldiers’ identities dur­ing a news conference at Jackson barracks in new orleans. 
The soldiers’ remains are being transported to dover air Force base in delaware. burials have not yet been arranged. The names of the marines killed in the crash were released Friday. The 
marines  were  stationed  
at  camp  lejeune,  north  
carolina.  

Three members of the flight crew were from louisiana and one was from virginia. They were described as among the military’s most seasoned helicopter pilots and crew. 
piloting the helicopter were chief warrant officer george wayne griffin Jr. of delhi, 37, and chief warrant officer george david strother of alexandria, 44. both were decorated veteran pilots. all four of the crew were full-time personnel. 
curtis said it was un­known which pilot was in charge at the time of the accident. 
“i don’t know that we’ll ever know that. and i don’t even know if that’s really important. The accident happened; it is what it is,” curtis said. 
The crash is being inves­tigated by the u.s. army combat readiness center, based in Fort rucker, alabama. That investigation will “try to pinpoint exactly what happened, if it was a mechanical failure, or what­ever it was,” curtis said. 
bossetta said the foggy nighttime conditions should not have been a major fac­tor. “what they were do­ing out there wasn’t super complex.” 
maj. gen. Joseph l. osterman, commander of marine corps special opera­tions forces, has said they were practicing rappelling down ropes into the water and heading for land, but had decided to abort the mission as too risky. 
also killed on the crew were staff sgt. lance bergeron, 40, of Thibodaux and staff sgt. Thomas Florich, Fairfax, virginia. 
military burials with full honors were being planned for the dead. 
“now we can start bring­ing them back,” curtis said. 
he said the delay in re­leasing the names was due to bad weather including dense fog that’s hampered recovery efforts and the nature of the catastrophic crash. he also said the mili­tary requires dna testing to positively identify the dead. 
across louisiana flags are flying at half-staff until sun­set march 20 to honor the dead. 
officials earlier identi­fied the marines as: capt. stanford henry shaw iii of basking ridge, new Jersey; master sgt. Thomas saunders of williamsburg, virginia; staff sgt. liam Flynn of Queens, new york; staff sgt. Trevor p. blaylock of lake orion, michigan; staff sgt. kerry michael kemp of port washington, wisconsin; staff sgt. andrew seif of holland, michigan; and staff sgt. marcus bawol from warren, michigan. 
all were from the 2nd special operations battalion of the marine corps special operations command. 

israeli president promises no palestinian state 
Associated Press 
Jerusalem — in a frenzied last day of campaigning, prime minister benjamin netanyahu on monday ruled out the estab­lishment of a palestinian state and vowed to keep building east Jerusalem settlements as he appealed to hard-line vot­ers on the eve of israel’s closely contested general election. 
The moderate opposition, meanwhile, announced a dra­matic last-minute machina­tion of its own, removing one of its two joint candidates for prime minister. 
netanyahu, who has gov­erned for the past six years and has long been the most domi­nant personality in israeli pol­itics, has watched his standing plummet in recent weeks. 
recent opinion polls show his likud party lagging behind isaac herzog’s Zionist union. herzog, who has vowed to re­vive peace efforts with the palestinians, repair ties with the u.s. and reduce the grow­ing gaps between rich and poor, confidently predicted an “upheaval” was imminent. 
late monday night, it was announced that herzog’s main partner, former Foreign minister Tzipi livni, had given up an agreement to rotate the prime minister post with him if their alliance wins. it was widely thought that the un­usual arrangement was driv­ing away voters. 
Tuesday’s election caps an acrimonious three-month campaign that is widely seen as a referendum on netanyahu. 

while his comments monday appeared to be election rheto­ric, they nonetheless put him further at odds with the inter­national community, boding poorly for already strained re­lations with the u.s. and other key allies if he wins a third consecutive term. 
The hard-line leader has portrayed himself as the only politician capable of con­fronting israel’s numerous security challenges, while his opponents have focused on the country’s high cost of liv­ing and presented netanyahu as imperious and out of touch with the common man. 
as netanyahu’s poll num­bers have dropped in recent days, he has appeared increas­ingly desperate, stepping up his nationalistic rhetoric in a series of interviews to local media to appeal to his core base. netanyahu has also complained of an interna­tional conspiracy to oust him, funded by wealthy foreign­ers who dislike him, and on sunday night, he addressed an outdoor rally before tens of thousands of hard-line sup­porters in Tel aviv. 
The strategy is aimed at si­phoning off voters from na­tionalistic rivals, but risks alienating centrist voters who are expected to determine the outcome of the race. 
speaking to the nrg news website, netanyahu said that turning over captured territory to the palestinians would clear the way for islamic extrem­ists to take control and attack israel. 
“whoever ignores that is burying his head in the sand. The left is doing that, burying its head in the sand time af­ter time,” he said in the video interview. 
when asked if that means a palestinian state will not be established if he is elected, netanyahu replied, “indeed.” 
it was the latest — and clear­est — attempt by netanyahu to disavow his earlier support for palestinian independence, which he first laid out in a landmark 2009 speech. 
“if we get this guarantee for demilitarization and neces­sary security arrangements for israel, and if the palestinians recognize israel as the state of the Jewish people, we will be willing in a real peace agree­ment to reach a solution of a demilitarized palestinian state alongside the Jewish state,” he said at the time. 
despite that pledge, two rounds of peace talks have failed and netanyahu has continued to expand Jewish settlements. 
reaching a two-state solu­tion to the palestinian conflict has been a top foreign policy priority for president obama. 
u.s. 
state department spokeswoman Jen psaki would only say on monday that the 

u.s.
 will work with whoever 


wins the israeli election. The international community overwhelmingly supports the establishment of a palestinian state in the west bank, east Jerusalem and gaza strip, areas cap­tured by israel in 1967, and opposes settlement construc­tion. netanyahu’s tough new position is likely to worsen his already strained ties with his western allies if he is re-elected. 
it also raises questions about what kind of vision he has for solving the conflict with the palestinians. most demogra­phers agree that if israel con­tinues to control millions of palestinians, the country will not be able to remain both Jewish and democratic. 
palestinian official hanan ashrawi said netanyahu’s comments were “dangerous” and could plunge the region into violence. 
“This is the real netanyahu,” she said. “From the beginning, he was attempting to carry out a grand deception by pretend­ing to be in favor of the two-state solution. but what he was actually doing on the ground is destroying the chances of peace.” 
earlier, netanyahu paid a last-minute visit to har homa, a Jewish development in east Jerusalem that netanyahu helped build during his first term as prime minister in 1997. The sprawling district now houses more than 20,000 residents. 
while israel considers the area a part of its capital, the international community considers it an illegal set­tlement on occupied land. The palestinians seek east Jerusalem as their capital. 
“we will preserve Jerusalem’s unity in all its parts. we will continue to build and for­tify Jerusalem so that its di­vision won’t be possible and it will stay united forever,” netanyahu said, explaining that har homa was built to contain palestinian develop­ment in the nearby west bank town of bethlehem. 
There was no immediate comment from u.s. officials. 
netanyahu dissolved his government in december and ordered the new election, two years ahead of schedule, in the belief that he would cruise to a new term. 
on monday, it was herzog, netanyahu’s chief rival, who appeared confident and upbeat. 
visiting his party headquar­ters, herzog, a trained law­yer and scion of a prominent political family, talked about a “crucial” vote for the coun­try and warned against split­ting the anti-netanyahu vote among the various centrist parties. 
“whoever wants an upheav­al has to vote for us,” herzog said. 
exit polls are expected im­mediately after voting stops at 10 p.m. (2000 gmT) Tuesday night. but the true victor may not be known for several weeks. 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Let’s start a conversation 

Greg Hadley 
editor-in-chief 

a newspaper is only as good as the conversa­tion it creates. a conversation can only be good if everyone has the chance to speak and be heard. 
notre dame and saint mary’s are places capa­ble and deserving of great conversations. and if all is working as it should, The observer should be a part of them. 
unfortunately, things are not always this simple. so many people want to voice their opinion, and it is all too easy to become over­whelmed and leave the conversation, to tune out the controversies and debates and argu­ments. sometimes it feels as though you could never possibly make your voice heard. or that the point you want to make seems insignificant compared to the ideas of others. 
when this happens, when people stop con­versing, the community suffers. if the status quo persists only because someone is too tired or discouraged or afraid to speak up, we are failing. 
at The observer, we strive to “uncover the truth and report it accurately.” we do this be­cause we believe we can bring more people into the conversation and make it better. events, sto­ries and issues that have significant impact on everyone in the community happen every day. it is the purpose of journalism, of The observer, to bring these things to your attention. 
sometimes we fall short. despite our com­mitment to uncovering the truth, the pressure of a daily deadline and the time constraints of classes occasionally cause mistakes. when this occurs, we hurt notre dame, saint mary’s and the wider community of south bend. 
i wish i could promise these errors and over­sights will never happen in my time as editor­in-chief, but i am certain they occasionally will. and when they do, i hope you will understand. 
but i also hope you are not satisfied with an imperfect conversation. i hope you can help us improve. we try our best, but no one can pro­vide better feedback than you. so tell us what you think. 
hundreds of students, workers, administra­tors and faculty pass through south dining hall each day. i want all of you to know: The observer’s office is in the basement, and our door is open. if you have a complaint, a sugges­tion, a story idea or simply want to discuss our coverage, come in. chances are, someone will be there regardless of the hour. i can personally guarantee i will be there every wednesday from 10 a.m. to noon and every Thursday from 3:30 
p.m. to 5 p.m..­

This will not replace the hard work our jour­nalists put in every day to cover the events that matter to you. it will not be the only time i am available to talk. i offer it as just one tangible sign of our commitment to better serving you, the reader. 
if these times do not work for you, email me. your voice is still invaluable and i promise we will work something out. what’s important is that we give notre dame and saint mary’s what they deserve: a great conversation. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
re-evaluating putin: part two 
Stephen Raab 
let’s Talk smart 
my first column for The observer, published in april 2014, was “re-evaluating putin.” in it, i argued that the international community had been too harsh in its criticism of russian president vladimir putin. while i acknowledged the missteps of the putin ad­ministration (specifically on lgbT rights and foreign policy), i argued that he’d also been of great benefit to russia and to the world in other areas, and that he should not be written off as inept. 
That was nearly a year ago. much has changed since then. most notably, anti-putin activist boris nemtsov was shot and killed outside the kremlin. The shooting occurred just days before he was sup­posed to lead a demonstration against russia’s proxy war in ukraine. This convenient timing has spurred suggestions that the assassins were working on putin’s behalf, if not in accordance with his direct orders. 
i have previously been skeptical of conspiracy theories that have emerged from the new russia; that is to say, i have not assumed that said con­spiracies must be well-founded just because they allegedly happened in russia. i did not regard ac­cusations that the 1999 apartment bombings were false flags to provoke the second chechen war with any more credibility than suggestions that bush orchestrated the 9/11 attacks. likewise, allegations of kremlin-sanctioned hits against journalist anna politkovskaya and tycoon boris berezovsky are cir­cumstantially based. while future information may substantiate these claims, the burden of proof has not been overcome. 
This is not the case with the nemtsov assassina­tion. on top of the already suspicious timing of the death, one of the first suspects arrested in connection with the shooting confessed to his involvement, then retracted his confession, saying it had been forced from him. even by generous standards of proof, it is likely that nemtsov was assassinated to further the aims of the putin administration. 
i am reminded of george orwell’s statement in “politics and the english language,” that “some com­fortable english professor defending russian totali­tarianism … cannot say outright ‘i believe in killing off your opponents if you can get good results by doing so,’” before suggesting that apologists for such behavior prefer to deflect attention from the matter with meaningless euphemisms. simply put, i don’t want to be that guy. i’ve cut putin slack before, but the benefits he’s brought the russian people are now outweighed by the detriments. 
i’m disappointed. after the mess that was the yeltsin administration and its economic ruin, putin was supposed to be a fresh face for the new russia. and for a while, he was. The economy rebounded, the country regained the territory of chechnya and the iron curtain began to lift. but the last few years of free speech restrictions and international grand­standing have heralded a reversal. Though the coun­try hasn’t gone full soviet yet, it’s on its way. 
The truly bizarre part of this trend is that putin didn’t need to do any of it. his approval ratings have been far higher than what a western politician would need to sustain incumbency — 54 percent at its low­est point between 2012 and 2013, according to gallup. now it’s nearly at 83 percent, with russian citizens rallying around the flag as naTo tries to complete its chokehold (a strategy which is doomed to fail against putin, a judo black belt). he shouldn’t need to cheat elections or suppress free speech, and yet he does. out of habit? who can say? 
while it in no way excuses his behavior, some of putin’s more baffling maneuvers might be better understood in light of his treatment by the american government. we opted to regard the russian Federation merely as a new enemy, instead of a de­feated adversary to be nurtured into democracy. we’ve even spurned the kremlin’s offers of aid, and it has cost us in blood. in 2011, the russian Federal security service warned that Tamerlan Tsarnaev, eventual architect of the boston marathon bombing, was preparing to join a clandestine extremist group. They were ignored, and the result was tragedy. who can blame putin for so professionally acting the vil­lain, when that’s the only script we’ll listen to him read? 
The good news is that there’s hope. putin may yet realize the destruction he’s heaped upon himself and his constituents, and pledge to “sin no more.” it will, of course, take a lot to balance the nemtsov assassination, but if putin can put such methods be­hind him permanently, he might one day regain my respect as a force for good in russia and globally. my fingers are crossed. 
Stephen Raab is a junior studying chemical engineer­ing.  He resides in Alumni Hall and welcomes discourse at  sraab@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Thank you 
To the members of the student body, 
on behalf of the congregation of holy cross, i’d like to thank each of you for the ways in which you honored the life of Fr. Theodore hesburgh, csc, these past few days. your late night visits to the basilica, participation in the wake, funeral mass, procession to the cemetery and memorial, the touching video produced by ndtv and countless prayers at the grotto were all beautiful reminders of how fortunate each 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“do not fear death so much, but rather the inadequate life.” 
Bertolt Brecht 
German dramatist 
of us cscs are to be at a university with such thoughtful and caring students. please know how grateful we are to each one of you for the ways that you celebrated, honored and loved our brother, Fr. Ted. 
in notre dame, 
Fr. Pete McCormick 

director of campus ministry march 6 


Live slowly 
Erin Thomassen 
The examined life 

read slowly. a book is a treat. would i wolf down an ice cream cone? probably — i like ice cream. would i enjoy it more if i ate it one lick at a time, truly tasting the cold, sugary cream before i swal­lowed it? yes. 
when normal people eat ice cream, they get a brain-freeze (i get nose-freezes, but that’s a differ­ent story). when i read quickly, i get a headache. Food for thought: rushing good things is not plea­surable, but painful. 
if i skim my reading, i don’t let the words swirl around before swallowing them down. i don’t let my eyes feast on the words, so i don’t taste their deep meaning. i finish a fat book in an impressively short time, but i don’t retain any of the nutrients. my belly, my brain, is swollen from ingesting too much too quickly. what did i gain? another book, another pound, but no joy. 
i never skim the milk in my ice cream, so why would i skim my reading? it removes the richest and most enjoyable part, the part that makes ice cream dessert. without cream, ice cream is just ice. it is a chore to chew on. it crunches loudly, draw­ing unwanted attention and questions about my iron levels. when i wolf down my ice cream cone, i might as well be chowing down on ice; i waste the ice cream’s tastiness by swallowing the sweetness before it has a chance to dance on my tongue. sugar is a diva. it likes its stage time. 
great works of literature like their stage time, too. They deserve it. but i crowd them all on stage at once so none of them can be properly seen. i switch from one to the next so quickly that i cannot remember what just happened in the other book. i should pick one book and spend my time enjoying it rather than rushing through five and enjoying none of them. 
when i go to let’s spoon, i want to try too many flavors. The five-year-old in me insists that five ice cream cones are better than one. logical me knows: i will not enjoy five ice cream cones. i will finish them off quickly because i am excited for the next one and feel sick rather than happy when they’re finished. i’ll feel disappointed that this treat that was supposed to bring me joy only brought me a stomachache. 
ah, yes, the philosophical moment has arrived, for this is where the life metaphor comes in. when i rush the joys of life, when i try to cram too much in my mouth, brain and schedule at once, i don’t enjoy it. i can’t swallow it. i can’t even breathe. 
i am always excited for what’s next. what am i doing next weekend? next summer? next semester? what am i doing when i graduate? when i become a mom? when i enter a retirement home? 
oh wait, i haven’t dreamed about that. i don’t want to think that far ahead. i dream about jet-setting careers and weddings but not funerals. i am attracted by posters for casino night, not bingo night in a crocheted sweater. 
but i like crocheting. i like reading in a rocking chair. i like baking cookies. grandmahood may not be so bad. 
on the other hand, i do not like having my muscles ache, my mouth drool and my friends die. Funerals are powerful and moving, but i can’t say i like them. 
but life is not about likes and dislikes. it is about living through each day, where a day can be de­fined as 1) a 24-hour period during which the earth makes approximately one rotation; 2) a time that spans from the rising until the setting of the sun, during which one can enjoy breathing, eating ice cream and reading and 3) a gift of time during which you will be given opportunities to do the right rather than the expedient, to play the role god created you to play and to be christ and love the world. 
when my family opens gifts on christmas day, we do so slowly. each person opens one gift at a time. since a large chunk of the presents end up being books, it can take us hours to unwrap each one, fawn over the cover together, read the synop­sis aloud and figure out who gets to borrow it next. we’re annoying. but we open gifts slowly because we appreciate and enjoy them, and we want their goodness to last as long as possible. 
according to definition (3), time is a gift. The fact that we cannot unwrap it all at once and know what it holds means we get to enjoy it longer. god is a master gift-giver. 
so i’ll try to enjoy the slowly-unwrapping time. it’ll be good for me. i’ll try to read slowly, eat my ice-cream slowly, and live slowly. yes, i wrote this so i would have an excuse for the next time i’m tardy. 
Erin Thomassen is a sophomore studying mechanical engineering. Send her comments or questions about her sanity at ethomass@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

To the students of notre dame 
it was fitting that Fr. Jenkins, coach holtz and a couple of other speakers at Fr. Ted’s memorial departed from their scripts to comment on how impressed they were with the way in which notre dame’s student body turned out to line the funeral procession route, from the basilica to Fr. Ted’s final resting place. beyond all of the eloquent words by the university’s dignitaries and friends, i believe Fr. Ted would have been most touched and honored by your collective gesture. 
i was fortunate to be part of that procession and was struck by your reverence and respect. For me, the single greatest memory of the day will be that walk, hearing only the sounds of shuffling feet and seeing the solemn expressions on your face. Thank you. universally, all of those who gathered last night at rohr’s shared the same observation. what was most amazing is our knowledge that most of you had only a limited time to get to know Fr. Ted. 
coach holtz told a story about a friend whose 3-year-old daughter sang the fight song for Fr. Ted. after she concluded, Fr. Ted said, “That’s great sweetheart; can you say the our Father?” i was the friend that coach holtz referenced and caroline is my daughter. she’s 21 today and is a college junior, down the road at depauw university. like each of her three younger brothers, caroline was baptized by Fr. Ted in the log chapel. her fight song perfor­mance was after her oldest brother Jimmy was bap­tized (coach holtz failed to mention that caroline knew the lord’s prayer by the time we reached the chicago skyway on the drive home, but i digress). 
but there’s a second story about Fr. Ted and my daughter. 
about six years after the fight song encounter, i called Fr. Ted’s dear friend and assistant melanie chapleau, to see if i could bring my entire family by Ted’s office for a quick visit. my wife and i wanted all of the kids to perhaps have a memory of Fr. Ted (i will forever regret not making a second trip with the kids in any of the subsequent years). 
we waited in his way-cool reception area with so many artifacts. our three young sons most enjoyed the pictures and models of all the planes Fr. Ted had ridden in, especially the supersonic navy jet, “blackbird.” 
he came out to greet us and invited us back to his office. The hallway to his office is lined with pictures of Fr. Ted with virtually every significant head of state over the past 50 years. our children were oblivious. as we left however, caroline spot­ted a man in one of the pictures she did recognize. she stopped immediately, stared at the picture for a moment, turned quickly and asked, “Father Ted....you knew martin luther king!?” as he did in the log chapel six years earlier, Fr. Ted bent over, hands on knees, looked our daughter gently in the eyes and said, “caroline … dr. king was a greaT man.” i still get the chills recounting that incident. a genuine member of our nation’s history, giving our daughter a lesson. 
For those of you who did not have any personal encounters with Fr. Ted, but who still turned out to line the processional route out of respect or school pride or simply instinct, perhaps that second story will come back to you when your children learn about civil rights and dr. king. by then, you will understand 100 times over why you stood quietly in the cold and the gravity of your gesture to those who processed. 
rest in peace, Fr Ted; you were a great man.
 James M. Moriarity 
class of 1984 march 5 



By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene editor 

st. patrick’s day is the only time wearing a groutfit is acceptable. 
The laudable st. patrick’s groutfit — entirely green out­fit — is a festive, classic notre dame take on the unfortu­nately way too common all-gray groutfit. 
over spring break, some of my friends chose to wear man tanks the entire week to embrace “cali lyfeee” — much to my dismay. 
as if the pale skin shrouded in mesh and burnt shoul­ders didn’t give away their indiana origins enough, the fact that one paired his green tank with green sao sun­glasses, a green notre dame hat and green board shorts solidified our south bend allegiance. 
biking down the boardwalk on saturday he was met with the comment, “wow, that kid has the best st. patrick’s day outfit ever!” 
Turns out notre dame’s excess of green athletic cloth­ing will garner compliments once a year, so let’s take ad-
To fully embrace the intentional groutfit, it must be that 
— intentional. This means minimize the mesh and don’t don the green campus ministry/awkward awareness week/leprechaun legion shirt you got for free and now sleep in every night. 
chances are your mom/grandma/twice-removed aunt has bought you a green button-up “you know — for the irish!” for at least one present since you made your fated decision in high school. although you might have balled it up and thrown it to the bottom of your closet as “you wear The shirt at games, mom” — pick it up, iron it (if you’re feeling particularly ambitious) and pair it with the green gap chinos your mother also bought you “for school spirit.” 
now that you have the base, grab all those green game day/wild trip to nola beads you have hanging up as half­hearted room décor, dig up those sunglasses you got at domerFest and are unsure why you kept and top it off with a classic notre dame baseball hat that i know you all have because i see a plethora of them in every Friday 
8:20 a.m. lecture. 
easily; however, do not mess everything up by choosing red shoes or anything that will turn your hard work into a chroutift — a christmas outfit. we are trying to be fes­tive, but sporting anything red will just make it look like you have your months confused or started pregaming too early. 
although the groutfit is a st. patrick’s day go-to, it is not the only option. some other festive outfit themes could include channeling the rainbow for a progressive/cre­ative/lucky charms take or a Trinidad James inspired ensemble. 
notre dame students also have an advantage in the all gold errythang realm. pull out your gold 2 chains/game day beads (these things are so versatile), those gold leg­gings frequently seen in the front row of football games and ask that football player down the hall you frequently tell your uncle “you know” for his gold helmet. 
This is a day to be creative, don’t waste it by choosing a cheesy T-shirt and stopping there. dedicate your whole body — head, shoulders, feet and liver — to the cause. 
vantage of it. 

as a notre dame student the groutfit comes almost too Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 


By MIKO MALABUTE 
scene writer 
look around. Take a whiff of the sweet, sweet aroma in the air this beautiful time of the year. what spe­cial occasion does today mark? yes, you’re indeed right: it’s time for march madness! (i suppose today is also st. patrick’s day — who knew?) with selection sunday coming and going and the selection commit­tee dictating who gets to go to the big dance, it’s time to fulfill your patriotic duty of completing a bracket and i am personally walking you through some of the of the highlighted matchups you should consider when you’re completing yours. what’s that? you’re afraid a sports article has found its way into the “scene” sec­tion? Fear not! For that’s the beauty of march madness — there’s absolutely no logic to any of this! it’s madness i tell you, (march) madness! 
Midwest 
going through the re­gion, it’s pretty much a must in your bracket to have kentucky advance through pretty much everything, and you will want to have purdue match up with them in the next round. This is because i’m pretty sure there’s a “cat mascot” limit in the tournament — wild­cats are enough (kentucky, arizona, villanova), but throwing bearcats into the mix? That’s just asking for trouble. between the first round coinciding with st. patrick’s day and notre dame approaching basket­ball destiny, we’re pretty much a lock to advance past northeastern. indiana’s iconic jerseys (have you seen “hoosiers”?) are good for at least one win, so you can count on them to ad­vance in the short-term. 

West 
wisconsin’s premiere player — Frank “The Tank” kaminsky — has a nickname that just rolls through the competition: look for them to go far. in one of the big­ger toss-ups from an actual sports standpoint, oregon versus oklahoma state can be a nerve-wracking pick 
— until you think to come back to the jerseys. look for oregon to sport some flashy neon green jerseys: looks that are so sharp they’re dressed to kill. The same type of logic can apply for baylor to beat out georgia state: don’t mess with Texas or their flashy threads. 
East 
The eastern region is chockfull of heavyweight mascots here, and so re­ally this might be the re­gion that can potentially bust your bracket. at this point, any and all wildcats just have to advance — af­ter all, cats travel in packs, right? look for the uc irvine anteaters to “Zot, Zot, Zot!” their way past the louisville cardinals (yes, apparently anteaters go “zot.”) when you’re flying high, you’re flying high, and really, who can fly higher than a Flyer? make sure to have dayton on your radar. The only thing more iconic than michigan state’s sparty is their head coach, Tom izzo. Quick: what’s georgia’s mascot? who’s their coach? exactly. 
South 
duke. yes. They’ll ad­vance (though they might be pinched if they’re caught without any green today). st. John’s will advance over san diego state — “san diego,” which, of course, in german means “first round exit.” now usually when you completing a bracket, it is customary to pick a team you have absolutely no knowledge of, but will pick anyway because their school name just sounds like an upset pick. That, naturally, is referring to stephen F. austin. round out your bracket by having iowa state go all the way be­cause who dares mess with a cyclone, and you’re well on your way to having a bracket as good as anyone else’s. 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu 
By KATHRYN MINKO 
scene writer 
‘Tis the season of luck, celebra­tion, heritage and — most im­portantly — green. what better opportunity to reflect on tradition and youth than st. patrick’s day? Though many people relish in the food, drink and fellowship of irish tradition, i thought i’d bring back Theodore geisel. That’s right, good ol’ dr. seuss. 
ever since kindergarten, many notre dame students, myself in­cluded, have participated in cook­ing green eggs and ham with their classmates. i still remember lining up in the cafeteria every march 17 and pondering how green eggs exist. Though in college now, why lose the magical tradition sym­bolizing one of our childhood’s greatest initiators of imagination? 
during my many spring break 2k15 internet searches of bore­dom, i stumbled upon a pinterest article regarding green eggs and ham. reminiscing on one of dr. seuss’s most successful stories, i researched its origin, as well as the tradition it conceived. “green eggs and ham,” published in 1960, surprisingly resulted from a bet between dr. seuss and his editor. bennett cerf, seuss’s editor, challenged the author to compose a book using only 50 different words. accepting the challenge, seuss concocted one of his most notable children stories, which sold 200 million copies. since then, students, families and friends have gathered together to enjoy green eggs and ham on a house, on a mouse, in a car and in a tree. 
have the inclination to relive childhood tradition? want to start a new st. patty’s day celebration? making green eggs and ham is a perfectly accessible way to em­brace the american simplicity of youth, green and dr. seuss. aside from actually cooking scrambled eggs with green food dye, people can prepare their own “green eggs and ham” with pretty much any ingredients they possess. even if you can’t get ahold of a pan, drive to the store or lack fridge room and time (some classic college obstacles), taking part in this tra­dition is not impossible. a perfect snack for any st. patty’s day social gathering, candied green eggs and ham makes for an uncompli­cated tradition. i have seen this made with mini square pretzel bites (snyder’s, am i right?), green m&m’s and melted white choco­late chips. These tasteful snacks fulfill the saltiest of sweet tooths, making for a fantastic st. patrick’s day celebration element. 
Throughout my childhood, i have anxiously awaited the greenest holiday of the year. along with festivities of fortune, leprechauns, food and beverages, i have constantly looked forward to preparing green eggs and ham. Though i discovered the mysteri­ous green dye, the magic of tradi­tion and youth within me has yet to perish. Through an open mind, anyone can like green eggs and ham. anyone can like them, sam i am. 
Contact Kathryn Minko at kminko@nd.edu 
KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
scene writer 

as an irishman in america, i’ve been looking forward to st. patrick’s day for a long time, but no st. paddy’s day is complete without some genuine irish cool. here’s a playlist of some of the essentials to get you in the mood. 
“Dearg Doom” — Horslips 

if you want to go from zero to feeling like a celtic warrior in a matter of seconds, listen to the opening bars of dearg doom. nailing the balance between folk and rock, it’s the perfect opener to any irish playlist, making you grab your hurley and see off your guinness as it awakens that deep-rooted irish pride you didn’t even know was there. 
“Hay Wrap” — The Saw Doctors 
between accordion solos, a shout-along chorus and an interpolation of irish rebel song, “The west’s awake,” galway-based band the saw doctors chant lyrics about hay-baling machinery, the “wild bad drink” in the town of Tuam and former mayo gaelic football player willie-Joe padden. if you’re confused, i don’t blame you, but what i’m trying to say is this song is very irish. 
“Fisherman’s Blues” — The Waterboys 
ever wanted to get away from it all and spend the rest of your life as a fisherman on some remote isle off the coast of ireland? if so, then this one’s for you. if not, this song might convince you. 
“The Rocky Road to Dublin” — The Chieftains & The Rolling Stones 
you might know The rocky road to dublin as a traditional irish classic, but have you ever actually deciphered and listened to the lyrics? it’s about traveling to england and im­mediately getting in a fight with the first englishmen you see, only to find a group of irishmen who happily join in. 
“Alternative Ulster” — Stiff Little Fingers 
stiff little Fingers made their name with punk rock songs about their (and my) native northern ireland. “alternative ulster” is among the best anthems ever written about the province. 
“Top O’ The Morning To Ya” — House of Pain 
i didn’t know this song existed until two days ago, it might just be the worst attempt at an “irish” song i’ve ever heard, but yet i can’t stop listening to it. 
“Whiskey in the Jar” — Thin Lizzy 
Thin lizzy took this staple of traditional irish music and made it their own. if the iconic, perfectly irish-sounding riff doesn’t get you, the story in the lyrics of an outlaw betrayed by his lover will. 
“C’est La Vie” — B*Witched 

yes, late-90s ireland sounded exactly like this song. no, i don’t really know what happened to b*witched either. wikipedia tells me they reformed in 2012. but it’s those little spoken parts between the verses that mean i have to put this on the list, because not enough top 10 hits these days include the phrase “what are ya like?” 
“Sally MacLennane” — The Pogues 
For unknown reasons, there’s a stereotype that the irish like to drink. i guess this song — an ode to “the greatest little boozer” — encapsulates that aspect of irish culture pretty perfectly. 
“Tell Me Ma” — Sham Rock 

at some point, when everyone’s had a little too much to drink, someone will mention they used to do irish dancing and insist they can still ceili with the best of them. This song’s for that moment. 
“Fields of Athenry” — Dropkick Murphys 
yes, dropkick murphys are pretty much the definition of a band for american “plastic paddies”, but the energy they bring to this usually somber folk song is just too great to ignore. This one’s for those who say they’re irish because of that one distant relative who might have lived in donegal: today, you are. 
“Stars in My Eyes” — The Original Rudeboys 
rappers with thick dublin accents remain a rarity, but neddy arkins of up-and-coming irish band The original rudeboys — backed by a gentle acoustic melody and chorus — delivers a couple of pretty great verses here. 
“N17” — The Saw Doctors 

emigration is a pretty big part of irish life. as nice as our little island seems, many of us leave. There have been plenty of songs about life for the irish abroad, but few capture the experience of missing ireland quite like this one. written about a road in the west of ireland, it’s become an anthem of homesickness for the emerald isle and begs you to sing along. 
“Summer in Dublin” — Bagatelle 
To finish, you just can’t beat this one. as bagatelle plays you out with memories of lost love in ireland’s capital, you might just find yourself flooded with memories of a special someone from your semester abroad. if you’re going to call her, though, remember the time difference, because it’s probably like 8 a.m. there. 
Contact  Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 

KERI O’MARA | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Wait before judging Chip Kelly 
Michael Ivey 
sports writer 
despite some recent criticism about the way philadelphia eagles head coach chip kelly has handled this offseason, everyone should calm down and give kelly a chance to prove himself. 
after four seasons as the head coach at the university of oregon, kelly made the jump to the national Football league. many wondered whether kelly’s unusually fast-paced, high-oc­tane offense would work against the bigger and faster players of the nFl. 
in kelly’s first season as eagles coach in 2013, the team started with an unimpressive record of 3-5 and criticism of kelly and his offense mounted. however, the eagles made a switch at quarterback after starter michael vick was in­jured, putting in second-year quarterback nick Foles. with Foles leading the way with running back lesean mccoy, philadelphia closed the season winning seven of their last eight regular season games to finish the season with a 10-6 record and made the playoffs as the winner of the nFc east division. The eagles ended up losing in the first round of the playoffs to new orleans. 
The 2014 season held high expectations for kelly and the eagles. They started the sea­son with an 6-2 record, but Foles suffered a serious injury midway through the season. with backup quarterback mark sanchez leading the way, the eagles won only half of their remaining games and, despite finishing with an 10-6 record, missed the playoffs. 
immediately after the season ended, reports of a feud be­tween kelly and eagles general manager howard roseman began to surface, along with speculation kelly might leave the team for another. kelly re­portedly wanted to be in control of acquiring and trading away players, but roseman didn’t want to give up that power. after a tense few days, it was an­nounced that roseman would be promoted to another job in the front office and kelly, in addition to head coach, would add the title of general man­ager. kelly got his wish but in the process might have severely damaged his relationship with the front office. 
it was reported march 4 and finalized on march 10 the eagles would trade all-pro running back lesean mccoy to the buffalo bills in exchange for linebacker kiko alonso. The trade stunned many, includ­ing mccoy himself. when kelly tried calling mccoy about the trade, mccoy ignored all of his calls. kelly explained his rea­soning behind the trade was to free up salary cap space in order to sign players to fill key holes in the eagles roster, most nota­bly on the defensive side. some fans accepted this explanation and backed kelly up, but a lot of people criticized kelly for not just what he gave up, but who he got in return. kiko alonso won the defensive rookie of the year award in his first season in the league but missed the entire 2014 season with a torn acl. alonzo played for kelly in col­lege at oregon, and he became the ninth player on the current eagles roster to also play for kelly at oregon. many accuse kelly of having a bias toward his former oregon players. 
kelly followed this up by trad­ing quarterback nick Foles to the st. louis rams for quarter­back sam bradford. This trade was met with heavy criticism. despite being a former first-overall draft pick, bradford has underperformed during his time in the nFl, and many label him a huge bust. on top of all that, he has suffered two serious acl injuries the past two years, leading many people to think he won’t be able to stay healthy for an extended period of time. additionally, kelly decided not to resign top wide receiver Jeremy maclin and let him be­come a free agent. 
many people are still asking why kelly would make moves like this. why would he get rid of his top quarterback, running back and wide receiver all in the same offseason? 
despite all these questionable moves, kelly has made some really great personnel decisions this offseason, too. he was able to sign free agents cornerback byron maxwell and running back demarco murray. maxwell helped the seattle seahawks to two straight super bowl appear­ances, while murray was con­sidered the top running back in the league last year while playing for philadelphia’s arch-rivals, the dallas cowboys. 
chip kelly has total control over the eagles roster, and de­spite what everyone thinks, he’s going to go out and get the play­ers he thinks best fit his system. whether it will work only time will tell. if it doesn’t, the results could prove disastrous, put if it does work, he’ll be known as one of the biggest geniuses in football history. he has proved doubters wrong before. 
Contact Michael Ivey at mivey@hcc-nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

MLB | padres 7, cubs 0 
Padres overpower Cubs while Lester struggles 
Associated Press 
peoria, arizona — matt kemp and Tommy medica hit towering home runs off Jon lester on a rough day for the new chicago cubs ace in the san diego padres' 7-0 victory on monday. 
lester hadn't allowed a run or walk in two starts and five innings. he was charged with six runs and seven hits before leaving with one out in the fourth. he was sched­uled to go four innings. 
lester first started feeling uncomfortable in the bull­pen when he said "every­thing was flat, ball was up." 
The left-hander issued a leadoff walk in a two-run second that included for­mer boston teammate will middlebrooks' wall double. 
kemp crushed an inside fastball to left an inning later that landed on a tent, his sec­ond homer of the spring with his new club. 
lester returned for the fourth despite being at 62 pitches, then gave up three more hits, including medica's two-run shot to center. 
"i'd make a bad pitch and it would take two more for me to make the adjustment," lester said. "That's got to change quickly." 
rotation candidate brandon morrow threw four scoreless innings for san diego. 
cubs prospect kris bryant barely missed his seventh home run when he doubled off the wall in the fourth. bryant was the dh after sit­ting out sunday because of fatigue in his throwing shoulder. 
sTarTing Time 
cubs: only 44 of lester's 70 pitches were strikes. he said it had nothing to do with throwing to catcher wellington castillo for the first time. 
"welly came in a couple times in the dugout and apologized for some stuff," lester said. "i don't know what he was getting at. i was the one chucking the ball and he's not. . i flat out didn't execute pitches." 
padres: morrow, signed to a one-year deal after spend­ing five oft-injured seasons in Toronto, allowed three hits and struck out two. 
"good velocity, good lit­tle split-change, nice hook, good slider," padres manag­er bud black said. "yeah, he pitched very well." 
Trainer's room 
cubs: manager Joe maddon said bryant will dh again Tuesday, but should return to the field by Thursday. 
padres: rhp casey kelly woke up monday without pain, a day after throwing batting practice in another attempt to return from el-bow-reconstruction surgery. 
kelly hasn't pitched in a major league game since 2012. he had a setback in his return last year. a groin inju­ry has kept him out of games this spring. 
"i think i've learned some patience through this whole process," kelly said, smiling. 
kelly will throw batting practice again wednesday. 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
wichita state eager to ‘play angry’ in tournament 
Associated Press 
wichiTa, kansas — wichita state should have no problem playing angry this time around. 
The program whose mantra of "play angry" carried them to the Final Four two years ago, and to a perfect regular-season record last year, was dealt a no. 7 seed by the ncaa Tournament selection com­mittee on sunday and given a tough opening matchup against indiana. 
hardly a reward for win­ning another regular-season missouri valley title, spending much of the season ranked in the top 10 and having one of the nation's best backcourts. 
but if anybody is a master manipulator when it comes to using a perceived slight to 

FOR RENT 
COMMENCEMENT WEEKEND RENTAL -Great location -next to campus and Eddy Street Commons -walk to everything. Email nd-house@sbcglobal.net 
his advantage, it just may be wichita state coach gregg marshall. he thrives on play­ing the underdog role, and the shockers have come to embody that over the years. 
"it is what it is," marshall said monday. "we don't get to vote on where they seed us." 
That may constitute a verbal shrug, but you can bet the uber­competitive marshall will have his guys playing as if they have been treated unfairly against the hoosiers on Friday. 
"bottom line is our region is tough," marshall said. "we have four of the top 10 winningest programs in the history of col­lege basketball — and we're not one of them — in our region. kentucky is one, kansas is two, indiana and notre dame. we've got four in our region. we have to make it through those guys to get to the Final Four." 
ah, yes — kansas. don't for­get the shockers could earn a third-round date with the Jayhawks if both win, finally getting a chance to play the school that refuses to schedule them. 
That fact surely wasn't lost on kansas coach bill self, who was stunned to see the shockers fall to the seventh line when the bracket flashed on the televi­sion screen. 
"how in the world they're a seven-seed blows my mind," he said. "i thought the missouri valley, to be honest, deserved a little more credit than what they got. i thought they would be a higher seed and northern iowa would be a higher seed, too." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
May/early June  to early August as 
WANTED 
our live-in nanny. Open for immedi­
ate/full time job OR just this summer 

TRIPLE DOMER NEEDS NANNY excursion.  Contact Dr. Fleming at 
— SUMMER ONLY, P/T, or F/T:  ND info@greymattersintl.com family needs an energetic, outdoor-loving, reliable gal to travel to beau-“Children are great imitators, so tiful Jackson Hole WY from end of give them something great to imitate.” 


MEN’S TENNIS | nd 7, bosTon college 0; nd 6, deTroiT 1 
Irish halt skid with back-to-back wins 
By RYAN KLAUS 
sports writer 
no. 36 notre dame ended a four-match losing streak with a pair of wins in a doubleheader against boston college and detroit on sunday at eck Tennis pavilion. 
The two victories for the irish (8-5, 1-2) were their first since Feb. 14, when they beat michigan on the road. Following the michigan victory for notre dame were road losses to no. 10 ohio state, no. 15 virginia Tech and no. 28 louisville as well as a home loss to no. 4 illinois. 
“we played some really good teams consecutively,” irish head coach ryan sachire said. “all of those were against re­ally good teams and three of those four were on the road so we knew it was a tough stretch. obviously, we wanted to win at least a couple of those matches and we didn’t, but our guys are resilient and we had a good week of practice out in arizona during spring break so we felt pretty prepared to play well yesterday.” 
after losing three of their pre­vious four contests on the road, 

paid adverTisemenT 
the irish returned home sunday for the first time since Feb. 25. including the doubleheader over the weekend, notre dame is currently on a five-match home stand and will not go on the road until a match against miami on march 27. 
“we love playing at our place and we feel really comfortable there, so we’re absolutely excit­ed to be playing there,” sachire said. “we’re also a good team on the road, too. it’s not a make-or­break-deal, but we’re definitely comfortable there and excited to get back at it on Tuesday here.” 
Following a 6-3 start to non-conference play, the irish opened their acc conference slate against virginia Tech (12­1, 4-0) on march 3. The irish were upset in a tight match, losing 4-3. notre dame then played louisville (14-4, 2-1) in their second conference match two days later. Junior Quentin monaghan’s seven-match win­ning streak at first singles came to an end at the hands of the fifth-ranked singles player na­tionally in senior sebastian stiefelmeyer as the cardinals beat notre dame 5-2. 

The irish entered their dou­bleheader sunday looking for their first conference win of the year against boston college. notre dame swept the golden eagles (4-7, 0-2), 7-0. in their match later in the day sunday, the irish routed detroit as well, 6-1. 
with the coming of confer­ence play, the irish now play multiple times per week more often and generally have shorter periods of time to rest, sachire said. 
“it’s not really a huge adjust­ment because we did it last year and we’re used to playing mul­tiple matches in a weekend,” sachire said. “it certainly cre­ates a rhythm as our season goes on for the rest of the year.” 
The irish will continue their five-match home stand today when they take on no. 34 Texas Tech. The match against the red raiders (14-4) will be a brief departure from acc play for notre dame. Following today’s match, notre dame will not play another non-conference opponent for the remainder of the regular season. 
The irish and red raiders are set to square off at 5:30 p.m. to­day at eck Tennis pavilion. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at                   rklaus1@nd.edu 


ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | nd 4, ecu 0; unc 5, nd 2; nd 5, bc 2 
nd takes two of three 
By BEN PADANILAM 
sports writer 
no. 28 notre dame played three matches over the past week and came away with a pair of wins. 
The irish (9-5, 4-2 acc) cruised to a win over east carolina, 4-0, on march 10 in Tampa, Florida, before coming back home and losing to no. 1 north carolina, 5-2, on Friday and defeating boston college, 5-2, on sunday at eck Tennis pavilion. 
in the victory over the pirates (11-5), the no. 21 doubles pairing of junior Quinn gleason and sopho­more monica robinson secured a 6-1 victory in the top doubles spot. The second-position doubles team of freshman allison miller and ju­nior Julie vrabel then won in a tie­breaker, 7-6(5), to give the irish the doubles point. 
in the singles, the irish picked up three quick wins to secure the 4-0 victory. robinson, vrabel and sophomore mary closs all cruised to victories, leaving the other three singles matches unfinished due to the fact it was a non-conference match and the result had already been decided. irish head coach Jay louderback said he was pleased with the team’s performance and the opportunity the match pro­vided for them to prepare for more outdoor tennis going forward. 
“we had great break,” louderback said. “we were able to get outdoors and practice. we needed to get outdoors and just play in some heat. pretty much from here on out, at least all of our away matches are probably going to be outdoors.” 
notre dame was set to play Florida gulf coast later that eve­ning, but the match was cancelled due to inclement weather. instead, the irish returned home to pre­pare for their two matches this past weekend at eck Tennis pavilion.  on Friday, the team battled but fell to the top-ranked Tar heels (17-0, 5-0 acc) by a score of 5-2. 
The irish started strong in the match with an 8-5 victory at first-position doubles by gleason and robinson over the no. 12 doubles team of senior caroline price and sophomore Jamie loeb. however, miller and vrabel fell to the no. 36 pairing of juniors ashley dai and kate vialle 8-5 at second-position doubles, while closs and sopho­more Jane Fennelly lost 8-4 to the 18th-ranked duo of sophomore hayley carter and junior whitney kay to give the doubles point to the Tar heels. 
in the singles, miller and Fennelly fought to wins to earn two points for the irish. miller won in three sets at no. 5 singles, defeating dai 1-6, 6-1, 6-4. at no. 6 singles, Fennelly sailed to a 6-1, 6-3 victory over vialle. however, the Tar heels, with three players ranked in the top 20 of the intercollegiate Tennis association (iTa) top 50, took wins in the other four singles matches to defeat notre dame by a final score of 5-2. 
on sunday, however, the irish rebounded with a 5-2 win over the eagles (8-7, 2-3). 
The irish began the day by taking the doubles point following deci­sive wins by miller and vrabel and the duo of closs and Fennelly at second and third doubles, respec­tively. miller and vrabel cruised to an 8-1 victory, while closs and Fennelly won by a score of 8-3. 
after taking the doubles point, notre dame then won four of the six singles matches. both closs and Fennelly won in two sets while robinson and vrabel fell in their matches. leading 3-2 with two sin­gles matches remaining, the irish were able to take both as gleason and miller each claimed victory in tiebreakers to secure a 5-2 vic­tory. Following the performance, louderback said he was excited with the effort put forth by his team this weekend. 
“we played two really good matches,” louderback said. “we lost 5-2 to north carolina, but they’re the no. 1 team in the coun­try. we had a chance to win in the doubles and [Quinn gleason] lost in three sets, so we’re right there with them. Then, we had an excit­ing win over bc. we came down to the last two matches in tiebreakers and won both of them. but if we had lost both, then we would’ve lost the match. so for us, it was a very good spring break.” 
The irish will return to the courts Friday at 3 p.m. when they take on Florida state at scott speicher Tennis center in Tallahassee, Florida. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at                   bpadanil@nd.edu 



MEN’S LACROSSE | denver 11, nd 10 (oT); nd 11, uva 9 
irish split with top-10 foes 
By GREG HADLEY 
editor-in-chief 
in a pair of top-10 contests road contests over spring break, no. 3 notre dame suf­fered through the second half, getting outscored in both by a combined six goals. 
it only cost the irish once though. 
against no. 6 denver on march 7 and no. 8 virginia last saturday, notre dame (4-1, 1-0 acc) sprinted out to early leads, collecting five goals in the first quarter of each game. but while the pioneers (4-2) rallied to force overtime and take the 11-10 victory, the cavaliers (5-2, 0-2) fell short, 11-9. 
in both matchups the team was held back by their inabili­ty to execute, irish head coach kevin corrigan said. 
“i think we hurt ourselves at the end of the day [against denver],” corrigan said. “we hurt ourselves with penal­ties, we hurt ourselves with giving up a couple things we shouldn’t have given up, and as a result we just weren’t able to come out on top.” 
against virginia, the same problems came up again after halftime. 
“The second half of the virginia game was us once again making some mistakes in the clearing game and on ground balls that gave them the opportunity to get back in the game,” corrigan said. “They never got closer than two, but still, that game should never have been that close.” 
notre dame was below its season average in clearing per­centage (81 percent) in both games, failing to get the ball out of the defensive zone six total times. against virginia, the squad lost the ground ball battle, 34-30. 
The irish also lost the fa­ceoff battle in both contests, including a pivotal overtime start that gave the pioneers the ball, after which they prompt­ly scored 43 seconds into the extra period to end the game. possession was key in both matchups, corrigan said. 
“i thought that overall, on the day, we did not faceoff well, and it hurt us through­out the day,” corrigan said. “in the second half, we just didn’t have the ball, and that’s something we have to contin­ue to work on as well. we can’t continue to be on the short end of the faceoff game.” 

The irish also committed six penalties against denver, sur­rendering four man-up goals. 
“whether you like the calls or don’t like the calls, that’s too many times for us to be man-down and too many goals for us to give up in that area of the game,” corrigan said. “we’ve got to get better there and we’ve got to not foul.” 
against virginia, the irish stormed out to early lead, scor­ing the first seven goals of the game. Freshman attack mikey wynne collected a hat trick before the cavaliers found the back of the net, with junior at­tack matt kavanagh chipping two goals and an assist of his own. 
“we rode very hard, we got ground balls and we were very efficient offensively,” corrigan said. “and defensively, they couldn’t get by us. and we weren’t giving them anything, we weren’t creating anything for them, so it was just over­all some of the best lacrosse we’ve played, especially com­ing on the road against a team like that. The first half was terrific.” 
however, just before the break, the cavaliers received a man-up opportunity and con­verted to close the margin to 8-2 and gain crucial momen­tum. in the second half, they outscored the irish 7-3, in­cluding the final three scores of the game. 
“it’s not like we did some­thing different than what we did in the first half,” corrigan said. “we just didn’t do it as well. it’s a matter of being more consistent. There’s nothing we have to change or do different­ly, we just have to do a better job. we failed to clear and we failed to win ground balls that we should have won and pick up first-chance ground balls and things of that nature. 
“you do that in the first quar­ter or the fourth quarter, it’s going to hurt you. so we just need to be more consistent over the course of 60 minutes.” 
The irish return to arlotta stadium to face ohio state this saturday at 4 p.m. 
Contact Greg Hadley at                   ghadley@nd.edu 


ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE | bc 15, nd 6; sbu 9, nd 5; nd 15, vT 8 
ND ends break with win 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
no. 17 notre dame went 1-2 over the break, dropping road games to no. 3 boston college and no. 18 stony brook before return­ing home to defeat virginia Tech, 15-8, on saturday. 
The 15-6 loss to boston college and the 9-5 loss to stony brook put the irish (4-4) on a three game los­ing streak, as they had suffered a defeat at the hands of no. 4 duke the week before. 
“i think heading into bc, ranked no. 3 in the country, we looked at where we were at com­ing off the duke loss,” notre dame head coach christine halfpenny said. “we had a great full week of practice to look at ourselves and prepare, and unfortunately we weren’t able to have it come together.” 
halfpenny attributed the irish defeats to problems with ball se­curity and shooting. 
“[The boston college game] was a case where there were just too many turnovers. we really lacked the ability to stay competitive in the game because of all our forced errors. That coupled with shoot­ing that has been shaky [caused the loss],” halfpenny said. “Then we were coming up against a hot stony brook team, and again our shooting was something that was an achilles’ heel for us over spring break.” 
however, halfpenny said she was proud of the effort the irish put into the games, even when they were behind. 
“on the positive side, we fought really, really hard,” halfpenny said. “we had great fight, great hustle, got a great goal at the final whistle which we were really ex­cited about.” 
The performance of sophomore midfielder cortney Fortunato was a major highlight for the irish over the break, as she managed a hat trick against boston college and set a record for most scores in a home game with eight goals against virginia Tech. 
“cortney is very talented attack player,” halfpenny said. “she has a lot of dynamic pieces that was she was able to put together. if we need her to get the ball in the back of the net, she’ll do that. if we need her to get draw controls, she’ll do it. she’s just doing everything that we need right now.” 
halfpenny also had praise for sophomore midfielder casey pearsall and senior defender barbara sullivan. 
“especially on draw controls, barbara sullivan had an out­standing day,” halfpenny said. “it was really nice to see her have an extraordinary perfor­mance after she had to sit out so much of last season with an injury.” 
notre dame was able to break the losing streak with the home victory over virginia Tech. The game was tied at halftime, but the irish scored eight to the hokies’ one in the second half to secure the win. 
“we had to come back home and learn from what we did wrong,” halfpenny said. “against virginia Tech, we found a nice edge in our game and we were really able to control the game at home in arlotta, which is some­thing that was really important to us to start off the spring, playing in nice weather and being done with winter lacrosse.” 
Though the break was not as successful as the irish had hoped, halfpenny said the team would be able to use the defeats as an op­portunity to improve. 
“while it wasn’t our goal to go out on the road and come back empty-handed, those games were important for pointing out our weaknessesandaddressingthem, as well as exploiting our strengths as we go along just like we did against virginia Tech,” halfpenny said. “The other big piece of spring break was seeing how strong we are at the draw and taking that into the rest of the season to really define what our offense is going to be about.” 
notre dame next faces ohio state at arlotta stadium on saturday at 12 p.m. 
Contact Renee Griffin at                   rgriffi6@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




BASEBALL | clemson 6, nd 1; nd 11, clemson 6; nd 5, clemson 1 
Irish go 4-3 on road trip 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
senior sports writer 
notre dame ended a seven-game southern road trip by taking two of three games at clemson over the weekend, winning a con­ference road series for the first time as a member of the acc and capping off a stretch in which it went 4-3 overall. 
The irish (14-4, 3-3 acc) lost two of three games at georgia Tech on march 6-8 and then topped savannah state, 5-3, in 11 innings wednesday afternoon. 
notre dame head coach mik aoki said his team wasn’t flustered by two conference road series. The irish were 1-14 in conference road games last season, the lone win coming at miami on april 20. 
“capturing series wins on the road in this conference is extreme­ly difficult, extremely challenging, especially when you look at a place like clemson, where they’ve got a pretty enthusiastic fan base, and it’s not exactly the friendliest en­vironment in which to play,” aoki said. “our kids did a phenomenal job of just blocking stuff out. … it’s an important series win for sure.” 
notre dame struggled against clemson junior starting pitcher matthew crownover in the first game of a Friday doubleheader, managing only three hits in eight innings in a 6-1 loss. irish bats woke up in the second frame of the doubleheader, however, as notre dame managed a season-high 16 hits in an 11-6 victory. notre dame saw its early 6-0 lead vanish com­pletely, as the Tigers (9-9, 2-4) tied the game with a six-run sixth in­ning, but the irish pulled ahead for good with two runs in the eighth inning and three in the ninth. 

notre dame’s usual sunday starter, junior nick mccarty, closed out the rubber game of the series, a 5-1 irish win, by allowing one unearned run and five hits in six innings of work. nine notre dame players finished with hits in the game, including freshman outfielder Jake Johnson, who has now reached base in all 18 con­tests this season. 
“he has a very advanced feel for where the strike zone is,” aoki said of Johnson. “it’s part of who and what he is — he’s not a kid that right now is going to be launch­ing balls over the fence and hitting 400 foot-plus home runs. 
“he understands that about himself. he plays within who he is, an incredibly advanced hitter in terms of his approach.” 
notre dame’s other two victo­ries on the road trip came in extra innings. The irish recorded a 3-2 victory in 10 innings over georgia Tech (14-5, 4-2) on march 6 and earned a 5-3 win in 11 innings over savannah state (9-11, 4-2 meac) on wednesday. 
with the two extra-innings vic­tories, notre dame is 6-0 this sea­son in games decided by two runs or less. 
“i think it was a function of our guys being really locked in, be­ing extremely competitive in the pursuit of trying to win the game for as long as was necessary,” aoki said of the extra-inning wins. “we did it against a really good georgia Tech team at another place that’s not easy to play.” 
georgia Tech won the other two games of the series to give notre dame its first weekend series loss of the season. The irish cut georgia Tech’s lead to 7-5 in the seventh in­ning, but the yellow Jackets added four runs in the eighth inning to earn the 11-7 win march 7. in the next day’s rubber match, notre dame managed only five hits in eight innings against georgia Tech sophomore starting pitcher brandon gold, who led the yellow Jackets to a 4-1 win. 
notre dame will play its home opener wednesday, when the irish meet central michigan at Frank eck stadium. First pitch is scheduled for 6:05 p.m. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at                   bhartnet@nd.edu 
ND SOFTBALL | nd 12, Florida sTaTe 0 
Nasland throws no-hitter 
The irish (15-11, 1-5 acc) de-
Observer Staff Report 

feated campbell and north 
after suffering a three-game carolina central by respective sweep at the hands of north scores of 4-3 and 9-0 (in five in­carolina state, notre dame re-nings) before losing two straight covered on the tail end of its to Florida state by scores of 4-1 spring break slate, winning and 7-3. three of five games, including a in sunday’s game against the no-hitter. seminoles, however, sophomore 
paid adverTisemenT 

right-hander rachel nasland gave the irish a performance for the record books. 
after struggling in her saturday outing against the seminoles, a 4-1 loss, nasland rebounded for a sharp performance sunday. in the five-inning, 12-0 victory, nasland did not allow a hit and threw just 61 pitches while strik­ing out four and only walking two. The no-hitter was the first of nasland’s career and the 35th solo no-hitter (42nd overall) in the program’s history. 
The irish relied on strong of­fensive performances to help out nasland during her show­ing sunday. senior center fielder emilee koerner chipped in with a team-leading three hits, scoring three runs and adding an rbi. in addition to koerner, six mem­bers of the irish scored at least one run, five of them crossing the plate at least twice. senior catcher cassidy whidden walked twice and added two runs. Freshman shortstop morgan reed paced the team in rbis, knocking in four during the game after crush­ing a three-run home run to cap off a six-run third inning. The home run was reed’s first of her career. 
The irish return to action wednesday against cleveland state for their melissa cook stadium season opener. The first pitch is scheduled to be thrown at 4:30 p.m. 
HOCKEY | hockey easT QuarTerFinals 
nd eliminated by umass lowell 
By BEN HORVATH 
sports writer 
notre dame lost to no. 14 massachusetts lowell, 6-4, on sunday in a decisive game three of the hockey east conference tournament quarterfinals, likely ending their 2014-2015 season. 
The irish finished the season with a record of 18-19-5, includ­ing a 10-7-5 record in hockey east. 
although disappointed with the weekend’s result, irish head coach Jeff Jackson said his squad played its best hockey in the final two months of the sea­son, which will help the young team heading into next year. 
“i’m excited about the direc­tion that we’re headed,” Jackson said. 
umass lowell (20-11-6, 11-7-4 hockey east) won the first game of the three-game quarterfinal series Friday night with a final score of 5-0. however, the irish were able to rebound the follow­ing night and defeated the river hawks 4-2 to force the pivotal game 3 on sunday. 
Jackson said he was proud of the way his team responded on saturday to force a third game in the series. 
“we definitely rebounded [af­ter Friday night], we were down and our guys kept playing and we came back and fought right till the end,” Jackson said. 
in game 3, the river hawks’ quick start proved to be the de­ciding factor as they jumped out to an early 2-0 first period lead, scoring two goals in the game’s opening five minutes. 
Jackson said it was difficult for his squad to come back from this rough start, especially as the road team. hockey’s substi­tution rules require the visiting team to substitute first, which allows the home team to substi­tute according to the opponent’s lineup. 
“it’s not so much the crowd factor, but the difficulty of get­ting the right people on the ice at the right time,” Jackson said. 
midway into the first pe­riod, notre dame cut the lead in half with a goal from senior defenseman robbie russo, his first of two goals on the after­noon. russo’s second goal, his 15th of the season, placed him atop the goal-scoring list for all defenseman nationally. 
sunday’s contest was russo’s last game in an irish uniform, and Jackson said his notre dame career has been “great,” particularly his senior season, which Jackson described as “an all-american year.” 
“he’s been the anchor for us not just offensively, but defen­sively as well, especially this year where he’s really helped out our young guys,” Jackson said. 
Freshman defenseman Jordan gross assisted on russo’s first-period goal, which was gross’s 21st assist of the season. 
Jackson said gross, as just a freshman, played an “instru­mental role” for the squad. 
“he had a great freshman year, without question one of the best freshmen defensemen in college hockey,” Jackson said. 
umass lowell tallied two more goals prior to intermis­sion, however, making the game 4-1 at the end of the first period. 
russo’s second goal of the afternoon came in the second period but was sandwiched in between a pair of river hawks’ goals in that period, making the score 6-2 heading into the sec­ond intermission. 
Two notre dame goals in the third period, the first from se­nior right wing peter schneider and the second from gross, brought notre dame within two goals. 
notre dame’s rally proved 
too-little-too-late  as umass  
lowell  thwarted  the  notre  
dame  comeback.  The  river  

hawks earned a slot in the semi­final round against top-seeded boston university. 
notre dame earned the no. 5 seed in the hockey east tournament and a first-round, best-of-three matchup with 12th-seeded massachusetts, which the irish won, two games to one. 
Jackson said he is “excited” about notre dame’s 2015-2016 campaign, as the squad will re­turn nine freshman players next season. 
“we have a lot to build on in the next few years,” he said. “it’s going to be an exciting thing for us to watch these young guys turn into great players.” 
Contact Ben Horvath at                   bhorvat1@nd.edu 




arc, where it made 10 of its leaders we have and the way going through duke and 
Champs Monaco 
20 attempts. The irish made we’ve been playing all year, north carolina on Tobacco 
conTinued From page 16 
conTinued From page 16 28 of 32 free-throw attempts, we came in here with a cer-road, i think, is extremely 
shooting 87.5 percent from tain confidence, and we’ve powerful,” brey said. 
alone — and as such, they the charity stripe. played with an edge just like and bludgeoned last sea-and notre dame pushed were prepared for the same despite its success on the the coaches have been talk-son and stumbled to their the powers aside in boxing situation on the tournament offensive end, notre dame ing about.” first losing season since out its spot among the con-championship stage, ac-found itself on several oc-grant was selected the 1988-1989. ference’s best. cording to sophomore guard casions trailing a north mvp of the acc Tournament but notre dame started brey hasn’t backed down demetrius Jackson. carolina team that shot 53 for his efforts over a three-to earn respect with its from saying this champion­
“we’ve been down before, percent from the field for game stretch in which he av-playground performance. ship is the best achievement especially at north carolina the game. The irish were eraged 16.7 points and 6.33 becoming a mainstay in the in the history of notre dame state in a hostile environ-down six points at the 12:09 assists per game. vasturia, national rankings did that basketball. while that’s cer­ment, so we’ve been in situ-mark of the first half, after who averaged 13 points per initially, but it took marquee tainly debatable, especially ations like this, and we just which they went on a 15-2 game, and connaughton, wins over the blue-chip in digger phelps’ mind, it’s stayed composed,” he said. run to take a lead they car-who averaged 14.3 points opponents to officially an-worth wondering what it “we amped it up a little bit, ried into halftime. per game, joined him on the nounce an arrival. means moving forward. and we just played hard.” early in the second half, all-acc tournament first notre dame rolled into a great accomplishment, 
irish senior guard Jerian the irish found themselves team, while Jackson, who chapel hill and topped the surely. grant said he knew the mo-on the receiving end of a shot 55.6 percent from the Tar heels, 71-70, in early “when we come back, mentum of the game had 14-2 north carolina run, field for the tournament, January. but it was a one-or they come back for re-shifted when classmate pat which shoved them into made the tournament’s sec-point win. unions, that is something connaughton hit a 3-point-the nine-point deficit from ond team. notre dame outlasted they’ll always remember,” er to put the irish ahead 67-which they needed to claw grant, who didn’t partici-duke at home at the end of brey said. 64, their first lead since the their way back. according to pate in last season’s confer-January, dropping the devils The wins over duke and 
17:41 mark of the second connaughton, the key to the ence tournament due to an by four. but that had to be a north carolina might reveal half. comeback was a focused on academics-related separa-fluke. duke steamrolled the something more about the 
“i think when pat started renewed defensive intensity. tion from the program, said irish by 30 just 10 days later. irish heading toward ncaa knocking down shots, and “i think coach [brey] has he was honored to join a list nope. play, though. backed by an i looked at the scoreboard, done a great job of instilling of tournament mvps that The irish toppled duke — improved defense, notre and i saw the other team’s that in us, how are we going includes Tim duncan and again — in the acc semifi-dame may have raised the heads down, it really felt to respond?” connaughton christian laettner. nals Friday. floor of its seemingly wide-like we were going to get this said. “we knew that we “it means a lot; this is what north carolina ripped spread range of possible out-win,” grant said. needed to do it on the defen-i envisioned coming back,” open a nine-point lead mid-comes next week. 
grant led the irish with 24 sive end. That defense fuels he said. “This is something way through the second half standing on a three-step points, 15 of them coming our offense.” that’s really special. To do saturday. That would surely platform, cutting down the from the free-throw line, in defeating north it with these guys and to do do in the irish, who had no nets as acc champions in and connaughton added carolina and no. 2 duke it with coaches, it means a answers inside — right? the greensboro coliseum, it 20 of his own. all of notre the day before, notre dame lot.” wrong. sure seems so. dame’s starters finished became just the third team notre dame will find out notre dame answered the game in double figures in acc history to defeat its ncaa Tournament fate with its massive run and Contact Mike Monaco at in scoring, and junior for-both the Tar heels and blue tonight, when the brackets placed an exclamation point jmonaco@nd.edu ward Zach auguste added devils in north carolina en are revealed at 6 p.m. until on a season that began with The views expressed in this a double-double, notching route to winning the confer-then, saturday night’s vic-questions about finishing Sports Authority are those of the 16 points and 13 rebounds. ence title and the first to do tory will serve as a motiva-.500 in conference play. author and not necessarily those finished the game in double so since georgia Tech did it tor for success during the “To win the championship of The Observer. figures in scoring, and ju-in 1993. rest of march, connaughton nior forward Zach auguste The irish defeated the blue said. added a double-double, devils, 74-64, on Friday in a “it’s something that puts part, by winning notre dame’s notching 16 points and 13 matchup in which they led us in position to do more M Bball first-ever conference tourna­
conTinued From page 16 
rebounds. by as much as 17 points in things that we’ve never ment championship over the 
“it’s something that is a the early second half. notre done,” he said. “we were weekend in greensboro. notre really unselfish team that dame defeated miami, able to do that in the regular Jerian grant, who redshirted dame’s last appearance in the we have,” connaughton 70-63, on Thursday in the season, and we were able to that season in his first year in sweet 16, however, came in said. “all 13 guys in there tournament’s quarterfinal do that in this tournament. the program, was the only cur-2003, when the no. 5 seed irish have one goal, and that is to round. now, we’re even hungrier. rent notre dame player on the lost to no. 1 seed arizona. win. we don’t care who does “duke and north carolina “it was something that no roster. as a no. 7 seed in 2012, “we still want to rewrite his-the shooting, who does the are two premier programs, one even picked us when the irish lost to Xavier in their tory here at notre dame,” grant scoring, who does anything not only [in the] acc but in we got to the championship first game. iowa state bounced said. “i feel like we’ve done on the offensive end.” the country,” irish sopho-game, so we’re going to use no. 7 seed notre dame in the something so far, but just to be 
notre dame’s balanced more guard steve vasturia that as motivation not just opening round in 2013. asked able to go to the sweet 16, elite approach resulted in an said. “… but we came in for this game, but for the if notre dame’s lack of recent eight and get a chance to play overall shooting percent-with a lot of confidence in games to come.” ncaa tournament success against [midwest no. 1 seed] age of 54.2 percent from the this tournament beating weighs on him at all, brey re-kentucky and do something field and a 50 percent suc-both of those teams during Contact Brian Hartnett at sponded succinctly: “no.” special there, it would mean a cess rate from beyond the the regular season. with the bhartnet@nd.edu “This is a different team,” lot.” 
W Bball 
irish senior captain and guard/ notre dame and northeastern forward pat connaughton said. square off Thursday at 12:15 winning.” the spokane, washington, re-“This is a team that, from the p.m. in pittsburgh at consol however, mcgraw said com-gion and south carolina in the very beginning, we wanted to energy center. The game will 
conTinued From page 16 

ing away with an opening-round greensboro, north carolina, establish ourselves as a differ-be broadcast on cbs. victory is not a guarantee against region. ent team, as a completely new, (no3), stanford (no. 4) and a team she believed should have however, mcgraw said she almost reinvented, program.” Contact Mike Monaco at      oklahoma (no. 5). earned a higher seed. and her team are not looking The irish did just that, in jmonaco@nd.edu 
if the irish advance past the “we play a 16-seed with  great past this weekend, to either the grizzlies, they will take on the record, 21 times in the ncaa regional in oklahoma city or the winner of no. 8 minnesota and tournament,” she said. “it’s Final Four in Tampa, Florida. no. 9 depaul. depaul gave notre probably the best 16-seed that’s “you just don’t know what’s dame a tough test on the road ever been in the tournament.” going to happen, but for me, dec. 10, with the blue demons connecticut, which bested the i’m going to focus on the first leading for much of the overtime irish, 76-58, on dec. 6 at purcell games,” she said. “boy, those game before junior guard Jewell pavilion, earned the tourna-first two games both look very loyd and her program-record ment’s overall no. 1 seed and difficult.” 41 points led the irish to a 94-93 will compete in the albany, new The top-seeded irish open win. york, region. The huskies beat ncaa tournament action 
“i think every coach looks at notre dame in the last two Final Friday, with a 7:30 p.m. matchup it that way, and i’m going to say Fours, including a 79-58 dis-against no. 16 seed montana at the same thing,” mcgraw said. mantling in the 2014 title game. purcell pavilion. “we definitely have the toughest The other two no. 1 seeds are bracket. … i think all the teams maryland — which notre dame Contact Mary Green at in the bracket are capable of topped, 92-72, on dec. 3 — in mgreen8@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

DOME NUTS  | aleXandria wellman 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: you are advised to view each situation independently and come to your own conclusions and decisions using moderation and a realistic attitude. expecting too much from anyone or anything will lead to disappointment and setbacks. instead, focus on what you can do to ensure that you make steady progress. honesty and integrity will help you avoid a mishap. your numbers are 3, 10, 16, 25, 28, 33, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): an investment will pay off. Take the time to help someone out, and you will be offered a contribution or favor that will help you out legally, financially or physically. Follow your intuition when dealing with a money matter. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): positive action to improve your appearance will result in compliments, but also can lead to costly expenditures and debt. don’t live beyond your means. don’t contribute to someone else’s investment. Joint ventures will not turn out in your favor. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): say little. listen to others and observe how they react. consider how you can best use your skills to make a difference. actions will speak louder than words. a romantic situation will boost your ego. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): check out different philosophies, religions and ways of doing things that interest you, and you will find a new direction that will help you overcome some of the impositions you’ve been forced to deal with. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): step into the limelight and you will draw attention from others, bringing you greater control and confidence. learn from the changes going on around you. love is in the stars, along with self-improvement projects. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): important documents could hold you back or cost you if you overlook the fine print. you may be in a rush to close a deal, but don’t be overly hasty. a good friendship will develop if you participate in an evening event. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Take part in events that allow you to show your compassion and competitive desire to help others. your contributions will change the way others view you and bring about an interesting union with someone who will help you face challenges. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): you’ll have a greater interest in starting your own business. avoid overspending or taking on more than you can handle. baby steps and an innovative approach will lead to greater success. The groundwork will result in future stability. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): don’t spend to impress. if someone isn’t happy to be with you, consider moving on. an investment you make should benefit you, not those riding your coattails. live bravely. have the courage to go after what you want. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): your emotional attitude will cause confusion. you’ll have to make an honest assessment of what works for you and what doesn’t. don’t let anyone railroad you into a situation that is costly. avoid unpredictable people and situations. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you can make vocational changes if you are persistent, innovative and enthusiastic when it comes to promoting what you want to do. invest in yourself and your future. personal and professional partnerships will help you reach your goals. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): use your charm to get others to pitch in and help. delays while traveling or dealing with institutions, government agencies or people in authoritative positions can be expected. Take care of details personally to avoid disappointment. someone will try to hold you back. 


Birthday Baby: you are forceful, outgoing and insightful. you are colorful and expressive. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 
form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

MEN’S BASKETBALL MEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 90, norTh carolina 82 
irish finalize acc arrival with win 

Mike Monaco 
senior sports writer 
a stadium shrouded in baby blue with five mustard streaks on the court soon gave way to a rainbow of confetti. 
on saturday night in greensboro, north carolina, fit­tingly in the heart of acc coun­try, notre dame stood out. 
wearing those gold uniforms and fluorescent highlighter shoes, the irish outdid the bluebloods of arguably college basketball’s best conference. wins against duke and north carolina in back-to-back nights? sure. 
north carolina was playing in its 33rd acc tournament title game. duke has appeared in 31. notre dame was playing in its first — in any conference. 
but the team from northwest indiana, some 665 miles away from greensboro, bested duke and pummeled the local Tar heels with a 22-2 run en route to the 90-82 victory and the confer­ence crown. 
“i am a little bit in awe of what my team did tonight and really the whole weekend here,” irish head coach mike brey said to reporters afterward. 
yes, there’s still enough to be decided about this notre dame season in a short period of time next week in the ncaa tourna­ment. an ncaa run has been missing in recent years, and an­other early exit would somewhat smudge the gleam of 29 wins and the acc tournament title. but that’s a conversation for another day. For one weekend, notre dame finalized its arrival in the acc. 
brey has talked for two sea­sons, now, about notre dame carving out its spot in the acc. like the new kid arriving at a new school, there were growing pains. The irish were bullied 
see monaco PAGE 14 

ND clinches ACC title 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
senior sports writer 
greensboro, n.c. — with 
9:58 remaining in the champi­onship game of the acc tourna­ment at greensboro coliseum on saturday night, no. 11 notre dame, the tournament’s no. 3 seed, found itself in a situation it had seen time and time again this season. The team trailed by nine midway through the second half, this time tono. 19northcarolina, the no. 5 seed in the tournament. 
but nearly 10 minutes of game action later, the irish (29-5) found themselves with a familiar result seen time and time again this season: a victory. 
only this time it was an un­precedented one. 
behind a 26-3 run filled with 3-pointers and defensive stops, notre dame pulled away to earn a 90-82 victory over the Tar heels (24-11) and its first ever confer­ence tournament championship, coming in just its second year in the acc. 
“i am a little bit in awe of what my team did tonight, and really 

the whole weekend here,” irish minute-plus head coach mike brey said. “To stretch, notre 
see champs PAGE 14 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame secures No. 1 irish earn no. 3 seed in OKC region seed in midwest 
By MARY GREEN 
assistant managing editor 
The road to a fifth con­secutive Final Four for notre dame began monday, when the irish earned a no. 1 seed in the oklahoma city region of the upcoming ncaa tournament. 
with a top seed locked up, notre dame (31-2, 15-1 acc) will kick off tournament play with a matchup Friday at purcell pavilion against no. 16 seed montana, the big sky regular-season and tournament champion. 
The irish bring their own hardware into the game, having collected an acc regular-season title and a tournament championship with a 71-58 victory over Florida state on march 8. 
“i think this team’s capa­ble of anything,” irish head coach muffet mcgraw said. “i think we showed this year what our potential could be. we still haven’t painted our masterpiece. i’m still waiting for the game when we play the best we’ve ever played. 
“we’re starting to get there. you can see that it’s coming, so that’s what i’m hoping for in the tourna ment.” 

The irish and grizzlies (24-8, 14-4) have faced off just once before, a 50-48 montana win in december 1986. 
That game took place on a neutral court in seattle. The teams’ second matchup will be held at purcell pavilion as the tournament’s top 16 teams all earned home-court advantage for the first two rounds. 
“i think the first game is always the toughest game, so for us to be starting at home in front of our fans 
— we hope we have a sell­out crowd — is going to be really, really important for us to get off to a good start,” mcgraw said. 
notre dame enters the game looking for its 18th consecutive vic­tory. The last irish loss came on the road against miami (Fla.), a 78-63 defeat in which they shot just 35.9 percent from the field and 
8.3 percent from behind the arc. 
The hurricanes are the no. 11 seed in notre dame’s region, which also features baylor (no. 2), iowa 
see w bball PAGE 14 
By MIKE MONACO 
senior sports writer 
less than 24 hours after win­ning the acc tournament as the conference’s no. 3 seed, notre dame earned the no. 3 seed sunday in the midwest region of the 
ncaa tournament. 
The irish (29-5, 14-4 acc) will face no. 14 seed northeastern onThursday in pittsburgh. notre dame rode a second-half surge 
past north carolina, 
90-82, in saturday’s acc tournament final saturday night after bestingduke, 74­
64, in Friday’s semifi­nal in greensboro, north carolina. 
“it’s the most con­fident i’ve been with a team going into the ncaa tournament,” 
irish head coach 
mike brey said. “i think with the experience and what happened 

in greensboro has given me that and them that.” kentucky headlines the bracket as the no. 1 seed in the 
region and the tournament’s top overall team. kansas (no. 2 seed), maryland (no. 4), west virginia (no. 5), butler (no. 6), wichita state (no. 7) and Texas (no. 11) are also in notre dame’s region. should the irish top northeastern, they would face the winner of butler and Texas on saturday in pittsburgh. 
“we’ve already won one tourna­ment.…canwewinthepittsburgh tournament?” brey said of his mes­sage to the irish. “That’s all we’re thinking. i told them, ‘don’t even look at the rest of the bracket.’” 
notre dame has only faced northeastern (23-11, 12-6 colonial athletic association) once in pro­gram history. The irish rolled the huskies, 72-45, in 1997 in south bend behind 24 points from pat garrity and 11 assists from then-freshman guard martin inglesby, now an irish assistant coach. 
northeastern topped no. 2 seed unc wilmington and no. 1 seed william & mary en route to the caa’s automatic bid. The huskies clinched their first trip to the ncaa Tournament since 1991. 
The last time notre dame won an ncaa tournament game was the opening-round victory against akron in 2011. irish senior guard 
see m bball PAGE 14 





