The independenT 
To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 


FRIDAY, DECEMBER 11, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 



‘Where we have to go from here’ 
Ricketts, Ruelas reflect on term to date and look forward to goals for remaining time in office 
through on another one of their 

By CLARE KOSSLER 
associate news editor campaign promises: the launch 
of onward, an online forum for 
now more than halfway through students to submit ideas and their term as student body presi-voice concerns over current issues dent and vice president, seniors on campus. ricketts described bryan ricketts and nidia ruelas onward as the “fruit of months of are finding their time so far in of-conversations with administrators fice to be somewhat different from and faculty across the campus,” what they initially expected. and said student government has 
“[running for office], you do already received useful input from have to think, to believe you’re students using the site, particu­qualified to do it. but you also be-larly concerning food services. he lieve that what you believe in, and said, however, that in many ways the goals and ideas that you have, onward is still a work in progress. are going to make the university “i think where we have to go better and make students’ lives from here, and where we need to better. and that is sort of what improve, is once the ideas are up drives you,” ricketts said. “i am a [on onward] and we’re working very different person than i was on implementation, how do we april 1. ... There’s no escaping the effectively structure them to dem­change that comes with the re-onstrate to students what a real­sponsibilities and the interactions istic timeline looks like?” he said. that you’re having.” “when an idea comes up, there’s 

ruelas also said her perspective a significant period of investment has shifted during her tenure as of time and sometimes money into vice president. making that happen, so working happened with the concession administrations a legacy of “re-it like we’re getting paid to do this 
“[i’ve] changed in the way that on how we can be more transpar-stands, that’s what happened with spect and professionalism.” job, to treat it with the utmost re-now i’m looking to be more per-ent about that process i think is the prices in the huddle. we saw an “i hope what we leave when we spect. and i hope that that displays ceptive and more analytical in going to be the key next semester opening, we said okay, this is go-move on is some sort of respect not only how much we care about thinking about, ‘okay, well what in terms of the success of onward.” ing to make student’s lives better and professionalism,” he said. the issues, but how ready we are are the implications of this?’” one objective from their plat-— let’s go for it. it’s kind of hard to “we’ve done our best to treat this to engage on behalf of the student she said. “it’s not just like, ‘just be form that requires further atten-plan out what those things are go-as a professional office, as a pro-body.” friendly to everyone and hope ev-tion, ruelas said, is the promotion ing to be, it’s just more having the fessional job when we do our work erything will work out okay.’ and of initiatives regarding diversity mentality of looking for ways that — especially with administrators Contact Clare Kossler at  that’s a huge lesson in leadership and inclusion on campus. she this is going to make students’ lives and with people outside — to treat ckossler@nd.edu and something that i’ve grown in.” said a november panel student better.” 
ricketts and ruelas won the government co-sponsored with both ruelas and ricketts cited February election on a platform the diversity council to kick off the enthusiasm and dedication that focused on student identity the “it’s Time nd” campaign – a of their department directors and and diversity, and with a slogan of campaign to encourage dialogue staff as one of the major strengths “leading with passion. working to-on the issues of diversity and in-of their administration. wards unity. celebrating identity.” clusion on campus – had fewer “you never know how it’s go-
since taking office in april, numbers of students in attendance ing to go when you’re coming in,” ricketts said he and ruelas have than she hoped. ricketts said. “you do the best achieved many of their original “i think that that’s something you can to pick a team. you think platform goals. one area they’ve that we were reevaluating after-you’ve got the right people, but you particularly emphasized, he said, ward and we were like, you know don’t know until the rover hits the is working as a community to ad-what, we could have done more road, and they’ve done a fantas­dress the issue of sexual assault. on this in the sense of really using tic job at meeting our goals and at 
in their platform, ricketts and the connections that we have with meeting their goals.” ruelas stated their intention to other students to gather feedback ruelas said other administration “support all students, faculty, and on what we could do better … and members have grown throughout staff in proactive efforts to take a also hopefully improve the conver-the semester in their ability to work stand against sexual assault” and sation so that its more representa-together as cohesive unit. to “continue the message of the tive of what students want to talk “we definitely bounce things ‘it’s on us’ campaign through about,” ruelas said. off of each other, especially major initiatives that promote bystander in addition to working to achieve decisions. That’s critical,” ruelas intervention and encourage re-the goals they outlined for their ad-said. “and i think that we comple­porting and the use of counseling ministration in the spring, ricketts ment each other very well in terms services.” said he and ruelas have also had to of perspectives and personalities, 
over the course of the semester, refocus their attention on several too, i think. what’s the same is our the administration has continued newly-emerging issues. values, and that, i think, has also as planned with the “it’s on us” in particular, ricketts said, both been super important.” campaign originally launched by academics and student services ricketts said the current admin-last year’s administration, and has have surprised him as two of the istration has also learned from the also submitted a 30-page report more prominent issues during his work of previous administrations, on sexual assault – comprising in-time in office. particularly regarding student in­terviews with students, staff and “i think there’s been a stronger volvement in initiatives. administrators, as well as a num-focus on academics than ever an-“i think from previous adminis­ber of recommendations – to the ticipated, because we realized the trations, we inherited the recogni­university’s board of Trustees. need for student voice in that area,” tion that your initiatives and your 
“‘it’s on us’ and the sexual vio-ricketts said. “The other big one goals are only successful insofar as lence board report, i would defi-has been student services. they are student-centered and stu­nitely put up there at the top as “ … whoever’s coming next, i dent-focused,” ricketts said. “so something that we’ve worked very think the best advice i could give recognizing that it’s on us can’t hard on, as something that we care them is that whatever you want to be successful without students, a lot about as something that the do, the little things that make stu-by, you know, just us, recognizing students care a lot about,” ricketts dent life better, they often aren’t that [student involvement] had to said. what you think you’re going to be be a central principle of onward, i 
in addition to their initiatives able to achieve. think we inherited a lot of that.” on sexual assault, ruelas said she “you just get an opportunity, and and in turn, ricketts said and ricketts have also followed you have to jump on it. That’s what he wants to leave to future 










‘The voice of the students’ 
Baker, Kohler speak out on divisive topics, encourage respect for all students’ viewpoints 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
saint mary’s editor 
in the beginning of their term as student body president and vice president, seniors Kaitlyn baker and maddie Kohler set goals to collaborate with notre dame, increase campus safety and be transparent, and now at the end of the semester baker said new initiatives have pro­pelled those goals forward. 
This year, baker said campus safety has been one of student government association’s (sga) main initiatives this semester. 
she said there has been a minor setback with updating the app in the apple app store, but they hope it will be ready to download for the spring semester. 
another initiative baker and Kohler campaigned for was col­laboration among the tri-cam­pus community. 
baker said they meet monthly with notre dame’s student gov­ernment. it can be difficult, she said, because notre dame’s stu­dent government functions very differently from saint mary’s. 
on the subject of working with their respective adminis­trations (or boards of trustees), baker said the student govern­ments of notre dame and saint mary’s differ greatly. 
members of the sga leader­ship get to meet with the board of Trustees every time they come to campus to update the board on campus happenings and issues, whereas notre dame student government only gets to bring one issue as a formal pro­posal to their board of Trustees each year. 
Kohler said one new initiative, the “big belle, little belle” pro­gram chaired by the First year concerns committee, pairs a juniors with first-year students. 
more first-year students signed up than juniors, Kohler said, so sga reached out to se­niors to mentor the newest stu­dents. The program allows older students to mentor the newest belles and provide the sense of the sisterhood the college prides itself on. 
sga expects this program to become a saint mary’s tradition, baker said, which allows the “big” and “little” pair to spend time together doing a variety of activities throughout the year. 
Food week was also a huge success this year, Kohler said, with themed dinners each night and a food truck arriving on campus at the end of the week. 
students were able to pur­chase meal tickets in the dining hall and get their dinner from a food truck for another option. 
The sga Finance committee, led by vice president of finance senior shannon golden, has changed this year, baker said. The committee is now made up of the class senators, two from each class, including one sena­tor at large from the graduate program. 
“This committee of senators reviews all requests for sga funding and can decide to ap­prove or deny [requests.]” baker said. “we worked with [2014­2015 sga president] mcKenna [schuster] and [vice president] sam [moorhead] at the end of their term last year to rewrite the finance outlaws because they were severely outdated.” 
From this budget, the “big” boards including student activities board (sab), student diversity board (sdb), residence hall association (rha) and sga are allotted a percentage of the total budget that comes from student fees in­cluded in tuition. 
“as of right now, senate meets on a need basis,” baker said. “They met in the beginning of the year to approve the budgets and they will meet again before the semester ends.” 
instead of promoting to smcard that last year’s admin­istration started, baker said sga has invested in id scanners to track attendance at events. 
students scan their ids at events, which electronically tracks the number of students attending. 
baker said the scanner helps with planning and improving events, more than incentivizing attendance like past smcards. 
“with the scanner, we can look at what are the events stu­dents are going to and allows to prioritize where funds should go,” she said. 
since much of sga funds comes from the student fees, baker said, the scanners pro­vide data on successful events and events that may need more planning. 
in response to the planned parenthood controversy in november, baker released a statement about the importance of heeding all student voices. 
“i also believe that there are two sides to every story, and in most cases, even more than two sides,” baker said in her state­ment. “it is important for us as young women to be well-edu­cated and then given the free­dom to think critically about what we have learned, form our own opinions and stand up for what we believe is right.” 
baker said her statement was about respect on campus and confronting controversial topics as a community. 
“as a student leader, [i] needed to respond,” she said. “[planned parenthood] was a big topic for several weeks. To not say anything about it would have been ignorant if we’re supposed to be the voice of the students and advocate for students. 
“anytime there’s a controver­sial topic, people are opinion­ated. but the most important thing was reiterate that we’re all still belles and should have respect for the community.” 
last week, sga and sdb host­ed a student dialogue event, closed to faculty, staff and the media. 
The idea for the student dialogue followed campus controversy about planned parenthood, but also in light of the harassment junior maranda pennington faced when a ho­mophobic slur was written on her whiteboard. 
“we broadened the event to be an opportunity to discuss all of the types of controversy that have been occurring and how we can move forward, make changes and be better as a community,” baker said. 
students had the opportu­nity to voice their opinions, she said, but at the end of the event, all students in the room recog­nized the importance of their fellow belles. 
Kohler said sga hopes the event was a learning opportu­nity for students who attended. 
“we [closed] the event know­ing that we are still one com­munity [and] it’s okay that we are at a catholic institution and have different beliefs,” she said. 
each year the college focus­es on one of the four core val­ues: faith/spirituality, justice, community and learning. This year, Kohler said, the college has chosen community. in re­sponse, sga has been encour­aging committee chairs to think about this year’s core val­ue when planning their events. 
The student dialogue was an example of sga’s dedication to community, she said. 
“we are trying to engage the community and keep all stu­dents in the know,” Kohler said. 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 


BIG BELLE, LITTLE BELLE 



program promotes sisterhood, community 
By MARTHA REILLY 
news writer 
There may not be any greek life in south bend, but the “big belle, little belle” initiative at saint mary’s promotes a sisterly bond, allowing upperclassmen to help first-years transition into life at the college. 
co-chairs of the first year con­cerns committee, sophomore caroline Koenig and junior Taylor lashbrook, collaborated to assemble the program, ac­cording to Koenig. she said the juniors and seniors who serve as big belles bond with their assigned littles through events such as craft nights, highlight­ing the supportive environ­ment of saint mary’s. 
“Trying to connect the first-years and the upperclassmen can be hard at times because there are things that separate them,” Koenig said. “To bring everyone together, to make more connections and to make more friends is a very positive thing for the community.” 
an overwhelming number of first-years signed up, so the program, which would initially have included only junior big belles, broadened to incorpo­rate seniors as well, Koenig said. 
“you make all these friends so fast, and you get thrown into the crazy different environ­ment that college is,” she said. “we felt that we needed people who are already grounded, people who already know who they are in college, to lend a helping hand.” 
Koenig said she and lashbrook made an effort to pair girls with common inter­ests, such as the same major, making it easy for first-years to receive pertinent advice. based loosely on the sorority concept of having an older sis­ter, who serves as a role-model, “big belle, little belle” aims to promote relationships between grade levels, Koenig said. she also said the success of this year’s launch helped identify ways to improve the program in following years. 
“we have a lot of ideas for how it’s going to flow next year and how we want to make it bigger and better,” Koenig said. “we’re still trying to work out a bit of the kinks since it is such a new program, and we had such a big turnout.” 
Junior Katie slisz said she feels fortunate to mentor two little belles, as she enjoys inter­acting with and learning from younger students. 
“it’s nice to be able to get to know freshmen and expand your base of the connection with people you know in col­lege,” slisz said. “instead of staying with my own group of friends or people i know from class, i’m able to meet people outside of that.” 
slisz said she enjoys referring back to her own experiences so she can advise students and ease any difficulties they may have while adjusting to the col­lege environment. 
“personally, it was kind of scary coming in because i didn’t know anyone initially,” slisz said. “it’s nice to have the ability to reach out to them. it really is such a great community-builder.” 
slisz said so far big belles have made crafts — including door decorations and book­lets with useful tips — for their mentees to promote a comfort­able relationship with open communication. she said par­ticipating in the program has given her friends she would not have made otherwise, while granting her the chance to make their college experience the best it can possibly be. 
“a lot of our core values are about sharing in a bond and working to build people up,” slisz said. “This really is a great way to form positive relation­ships where we can be helping one another.” 


Contact Martha Reilly at mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 





Administration seeks to improve assault response 
Title iX process. 

By CATHERINE OWERS 

associate news editor ruelas said continuing con­
versations on sexual assault are 

when students received critical, even when students two emails from notre dame are not receiving email notifi­security police (ndsp) report-cations of sexual violence on ing three incidents of sexual campus. violence on campus in the first “That’s something we’ve two weeks of the fall semester, thought about, and i think a the issue of sexual assault in whole lot of it has been being the notre dame community intentional about talking about was once again highlighted. it, not being scared of having 
with the continuation of the these conversations, as stu­“it’s on us” campaign and par-dent leaders,” she said.“it goes ticipation in the launch of the back to utilizing our networks greendot violence prevention and influence as student lead-program, student government ers, working with other stu­has prioritized raising aware-dent leaders too, to make sure ness and sparking dialogue they feel comfortable talking about sexual violence on cam-about difficult topics like sex-pus. on oct. 15, student body ual assault, sexual violence on president bryan ricketts and campus.” vice president nidia ruelas small efforts can have a sig­presented a report to the board nificant impact on creating a perspective, and say, ‘what do issue, so the main thing that government has made it a pri­of Trustees on the current state campus culture more open to we have? what are the resourc-goes with that is the ‘it’s on us’ ority to demonstrate they are of sexual violence at notre conversations about sexual vi-es to change these structures pledge,” he said. “pledge cards serious about ending sexual as-dame and how the university olence, ruelas said. that will allow people to come were last year’s version of this sault on notre dame’s campus, can further work to solve the “i know i’m very intentional forward?’ pledge — this year we’ve put primarily through the presen­issue. about mentioning it at hall “The prayer services, for ex-more of a focus on the itsonus. tation to the board of Trustees 
ricketts said he identifies council. something as simple ample — we evaluated our nd.edu pledge.” and participating in the launch student government’s response as having an announcement at communications policy on more than 200 students have of greendot. ricketts said the to sexual assault as one of the mass, now it’s a permanent pe-that, which have improved at-signed the pledge this year, letters written by university strengths of his and ruelas’ tition in mass — it’s a constant tendance for the past year. we Funaro said. The department president Fr. John Jenkins and administration. reminder that this plagues our definitely take a structural look hopes to have more than 400 vice president for student af­
“‘it’s on us’ and the sexual community. and it’s something at how we can foster that natu-students sign by the end of the fairs erin hoffmann-harding violence board report, i would we should all be conscious ral feeling that’s out there, that semester. last spring regarding the definitely put up there at the about, as a community, in the this is an issue, and how we can “The main way we’ve done university’s intolerance for top as something that we’ve sense that as active bystand-help people come forward.” that is by going door-to-door in sexual assault have contributed worked very hard on, as some-ers, whether you got an email student government has different dorms,” he said. “you to a positive culture of change. thing that we care a lot about a week ago or two years ago, tried to played a large role in can actually get good conver-“Their public commitments as something that the students [you should be concerned],” creating student body engage-sations with people … [and] get are a contrast to other uni-care a lot about,” he said. she said. ment on the issue, the director people that really want to get versities, where you just don’t 
The board of Trustees re-ricketts said student govern-of the department of gender involved.” see that, it’s just the students. port focused on four major ment’s goal is to put as many issues, junior danny Funaro, Funaro said he has noticed i think we have a good work-topics: campus conversation structures in place as possible said in an interview last month. there is sometimes more dif-ing relationship with a lot of surrounding sexual violence, to foster natural student en-Funaro said the department ficulty getting men involved in individuals, and there are cul­the trajectory of change on the gagement on this salient issue. of gender issues has partici-programming and campaigns ture change issues that need issue at notre dame, alcohol “whether it’s men against pated in the greendot launch to end sexual violence. to be addressed here, there are culture’s role in sexual vio-sexual violence, or Fire and worked on promoting the “To get the general male pop-policy issues that need to be lence and a process overview, starters or notre dame student “it’s on us” campaign, the ulation involved is a little bit addressed here. The fact that supplemented by students’ ex-groups who have a space to university’s iteration of the harder, but i think we’ve made we’re able to have that conver­periences.  it concluded with a come forward when we’re do-national movement commis-inroads in that, versus last year, sation and not find ourselves series of recommendations to ing “it’s on us,” when it comes sioned by the white house to when the ‘it’s on us’ pledge shut down, i think, says a lot,” Trustees on how to curb sexual to greendot and we’re say-end sexual violence on college was signed mostly by women,” ricketts said. violence on campus, as well as ing we’re going to make these campuses. he said. “This year there’s a how to improve the process of videos ... ,” he said, “we try “‘it’s on us’ tries to get peo-much better balance.” Contact Catherine Owers at  reporting and navigating the to look at it from a structural ple to take ownership of the ruelas said that student cowers@nd.edu 

ND CLASS COUNCILS 






Online platform promotes student engagement 
By SELENA PONIO 
news writer 
onward is an online forum for students to submit and vote on ideas for improving the university. The forum was initially announced as part of student body president and vice president bryan ricketts 

“[Onward] keeps us accountable to the students, and it keeps the students accountable to their ideas.” 
John Kill 
director 
department of constituent 
services 
and nidia ruelas’ campaign platform, and was launched through student govern­ment’s website on sept. 29. 
accessed through student­government.nd.edu and re­quiring a notre dame login, students can submit ideas as well as up-vote or down-vote ideas that they like or dislike, as well as respond to posts by other students. all posts begin with the tag “ideation stage,” but can gain “imple­mentation” status when stu­dent government begins to look into moving forward with them. 
constituent services direc­tor John Kill said the develop­ment of onward is a gradual process, and the forum pro­vides a unique opportunity for students to be involved in the discussion and imple­mentation of new ideas. 
“it’s early still but as we con­tinue to define how we want onward to be used … i think we will see an incredible increase in student body in­volvement … to make this university a better place,” he said. 
The staff in constituent ser­vices is getting in the habit of consistently publishing reports that contain the top ideas on onward, Kill said. 
“we’re not quite sure how often we’ll publish reports, but we’re thinking every four to six weeks, we’ll have a re­port that will evaluate the top 10 ideas,” Kill said. “[onward] keeps us accountable to the students, and it keeps the students accountable to their ideas.” 
campus technology direc­tor michael mcroskey, who was involved in the techno­logical process of creating onward, said the best com­parison for it was an idea-sharing platform that shared layout similarities with the social media site yik yak. 
“we partnered with oiT to use this idea-share service, and people can sign in with their net ids,” mcroskey said. “we wanted to give students the opportunity … to be em­powered. This is kind of like removing the barrier, and you can post your ideas right from your dorm room [with] the most popular ideas being upvoted.” 
mcroskey is also in the process of launching student government’s new website in the upcoming weeks. he said the current website lacked engaging content and visuals. 
“we took the current web­site and totally refreshed it, so that it’s more dynamic and shows what’s happening on onward. it’s very visual and mobile friendly,” mcroskey said. 
The website’s main purpose is to show students that stu­dent government is working for them and to showcase newly implemented ideas and accomplishments, mcroskey said. 
“people can see what stu­dent government does be­cause a lot of people don’t 

“It empowers students to share their ideas and ... sort of refine them. It’s not just complaining, because people comment on that idea ... and work towards synthesizing a solution.” 
Michael McRoskey 
director 
department of campus 
technology 
understand what student government does behind the scenes,” mcroskey said. 
he said onward provides an interactive platform for stu­dents and their representa­tives to communicate and talk about student concerns and possible solutions. mcroskey said some popular topics fea­ture on onward are prices in The huddle, the printing quota and various complaints with food services. 
“it empowers students to share their ideas and … sort of refine them,” mcroskey said. “it’s not just complaining be­cause people comment on that idea … and work towards synthesizing a solution.” 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 
CONCESSION STAND PRICES 




concession stand prices drop for students 
By EMMA BORNE 
news writer 
in an effort to improve the football game day experience, student government took on a project to lower concession prices at notre dame stadium for students over the summer. 
student body chief of staff dan sehlhorst said in an email that he and student body presi­dent bryan ricketts collaborat­ed with auxiliary services and the concession stand vendor for notre dame stadium to lower the prices. 
“many students viewed the old prices as designed for par­ents and fans. … being on a col­lege budget, [they] reacted by thinking, ‘These aren’t for me,’” sehlhorst said. 
“The new prices are designed to make eating a snack during games more of a possibility for students of all socioeconomic backgrounds.” 
sehlhorst said he and ricketts submitted ideas for combos, which offer more food for less money, as well as ideas for sea­sonal snacks. lowering the price of water in the stadium was their top concern, selhorst said, because higher water pric­es are not only an affordabil­ity concern, but also a health concern. 
“The separate menu includes combos and reduced prices for drinks and other small snacks. The student menu is accessible in select locations near the stu­dent section with a student id card,” he said. 
The student combo options included a popcorn box and souvenir soda for $5 (a sav­ings of $5) hot dog, chips and souvenir soda for $7 (saving $5) candy, pretzel and souve­nir soda for $9 (saving $3.50) and chicken tender basket and souvenir soda for $10 (saving $3.50), according to a stadium menu. apple cider was available for $2 and trail mix and cookies were each sold for $1. The price of bottled water dropped from $2 to $1. 
student government helped make the lower prices available for the first home game this year against Texas, sehlhorst said. 
“game day is a special ex­perience for students, and it wouldn’t be the same without students, so we want to ensure 


“The new prices are designed to make eating a snack ... a possibility for students of all socioeconomic backgrounds.” 
Dan Sehlhorst 
chief of staff 
student government 
everything about the game day experience welcomes all of our students,” he said. 
as the home game football season has come to a close, sehlhorst said student govern­ment is submitting snack and drink price recommendations to auxiliary services and the concession stand vendor in order to continue improving the game day experience for students next year and in the future. 

Contact Emma Borne at eborne@nd.edu 
SMC CLASS BOARDS 







student government pushes for ‘culture change’ 
freshmen see the video.” that with some of the work 
By KATIE GALIOTO 

ricketts and ruelas said we did, we’re just planting 
news writer 

student engagement in dis-seeds,” he said. “There’s not 
The department of health cussions about mental health the institutional readiness and wellness spent its inau-topics is an area in need of yet to do all these things. … gural semester working to improvement. i think these things will hap-find ways to foster conversa-“where i would say sexual pen. but in the meantime, tions about mental health is-assault has been more of a we’ve only been able to plant sues on campus, department ‘home run’ issue with lots of the seed. director sophomore rohit student engagement, we’re “That’s one of the harder Fonseca said. still in the education phase things about this position. 
student body president with mental health and men-you leave some things be­bryan ricketts and vice tal illness,” ricketts said. hind with the hope that this president nidia ruelas intro-
is going to grow.” duced the idea of adding the 
“We want to get to The department of health department of health and 
and wellness plans to start 


the place where 
a poster campaign next se­
wellness last February as 


[mental health 

mester to continue to raise form. over the course of the part of their campaign plat-
is] important to awareness about mental semester, their administra­
students, and it’s health, Fonseca said. The tion has implemented and 
department is also working 


something they 
with other university or-
contributed to a variety of 


value as much as 

ganizations to inform stu­about mental health issues at initiatives to raise awareness 
GPAs, or resumes, dents about mental health notre dame. 
or other things and the resources available “we started looking at 
on campus, such as the new The next step of their and wellness department 

that people put the 

mcdonald center for student administration’s work on promotes the university’s other colleges and what 

premium on here.” 

well-being (mcwell center). mental health is to turn mission with its focus on the alize that wellness is a grow­they’re doing. it made us re-
Rohit Fonseca “we’ve been collaborating the awareness into action, mind. ing field and an area where 
director and building a relationship ricketts said. “obviously, you come to our university is growing,” 
department of health and with the mcwell center, in “we’re trying to make sure notre dame for an educa­ricketts said. “student gov-
wellness addition to campus ministry that we’re tying our conver-tion,” he said. “… we want to ernment should mirror that 
and the department of resi-sations ‘Just ask’ and mental get to the place where [men­growth.” “how to bring that education dence life, and we’re trying health into the broader un-tal health is] important to 
Fonseca said one of the to a broader setting is some-to put together a holistic derstanding of bystander in-students, and it’s something goals of the department of thing we’re still working on.” health and wellness blog tervention that’s happening they value as much as gpas, health and wellness is to in-as student government where people could go for in moreau and that’s hap-or resumes, or other things form students about mental continues to encourage all their health and wellness pening ‘it’s on us,’” ricketts that people put the premium health through programs conversations about men-questions,” he said. said. “… That’s the next on here.” such as irish state of mind tal health, Fonseca said he Fonseca said the depart-step of it — really engaging week and the “Just ask” hopes the topic will gain the ment hopes to launch the individuals.” Contact Katie Galioto at  campaign. same levels of attention sex-blog early next semester. Fonseca said the health kgalioto@nd.edu 
irish state of mind week, ual assault has received. hosted by student govern-“beforehand, we didn’t feel paid adverTisemenT ment in collaboration with that there was a real conver­notre dame’s chapter of the sation about [sexual assault], national alliance on mental but now, due to recent events illness (nami-nd), rec-and initiatives that student ognized national mental government has done, in ad-illness awareness week. dition to the emails sent out events throughout the week and prayer services, it’s re-were designed to spark con-ally become a productive versations across campus conversation on campus about mental health. that people are passionate 
student government about,” he said. “we’d like to launched the “Just ask” cam-have the same thing happen paign, an acc-wide cam-for mental health.” paign focused on raising ricketts and ruelas stu­mental health awareness, in dent government plans to an video emailed to students address mental health issues on oct. 11. in a similar way to conversa-
Fonseca said the campaign tions around sexual assault was one of the results of the at notre dame. acc student leadership “i think that, like sexual conference hosted at notre assault, the bigger area to dame last year. work on in regards to men­
“The ‘Just ask’ campaign tal health is culture change,” encourages people — if you ruelas said. “That’s going to notice something’s wrong take a while.” with your friend, or if you in addition to health and know someone’s having a wellness initiatives, ricketts bad day — to just ask them and ruelas compiled student what’s wrong,” he said. “we government’s research and also include information in recommendations on men-there about the counseling tal health at notre dame center and resources that are in a memo presented to the available on campus.” board of Trustees this fall. 
a video about the campaign since the memo, two colleg­will be shown in each moreau es started forming training First-year experience course, programs to better educate Fonseca said. their faculty about mental 
“it’s really to help get the health and how to address message out to people,” it in the classroom, ricketts he said. “we know we’ll be said. reaching one-fourth of the “we saw some immediate student body when all the impacts, but we also realize 








SUB adds new programming, hosts artists 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer 
after a year that prompted major organizational chang­es, the student union board (sub) has already put on one sold-out concert and several other successful events, ac­cording to alan whalen, di­rector of marketing. 
“This has been a big year for sub so far, with our first ever fall concert and several other big events already un­der our belt,” whalen said. “Throughout this semester we have launched a brand new website with enhanced emphasis on user experi­ence, created a snapchat account, launched paid advertising campaigns on Facebook, and redesigned the face of sub with new name tags, banners and free merchandise to give away to students.” 
between raising campus awareness about upcom­ing activities and monitor­ing sub’s many social media accounts, whalen said he is constantly promoting events of every size. 
“it’s been a busy year, but these new publicity in­vestments have paid huge dividends in the number of students we have been able to reach. our first ever fall concert was the best attended in recent history with over 1600 tickets sold, and we have dramatically increased our following on all forms of social media,” whalen said. 
in order to generate this publicity, whalen works closely with alexandra ignacio, director of art. 
“so i’m in charge of all the printed material that comes out of sub, so all the pretty things you see around cam­pus, those are the products of me and my designers,” ignacio said. “i really em­phasize professionalism in our work. … i’ve told my designers, you know, i’m go­ing to send you these really nit-picky emails about leg­ibility or color scheme or whatever but it’s because we want to give off this air of professionalism.” 
ignacio said this attention to detail benefits all of sub, and she is impressed with the output so far. 
“it’s just so important, when you’re making some­thing for the student body, to make sure it’s well done, because you know, if it isn’t well made, people are go­ing to think, you know, ‘oh, it’s not a big deal, because they didn’t even spend time on this’ and obviously that’s not the case,” ignacio said. “so that’s what i’ve been emphasizing and i’ve been so amazed at my designers, they do such great work.” 
For anyone unclear about what sub does, one of the directors of programming, Kaya moore, said it’s best to think of sub as the “fun arm of student government.” 
another director of pro­gramming, abby shepard, added her agreement. 
“The purpose of sub is to provide cool, fun and 



paid adverTisemenT 
exciting events for the stu­dent body in order to enrich student life,” shepard said. “i think sub definitely con­tributes to the community atmosphere of notre dame because we provide events where students can meet and just have fun.” 
looking to next semester, whalen said the sub team is excited about a number of events. 
“i’m looking forward to so many things this semester. … spring is an amazing time to be in sub because there are so many big events com­ing up, with the collegiate Jazz Festival, spring concert and anTostal. This spring semester is going to be a big one,” whalen said. 
sheppard oversees the collegiate Jazz Festival, the oldest college jazz festival in the country. 
“it’s an honor to be part of such a tradition,” she said. “although the festival isn’t until the end of February, sub is hard at work and there has already been a lot of progress from behind the scenes, we already have judges, school performanc­es, and designs confirmed, which is earlier than we have had a lot of the logistics worked out in past years.” 
overall, executive direc­tor louis bertolotti said he has been impressed with his team’s work. 
“you know, i came into this as an outsider, and we under­went all these changes to the structure of how sub works and it’s been functioning so well so far,” bertolotti said. “we had incredible turnout for hunter hayes, and i’m re­ally excited what we’ve got coming next semester.” 
(Editor’s note: Louis Bertolotti is an Observer Viewpoint columnist.) 


Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 





CCC updates bylaws, allocates funding 
By MATTHEW McKENNA 
news writer 
club coordination council 
(ccc) president marisa Thompson said the ccc is one of the most underuti­lized student government groups on campus. 
“when people want some­thing done in their hall, they go to their hall council,” she said. “when they want some type of event program­ming on campus, they go to sub. but when a club wants to achieve a goal on campus, often, they don’t know where to turn.” 
The group plays a number of roles in the administra­tion of clubs on campus, she said. 
“The ccc is involved in undergraduate club activity on campus in the forms of monetary allocation, pro­spective club approval and student government repre­sentation,” Thompson said. 
in addition to an adminis­trative role, Thompson said the group also acts as a voice for the interests of clubs in various organizations across campus. 
“it represents club inter­ests to sao, the Financial management board, sen­ate and the executive programming board. it is composed of 27 undergradu­ate members and one sao advisor. 
she said there are three executive board members: Thompson, vice president will Fields and controller aaron vernon. 
Thompson said there are also six divisions, each divi­sion representing different types of clubs on campus: academic, athletic, cultur­al, performing arts, special interest and social service. each division has a division chair and three division rep­resentatives who are elected by clubs at the club informa­tion meetings. 
“anyone who is an active member of a club on cam­pus can run for a division representative position on the ccc,” Thompson said. “its main purpose in student government is to make sure that clubs are represented to the rest of the student union.” 

Thompson said this year, along with the usual busi­ness of hearing appeals for additional funding, the ccc has been working on their guidelines, bylaws and oper­ating procedures. 
“we wanted to make this a particular focus of our work in the fall, that way we could make sure that our treatment of all clubs is as equitable as possible,” Thompson said. “right now we are preparing for winter reallocation in January and are working on more ways to make the ccc more transparent than it has been in the past.” 
Thompson said one of the overall goals of the council has been to make their or­ganization as transparent as possible. 


“we are looking at mul­tiple ways of achieving this, such as restructuring the spring allocation process and providing more online resources,” Thompson said. 
The ccc is important be­cause undergraduate clubs make up a large part of stu­dent life at the university, Thompson said. 
“The idea of student gov­ernment is to make the un­dergraduate experience as fulfilling and meaningful as it can be, while also dissem­inating information about the university administra­tion,” Thompson said. “we 

paid adverTisemenT 


to administratively run a successful club as well as 




Group examines, votes on internal issues 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
student body vice president nidia ruelas said student sen­ate has done “very well” engag­ing in critical issues this year. 
“we’ve fostered together a climate of dialogue where peo­ple are talking with each other instead of to each other and when they’re engaging these issues, even if they disagree, even if they’re difficult issues,” she said. 
senate’s biggest, most re­cent accomplishment was the passing of three resolutions regarding election reform in november, ruelas said. The new regulations allow can­didates more freedom when engaging with voters online and through social media platforms.  
“That came out of a lot of dialogue, a lot of work and a lot of work was done outside of senate,” ruelas said. “but within senate, the talk that was shared was very good and helpful.” 
discussion and feedback on onward, a forum for students to submit and vote on ideas, and the university’s honor code also had a “good input,” according to ruelas. 
“some of the conversation regarding the academic integ­rity was also a huge success for senate because they engaged the topic critically,” she said. 
ruelas said senators have also done an excellent job of communicating between stu­dent government and their dorms, especially regarding the new sustainability ini­tiatives in the dining halls. senators are also “very active” in their departments. 
“For example, if they’re ac­tive through university affairs, maybe they’re involved in things like the huddle price scanner,” she said. 
with the recently released recommendations of the core curriculum review committee, ruelas said dis­cussing the recommended changes will be a main focus for next semester. 
“i think the intention is that this conversation goes out dur­ing the whole semester,” she said. 
ruelas said academic integ­rity will be another focus as the “actual policies and recom­mendations are being thought up” from the university code of honor committee. 
diversity and inclusion will be another focus for senators to consider next semester, she said. 
“The other one that we want to stress is diversity and inclu­sion in many ways, not just racial or ethnic, but also so­cioeconomic. To some extent i think we’ve addressed those issues, but they’ll probably be the focus for next semester.” 
ruelas says she hopes to in­corporate other groups when working on issues of diversity and inclusion. 
“at the beginning of the year we had the diversity and in­clusion training and another thing i think we can do is to foster a discussion related to the ‘it’s Time nd’ campaign that diversity council has led forward, so i think that things like that, bringing in speakers to talk, and maybe it would even take the form of a resolu­tion too,” she said. 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 


HALL PRESIDENT’S COUNCIL 
council facilitates dorm programming 
according to the council’s co-vice presidents or presidents. help hall governments identify continue working with other 
By MARGARET HYNDS 

news editor chair, senior meredith Fraser, The group has an advisor what their individual residents groups and institutions on hpc meets every Tuesday eve-from the student activities need, and also to address the campus. 
every spring, each of the ning and consists of the all dorm office, casey st. aubin, but hpc concerns of the residential stu-“ … we have a few projects university’s 29 undergraduate presidents and vice presidents “[operates] pretty independent-dent community at large. in progress,” she said. “we are residence halls elects a presi-as well as an executive board ly, but [is] a branch of student “our main goal involves hall hoping to continue to strength-dent and vice president to pre-made up of two co-chairs, two government that deals primar-leaders helping to meet the en relationships with other side over the dorm’s government social chairs, an athletic chair ily with residence halls,” Fraser needs of residents,” she said. campus organizations and hall and to represent the dorm on and a financial chair — each of said in an email. “This is always something that communities, including rectors, hall president’s council (hpc). whom formerly served as hall she said the council exists to we can improve upon, so our hall staff teams and student 
board works alongside the resi-government. we would like to paid adverTisemenT 
dence hall leaders to maintain increase awareness for our hpc a consistent resident focus. … mission, which involves every This year we have been able to hall resident.” continue to build a relation-one of the council’s most vis-ship with rectors as well as ible projects, however, is the other members of the office of annual awarding of hall of the housing that share with us a year. each spring, a committee common purpose.” consisting of hpc’s executive 
dillon hall president junior board, the judicial council pres-Kevin esherick added the coun-ident, and two student senators cil also serves as a network for select the overall hall of the different hall governments to year, men’s hall of the year and collaborate and share ideas. women’s hall of the year. Fraser 
“in my opinion, hpc’s most said hpc was looking into re-important function is to serve as evaluating the hall of the year an enabler for student leaders,” selection process. he said. “it gives hall presidents “ … we are working to deter-access to resources, ideas and mine if there is any possibility networks that are instrumen-to enhance the hall community tal in producing programming evaluation process that cul­for our halls and the rest of the minates in the hall of the year campus community.” award,” she said. 
looking forward in the se­mester, Fraser said she and co-Contact Margaret Hynds at chair seamus Quilty wanted to mhynds@nd.edu 






SMC committees adapt to meet student needs 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
associate saint mary’s editor 
whether collaborating on projects, adding programming or combining to form new com­mittees, saint mary’s student government association (sga) committees have initiated sub­stantial changes over the past semester. 
Council of Committee Chairs (CCC) 
The sga council of committee chairs (ccc), which consists of 20 students working in 12 committees dedicated to different aspects of the saint mary’s commu­nity, has sought to collaborate more effectively in order to de­velop events focused on better serving student interests and concerns, ccc vice president of external affairs emily James said. 
James, a senior, said the ccc committees are dedicat­ed to topics such as alumnae, athletic, technology, market and media, mission, food, com­munity, first year concerns, in­ternational, social concerns, sustainability and sophia program. 
“every girl in each position has a very unique passion for what her committee is doing,” James said. “each one really wants to put on events that make things better for the stu­dent body.” 
The ccc meets every week in order to keep the different committees and student body president and vice president updated on events and provide opportunities to collaborate in planning. 
“it’s a lot of work and a lot of time; oftentimes the student body doesn’t realize how much work members put in,” James said. 
safety week, a new addi­tion this past october, was a collaboration between com­munity co-chairs maiti dages and mimi nary, sustainability co-chairs casey moorhead and chelsey Fattal and technology co-chairs Jenna wilson and sarah Kalal, James said. 
(Editor’s Note: Chelsey Fattal is a News Writer for The Observer.) 
Food week and save a belle, love a belle (sablab) week were also successes this semes­ter, she said. 
“most people, i’ve heard, aren’t the biggest fans of Food week because of changes in the dining hall, but food chair bailey oppman made it a posi­tive week by bringing in food trucks, which was unlike any­thing we have ever had,” James said. “also, social concern co-chairs mary Joy dingler and Jenna wozniak did an awesome job during sablab week. 
“despite certain complaints that had happened on social media prior to the week, the co-chairs handled sablab week really well, and their events had really good turnouts.” Grade: B+ 
Newly-merged SGA Senate and Finance committee 
in a change from previous years, the sga senate and fi­nance committees merged, committee vice president se­nior shannon golden said. 
“before, the finance commit­tee was made up of different student organization leaders,” she said. “This year, the finance committee is made up of our senators, which is made up of two students from each class and then a graduate student.” 
The senate and finance com­mittee acts as the voting body of the student body and votes on the allocation of money to different student groups. 
“with our tuition, there is a certain part that goes towards student funds that certain student organizations can re­quest,” golden said. “all the re­quests come to me on orgsync, and then i send the requests out to my committee.” 
golden said allocation de­cisions are based on finance by-laws found in the sga con­stitution, which ensure the money goes only to the saint mary’s community. 
“The main goal the senate wanted to meet this year was to be as efficient as possible,” she said. “many organizations rely on the committee to get ap­proval for funding and we want to make sure we can give the appropriate answer as soon as possible.” 
next semester, the senate and finance committee plans to be transparent in telling students about the support sga can pro­vide for student organizations. 
“There are a lot of students who don’t realize there is mon­ey available for them,” golden said. “student organizations can come to sga for help, whether it’s to get their event out through school wide emails or assistance through funding.” Grade: A-
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 







DEPARTMENT REVIEWS 

This department has been involved in a number of projects, including Quad Markets, which 

Senior Athletics representative Samuel Gerstemeier has been working with Compton Family Ice Arena to streamline the process of organizing student skates for class councils with the goal of increasing student attendance at events. Along with the department of Residence Life, Gerstemeier has been looking into how RecSports can help students understand the variety of fitness and recreational options available on campus. He said he would like to help to make sure student interests are well represented and also plans on evaluating the student ticket exchange policy for football. 

FUEL introduces first-year students to student government and allows them to begin working with upperclassmen on departments. The program saw its most selective application process ever this year, with 97 applications and 31 members selected. The number of applications submitted increased from last year by 17.5 percent. This semester, FUEL conducted a focus group on the changes to freshmen orientation, known as Welcome Weekend. Following the focus group, FUEL crafted a recommendation that is in the process of being submitted to the director for Student Engagement and the Welcome Weekend Committee. Moreover, in coordination with Maureen Dawson, assistant dean in First Year of Studies, FUEL conducted a focus group on the Moreau First Year Experience. 


Bend. The department planned to pursue the reevaluation of communication among South Bend Police Department, NDSP and the student body to encourage more timely and accurate communication of off-campus incidents to the student body. However, after discussions with NDSP and evaluation of the crime reports software that the University employs, the department determined there are substantial barriers to immediate reporting of all violent crimes in the vicinity of campus. They plan to continue to advocate for timely reporting of violent off-campus crimes perpetrated against students. 





This semester, the department introduced Dorm Week, a collaboration with HPC to encourage friendship between the various dorm communities. The director of the department was a member of the Orientation Steering Committee that created and facilitated the new experience of Welcome Weekend. She used department suggestions and feedback to shape the outcome. Research on other peer intuitions has already been completed; that research, combined with results from a student survey, will be used to make recommendations to Student Affairs. The spring 2016 semester will feature a free Saturday fitness series co­sponsored by RecSports. While future initiatives look promising, Dorm Week was poorly executed and failed to engage a large number of students. 




The Department of Gender Issues has continued the “It’s On Us” campaign to bring an end to sexual assault on Notre Dame’s campus. Apart from posters and notecards, another main focus of the campaign has been the itsonus. nd.edu pledge. Since September, the pledge has been signed by more than 325 students, with a goal of 400 by the end of December. In addition to “It’s On Us,” the department has co-sponsored two events with the GRC: “Are You Getting the Signal?” and the Time to Heal Dinner, which was aimed to allow 
the community to reflect on and heal from the effects sexual violence on campus. 
Diversity Council representative Ray’Von Jones maintains lines of communication between Student Government and Diversity Council. At the start of this semester, Jones facilitated a session with Notre Dame’s student senators about the importance of embracing diversity within the Notre Dame community. Diversity Council has worked to raise awareness and foster dialogue on campus with events including the “It’s Time ND” campaign, which launched in early November and aims to promote diversity. The launch week featured a whiteboard campaign, in which more than 100 students and faculty participated. However, the controversial departure of secretary Lauren Hill has raised questions about dysfunction within the council’s leadership. 




This department is responsible for advertising events, initiatives and projects from any department in Student Government to the student body and communicating Student Government’s mission or ideals into action on campus. The department works on a number of special projects that may not fit under the umbrella of other departments. They have developed logos, slogans and posters for other departments. The department created taxi cards that have received a positive response from the administration and from students. They also organized the Refugee Dinner in collaboration with the departments of Community Relations and National Engagement 
and Outreach. 

University Affairs was involved in the creation and distribution of taxi cards earlier this semester, as well as enhanced price visibility in the Huddle Mart, which Food Services has agreed to do. The Department is collaborating with OIT to update information regarding hours of operation for food venues on campus, especially over breaks. The department hopes to place a Chase ATM in the southern area of campus near Reckers, as well as place an automated external defibrillator (AED) in every dorm on campus. The department has good goals for the future, but so far, the implementation of these ideas has been lacking. 



Department director Michael McCroskey has been involved in a number of technology-related focus groups, including ones on Sakai and InsideND, to represent student views. The department has also worked 
printers and to lengthen the print queue. They have collaborated with the Registrar to test and implement a new class registration system, NOVO Registration. Their biggest undertaking has been the implementation of the Onward online student forum and are current working on an updated student government website. 

The department has spent its current term surveying the campus academic climate in addition to its other initiatives. It has expanded the Coffee Hours program, which has grown by over 300 percent since the spring, and hopes to expand the program to all campus cafés by next semester. Department director Bridget Rickard created the Committee on Undergraduate Academic Affairs, which gathers an academic commissioner from all residence halls, a representative from Diversity Council and members of the department to provide, review and promote discussion on the general academic policies and regulations of the University. 
This semester, the department set out to collaborate further on national events with campus political groups. In October, it co-hosted a GOP debate watch with BridgeND, College Republicans and College Democrats with more than 100 people in attendance. The department partnered with NDVotes to administer a survey of students’ political awareness that received about 100 responses. The department plans to examine these results and use them to motivate discussions and events in the future. Looking forward, they plan to bring a New York Times reporter to campus to speak about the refugee crisis in Europe or potentially about reporting in a war zone. 

The three main focuses of Internal Affairs this year are the role of Senator-Directors, election reform and awards. The first focus, Senator-Directors, was tackled several weeks ago and ended in the passing of the Department’s resolution that repealed subsection (d)(4) of Section 3.2 of the student union constitution, thereby disallowing Senators to double as Department Directors in future cabinets. The second focus, election reform, is currently underway with the completion and presentation of five resolutions regarding social media, endorsements and supporters in campaigns. Finally, discussion of the third topic, awards, has resulted in the formulation of three resolutions that are awaiting presentation in Senate. 







