THE INdEPENdENT TO uNCOVER NEWSPAPER SERVINg THE TRuTH NOTRE dAME ANd ANd REPORT SAINT MARy’S IT ACCuRATELy 

VOLuME 49, ISSuE 53 | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2015 | NdSMCObSERVER.COM 
ND, SMC detail reporting processes 
Officials explain ND assault  report process 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
News Writer 
Editor’s Note: This is the first installment of a five-part series on sexual assault at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s. Today’s stories focus on the process for students reporting sexual assaults. 
Over the past year, the university’s administration, Notre dame Security Police (NdSP) and the Special Victims unit (SVu) of St. Joseph County have implemented policies to revise and raise awareness about the process of reporting, investigating and prosecuting sexual assaults. 
Heather Ryan, deputy Title IX Coordinator, said Notre dame students reporting a sexual assault have the option to pursue a complaint through the university Conduct Process or law enforcement. A victim can choose to pursue both op­tions, concurrently or one after the other. 
“The university takes every single one of these reports ex­tremely seriously, and we must and do investigate every single one that comes to our atten­tion, where we have enough in­formation to 
see Nd PROCESS PAGE 5 



Saint Mary’s highlights options for reporting 
By ALEX WINEGAR 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
Editor’s Note: This is the first installment of a five-part series on sexual assault at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s. Today’s stories focus on the process for students reporting sexual assaults. 
Saint Mary’s students who are survivors of sexual vio­lence have several different avenues through which they can report a sexual assault. 
Students can either report a sexual assault to confi­dential or non-confidential resources and individuals, director of the belles Against Violence Office (bAVO) Connie Adams said. 
“We have confidential people on campus at Saint Mary’s and that’s my­self in bAVO, Health and Counseling Services profes­sional staff so counselors, nurses, nurse practitioner, psychiatrist all of those individuals and then the pastoral ministers that are in Campus Ministry,” she said. “If a student chooses to speak with a confidential person, he or she does not have to make a report unless 
see SMC PROCESS PAGE 6 




Event promotes solidarity 
By EMMA BORNE 
News Writer 
Students wearing all black gathered at the Clarke Memorial Fountain, known colloquially as Stonehenge, on Sunday evening to show support for minority students on college campuses across the country who have recent­ly faced injustices. 
Senior Rachel Wallace gath­ered the students together and began the evening with a moment of silence for those 
see SOLIdARITy PAGE 5 



Students avoid harm in Paris attack 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s sophomore Theresa McSorley said she was so excited to arrive in Paris around noon Friday for a weekend trip with a group of students studying abroad in Rome. 
“We spent the day walking the streets of Paris, eating macaroons and sight-see­ing,” McSorley said. “We were able to see the Eiffel Tower, the Notre dame Cathedral, Arc de Triumph, the Love Lock bridge, the Louvre Museum and so much more. 
“After a beautiful day in Paris, while sitting in the Notre dame Cathedral, began to cry. I had just lit a candle for my family, friends and a friends’ father whose health has not been well. I took a look around the 
see PARIS PAGE 4 


NEWS PAGE 3 VIEWPOINT PAGE 8 SCENE PAGE 9 INTERHALL PAGE 20 MEN’S SOCCER PAGE 20 



ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. box 779, Notre dame, IN 46556 024 South dining Hall, Notre dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg Hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                 Jack Rooney                         Cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: Mary green Asst. Managing Editor: Wei Lin 

News Editor: Margaret Hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha Ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: Miko Malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: Haleigh Ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach Llorens Graphics Editor: Erin Rice Multimedia Editor: Wei Cao Online Editor: Michael yu Advertising Manager: Mariah Villasenor Ad Design Manager: Marisa Aguayo Controller: Emily Reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your go-to shower song? 

Matt Babuskow 
freshman 
Carroll Hall 

“‘September,’ by Earth, Wind and Fire.” 
Devon Krapcho 
sophomore 
duncan Hall 
“‘black Skinhead,’ by Kanye West.” 
Erin Turley 
sophomore 
Walsh Hall 
“‘Torn,’ by Natalie Imbruglia.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Patrick Fasano 
senior 
Morrissey Hall 
“Whatever I need to practice for the next glee club concert.” 
Owen Lane 
sophomore 
O’Neill Hall 
“‘beautiful girls,’ by Sean Kingston.” 
Ryan Fitzgerald 
sophmore 
duncan Hall 
“‘Roar,’ by Katy Perry.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 
dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant 
Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
Post Office Information 

The Observer (uSPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The Observer is published at: 
024 South dining Hall 
Notre dame, IN 46556-0779 

Periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices 
POSTMASTER 
Send address corrections to: 
The Observer 
P.O. box 779 
024 South dining hall 
Notre dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. 
All reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Haleigh Ehmsen Zach Klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Rachel O’grady Alex Carson Alex Winegar ben Padanilam 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
Susan Zhu Matthew Munhall 
Photo Viewpoint 

“Migration to Workshop Women’s Basketball 2015 Laura Shannon Mammograms 
Amy Ackermann Claire Radler 

Europe” Brownson Hall vs. Toledo Prize Lecture Library Circle Geddes Hall 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Purcell Pavilion Jordan Hall 9 a.m.-4 p.m. 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Learn how to craft 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 5 p.m.-6:15 p.m. This preventative 
Corrections 

Panel discussion on a compelling grant The Irish take on the Sir Christopher Clark offering is free to 
The Observer regards itself as the migration crisis. proposal. Rockets.  will present. women over 40. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
“The Courage of Men’s Basketball vs. Theatre Performance Mass Volleyball vs. Georgia 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
Conviction” Milwaukee DeBartolo Performing Dillon Hall Tech 
however, recognize that we will make 
Hesburgh Center Purcell Pavilion Arts Center 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. Purcell Pavilion 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
12 p.m.-1 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Mass of 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Lecture on sustainable The Irish take on the “Little Shop of rememberance for The Irish take on the 
we can correct our error. 

development abroad. Panthers. Horrors.” deceased faculty. Yellow Jackets. 

NdSMCObSERVER.COM | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2015 | THE ObSERVER 

Justice Friday considers emotional violence 
By ALLISON SANCHEZ 
News Writer 
Students discussed unhealthy relationships and how to rec­ognize emotional relationship abuse at Friday’s installment of the Justice Friday series at Saint Mary’s in a conversation led by sophomores Nicole Caratas and Courtney Weston. (Editor’s Note: Nicole Caratas is a news writer for the Observer.) 
Weston said emotional abuse can be an often misunder­stood aspect of an unhealthy relationship. 
“A lot of times people don’t un­derstand or realize that just be­cause you’re not being physically abused, there still can be abuse happening,” she said. “Emotional abuse is any act including con­finement, isolation, verbal as­sault, humiliation, intimidation, infantilization or any other treat­ment which may diminish the [person’s] sense of identity, dig­nity, or self-worth.” 
Caratas and Weston went into some examples of an emotion­ally abusive relationships, includ­ing bullying and commenting on appearance, weight and/or intelligence. 
“your partner will twist around controlling behaviors to make it seem like he or she cares about you,” Weston said. “For example, if they say to text them every time you leave the house that can seem controlling but they say it’s because they care so much.” 
Caratas and Weston said other signs of an emotionally abusive relationship include putting down a person, manipulating the person, isolation, name calling and pressuring a person into un­wanted acts. 
Caratas said these behaviors are usually not isolated, and an abusive relationship is all about control. 
“A person almost never shows just one of these behaviors; usu­ally abusive behaviors go hand in hand with one another,” she said. “Any time you stop becoming equal and one person has power and control over the other, it is an abusive relationship.” 
Weston and Caratas highlight­ed some of the reasons why peo­ple stay in abusive relationships. 
“I know that being an outsider, it’s hard to understand, but one of the main reasons someone stays in an abusive relationship is there’s children involved,” Weston said. “A lot of people think it’s better to have that family dy­namic than it is to leave an abu­sive relationship. 
“People will stay with an abus­er because they believe they can change. In my opinion, if you are an abuser, especially emotion­ally, I find it hard to believe that you will be able to change with­out professional help.” 
Sophomore Morgan Matthews attended the talk and said victims sometimes don’t recognize they are being abused. 
“If you boil a pot of water and put a frog in, the frog will jump out. If you put a frog in a pot of water and slowly raise the tem­perature, the frog will stay in the water,” Matthews said. “This is a good analogy of what happens in an emotionally abusive relation­ship because sometimes it is so gradual that the victim doesn’t recognize what is happening.” 
Weston and Caratas also gave advice for approaching a friend who is in an abusive relationship. 
“you have to be supportive, especially if you bring up to a friend that he or she is in an abu­sive relationship and he or she tries to deny it, push you away and gets defensive or mad at you for bringing it up,” Caratas said. “Even when it becomes really hard, you still have to be there for that person and you still have to support them because they need someone on the outside who can see what’s going on and, in case something does happen and they need to get out of the relationship, they need an outside source be­cause that can be hard on them emotionally to deal with.” 


“If they do end it and then go back to that relationship, you can’t get frustrated at them for go­ing back,” Weston said. “you want to know what’s going on more than you don’t want to be in the know or there to support them.” 
“you should reassure them that the abuse is not their fault,” Caratas said. “Remind them that they are loved. Nothing the abus­er does after [ending the relation­ship] is their fault. They need to be reminded that this is not how it is always going to be.” 
Caratas said if a student is in an unhealthy relationship, it is im­portant to seek help and support. 
The Justice Friday series takes place every Friday from 12-12:50 
p.m. in the Student Center. 
Contact Allison Sanchez at asanch01@saintmarys.edu 

Speaker examines ability and disability 
Lecture. 
By MEGHAN SULLIVAN 

News Writer Matt Hubbard, founder of the 
dooley Society, opened Saturday’s 

Among the tailgates, pep ral-lecture, and said “our goals are the lies and glee club performances same as we started with: mentor-stands another Notre dame game ship, education, global service day tradition, The dooley Society to humanity and reinforcing 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 

Catholic values.” 
The dooley Society lecture se­ries, held every football Saturday, is one of the programs created to carry out those goals. The speaker for Nov. 14 was Oluwaferanmi Okanlami, M.d. from South bend’s Memorial Hospital, and he gave a lecture titled “disabusing disability.” 
Okanlami is a decorated schol­ar and holds an undergraduate degree from Stanford university, a medical degree from the university of Michigan and a surgi­cal residency from yale university. He most recently graduated from the Engineering, Science and Technology Entrepreneurship Excellence Master’s (ESTEEM) program at Notre dame. 
Okanlami was president of his class at Stanford, captain of the Stanford track team, leader of the Christian-Athlete organization and director of a production at Michigan. 
On July 4, 2013, Okanlami host­ed a gathering for his colleagues from the yale residency program. He jumped into a pool, which re­sulted in a C-6 incomplete spinal cord injury. As a result, Okanlami had no motor control from the chest down; minimal use of his right and left hands, wrists, and forearms; and no sensation below his chest. 
“This wasn’t something that happened to me that was out of my control. I took an action. I jumped,” Okanlami said. 
Okanlami’s colleagues rushed him to the hospital, and Okanlami received the treatment necessary to recover. However, many people still speak to Okanlami about the potential he had before his injury. 
“From day one, I never thought that my potential had been di­minished in any way… Not a day went by where I felt sorry for my­self, or felt like I can’t do some­thing. And that’s why the title of this talk is ‘disabusing disability,’” Okanlami said. 
“I can do lots of things that someone with has never had a spinal cord injury can’t do,” Okanlami said, “so therefore where do you draw the line?” 
He then spoke of the fine line between the unable and disabled, and its applicability to the lives of others. Although someone might not be physically struggling, Okanlami said everyone has something that they are strug­gling with. 
“you should treat everyone in that way,” Okanlami said, “… If you treat everyone like you treat the person who has the disability, and you give them the benefit of the doubt, and you give them that assistance, and you offer them your love and support, then that’s the best way to live your life.” 
Okanlami then continued his personal story and spoke of his path toward healing. Since his injury, he has had a miraculous recovery, regaining the feeling of sensation and better control of his core. He also entered the ESTEEM program at Notre dame and be­gan a family medicine residency at Memorial Hospital. 
In this work, Okanlami said, “I want to empower people to know that they can do more for them­selves…I see in my practice every day people that didn’t even know that they could want to do more for themselves because of the culture that was created around them. [Society] made them feel as though they were disabled.” 
Okanlami said this kind of help­lessness traps patients. 
“Things happen in life that none of us would ever ask to happen … but it’s not that things happen, it’s how you react to those things that happen that truly write the story of what your life will be,” he said. 
Okanlami takes an active role in the community, leading or­ganizations that head both wheelchair basketball and sled hockey, and South bend Mayor Pete buttigieg has appointed Okanlami to the St. Joesph County board of Health. 
Contact Meghan Sullivan at msulli41@nd.edu 



THE ObSERVER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2015 | NdSMCObSERVER.COM 
ND Campus Ministry celebrates Diwali 
By MADDY DEL MEDICO 
News Writer 
Notre dame Campus Ministry held the annual celebration of diwali, the Festival of Lights, in the LaFortune Student Center ballroom this Sunday. The event, which lasted from 7 
p.m. to 10 p.m., celebrated the Hindu New year. 
According to the Campus Ministry website, this event is the first in their “Prayer From Around the World” series, which is an oppor­tunity for the Notre dame community to learn about 
Paris 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
beauty of the Cathedral and felt very blessed.” 
Later that night, three groups of terrorists staged attacks across the city, kill­ing more than 120 people and injuring hundreds more. The terrorist group ISIS later claimed responsibility for the attacks. 
Notre dame junior grace guibert said in an email, she, McSorley and two other Saint Mary’s sophomores 
— Keighley Ehmsen and Caroline green — had just left dinner at 10:45 p.m. in the fourth “arrondissement,” or district, when parents and friends started reaching out to make sure they were safe. 
guibert said the fourth “ar­rondissement” is adjacent to the 11th “arrondissement,” where some of the attacks occurred, and the group con­tinued walking, trying to find a cab. 
“Everything was really chaotic,” guibert said. “At first, we were in a busy area, and everyone was hustling to find a cab. When we had tried and failed for a while to get a safe ride home in that area, we were told to walk a few streets over to find cabs. 
“because the taxis were in such high demand, we were different religious celebra­tions and traditions. 
“diwali is about celebrat­ing good over evil, and the fact that there is light and love and good in the world despite all the bad things that go on every day,” Sneha Modi, undergradu­ate president of the Indian Association of Notre dame (IANd), said. 
According to Modi, the fes­tival is held to honor the re­turn of the Indian god, Rama and his wife from a 14-year exile. As a result, candles are lit in order to celebrate the triumph of light over 
left walking for a couple of hours. There was a ton of traffic congestion; we saw upwards of 70 ambulances, tons of police vehicles, etc. zooming past us. We were lucky enough to receive help from several Parisians on the streets.” 
green said the city began to shut down shortly after they were contacted by their families. 
“Restaurants and bars be­gan to close and the city quieted down fairly quickly, leaving the streets nearly empty,” she said. “Luckily, we ran into a man named danyel, who advised us to seek shelter seeing that we were Americans and could be targets. We informed him that we have been trying to get a taxi for the last two hours and had no luck. This man ... gave us a ride back to our hostel.” 
Ehmsen said the group’s travel plans changed signifi­cantly because of the attacks Friday. 
“We wanted to go to Angelina’s, a famous café, but we were exhausted and a little frightened to be in big crowds the next day,” Ehmsen said. “We changed our flights to the first flight out, which was Sunday morning. We were flying with Ryanair, and they allowed us to change the flight for free because of darkness. Commonly called the Indian New year, this celebration is filled with lights, food, colorful deco­rations and music. 
“For me, diwali is a time for families to socialize, share sweets and set off fireworks,” graduate presi­dent of IANd Nishant Singh said. “All of the families clean their homes and light candles to show off their house to the gods. They in­vite them to give their fam­ily wealth and luck for the new year.” 
According to Singh, dur­ing diwali, the woman of 
the circumstances.” 
guibert said the group cancelled plans to go to Versailles and tour the Catacombs. 
“ ... We were told not to wander far from our hos­tel’s neighborhood, so we were restricted to that area and couldn’t see a few other landmarks we would’ve oth­erwise visited.” 
Vice president of Student Affairs Karen Johnson said 11 students total from the Saint Mary’s Rome Program traveled to Paris last week­end on their own. 
guibert said her father contacted Saint Mary’s and Notre dame to let them know of the students’ presence in Paris. 
Johnson said when the ad­ministration found out they had students in Paris, chair of the department of global studies Jill Vihtelic reached out via email to all students studying abroad in Europe. 
Johnson said she went to campus to start calling the parents of students abroad to confirm the students were safe. 
green said they received an email from the College on Saturday morning. 
“We got in contact with [Saint Mary’s] Saturday morning after receiving an email from Vihtelic check­ing in on us and asking us the house performs prayers, while the children bring plates of sweets to their neighbors. 
Singh said IANd brought in the local Hindu priest to say the prayers that are typically performed on diwali. These prayers invite the gods to bless the fami­lies with an auspicious new year. 
“The local Hindu temple has been so generous to us. The women of the temple made and donated table decorations for the event,” Priscilla Wong, campus di­rector for multicultural student ministry, said. 
Modi said the event, which has been held at Notre dame for over 20 years, served vegetarian Indian cuisine, a sacred Hindu tradition. She said she expected a turnout of 200 people. 
Singh, who was raised in India, said the event holds a special place in his heart. 
“diwali is about family. It’s about friends. It’s about happy times and just every­thing that’s fun about grow­ing up in India,” he said. 
Contact Maddy Del Medico at mdelmedi@nd.edu 

to respond to the email to  Prebys, was out of the coun­ 
let her know that we were  try and had no way to get in  
okay,” green said. “We later  contact with students. When  
received an email from her  the College was able to con- 
in the afternoon giving us  tact her, Prebys flew back to  
safety instructions. The in- Rome to meet the returning  
formation was helpful but we  students, Johnson said.  
had already figured this out  Ehmsen said the attacks  
on our own.”  were frightening but also a  
“As a Notre dame stu­ learning experience.  
dent,” guibert said, “I re­ “It is concerning to  
ceived one email from Notre  me [that] ISIS tweeted  
dame International’s Risk  about Rome, London and  
Management office, also  Washington d.C. being the  
recommending numbers to  next targets,” she said. “Since  
call. At that point, however,  we are living in Rome and I  
our parents and families had  am going to London in two  
all been hard at work call- weeks, it’s frightening that  
ing the State department,  these threats are in these  
American Embassy, etc. We,  cities.”  
on our own, had called sev- McSorley said her expe­ 
eral numbers, including the  rience in Paris will forever  
embassy and the consulate.”  have an affect on her.  
Notre dame spokesper­ “Just a few hours prior, I  
son dennis brown said in a  was feeling blessed at Notre  
statement Friday night the  dame Cathedral for good  
university had several stu­ health and the chance to ex- 
dents in Paris at the time  perience Europe, but most  
of the attacks, but that the  importantly, now I am feel- 
administration had been in  ing blessed to be alive,” she  
contact with them and they  said.  
were safe.  
Johnson said the director  Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at  
of the Rome program, Portia  hehmse01@saintmarys.edu  

PAId AdVERTISEMENT NdSMCObSERVER.COM | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2015 | THE ObSERVER 




ND Process 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
pursue an investigation,” Erin Hoffmann Harding, vice president of Student Affairs, said. 
Hoffmann Harding also said the university has a number of confidential re­sources on and off campus for students who have been sexually assaulted, includ­ing the university Counseling Center (uCC), university Health Services (uHS), the vowed religious in the Campus Ministry office and coordinators — trained Notre dame faculty or administra­tors who will help explain the reporting options and the available support services. 
If a student identifies a sus­pect, the university will open an administrative investiga­tion, Ryan said. However, an investigation will not always be referred to the university Conduct Process, she said. 
“At the end of the process, the person [who filed the complaint] … has the op­portunity to make a decision about whether or not we pur­sue the university Conduct Process,” Ryan said. “Then, 

“I try to give students as many opportunities to make choices as I can. As we receive information and I have someone come to my office, it involves sitting down, talking through what the next possible steps are, as we look at the information we have at hand.” 
Heather Ryan deputy Title IX coordinator Notre Dame 
the Family Justice Center. 
The deputy Title IX Coordinator is informed of all sexual assaults reported by students to non-confidential university resources, Ryan said. 
“I try to give students as many opportunities to make choices as I can,” she said. “As we receive information and I have someone come to my of­fice, it involves sitting down, talking through what the pos­sible next steps are, as we look at the information we have at hand.” 
Ryan said her first prior­ity is to provide a student with the resources he or she needs. Students, both those filing complaints and those responding to complaints, are assigned to resource if they choose not to pur­sue that, we do have another board that will look at the in­formation and make a final decision.” 
“We assess risk and look at impact on community, poten­tial impacts on other people to determine if we ultimately want it to go to the university Conduct Process,” she said. 
Keri Kei Shibata, deputy chief of NdSP, said the crim­inal investigation process starts with similar discus­sions. NdSP has an obliga­tion to tell the deputy Title IX Coordinator if a student reports a sexual assault to them, she said. 
“We’re going to have the same conversation about using us as an option and how this process would go,” 

PAId AdVERTISEMENT 
Shibata said. “We’re going to investigate. We are impar­tial. We are trying to find the facts.” 
NdSP’s trained law enforce­ment investigators are experi­enced, Shibata said, allowing them to conduct investiga­tions in the most efficient and effective way possible. 
“The captain of our inves­tigative unit came from the FbI,” she said. “One of our other investigators, a ser­geant, was formerly in charge of a Special Victims unit in Elkhart. … The team has a lot of experience, both on and off campus.” 
Shibata said investigations for sexual assault cases in­clude interviews with the suspect, victims and any wit­nesses. The investigators also look for physical evidence or electronic evidence, such as text messages or photos. 
“We’re looking for the most clear picture we can have of what happened during the incident and the time sur­rounding it. That’s our goal,” she said. 
A criminal investigation would be conducted by what­ever agency the sexual assault is reported to, Aimee Herring, lead deputy prosecutor at the SVu of Saint Joseph County, said. 
“That’s actually something that a lot of students are not aware of — that they have the option of reporting an inci­dent to the Notre dame Police department or they have the opportunity of reporting it to the Saint Joseph County Police department,” Herring said. 
An incident that occurs on Notre dame’s campus is also under the jurisdiction of Saint Joseph County, Herring said. 
“If a student reports to the Saint Joseph County Police 
department,  it  becomes  a  
Special Victim  units case,  
where  one  of  the  [Saint  

Joseph County SVu] inves­tigators would be assigned,” Herring said. “It’s the oppo­site if it went the other way — if a student chooses to report to Notre dame directly, Notre dame police would lead the investigation.” 
Herring said if an incident is reported to the Saint Joseph SVu, they notify Notre dame about the crime because of the university’s obligation to comply with the Clery Act. However, Herring said, the victim will be informed of this procedure and aware of the extent of information be­ing shared. 
“There are specific instanc­es in which Notre dame has to notify all students regard­ing an ongoing threat on cam­pus,” Herring said. “If that 
“It’s been a long-standing policy that the lead attorneys at each department are pretty much on call anyways all the time,” she said. “It just be­came an official policy that we would rotate who would be on call and identify the specific people who have the appropriate knowledge and experience to be on call dur­ing specific time frames and to mandate the departments to make that contact.” 
After the investigation stage, NdSP or Saint Joseph SVu investigators present the case to a prosecutor, Herring said. 

“That’s actually something that a lot of students are not aware of — that they have the option of reporting an incident to the Notre Dame Police Department or they have the opportunity of reporting it to the Saint Joeseph County Police 
Department.” 
Aimee Herring  lead deputy prosecutor Saint Joseph County SVU 
were the situation, obviously Notre dame doesn’t know about it until they’re told.” 
Herring said an SVu pros­ecutor works with the investi­gative team — from any of the police agencies — throughout the entire process from the instance a sexual assault is reported. 
“If it’s an emergency situa­tion and a suspect has been identified, then the police agency is supposed to be con­tacting the deputy prosecutor that’s on call from the Special Victims unit,” she said. “It reduces the amount of time that we then spend going over information that we already could have been privy to and allows us to be part of the in­vestigation from the outset, providing advice or guidance when needed.” 
This policy was implement­ed when Ken Cotter, Saint Joseph County Prosecutor, took office last year, Herring said. 
“Once the case gets to our desk for review, we … aren’t just looking to see if the case is chargeable,” she said. “We have to look at the elements of the effects ... to determine if the legislation has revealed, first, that a criminal act has occurred and second, that we can prove that case beyond a reasonable doubt in court to a jury.” 
Herring said she thinks the media’s reports of an in­crease in incidents reflects the increase in the number of victims reporting sexual as­saults, rather than the num­ber of incidents occurring. 
“I think it tells us victims know they have been vio­lated, know what to do when they’ve been violated and what options they have,” she said. “They are seeking help if they need it. They are report­ing if they want to.” 
Contact Katie Galioto at  kgalioto@nd.edu 


Solidarity 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
who suffer from hate and vio­lence around the world. A pic­ture of the students was then taken to be posted online. The event also included a discus­sion of how Notre dame can use the momentum from these injustices across the country to instigate change. 
Senior Michelle Pham said the event was an important show of solidarity. 
“I think it’s important to see, as a minority myself, that oth­er minorities have the support they need on their campuses to feel safe and that they’re not alone in these issues and that they don’t have to feel like they’re unsafe on their campuses in that they have no one to go to,” Pham said. “We’re giving them the sup­port they need to maybe get back up.” 
Freshman Alexis Woods also said the event was important and that it was not a protest. 
“basically we want to show that we’re in solidarity. … It’s not really a protest — it’s just to show that we’re standing with them,” Woods said. 
Junior Natalie Thomas, an­other student who attended the event, said during the dis­cussion that minority students should continue to engage with majority students in order to make a lasting impact. 
“I think we can get caught up, and we can get very frustrated in light of everything that hap­pens on a day-to-day basis, as waking up with the burden of being a minority in America, and exclusively, waking up with the burden of being black in America can be overwhelm­ing. during times like this, we don’t want to become hostile,” Thomas said. “It’s our respon­sibility, as well, to make it such that [all students] feel welcome … to continue to try and reach out to our white peers and to majority peers. … It’s really the majority that can help us get our grievances heard.” 
The event concluded with the students writing their thoughts on white boards. The students then had the oppor­tunity to take individual pic­tures with their messages. 
Contact Emma Borne at eborne@nd.edu 



SMC Process 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
he or she wants to make one.” 
Enacted in 1972, Title IX deals with issues relating to gender, and specifically prohibits discrimination based on gender for insti­tutions that receive federal funding,Adams said. 
Saint Mary’s students who want to go through with the investigative process have two options for reporting their assault: They can either report to a non-confidential College resource or to law enforcement, Adams said. 
identifying if we know who may have been impacted, victimized — who is the sur­vivor,” she said. “When talk­ing about Title IX, we use the terminology complainant 
— the person who filed the report.” 
Complainants get first priority to make sure their needs are met, she said. 
“There has to be those cer­tain types of support and resources that are available while making sure that the individual is okay,” Adams said. “And making sure they have whatever they have to be able to continue in their academic environment and 

“The report comes in to the Title IX Coordinator and the first piece is identifying if this is a Title IX issue ... and identifying if we know may have been impacted, victimized — who is the survivor. When we talk about Title IX , we use the terminology complainant — the person who filed the report.” 
Connie Adams director Belles Against Violence Office 
“Everyone else that is em­ployed by Saint Mary’s is a non-confidential person or a responsible person, which means that if they’re an RA, in building services, a pro­fessor, if they work in the library, whatever they may be, they are a responsible person,” she said. “So, if they receive knowledge that sexual violence may have happened, then they are re­quired by federal law to be reporting that information to the Title IX Coordinator. That means the institution knows and the institution has to take action.” 
Adams said if the survi­vor or third-party reporter decides to make a Title IX report or discloses informa­tion to a non-confidential person, the report goes to Title IX Coordinator Rich Nugent. 
The Title IX Coordinator has been designated by the institution to oversee all Title IX cases. Reports to non-confidential persons must be made to the coordi­nator, she said. 
“The report comes in to the Title IX Coordinator and the first piece is identifying if this is a Title IX issue … and to be able to excel.” 
If the name of the perpe­trator is provided, and asso­ciated with the college, Saint Mary’s has an obligation to investigate it, Adams said. However, if the perpetrator is not a Saint Mary’s student, the Title IX investigation does not move forward at the College, but rather at that student’s institution. 
“Really, the investigation piece is institutions can only conduct investigations if individuals are enrolled in the institution or employed in the institution,” she said. “Title IX doesn’t necessarily have to do with where some­thing happened but who’s involved in the situation.” 
After a students files a re­port with the Title IX coor­dinator, she initially meets with a deputy Title IX Coordinator for an intake meeting, in which the stu­dent receives options and information, and the deputy Title IX coordinator offers support and determines if the complainant wants to move forward. 
Saint Mary’s has three deputy Title IX coordina­tors who oversee an area of the policy based on who is involved. Assistant vice president for Student Affairs Janielle Tchakerian han­dles cases involving stu­dents. director of Human Resources Kris urschel han­dles cases involving staff or administration, and dean of Faculty Vickie Hess han­dles cases involving faculty members. 
“depending on the infor­mation gathered, the inves­tigation may move forward to investigation and adjudi­cation. If the complainant wants the investigation to move forward or if the com­plainant does not, but the Title IX Coordinator iden­tifies a safety concern for the wider campus commu­nity, the process continues,” Adams said. 
“Then we utilize — which is new this year — outside external investigators,” she said. “Local attorneys that have different kinds of spe­cialties around sexual as­sault, higher education and what not that conduct more of the actual investiga­tion component. What that looks like is sitting down and having meetings, gath­ering information, listening to stories, asking questions. They’re fact finding in an impartial manner.” 
Adams said in cases re­garding student respon­dents, the Community Standards process begins next, which involves the Critical Issues board. 
“What they’re looking at is based on the evidence, is it more likely than not, a preponderance of evidence standard, that the policy has been violated. They’re not looking at the law, they are looking at the policy. And ultimately if someone is found responsible for vio­lating a policy, then there is some type of consequence. ultimately, the greatest consequence is dismissing someone from the institu­tion or firing someone,” Adams said. 
The process of pursuing a criminal investigation takes shape differently, in addition to having a longer time frame, Adams said. A Title IX process from start to finish is 60 days, unless extenuating circumstances change the timeline. The law enforcement process takes a minimum of one year because the prosecutor has to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the law has been violated, instead proving a policy violation has occured. 
“Title IX process start to finish — from the time that an institution knows, or rea­sonably should know, to the time that someone is found responsible or not responsi­ble for a policy violation — is 60 days,” Adams said. “That doesn’t include the appeals process. The law enforce­ment process, you are lucky if it takes a year in terms of how that actually ends up playing out because it is a very different system and the years ago, the St. Joseph County prosecutor’s office formed a special division to address issues of domestic violence, sexual violence, dating violence and stalking. Law enforcement reports made to St. Joseph County about sexual violence will be referred to the Special Victims unit (SVu). 
“That team consists of in­vestigators that are sworn law enforcement agents that are detectives and attorneys who work for the prosecu­tors office and other support staff,” Adams said. “There are officers, investigators, detectives that work for St. 

“[Local police departments] do the vast majority of investigations when it comes to law enforcement ... Students need to know they have options when reporting sexual violence. Even more importantly, they need to know there are support systems and persons in place to help, whether they make a report or not.” 
Connie Adams director Belles Against Violence Office 
components are different.” 
The law enforcement pro­cess looks at what state the crime was committed in, and what the laws in that state are, Adams said, while Title IX has to do with who is involved. 
“In this community there are a lot of different law en­forcement agencies, … so if something happens on cam­pus and the survivor wants to make a report, we are going to contact St. Joseph County as Saint Mary’s in it’s jurisdiction,” Adams said. “There’s Roseland, South bend, Mishawaka, Notre dame Security (NdSP) 
— those are the law enforce­
ment bodies.” Adams said a number of Joseph County, South bend and Mishawaka and they are assigned to this division so they are members of their different departments but they come together and work as a team as part of SVu. They do the vast majority of investigations when it comes to law enforcement side of things. 
“Students need to know they have options when it comes to reporting sexual violence,” she said. “Even more importantly, they need to know there are support systems and persons in place to help, whether they make a report or not.” 
Contact Alex Winegar at awine01@saintmarys.edu 

PAId AdVERTISEMENT PAId AdVERTISEMENT 




INSIDE COLUMN 

Enjoy registration 

Zachary Llorens 
Photo Editor 

It matters not how strait the gate 
How charged with punishments the scroll 
I am the master of my fate 
I am the captain of my soul. 
Well kind of, but not really. 

Registration time is here on campus for all students, and yet again, I feel the nervous energy of deciding my aca­demic future for the spring. during the five semesters I’ve spent on campus, registration has always been a rather involved process for me. 
I used to sit down, plan out the courses I needed and subsequently fit them into a timed spreadsheet. Again and again, I would contemplate the advantages of the shorter Monday / Wednesday / Friday classes with the biweekly Tuesday / Thursday options. I attempted to micromanage everything from start and end times to distances between classes in the terrible snow and debartolo Wind Tunnel. My good or bad dART time would hang over my head. 
Frankly, I worried far too much. Registration neither decided my future nor carried nearly as much weight as I had originally thought. Although it was important, it wasn’t the be-all and end-all I made it out to be. 
Instead, this semester, I’ve enjoyed preparation for registration a little bit more than before. I had a bit of a para­digm shift and decided to look closer at the teachers and the course material than to just jump into my ideal “sched­ule.” I am hoping I will be able to sign up for one of my favorite professors that I had freshman year along with taking classes with some new profes­sors whose courses I have heard good things about through my classmates and friends. 
As with many experiences, I look back on my previous registrations with a bit of regret. It would have been far easier to go with the flow and worry less about my “schedule” as much as the professors and trusting suggestions from colleagues. However, including this semester, I have three opportuni­ties to make the most of my time left here on campus. 
For the first time I’m happy and not too worried about the courses I get to take, and I hope an improved attitude for myself will lead to a better experi­ence overall. 
Beyond this place of wrath and tears 
Looms the Horror of the shade 
And yet the menace of the years 
Finds and shall find me unafraid. 
Contact Zachary Llorens at zllorens@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The erosion of free speech on campus 
Kate Hardiman 
Annuit Coeptis 

Free speech is under assault at our nation’s universi­ties. Rather than entertaining opposing ideas in order to debate them, students attack “offensive” statements and the people who make them. Last week, for ex­ample, students at yale protested and disrupted a pro-free speech event hosted by the William F. buckley, Jr. Program. 
According to an article penned by the conference’s organizer, yale junior Zach young, the unrest began when a student rushed to the front of the lecture hall in the middle of a panel. Other protestors lined up outside of the lecture hall, demanding that speakers of their choice be added to the conference. 
The stated reason for the protest was an off-color comment which one of the panelists, greg Lukianoff, made about the backlash yale Professor Erika Cristakis faced after responding to an email sent to the student body by yale’s Intercultural Affairs Committee. The email discouraged costumes such as feathered head­dresses, turbans, war paint or makeup that modifies skin tone, as they are forms of “cultural appropriation,” “cultural unawareness” and “insensitive choices.” 
Cristakis wrote a follow-up email to the yale com­munity, stating that she lauds the proposed guidelines on Halloween costumes as they stem “from a spirit of avoiding hurt and offense.” yet, she continued, quoting her husband, “Nicholas says, if you don’t like a cos­tume someone is wearing, look away, or tell them you are offended. Talk to each other. Free speech and the ability to tolerate offense are the hallmarks of a free and open society.” Nicholas Cristakis is a Master at one of yale’s residential colleges and gave the opening re­marks at the buckley conference. 
Following his wife’s email, Cristakis was encircled by students who screamed at him and told that he “should step down” because of the advice he had provided about Halloween costumes. Students continued to protest Cristakis during his remarks at the conference, to an extent that led Lukianoff to quip that judging by the students’ vehement responses to Cristakis’s email, “you would have thought she burned down an Indian village.” 
In response to this off-hand remark, protestors spit on conference attendees as they exited, calling them “traitors and racists.” young himself was labeled a “white colonizer” as the crowd outside grew rowdier, though he had nothing to do with Lukianoff’s com­ment nor Cristakis’s email. 
In his op-ed following the event, young wrote, “What does it say when holding an event on free speech re­quires the presence of several yale police officers? ... I did not agree with everything our speakers said. ... Free speech is not just about persuading others; it’s about understanding and articulating ourselves.” 
Clearly, there is a disconnect here between the guarantees of the First Amendment and students’ reac­tions to ideas that they find offensive. 
Once bastions of free expression and open debate, modern American universities now prohibit speech in a variety of ways to protect students from ideas that some have deemed “offensive,” “harmful” or “upsetting.” 
A majority of universities across the nation continue to infringe upon their students’ First Amendment right to free speech, according to a 2015 survey of campus policies published by the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education. 
According to the foundation’s report, “Spotlight on Speech Codes 2015: The State of Free Speech on Our Nation’s Campuses,” nearly 55 percent of the 437 uni­versities analyzed have “policies that clearly and sub­stantially prohibit protected speech.” 
Lukianoff, FIRE’s president, wrote a cover story for “The Atlantic” which warns the tide has turned so far that now some students want protection from other students’ and professors’ “scary ideas.” 
“A movement is arising, undirected and driven largely by students, to scrub campuses clean of words, ideas and subjects that might cause discomfort or give offense,” he wrote. “This new climate is slowly being institutionalized, and is affecting what can be said in the classroom, even as a basis for discussion.” 
This sanitization of our campuses from unfriendly ideas is inimical to student growth and impedes the education process. Once students leave sheltered cam­puses, they will confront many ideas with which they will disagree. The goal of a university is to teach stu­dents to respond with reasoned debate, rather than to silence others. 
Megan McArdle, in a “bloomberg” op-ed titled “Sheltered Students go to College, Avoid Education,” articulately noted the detrimental effect of the erosion of free speech on campus. 
“A university education is supposed to accomplish two things: expose you to a wide variety of ideas and help you navigate through them; and turn you into an adult, which is to say, someone who can cope with people, and ideas, they don’t like. If the schools abdi­cate both functions, then the only remaining function of an education is the credential. but how much will the credential be worth when the education behind it no longer prepares you for the real world?” 
We must be prepared to confront the world of un­friendly ideas when we leave our campuses, necessar­ily created in a nation that espouses the value of free speech, not cower from them in fear. 
Kate is a junior majoring in the Program of Liberal Studies and minoring in philosophy, political science and economics. She hails from Pittsburgh and is a proud member of Breen-Phillips Hall. Contact her at khardima@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
A response to Bishop Kevin Rhoades 
bishop Kevin Rhoades’s recent long letter to The Observer excoriating Planned Parenthood (Nov. 12) exemplifies the tunnel vision and lack of propor­tionality that often characterize anti-abortion edi­torializing. When bishop Rhoades compares student support of Planned Parenthood to (hypothetical) support of the Ku Klux Klan, he ignores a fundamen­tal difference. A central part of the activity of one organization aims to help a large group of our fellow citizens realize their legal rights, while the other aims to intimidate a large group of our fellow citi­zens from realizing theirs. 
John Sitter 

Mary Lee duda Professor of Literature Nov. 13 

A Catholic university is a refuge of hospitality 
Peter Jeffery 
guest Columnist 

Fr. Hesburgh used to point out that many American colleges were founded by religious de­nominations but have lost their religious affilia­tion over time. Notre dame strives to maintain its Catholic identity, convinced that a Catholic uni­versity can also be a great university. Many of our students come here looking for a strong Catholic education, including some who feel their pre­college Catholic formation was not all it should have been. 
Many professors identify teaching at Notre dame as part of their apostolate as Catholics. Some non-Catholic students appreciate the fact that, because our university takes religious faith seriously, it also takes religious freedom seriously. However, as we grow bigger and better, taking on a larger role as an international research univer­sity, inevitably new questions will emerge about our Catholic character. 
More and more students will come here because of the excellence of our academic programs, rather than because we are Catholic. As we work to hire the best faculty we can get, often the most highly qualified applicants will not be Catholic or Christian. What will happen to our Catholic university? 
This concern should remind us of the Catholic virtue of hospitality. As Pope benedict XVI said shortly after his election, “The virtue of hos­pitality ... has almost disappeared and should be renewed.” His namesake, who wrote the benedictine Rule in the sixth century, summed up the virtue this way: “All guests who arrive should be received as Christ, for he himself will say, ‘I was a stranger and you took me in.’ Proper respect should be shown to all.” In St. benedict’s time, a monastery would often be located in the wilder­ness— the only place for miles around where a traveler could find rest, food and medical care, the only refuge from the bad weather, wild beasts, outlaws and other dangers that roamed the land­scape outside. 
According to Pope St. Leo the great, practicing hospitality teaches us to be more like god, who loves everybody. “Humanity was made in god’s image. … god, by loving us, restores us to his im­age … inflaming us with the fire of his love, so that we may love not only himself, but also what­ever he loves … absolutely all people. … For one maker fashioned us. … We all enjoy the same sky and air, the same days and nights, and, though some are good, others bad, some righteous, others unrighteous, yet god is bountiful to all, kind to all.” 
The bible tells us that, when we welcome guests, we benefit from the gifts they carry. “be hospita­ble to one another without complaining. As each one has received a gift, use it to serve one another (1 Peter 4:9).” “do not neglect hospitality, for through it some have entertained angels without knowing it (Hebrews 13:2).” 
Today, a great research university is a much more complicated place than a medieval monas­tery. but a great university can be a Catholic uni­versity when, in the words of Pope John Paul II, it “pursues its objectives through its formation of an authentic human community ... animated by a spirit of freedom and charity; it is characterized by mutual respect, sincere dialogue and protec­tion of the rights of individuals. It assists each of its members to achieve wholeness as human per­sons; in turn, everyone in the community helps in promoting unity.” A great Catholic university must be many things, but among them it must be a place of hospitality — a refuge from the igno­rance, irrationality, madness and violence that roam the wilderness outside. 
Peter Jeffery is the Grace Professor of Medieval Studies, Associate Director of Sacred Music and a Benedictine Oblate. Contact him at pjeffery@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

The Notre Dame family 
We recently attended the memorial mass for our son, Jake, in the basilica Notre dame family. Mere words cannot describe our appreciation for the of the Sacred Heart. Notre dame has always been a very special place for prayers, love and support. We love Jake and know a lot of you do too. We us. After learning of our son’s passing, we were concerned that return-are humbled to know he touched so many lives in his short 20 years on this ing there now and in the future would bring us sadness. That concern earth. Now we all take that experience and continue our journey to heav­was alleviated for us during our recent visit. The Notre dame family has en. May god bless and keep us all the days of our lives. gone above and beyond to help us get through this. From the arrange-Love thee Notre dame. ment of our trip, the mass and the assembly at the grotto with the men Jerry and Janet Scanlan, ‘82 of Siegfried, we felt not only the presence of god, but also that of the Nov. 13 
Prayer, faith and love 
As a member of the Notre dame Folk Choir, I had the privilege of singing at Thursday night’s memorial mass for Jake Scanlan. I have sung from the choir loft in the basilica for countless masses over the past four years, yet I have never before experienced such a witness to god’s grace. 
I was texting my mom early in the day and somewhat exasperatedly expressed that I don’t understand how anyone deals with “this” — I couldn’t even find a word to properly articulate the loss that Jake’s friends, family and the Notre dame com­munity are feeling. being the devout Catholic and ever-wise woman she is, my mom responded simply: “The Holy Spirit.” Several minutes later she added, “Prayer and faith are all that hold us together.” These words were not particularly comforting when I first received them, but they began to ring true during the liturgy. 
From the loft, we see the top/back of everyone’s head. The faces behind the altar are often too far away to distinguish. The view is odd and creates a strange illusion of the congregation standing, sitting, kneeling and praying as one body. This unity in prayer became particularly poignant during the Our Father. As the final doxol­ogy began (“For the kingdom, the power and the glory are yours … ”), hundreds of clasped hands rose into the air, perfectly in unison unlike I have ever seen before. The beauty of the moment took my breath away. Literally. I had to stop singing. 
Immediately following this powerful display of solidarity came possibly the most disorderly part of any mass — the sign of peace. From up above, we watched embrace after embrace. Some students left their pews to offer the sign of peace to people across the basilica. While there was a lot of movement, a sense of reverence still remained. 
Lyrics from “you Are Mine,” a prelude to the mass, echoed in my ears. “I am the peace the world cannot give.” Finding understanding or reason in an unexpected death is almost impossible. but peace — peace we can find in Christ and at the Eucharistic table. The basilica filled with whispers of “Peace be with you,” and I prayed that in time, we may all find peace following this tragedy. 
I could share many many more instances of beauty and grace during the memo­rial mass — from Fr. Pete’s homily to the Scanlan family’s word of thanks – but I will end with just one. The singing of Notre dame, Our Mother. Again, the loft gave us an unusual view, but one with which we are all familiar. We gazed upon a sea of Notre dame faithful gently swaying and proudly praising Our Lady and Her university. 
This week I have been especially proud to attend Notre dame and to be a member of the Notre dame family. My mom said “prayer and faith are all that hold us to­gether.” I want to amend her statement. Prayer, faith, and the love of the Notre dame family are what hold us together and will continue to hold us together. 
To Jake’s family and friends, my continued prayers go with you. 
“Coming to the house of Lord Jesus, we will find an open door there, we will find an open door.” – “We Shall Rise Again” by Jeremy young 
Megan Schilling 
senior Nov. 13 


THE ObSERVER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2015 | NdSMCObSERVER.COM 


Miko Malabute 
Scene Editor 

back in 2013, former Observer Editor­in-Chief Andrew gastelum introduced a recurring column that he referred to as “The Kickback.” He described kick­back as “a Cali term, translating as both a verb and a noun, that means to get amongst your favorite dudes [and dudettes], bump your favorite music and just plain chill to the max.” In his column, he highlighted music, new and old, to bring to people’s attention and to freshen up their music rotation every now and again. 
Well, two years later, we’re bringing it back. This week, Scene is launch­ing “The Kickback Redux,” where each day we will highlight a certain album from a given decade to which you can kickback. 
By NICK LAUREANO 
Scene Writer 

Fourteen years and one re-branding later, Jeff Lynne’s ELO has released a follow-up to 2001’s “Zoom.” despite the band’s hiatus, “Alone in the universe” is instantly recognizable to fans: The opener, “When I Was a boy,” features the band’s signature blend of strings and keys, and Lynne isn’t shy about showing us he can still hit the highest of notes. The album’s cover is emblazoned with the now retro jukebox-styled fly­ing saucer. The subject matter — failed relationships, longing, nostalgia — is all ELO, too. On “Alone in the universe,” Jeff Lynne embarks on a melancholy, though at times uneven, odyssey through the familiar nights of his life. 
The album is one of doublets. back-to-back tracks “Ain’t It a drag” and “All My Life” showcase that music is of­ten about feeling rather than content, with the familiar ELO sound enough to carry weak lyrics like “All my life I searched for you / but you were never there, were you?” and “I took the last pane out just to see the pretty view.” Another pair, “I’m Leaving you” and 
We start with the ’70s, when — along with the likes of the bee gees, the Jackson 5 and Stevie Wonder — Elton John reigned supreme over the musi­cal landscape, particularly with his album “goodbye yellow brick Road.” Obviously, none of our classmates were alive yet when this album was released, but “goodbye yellow brick Road” is one of those timeless albums that seems to transcend all generational gaps. Ask anyone if they can hum the tune to “bennie and the Jets,” and nine times out of 10 they’ll even start jam­ming along on their air piano. Even if they aren’t too familiar with Sir Elton John’s work on the album, one would be hard-pressed to resist busting a groovy move to “Saturday Night’s Alright for Fighting” at their next house party or holding their lighters up in the air and waving them solemnly to the powerful chords of the title track. 
“One Step at a Time,” depict opposite perspectives on troubled relationships. The former portrays the vindictive re­action to a breakup, as Lynne croons, “but just before you go, there’s some­thing you should know / I’ve found somebody new, and I’m leaving you.” The latter matches this pathetic real­ism, as Lynne — the victim this time 
— pleads, “Talk to me, don’t give me the silent treatment.” One imagines these distraught conversations not as Lynne’s firsthand experiences, separated by time’s linear nature, but as a snapshot of some terrarium of humanity, popu­lated by strangers and marked by the simultaneity characteristic of Robert Altman’s film “Short Cuts.” 
“Alone in the universe” works best when it feeds on the listener’s nostalgia for the Electric Light Orchestra, which has existed in some form or another since 1970. “When I Was a boy” — in its unabashed depiction of simpler times filled with wonder and the directness with which it aims for the listener’s heart, not mind — is a microcosm of the album’s strengths and also one of its best tracks. When Lynne meditates on the loss of innocence, lamenting, 
With the current state and style of today’s popular music, it may be dif­ficult to remember what used to con­stitute a “jam;” Elton John’s legendary album could serve as an invaluable history lesson for music lovers of all genres about how to achieve more with so much less. There was no need for all of the electropop sounds and technology that seemingly dominate today’s billboard chart-toppers — all Elton John needed to get his audience moving and grooving was a piano, a guitar and, of course, his distin­guished voice. 
That’s not to say I’m one of those music purists who can’t get down to some Skrillex or get hyped to some Flo Rida. but albums like “goodbye yellow brick Road” are a pleasant, welcome return to simpler times. Furthermore, listening to “bennie and the Jets” and a song like “Hello” by Adele makes for 
“When I was a boy, I had a dream all about the things I’d like to be / Soon as I was in my bed, music played inside my head,” cerebral listeners may scoff. Let them, they’re missing the point. 
Just because the songwriting evokes wistfulness akin to Steven Spielberg’s early work doesn’t mean it is entirely be­yond reproach. Notably, the Seinfeldian preemptive breakup depicted in “I’m Leaving you,” for all its spite and loath­ing, poisons the idyllic symbolism pos­ited by “When I Was a boy” and the title track. Perhaps the album’s structure is a metaphorical journey, one in which Lynne departs from the halcyon days of “When I Was a boy” for the isolation and decadence of “dirty to the bone” and “I’m Leaving you,” only to return to the gentle nostalgia of “Alone in the universe.” 
I keep returning to “When I Was a boy” because its imagery seems to dis­till the album’s central theme: com­munication. “And radio waves kept me company / In those beautiful days when there was no money,” sings Lynne, as we remember that before dissemination of music, radio was used for point-to­point communication. “Ain’t it a drag,” an intriguing juxtaposition of billboard chart-toppers, with the latter seeming­ly coming full circle in music’s growth and evolution. It seems that after all these years and the introduction of all these new sounds and sub-genres of music, the simple sounds of a guitar, a piano and a powerful voice will al­ways have a place in listeners’ ears and hearts. 
gastelum was also very adamant about readers “kicking back” their own musical tastes to us at Scene, so we in­vite you all to do the same: If you have any music suggestions, tweet us at @ObserverScene and we might high­light your album suggestions. 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
“One Step at a Time” and “I’m Leaving you” portray the failed communication that can cripple relationships, a bleak reminder that the presence of others is often no safeguard against loneliness. As for those radio waves: Scientists have been combing through the sky for decades, in search of any radio signal indicative of extraterrestrial life. They estimate as many as 60 billion habit­able planets exist in our galaxy alone. Perhaps we’re not physically alone in the universe. Maybe we’re just failing to connect. 
Contact Nick Laureano at nlaurean@nd.edu 
“Alone in the Universe” 
Jeff Lynne’s ELO 
Label: Columbia 
Tracks: “When I Was a Boy,” “Dirty to the Bone,” “Alone in the Universe” If you like: Supertramp, The Eagles 


SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 


NOTRE DAME 28, WAKE FOREST 7 | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2015 | NDSMcObSERvER.cOM 
Cruise control 
Adams sets school record with 98-yard touchdown run as Irish move to 9-1 

Saturday a perfect cap to seniors’ home careers 

Alex Carson 
Associate Sports Editor 
Well, that was a little strange. 
Wake Forest out-gained No. 4 Notre Dame, 340 yards to 282, entered the red zone four times and racked up 23 first downs over the course of Saturday’s game. 
Yet it never felt like the Demon Deacons had much of a chance en route to a 28-7 loss. 
Notre Dame went ahead 14 by the end of the first quarter and never saw its lead cut below that mark the rest of the way. When the Demon Deacons threat­ened, the Irish defense held in the spirit of the “bend, don’t break” mantra the 2012 squad had, always keeping Wake Forest out of the game. 
There are a fair number of grievances Irish fans could have after this game — that Notre Dame blew a chance to notch a blowout win over a far-inferior opponent, that sophomore quarterback DeShone Kizer 
see cARSON PAGE 3 
By DAISY COSTELLO 
Sports Writer 

In a game that was decided in the trenches, a veteran Irish defense set the tone while the young offense capitalized on its few scoring chances as No. 4 Notre Dame downed Wake Forest, 28-7, on Senior Day. 
Irish head coach brian Kelly praised the senior class, which has won 21 home games over the last four years, tying for the most by one class in Notre Dame’s history. 
“[I’m] very proud of what they have accomplished in their four years here, and certainly as a team very pleased with the win,” Kelly said. “I thought Wake Forest played very well today, and we’re pleased with the outcome.” 
Notre Dame’s defense proved to have the upper hand throughout the entire 60 min­utes of play, giving up just one touchdown on four red-zone trips for the Demon Deacons (3-7, 1-5 Acc). Senior defen­sive lineman Romeo Okwara, who ranks second on the team in tackles for loss and tied for eighth in the nation in sacks, tallied three sacks against Wake Forest en route to the Irish victory and earned him­self the game ball from Kelly. Okwara’s second sack came after he hurdled the blocking running back to take down Wake Forest sophomore quar­terback John Wolford. 

“I wouldn’t say anything has changed, I still prepared the same way I have each and ev­ery week,” Okwara said, before joking he couldn’t wait to see a replay of the play. 
“[Okwara]’s always been in the right position, but he’s tak­en the next step this season in being there and making those plays,” junior linebacker and captain Jaylon Smith said. “I think working with Sheldon [Day], he’s had an opportunity to be himself, and he’s let it loose and the results have been great.” 
see cONTROL PAGE 2 

PLAYER OF THE GAME 
ROMEO OKWARA 

IRISH SENIOR DEFENSIVE LINEMAN 
There’s a reason Okwara received the game ball after Saturday’s win — his three sacks, includ­ing one where he hurdled an offensive lineman, made him the most impactful player on the Irish defense on a strong day for the unit. 
QUOTE OF THE GAME 
“I kind of just, like, blacked out. It was the coolest moment of my life.” 
Sophomore defensive lineman Andrew Trumbetti on his interception return for a touchdown. 
Defense holds Wake Forest to one score in red zone 
By BEN PADANILAM 
Sports Writer 
On a day where sustained of­fense was hard to come by for the No. 4 Irish, it was the defense that delivered a strong perfor­mance, holding Wake Forest to single digits in Notre Dame’s 28-7 victory Senior Day. 
The Irish (9-1) were unable to hit the 300 total-yard plateau on offense for the first time all sea­son, and the Demon Deacons (3­7, 1-5 Acc) out-gained them to the tune of 340-282 yards. 
The defense, however, bent but never broke to lead the Irish to victory. It amassed eight tack­les for loss, seven quarterback hurries and three fourth-down stops to make the big plays need­ed to stunt the Demon Deacons offense despite being on the field for 35 minutes and 48 seconds. 
Notre Dame set the defensive tone for the game on the Demon Deacons’ first offensive drive. Despite a long, methodical 11­play, 61-yard drive, the defense stopped the Demon Deacons 
see DEFENSE PAGE 3 



REPORT CARD 







QUARTERBACKS 

DeShone Kizer did enough to ensure a comfortable win for Notre Dame on Saturday, but it was far from a particularly inspiring performance from the sophomore signal-caller against Wake Forest. Kizer didn’t find his receivers downfield often, completing 13 passes for just 111 yards. 
RUNNING BACKS 

Freshman Josh Adams got all the headlines after running for a stadium-record 98-yard touchdown in his first collegiate start, but aside from that, Adams didn’t manage much on an off day for the Irish offense, gaining just 43 yards on his other 16 carries. 
RECEIVERS 

The Irish only completed 13 passes Saturday as Wake Forest tried to take away the aerial attack, but it doesn’t mean the receivers didn’t have an impact in the Irish win. Six different receivers caught passes, but the crew’s biggest contributions came in the blocking game, where chris brown made two key blocks to help Josh Adams get to the house. 
OFFENSIVE LINE 

The Irish offensive line struggled against Wake Forest’s defensive front, conceding three sacks against just 19 DeShone Kizer pass attempts — and aside from Josh Adams’ 98-yard rush, where Adams did a lot of the work himself, the run game wasn’t very effective. 
DEFENSIVE LINE 

The defensive line had a very, very good day. Romeo Okwara had three sacks, Andrew Trumbetti returned an interception for a touchdown and it kept Wake Forest out of the end zone twice when the Demon Deacons had goal-to-go from the 1-yard line. 
LINEBACKERS 

Joe Schmidt probably had his best half of the season Saturday when he recorded nine tackles in the first half, and Jaylon Smith was a force, notching 14 total tackles and a crucial pass breakup to keep Wake Forest out of the end zone on fourth down. However, the absence of James Onwualu, who left with an McL injury, was apparent. 
DEFENSIVE BACKS 

The secondary is a unit that often only gets noticed when it screws up and that was true Saturday, as cole Luke and Keivarae Russell ceded 52- and 23-yard gains respectively off errors, helping Wake Forest move the ball. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

There’s still a general lack of consistency with this unit, and it was on display with Tyler Newsome on Saturday, who had an average day, punting for a 44-yard average and placing yet another kickoff out of bounds. 
COACHING 

Wake Forest threw some new looks at the Irish offense coming off its bye week, but Notre Dame came out of the gate a little lackidaisical, running just five plays before punting on the opening drive. Despite that, the result never seemed in doubt after the first quarter. 
OVERALL GPA: 2.89 (B-/B) 
It was, all things considered, a pretty pedestrian performance from Notre Dame on Saturday. With better execution, Wake Forest could have made the game interesting, and that probably shouldn’t have been the case given the caliber of teams on the field. However, on a day where four top-10 teams were upset, three of them at home, simply getting a win wasn’t the worst thing in the world for the Irish. 
PLAY OF THE GAME 
JOSH ADAMS’ 98-YARD TOUCHDOWN RUN 
Whenever any play sets a Notre Dame Stadium record, it’s typically pretty noteworthy — and Adams’ run Saturday was no exception. He broke a tackle, then stiff-armed a defender in the first 15 yards, and was off to the races from there in a play that solidified the Irish lead. 

Control 
cONTINuED FROM PAgE 1 

Sophomore defensive line­man Andrew Trumbetti also earned his first career start for the Irish (9-1) against Wake Forest, and he made his pres­ence known early in the game when he picked off Wolford and returned the ball 28 yards for an Irish touchdown in the first quarter, making the score 14-0. 
“I really don’t remember the play,” Trumbetti said. “I kind of blacked out. It was one of the coolest moments of my life.” 
Trumbetti’s pick-six was the first Irish interception return for a touchdown since 2013, when linebacker Dan Fox ran an interception back 14 yards against Arizona State during Notre Dame’s 37-34 victory in Arlington, Texas. 
Sophomore quarterback DeShone Kizer, who was re­sponsible for all six Irish touch­downs one week ago against Pittsburgh, notched two more rushing touchdowns Saturday, bookending the Irish scoring. The first score came on a 12­yard scamper with fewer than four minutes to go in the first quarter, and his second score coming just over four minutes into the fourth quarter. 
“[I] ran the ball pretty well,” Kizer said. “Wake Forest is a re­ally good defense. Their front eight is some of the best that we’ve played this year, and we came out with a victory, so we’re going to take that for what it is an continue to move forward.” 
Junior wide receiver Will Fuller, who hauled in three touchdowns and 152 yards against the Panthers last week, caught just three passes against the Demon Deacons for only 37 yards. Fuller also did not catch a touchdown pass for just the sec­ond time this season. 
Wake Forest head coach Dave clawson said he had planned for his defense to shut down Fuller, which he said he believed the Demon Deacons did well, despite their other defensive mishaps. 
“[Notre Dame] has a lot of re­ally good playmakers and we wanted to limit their posses­sions, and in a lot of ways we did that,” clawson said. “Obviously we wanted a big part of our game plan to be not wanting Will Fuller to beat us, that we were going to roll coverage to him and not let him get over our heads, and I think we did that well.” 
Even though Wake Forest out-gained the Irish offense 340 yards to 282, the Irish ran for 171 yards on the ground, compared to the Demon Deacons’ 121. 
Freshman running back Josh Adams, in his first career start for the Irish, ran for 141 yards and stole the show in the second quarter with a 98-yard touch­down run to put the Irish ahead 21-0 with 9:59 to go in the half. His run broke the Notre Dame record for the longest play from scrimmage, the FbS record for longest run by a freshman and the longest play from scrim­mage this season in the FbS. Adams was quick to credit Notre Dame’s veteran offensive line for his historic run. 
“It was great blocking down the field, initially by the offen­sive line trying to dominate the front and trying to do my job reading the holes correctly,” Adams said. “This offensive line just got the longest run in Notre Dame history, and I know they are proud of that.” 
Despite entering as 27-point favorites, Notre Dame tied Wake Forest in the second half, with both sides scoring a touchdown. Afterwards, graduate student linebacker and captain Joe Schmidt said he was pleased with the win despite the closer­than-expected score. 
“It doesn’t matter when the game is, who you’re playing, winning in college football is really hard, it doesn’t matter who you’re playing,” Schmidt said. “Wake Forest was giving us everything we could handle defensively, they had a lot of re­ally good offensive plans to chal­lenge us. They’re a good football team, and they’ve taken a lot of very good football teams down to the very end, and I thought they fought very hard against us today.” 
Schmidt, who was playing in his final home game for the Irish, reflected on how impor­tant the whole day was for him. 
“I try to take in just how spe­cial some things about this place are,” Schmidt said. “After the game, spending it with my family, spending time out on the field. Even the bus ride over here, it’s just all coming full-circle. It’s really something.” 
Notre Dame will return to action next Saturday when it plays boston college in the an­nual Shamrock Series. Kickoff is scheduled for 7:30 p.m. from Fenway Park in boston. 
Contact Daisy Costello at mcostel@nd.edu 

Adams sets school record 
Observer Staff Report 

Notre Dame’s win marked the 21st victory for the senior class at Notre Dame Stadium, tying the record held by both the 1990 and 1991 Irish senior classes. 
… The 98-yard rushing touch­down by freshman running back Josh Adams in the second quar­ter was the longest play from scrimmage in Notre Dame his­tory, breaking the old mark set by a 96-yard passing touchdown from blair Kiel to Joe Howard against georgia Tech in 1981. 
… Adams’ touchdown was also the second rushing touch­down of 90 yards or more for the Irish this season, as senior run­ning back c.J. Prosise had a 91­yard touchdown against georgia Tech. Prior to this season, the Irish had only two such touch­downs in program history. 
… Wake Forest senior punter Alex Kinal had three punts in the game for the Demon Deacons. His third punt was the 323rd of his career, which put him first all-time in NcAA history and ahead of former california punt­er Nick Harris. 


NDSMcObSERvER.cOM | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2015 | THE ObSERvER 

Defense 
cONTINuED FROM PAgE 1 
on a fourth-and-eight situa­tion on the Irish 33-yard line to bring an end to Wake Forest’s early momentum. 
That drive marked the first of several long offensive pos­sessions for Wake Forest that ended with big defensive stops by Notre Dame. 
Irish head coach brian Kelly said his defense made a few mistakes on third downs that kept the Irish on the field but corrected those errors by mak­ing the plays it needed to make when it mattered. 
“Wake Forest did a very good job of controlling the football,” Kelly said. “We gave up a cou­ple of throws [on third down] where we just have to be tighter in our man coverage situation. 
“but you know, we were pretty stingy on fourth down, so we made up for it in fourth-down situations.” 
The fourth down stops proved to be crucial late, as Wake Forest managed to push into the red zone four times but only had seven points to show for it. The defensive suc­cess in the red zone was due largely in part to the play calls, Kelly said. 
“We did some really good things in mixing some things up in terms of pressures and then not bringing pressures, so I thought [defensive coor­dinator] brian [vangorder] did a very good job of calling the game in that short field,” Kelly 
Carson 
cONTINuED FROM PAgE 1 
only threw for 111 yards, that the defense struggled to get off the field at times — but it’s important to keep it all in per­spective, especially on Senior Day. 
When this year’s fourth-and fifth-years pledged Notre Dame, coming to South bend wasn’t the sexy pick it might be today. graduate students like Matthias Farley and Nick Martin watched the Irish fall to Tulsa in the year prior to their arrival at Notre Dame, while seniors like Sheldon Day, Romeo Okwara and Ronnie Stanley arrived the year after the season-opening loss to South Florida — one remem­bered more for its weather delays than anything that ac­tually happened on the field. 
And go back before that: the 2009 loss to connecticut, the 2008 loss — on Senior Day — to Syracuse and the now-in­famous 2007 loss to Navy that ended the 46-game win streak against the Midshipmen. 
Since brady Quinn’s depar­ture, the Irish have been best known for one thing: embar­rassing losses at Notre Dame Stadium. 
but over the last four years, Notre Dame has done any­thing but that. 
Point to Northwestern’s said. “That’s really important, too. You have to call a good game. You have to be diversi­fied down in the red zone, and I thought we were.” 

Notre Dame’s defensive per­formance was not limited to big stops, however. With the offense only pushing the ball into the red zone twice over the course of the game, the Irish relied on the defense to put points on the board. And the biggest play on the defen­sive side of the football came by way of sophomore defensive lineman Andrew Trumbetti. 
On Wake Forest’s second offensive drive of the day, Trumbetti intercepted Demon Deacons sophomore quarter­back John Wolford and ran the ball back 28 yards for the score to push the Irish ahead 14-0, swinging the momentum fully in favor of the home team. 
“That’s kind of what we’ve been preaching all week,” Irish junior linebacker and captain Jaylon Smith said. “coach has been telling us that we need turnovers, and we need a score as a whole defense, and that’s something we accomplished.” 
For Trumbetti, the play was so exciting he doesn’t remem­ber exactly what happened, he said. 
“When I got to the sideline, I was really worried about catching my breath because I thought I was going to pass out because I was so excited and everyone was like jump­ing on me,” Trumbetti said. “I think I forgot to breathe or something.” 
win over the Irish a year ago if you’d like — it was a bad loss — but that’s the only significant home blemish these seniors have had over their four years. 
but it’s also not what this class is going to be remem­bered for. While the Tulsa loss sticks out in memories of the 2010 team, the Northwestern one doesn’t. It’s a class that will be remembered for its contri­bution in the goal-line stand against Stanford in 2012, and its role in the ugly, yet effec­tive, win over Michigan earlier that year. Or maybe Irish fans will have fond memories of the 2013 home win that kept Michigan State from playing for a national championship, or the 2015 dismantling of georgia Tech’s triple-option at­tack, plunging Paul Johnson’s squad into the deep, dark depths of a season without a bowl game. 
And perhaps most impor­tantly to Irish fans, one that shutout the Wolverines in the final scheduled meeting of that series last year, going 4-0 against Michigan and uSc at home in their careers. 
That’s what matters. 

Saturday’s win wasn’t the greatest thing in the world. The offense definitely could’ve played better — aside from freshman Josh Adams’ 98-yard touchdown run, there weren’t the big plays they’ve become known for — while the defense 
Although Trumbetti’s play might have been the most im­pactful for the unit, it was se­nior defensive lineman Romeo Okwara who had the big­gest game overall. In fact, he earned his first career game ball in his last game at Notre Dame Stadium for his game-high three sacks and relentless pressure on Wolford through­out the evening. 
Over the last five games, Okwara has racked up eight sacks, giving him a team-high nine on the season. Okwara said he attributes his recent success to finding what works for him out on the field and sticking to it. 
“In the past, I’ve been try­ing a lot of different things,” Okwara said. “I knew I was good at certain things, but I always tried a lot of different things. [Now], I’ve just been doing the things that keep working. 
“It’s using my power more instead of trying to do speed rushes outside. I guess my power works better for me, so I’ve just been sticking to that.” 
Kelly said Okwara is begin­ning to come into the player he’s always had the potential to be. 
“We’re just seeing that matu­ration process kind of come to­gether,” Kelly said. “[He’s] long, athletic, starting to really un­derstand the game of football, and I think that’s what we’re seeing in front of us.” 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 
surely would’ve ceded more points in other game situations when the Demon Deacons could have settled for field goals. 
but it was a perfect way for this class to go out. 
This year’s 27 seniors and graduate students have left behind a program that’s much different than the one they committed to four or five years ago. 
Instead of concerning them­selves with whether or not the university erred in going after head coach brian Kelly, Irish fans are now scoreboard watching every week, cheering on Navy and Temple, having a reason to root against the big 12. 
Rather than worrying about a slew of talent that never panned out, they’re now wit­nessing guys like Day, Martin and Stanley, who are set to take their talents to the next level. 
And they’re not complain­ing about losses to Tulsa or connecticut. Instead, they’re concerned about not racking up enough “style points” on Senior Day. 
That ain’t a bad place to be. 

Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SCORING SUMMARY 


1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  TOTAL  
14  7  0  7  28  
0  0  7  0  7  






NOTRE DAME 7, WAKE FOREST 0 
DeShone Kizer 12-yard run (Justin Yoon kick) 

3:41 remaining 

Drive: 10 plays, 67 yards 3:46 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 14, WAKE FOREST 0 
Andrew Trumbetti 28-yard interception return (Yoon kick) 

2:46 remaining 

NOTRE DAME 21, WAKE FOREST 0 
Josh Adams 98-yard run (Yoon kick) 

9:59 remaining 

Drive: Two plays, 99 yards, 0:52 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 21, WAKE FOREST 7 
John Wolford 1-yard run (Mike Weaver kick) 

2:40 remaining 

Drive: Six plays, 68 yards, 2:18 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 28, WAKE FOREST 7 
Kizer 5-yard run (Yoon kick) 

10:58 remaining 

Drive: Six plays, 68 yards, 2:18 elapsed 
STATISTICS 


RUSHING YARDS  171  
PASSING YARDS  121 111  
219  

PASSING 
Kizer 
RUSHING 
Adams Kizer 
RECEIVING 
Fuller Brown Hunter Jr. Adams Carlisle Hounshell Robinson 
TACKLES 
Smith Schmidt Redfield Shumate 
SACKS 
Okwara 13-19-111 Wolford 19-30-219 

17-141 Bell 23-90 
13-30 Hinton 4-23 Wolford 15-5 Robinson 2-3 
3-37 Brent 5-82 3-27 Hines 4-57 2-22 Bell 3-22 2-(-3) Wade 3-17 
1-18 Lewiz 2-30 1-6 Serigne 2-11 1-4 
14 Lee 8 
10 Chubb 7 8 Janvion 7 7 Ejiofor 6 
3 Austin 1 Harris 1 Ejiofor 1 
INTERCEPTIONS 
Trumbetti 1-28 
PUNTS 

Newsome 5-220 Kinal 3-150 

THE ObSERvER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2015 | NDSMcObSERvER.cOM 


ALARISSE LAM | The Observer 

Irish sophomore defensive lineman Andrew Trumbetti runs into the end zone as he returns an interception for a 28-yard touchdown during Notre Dame’s 28-7 win over Wake Forest on Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. The interception was Trumbetti’s first in just his second career start, and put Notre Dame up 14-0 late in the first quarter. 
Josh Adams set a Notre Dame record with his 98-yard  
touchdown run in the second quarter, Andrew Trumbetti  returned an interception for a touchdown, Romeo Okwara had 
WAKING UP 
three sacks and the Irish defense allowed just seven points on four Wake Forest red zone trips as this year’s squad finished an  
THE ECHOES 
undefeated home season with a Senior Day victory. 




THE ObSERVER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2015 | NdSMCObSERVER.COM 


Wei Lin 
Assistant Managing Editor 

Lanatics, the fanbase of Lana del Rey, are crazy, hence the name. I saw del Rey during her Endless Summer Tour in New york City, which was one of the last per­formances of the governors ball 2015. With knowledge of where and when she was performing that night, I sat through some obscure artists and waited hours hoping that I could grab a spot closer to the front. 
As big gigantic, the band on before Lana’s set, finished playing, I was imag­ining a mass of people leaving and my friends and I taking their spots. What I didn’t expect was thousands of people continuing to push forward towards the stage. Oh, how naïve I was. The crowd was so packed that I barely needed to exert any effort to stay upright. I think I could’ve picked up both my legs and still have stayed in place. The concert was breathtaking and as del Rey left the stage, people, including yours truly, refused to believe it was over. As I be­grudgingly left the music festival, the experience of being packed like sardines got me thinking: Was this normal? The answer for most concerts: not really. For Lana’s concert: definitely normal. 
The Lanatics have evolved. Lana’s suc­cess with her first album, “born to die,” attracted the attention of many women, some whom were still in their teens. but slowly, del Rey has been amassing a larger army of Lanatics. With every in­terview, every critique thrown her way, every song and every signing event, her Flower Crown Cult grows ever larger. Some critics put del Rey on the back-burner, dubbing her army a small niche following, but the performance of her album sales reveals the truth. Her third album, “ultraviolence,” was the culmi­nation of artistic personality, unapolo­getic lyrics, warranted hype and the diehard fanbase. She’s had some trouble getting a large straight male following since it’s harder for men and teenage boys to relate to her music. However, this hard-to-reach demographic has be­gun growing as they recognize her sing­ing ability and the deepness of her lyrics. 
Not only has del Rey worked hard to attract a diverse fanbase, but she also is embracing the movement of vinyl re­surgence. The vinyl resurgence is con­sidered to have started in 2011 and is largely propelled by skyrocketing vinyl sales within the u.S. In 2014, vinyl sales outperformed ad-supported streaming services like Vevo and youtube, as well the free version of Spotify, according to Recording Industry Association of America reports. “born to die” placed third on 2014’s list of best selling vinyl al­bums, according to Nielsen and Forbes. 
del Rey has worked actively to promote not only her music but also the physi­cal vinyl copies of her albums. She held promotional events at urban Outfitters, the second largest retailer of vinyl after Amazon.com, all over the u.S, and at the one in Herald Square of New york City, she invited the first 125 shoppers who purchased the “Honeymoon” vinyl to a signing event later in the evening. Her dedication to her fans shone through when she, without hesitation, stayed at urban Outfitters past the store’s closing time to make sure she had a moment with each and every one of her fans. The Lanatics deserved it, though; many of them camped outside the store the night before in anticipation of the event. 
del Rey has had her efforts recog­nized. She’s the top-streamed female art­ist on Spotify by u.S. users. She’s the only female artist to win two MTV European Music Awards in the “best Alternative” category. She won gQ’s Woman of the year Award. “ultraviolence” peaked at No. 1 in 12 countries worldwide. And the list goes on. 
Her work is stunning; her music will bring you back to the golden ages of American history. Much of her dis­cography is dark and sultry. Some even describe her music as “sadcore.” Interestingly enough, some of her best songs — including “Serial Killer,” which she performed on her Endless Summer Tour — are unreleased, meaning you can’t just buy it or stream it on Apple Music; you have to work for it. 
del Rey has made a name for herself and has gained a steadfast base of die-hard fans. People have serenaded her as she’s passing by the street, others have cried when they meet her up close. She’s down-to-earth, has a great off-stage presence and has shown a great deal of appreciation for her loyal Lanatics. 
I would easily consider myself among those fans. I’ve purchased all her vinyl albums and a record player just to listen to her music the way she wants us to. I ordered the box set of “ultraviolence” and had it shipped from germany be­cause they don’t press it in the u.S. If I had been in New york City on Sept. 19, I definitely would have been camping out in front of the urban Outfitters store waiting for “my queen.” 
Contact Wei Lin at wlin4@nd.edu 
     The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 


CROSSWORD | WILL SHORTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | ERIC CARLSON & JOHN ROddy 
SUDOKU | THE MEPHAM gROuP 

FLING BY SPRING | RILEy MCCuRRIE HOROSCOPE | EugENIA LAST 

Happy Birthday: do your best to take control and stay on top of what is going on economically, professionally and personally. balancing your time will be difficult, but necessary in order to keep the peace and avoid costly setbacks. don’t feel the need to take care of other people’s responsibilities. Offer suggestions, but apply your time and effort to your own affairs. your numbers are 7, 13, 22, 29, 31, 37, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Separate work from pleasure. you need to relax and spend time with someone you love. don’t let emotional situations get you down. Live in the moment and enjoy the day. Physical activities will ease your stress. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): getting involved in something out of the ordinary will be eye-opening. What you learn through conversations with people with different life experiences than you will be enlightening. With the knowledge you gather, you can improve your life. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you will be tempted to get involved in something that is expensive or can lead to work-related difficulties. Put greater emphasis on improving yourself instead of getting involved in other people’s dilemmas. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): you are heading toward an auspicious opportunity. Embrace something you have never tried before and discuss your thoughts with people from totally different backgrounds. Together you will come up with some interesting ideas and build a long-lasting friendship. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Focus on friends and family and do your best to please. don’t feel you have to overspend to win favors. It’s your time that will make the biggest impact on the people who are most important to you. don’t take a financial risk. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Open up communication with friends or someone you enjoy sharing information with, and you will be enticed by an idea that can lead to a lucrative partnership. An investment will pay off, giving you greater financial freedom. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Personal problems will surface. don’t make assumptions or let jealousy or suspicion take over. If you jump to conclusions or get angry, you will have regrets. get to the root of the problem and fix it before it’s too late. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Organization and preparation will give you the confidence required to step up and make a difference. your insight will help you offer workable solutions that will be praised by those you encounter along the way. A day trip will be informative. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you’ve got the energy and wherewithal to get things done. don’t let your emotions stand between you and your goals. Someone is likely to feed you poor information in an effort to deter you from following through with your plans. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Someone you least expect will encourage you. don’t get angry with those who backed out or let you down. The experiences you have dealing with others will be a revelation that will help you make wiser choices in the future. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Put time and effort into physical accomplishments and fulfilling promises you made to the people you care about most. don’t let what an outsider says upset your world. Live your life according to what works for you and the ones you love. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A partnership will help you make substantial gains. Collaborating with someone unusual will excite you. Move forward and embrace working with someone who is as creative and goal-oriented as you. Let go of the past and you will see the future. 

Birthday Baby: you are determined, astute and productive. you are entrepreneurial and proactive. 
JUMBLE | dAVId HOyT ANd JEFF KNuREK 




The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

To
 receive The Observer in your home, complete the form below. Make checks payable to and mail to: The Observer                                                                                               P.O. box 779 Notre dame, IN 46556


 Enclosed is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name 
Address 
City State Zip 

NdSMCObSERVER.COM | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2015 | THE ObSERVER 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Pay attention to on-field results 

Alex Carson 
Associate Sports Editor 
What’s the point of playing games if nobody’s going to pay attention to the results? 
I’m looking at you, AP poll. you got a lot of things wrong this week. 
go down the list of tie­breakers in most major sports, and the one we de­fault to is an intuitive one: head-to-head. It makes sense 
— if two teams have similar résumés, we should break the tie by prioritizing the team who won the game be­tween the two. 
There shouldn’t be any grey area after a decisive result, right? 
That is, unless you’re an AP voter. 
I don’t have my eyes set on tearing apart No. 3 Alabama being ahead of No. 25 Mississippi, or even No. 8 Florida being ranked above No. 17 LSu, because both those rankings make sense, even if they go in the inverse order of the result. 
but the problems lie throughout the rest of this week’s poll. 
Think back to the open­ing week of the year, on a Thursday night, when Michigan traveled to utah in what was, at the time, an in­nocuous game between two unranked teams. 
The utes won that game 24-17, and today, both teams sit at 8-2, fully worthy of in­clusion in the top 25. 
Michigan, however, is No. 14 this week. utah is No. 18. 
It’s not like Michigan has a sudden slew of good wins to boost its mark ei­ther — Northwestern is the Wolverines’ only top-25 win, while utah has that disman­tling over Oregon, who’s back in the top 25, to add to its win over Michigan. 
There’s no particularly sensible universe where we should be arguing the Wolverines deserve to be ahead of utah in this week’s rankings. 
And that’s not the only example. 
Let’s go back to Northwestern, who sits at No. 20 in this week’s AP poll. The Wildcats, now 8-2, vault­ed into the national picture after a win over Stanford to start the season, who is also 8-2. 
but the Cardinal sit at No. 15, five spots ahead of the team that beat them on the field. 
And sure, some might ar­gue opening-weekend games don’t properly tell the story of the season. There’s a case there, but I don’t like it. Why don’t we just add an exhibi­tion game to the schedule in that case — like most teams essentially do anyway 
— rather than opening the season with a meaningful contest? 
until that change is made, we can’t simply disregard September results because they don’t fall in line with what we think the narrative is at this point. 
Let’s go to a couple more examples, ones from later in the year. Oregon, who comes in 7-3 and 5-2 in the Pac-12, sits at No. 23. 
Washington State, who comes in at 7-3 and 5-2 in the Pac-12, with a win over those same ducks, is a spot behind at No. 24. 
Or Ole Miss, who weighs in this week — somehow — at No. 25. The Rebels have three losses, one of which is to an 8-2 Memphis team. 
Never mind that the Tigers’ losses are to No. 13 Houston and No. 19 Navy: They are unranked this week. 
Wait, what? 
I’d love to get into the mind of any AP voter who placed the Rebels ahead of Memphis this week, despite a decisive victory for the Tigers four weeks earlier at the Liberty bowl. 
Seriously. If you’re not go­ing to base your rankings off what actually happened on the field, why do you have a ballot in your hands in the first place? 
granted, we’re well past the point in college football where the AP poll means anything, but it still shapes the narratives we discuss every week. does Alabama really have good wins? does anyone have good wins? Should the big Ten get a one-loss team in the playoff, and what do we make of the big 12? 
Even if they wipe the slate clean each week, it’s irre­sponsible to think the public perception generated by the AP and coaches polls doesn’t have some level of the ef­fect on the College Football Playoff committee, which ultimately rules everything in the sport. 
It’s not a hard fix. Just pay attention to, you know, the games. Isn’t that what voters are supposed to do? 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL | LIONS 18, PACKERS 16 

Lions surpise Packers despite late mistakes 
Associated Press 

gREEN bAy, Wis. — Matthew Stafford couldn’t bear to watch with his team on the verge of another heart­breaking moment. 
Instead, the detroit Lions held on for a signature win in the unlikeliest of places. 
Stafford threw for two touchdowns, and detroit stopped a 24-game road los­ing streak against the green bay Packers with an 18-16 victory Sunday despite a late blunder by Calvin Johnson. 
“I bet nobody gave us a chance, but that’s the way we like it,” Stafford said. 
Mason Crosby missed a 52-yard field goal as time ex­pired after the Packers recov­ered an onside kick that was mishandled by Johnson with about 31 seconds left. 
detroit (2-7) had stopped green bay on a 2-point con­version attempt after Aaron Rodgers hit Justin Perillo for an 11-yard touchdown pass on the previous drive. backup cornerback Crezdon butler, signed from the practice squad on Friday, stuck a hand in front of davante Adams to break up the conversion try. 
A nervous Stafford said he couldn’t watch that play. He threw for 242 yards for the league-worst Lions, an orga­nization that had been reel­ing following the midseason firings of the team president and general manager. 
“We don’t really care who gives us a chance, because we feel good about ourselves in that locker room and we know what we’re about,” Stafford said. 
The Packers (6-3) lost their third straight game, but this was a new low after their two previous defeats came on the road to Super bowl contend­ers denver and Carolina. 
“We dropped one today that we felt we had a very good opportunity to win,” coach Mike McCarthy said. 
A sluggish game filled with three-and-outs turned into a thriller in the fourth quarter. 
The Lions barely held on for their first road win against green bay since 1991. Matt Prater missed two extra points, but also hit field goals from 49 and 51 yards. 
“To be able to come in here and get a win is pretty spe­cial,” coach Jim Caldwell said. 
Rodgers was 35 of 61 for 333 yards, but wasn’t at his best. Receivers including Randall Cobb and Adams had a few drops. 
green bay finally got into the end zone when Rodgers found tight end Richard Rodgers for a 4-yard touch­down pass with 5:55 left. 
Lance Moore’s 4-yard touchdown reception in­creased detroit’s lead to 18­10, and the Lions held off the Packers following Perillo’s score. 
It has been a precipitous decline for a quick-strike of­fense that was once the envy of the NFL. The Packers’ running game stalled, with James Starks gaining just 42 yards on 15 carries against the league’s 26th-ranked defense. 
“This isn’t easy,” McCarthy said. “And frankly, if we spoiled you in the past, that’s great. We’re looking forward to spoiling you again in the future.” 
Even Crosby’s 44-yard field goal in the first quarter need­ed a little luck after glancing off the left upright but over the crossbar. 
Otherwise, a detroit de­fense without linebacker deAndre Levy and corner­back Rashean Mathis for the year frustrated Aaron Rodgers and the Packers for much of the afternoon. 
“We played physical,” butler said. “We wanted to control (Rodgers) so we brought pressure and we were in their faces.” 
The win could ease the pressure, at least for the time being, on Caldwell. besides the turnover at the top of the organization, the Lions also fired their offensive coordi­nator and two line coaches a few weeks ago. 
The Lions didn’t accom­plish much against the Packers’ rejuvenated defense until the fourth quarter. 
but the Packers were just as bad until the final few min­utes. Protection was spotty. Rodgers made some unchar­acteristically shaky throws. 
“We had some opportuni­ties, I missed some throws and we missed some oppor­tunities to convert and put some more points on the board,” Rodgers said. “We needed 19 points to win to­day. you would expect us at home to score 19.” 

NFL | VIKINgS 30, RAIdERS 14 
Peterson carries Vikings  to win over Raiders 
Associated Press 

OAKLANd, Calif. — A heavy dose of Adrian Peterson, a big special teams play and Minnesota’s usual stout defense moved the Vikings into sole possession of first place in the NFC North. 
Peterson ran for 203 yards and a touchdown in his record-tying sixth career 200-yard game, Cordarrelle Patterson returned a kick 97 yards for a score and the Vikings beat the Oakland Raiders 30-14 on Sunday for their fifth straight win. 
Teddy bridgewater threw a touchdown pass, and the Vikings (7-2) held the Raiders’ potent offense in check. Minnesota moved a game ahead of green bay in the division heading into next week’s showdown at home with the Packers. 
derek Carr threw two touch­down passes for Oakland, but also was intercepted twice. The Raiders (4-5) lost their second straight game to fall further be­hind in the AFC playoff race. 
Minnesota squandered chances to build a two-score lead as blair Walsh missed a 53-yard field goal at the end of the first half to snap a streak of 17 straight makes and then had a 39-yarder blocked by Keith Mcgill early in the fourth to keep the score at 20-14. 
but after the Raiders went three-and-out following the second miss, bridgewater hit Stefon diggs on a 37-yard pass that helped set up a 34-yarder for Walsh that made it 23-14 with 3:50 to play. 
After scoring at least 30 points in three straight games, the Raiders struggled for most of the day against a Vikings de­fense that hasn’t allowed more than 23 in a game all season. 
With nose tackle Linval Joseph dominating the middle against backup center Tony bergstrom, the Raiders strug­gled to get a consistent running game going and Carr was of­ten under pressure and sacked twice. 
Minnesota sealed the win when Terence Newman inter­cepted Carr in the end zone with 2:03 left for his second pick of the game. Peterson scored on an 80-yard run on the next play for the exclamation point. 


THE ObSERVER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2015 | NdSMCObSERVER.COM 

HOCKEY | Nd 2, NORTHEASTERN 2 
Irish tie Huskies to close out series 
Observer Sports Staff 
After holding off a late ral­ly from Northeastern for a 3-2 victory Thursday night, Notre dame was unable to repeat the feat Friday as the Irish and the Huskies tied, 2-2, in the second and final game of their series. 
No. 18 Notre dame (5-2-3, 3-0-1 Hockey East) jumped out in front of the Huskies (1-8-2, 0-4-2) at the nine-minute mark of the first pe­riod on a power play goal from sophomore center Jake Evans. Evans drilled home a shot from a sharp angle after a pass from se­nior center Thomas diPauli through the crease in front of Northeastern freshman goaltender Ryan Ruck. The goal came 1:16 into a five-minute power play and was Evans’ first power-play goal on the season as he contin­ues the transition to center full time. 
The Irish extended their lead early in the second pe­riod to two goals when soph­omore center Connor Hurley slipped a rebound past Ruck 
2:11 into the period. Ruck saved a drive off the stick of junior defenseman Justin Wade at the point but Hurley was there to backhand the rebound just underneath a sprawling Ruck. 
The Irish were unable to hold that lead, however. After trailing by two goals for the majority of the sec­ond period, Northeastern got on the board as sophomore defenseman garret Cockerill sneaked a shot through traffic and past sophomore goalie Cal Petersen at the 
13:33 mark. 
The Huskies then tied the game at two when junior defenseman Matt benning converted on a power-play opportunity just 5:53 into the third period, firing a shot from the point that flew over the shoulder of a screened Petersen. 
The rest of the period saw a flurry of scoring chances at both ends of the ice as both Ruck and Petersen stopped 11 shots. 
diPauli recorded the only shot on net in the overtime frame, but he was unable to put the game-winner past Ruck. 
The tie extends an early point streak for the Irish in conference play. After claim­ing seven out of a possible eight points through its first four conference games, Notre dame sits just one point out of first place in Hockey East. 
Petersen turned in another strong performance for the Irish to begin the season, as he stopped 32 shots while playing all 65 minutes of the contest. 
Friday’s game saw the end of a four-game, eight-day stretch for Notre dame, but the Irish do not get much of a break, as they return to ac­tion this coming Friday. The team will head back out on the road to face conference-leading No. 5 uMass Lowell in a pair of weekend games. The puck drops Friday at 7:15 
p.m.
 and Saturday at 7:05 

p.m.
 at the Tsongas Center in Lowell, Massachusetts. 




MICHAEL YU | The Observer 

Irish senior center Thomas DiPauli corrals the puck during Notre Dame’s 3-2 win over Northeastern on Thursday. 

PAId AdVERTISEMENT NdSMCObSERVER.COM | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2015 | THE ObSERVER 




half similarly energized, 
W Soccer 
with sophomore midfielder 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 20 

Sabrina Flores scoring the final goal of the night soon went after them.” after the period began. The Notre dame’s start-Irish defense consistently ing 11 entered the second stymied the golden grizzles 

to keep the margin wide. 
“Obviously we finished re­ally well and created a lot of offensive opportunities, and defensively we did well 
— put pressure on them, came up with the ball a lot,” Romagnolo said. 
As the second half pro­gressed with a secure Notre dame lead, Romagnolo subbed in many of her bench players who had not seen the field much, if at all, in 2015. 
“It’s awesome not just to rest [the starters] but to see some players that you don’t get to see as much, to give them the opportunity to per­form in this type of environ­ment,” Romagnolo said. “I thought they did great. I’m excited to evaluate those players as well.” 
Overall, Romagnolo said she was pleased with her squad’s performance against Oakland. 
“I think we’ve continued to get better over the course of the year. … We just looked re­ally polished,” she said. “We had that extra week to focus on getting more polished. They’re confident and they’re excited. There are a lot of great things going on right now.” 
The win was the third in a row for Notre dame, who took down then-No. 5 Virginia Tech 3-0 in the last game of the regular season. Prior to Friday, the Irish had not scored more than three goals in a game since the 2015 sea­son opener when they beat Valparaiso, 6-0. 
With the victory, the Irish advance to face Connecticut in the second round next weekend in New brunswick, New Jersey. 


“It’s the first game. Check. Our goal is to play five more,” Romagnolo said. “Now it’s about preparing for that next game.” 
Contact Renee Griffin at  rgriffi6@nd.edu 



THE ObSERVER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2015 | NdSMCObSERVER.COM 

W Bball 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 20 
to pull away from the bison (1-1), leading by just seven points at the end of the first quarter and 15 at halftime. 
“I think we learned a lot,” Mcgraw said. “Offensively, we struggled at times, but defensively, we have a lot — just a lot of breakdowns that we need to fix, so we’ve got a lot of work to do. We are not where we need to be right now.” 
Sophomore forward Kathryn Westbeld, who start­ed for Notre dame in place of injured junior forward Taya Reimer (Achilles), led the Irish on the boards with six rebounds, an area of Notre dame’s game Mcgraw said bucknell exposed Sunday. 
“They out-toughed us and outworked us and out-rebounded us by [11], which is just something we need to work on,” she said. “We have some better rebounders than we showed today, and we’ll hopefully show a tremen­dous improvement after this game.” 
Sophomore forward brianna Turner, who record­ed 10 double-doubles last year, pulled down just four rebounds, but she paced all scorers with 21 points in 24 minutes on the floor. 
Turner started the game 3-for-7 from the floor in the first half but found her stride in the second, hitting six of her seven shot attempts in the final 20 minutes. Midway through the fourth quarter, Turner put together a four-minute streak that included three layups, two free throws, two blocks and a steal before she was substituted out with the Irish up 18 and the win all but final. 
“We were trying to go in­side for most of the game and weren’t as effective in the first half,” Mcgraw said. “I thought we came out in the second half and really looked to go inside. I thought [Turner] did a much better job in the second half.” 
Joining Turner in double-figure scoring were graduate student guard Madison Cable and freshman guard Marina Mabrey, who registered 20 and 16 points, respectively. Cable made seven of her nine shots, including three of her four from behind the arc, while Mabrey connected on six of her 10. 
“Marina gave us a huge lift off the bench,” Mcgraw said. “I think that was just oppor­tunity. I think she saw the opportunity and took advan­tage of it.” 
That opportunity came at the cost of one of Notre dame’s steadiest play­ers, however. Junior guard Lindsay Allen picked up two early fouls and had collected four total by the end of the third quarter, which kept her on the bench for 20 min­utes. The Irish point guard averaged 31.1 minutes on the floor last season, her first as a starter. 
“Having her on the floor for 40 minutes is a must,” Mcgraw said. “She has re­ally got to stay out of foul trouble. That was some poor decisions, I thought, on her part. She could’ve let a cou­ple of those go, right off the bat. I think that was more of a freshman mistake that she’ll probably never make again, so I think she learned a lot from that. 
“We have great depth at ev­ery other position, but that is the one player we need on the floor.” 
The Irish return to the court to take on Toledo at Purcell Pavilion on Wednesday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 

PAId AdVERTISEMENT 



NdSMCObSERVER.COM | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2015 | THE ObSERVER 

when to hunt for his own stuff.” 
Jackson said while he was happy he scored a career high, his primary goal was to run the offense. 
“[The key was] being con­fident, stepping up and tak­ing shots, but also being a point guard, facilitating and keeping the offense going,” Jackson said. “I think for the most part, all my shots were within the offense. … ball screens, taking mid-range shots, curls, all those things we worked on on our offense were good to me tonight.” 
Though the final score was not particularly close, the Irish (1-0) looked out of sync early in the game with junior guard Steve Vasturia and ju­nior forward V.J. beachem missing 3-point shots and Jackson committing a couple turnovers. 
In addition, St. Francis ju­nior guard Malik Harmon’s jump-shooting kept the Red Flashes (0-1) in the game as he went 2-for-3 on three-point field goals in the first 10 minutes of the game. 
However, the Irish finished the half up 38-25 following two three-point plays by se­nior forward Zach Auguste. Jackson said the key to the turnaround was continued defensive effort. 
“Our defense really start­ed to kick in,” Jackson said. “We did a better job of get­ting stops and rebounds, and then our shots continued to be efficient on offense. When we can do that, we can win a lot of games. It’s important to be consistent on both ends of the floor.” 
Coming out of halftime, senior guard ben Millaud-Meunier scored five straight points for St. Francis to bring the game back to within eight points. The Red Flashes’ spurt was short-lived, however, as the Irish responded with an 8-0 run to push the lead back to 16. The Red Flashes didn’t get closer than 13 the rest of the way. 
Auguste finished the night with 15 points and 14 re­bounds to record his first double-double of the year. The senior said the key to sealing the game was the battle on the boards, as Notre dame out-rebounded St. Francis, 53-31, including a 21-8 edge on the offensive glass. 
“[I] just really caught my space,” Auguste said. “I had the ball and got to the spots I needed to be and really just had the mentality to attack 
M Bball 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 20 
“Certainly, it’s a special night in the history of our program to see that banner drop,” Irish head coach Mike brey said. “I told our guys be­fore the game, ‘The golden State Warriors dropped a banner and then just played their backsides off to start the next season.’ I said, ‘Can we be men enough and fo­cused enough to be a little bit like them?’ And I thought we were.” 
The victory was headlined by a career-high 27 points from junior guard demetrius Jackson on 10-of-14 shooting. brey said he was impressed by Jackson’s aggressiveness and command of the offense. 
“As you can see, it is [Jackson’s] team,” brey said. “He is in total control of stuff. He’s calling stuff; I didn’t call a whole lot. He was calling sets, entries, out of bounds stuff. … He’s got that ability to score it, to make plays, and then he’s defending. He’s really explo­sive, he’s really confident. … I thought he did a great job of when to run the team and the offensive and defensive glass.” 



Making their collegiate debuts for the Irish were two freshmen, forward Matt Ryan and guard Rex Pflueger. Playing as a stretch-for­ward, Ryan saw 16 minutes in the game and notched nine points on three 3-point shots. 
beachem said the fresh­men, and Ryan in particu­lar, played well in their first game action. 
“Especially the way [Ryan] can shoot the ball, we like to stretch the floor and he re­ally fits in with us offensive­ly,” beachem said. “It was good to see them out there. It was their first real game in front of a good crowd, too, so I know they were excited about it. And it’s good to see them playing well.” 
Looking ahead, the Irish take on Wisconsin-Milwaukee on Tuesday at 7 
p.m. at Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at  mmazurek@nd.edu 




M Interhall 
momentum,” Zidar said. great plays, but we just “That interception was couldn’t finish at the end.” 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 20 

huge, and the touchdown It was a frustrating finish 
pass right before the half for the Knights, who were up momentum and moved was also big. After that hungry for revenge follow-into Morrissey territory, point, we knew the defense ing their loss to Morrissey but freshman cornerback could hold them the rest of in last year’s final. Still, Jarod Luedecker quashed the game.” Ronan said he has high that with another inter-Four more turnovers and hopes for his team ahead. ception of digenova that six penalties stalled the of-“The future is still bright he returned 68 yards for a fenses of both teams in the for Keenan Hall,” Ronan touchdown and the game’s second half. The Knights said. “We have a strong first score. forced two fumbles, recov-freshman and sophomore 
Luedecker gave credit for ered by sophomore Tony class with two very talent-the play to his team’s de-Rogari and senior captain ed junior captains. We lost fensive preparation. Seamus Ronan, and their in the finals the past two 
“[Our defensive coordi-squad held standout senior years, and it’s been a tight nator] had great schemes running back Hunter White game each time. We have today,” Luedecker said. “I to 41 yards on 15 carries. full expectations we’ll be want to give a lot of thanks “[Morrissey] played their back here next year.” to him. He told us they were offense, and we stopped Morrissey senior coach going to throw those short them, except for one big Erik Rayno said the eupho­routes. When I saw that play,” Ronan said. “but de-ria of back-to-back interh­one, I just cut really hard fensively, they just had us all championships will not on it, and I got in a good po-the whole game. They re-wear off any time soon for sition to make a play. It was ally stopped our offense.” the Manor. The team will a great feeling to get in the The Manor stood strong cherish the moment but end zone.” against Keenan’s formi-also prepare to make a run 
In the second quar-dable air attack. Senior for its third title in the sta­ter, Keenan appeared to cornerback Peter Ciuffo dium next fall, Rayno said. have recovered a bobbled came up with two intercep-“This means so much,” punt in the end zone for a tions for Morrissey in the Rayno said. “We were talk-touchdown, but the offi-fourth quarter, the second ing about it before during cials ruled it a touchback of which sealed game on our prayer service — not a for Morrissey. Sophomore the Knights’ final posses-lot of teams have gone back-
would get the ball to me.” quarterback declan Zidar sion. digenova, the Keenan to-back here. Our names 
W Interhall 
For the ducks, the outcome CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 20 capped off the ensuing quarterback, completed are down forever in doing 
was not what they had expect-drive with a 34-yard pass 6-of-30 passes, finishing that. And we have a young 
ed. Senior captain Peterson to Luedecker for his second with four interceptions and team right now. So while I 
Wimsatt, who accounted for said despite the loss, however, score of the game, this time only 54 yards on the day. won’t be around, we’ve got 
all four Welsh Family touch-her team had a lot to be happy as a receiver. “We couldn’t get into a the pieces in place to hope-
downs, analyzed the team’s of-about. Zidar said the freshman rhythm like we usually do,” fully make a couple more 
fensive performance after the “Tough loss, but we’re really provided the Manor with freshman receiver Lukas runs.” 
game. proud that our team made it a huge spark at the begin-Cepkauskas said. “We got 
“[Howard] put their fast-to the stadium,” Peterson said. ning of the game. some good short passes, Contact Maureen Schweninger 
est player on [senior receiv-“We had a great season, great “Jarod gave us a lot of definitely showed some at mschweni@nd.edu 
er] Catherine [Michels], so I team, great coaches and a great threw a lot to Ariel [Navotas],” crowd today”. Wimsatt said. “We also ran a lot Peterson also shed light on of in-routes this game, which is an injury she sustained in the something we never really did second quarter while covering before.” a punt; an injury that may have 
After Welsh Family chose limited the ducks offensively to defer, Howard started the from that point on. championship game strongly, “Knee popped — hurt a lot,” putting together an impressive Peterson said. “It was the same 65-yard drive capped by a sev-injury from earlier in the year, en-yard touchdown pass from so I knew I could play on it, es-senior quarterback Stephanie pecially with this being my last Peterson to senior wide receiver game as a senior.” Maria Ianni. However, Welsh For co-captain Wimsatt and Family answered quickly with the Whirlwinds, their stretch of Wimsatt spreading the ball dominance might not be over, to her receivers and eventu-as the future still looks extreme-ally finding freshman lineman ly bright. Alana bradley in the end zone “We’re losing Catherine and on a line-release play to tie the bailey at wide receiver and score at seven apiece. Christina [Payne] at linebacker, 
For the rest of the game, the but most of our key players are ducks’ offense was stopped returning,” Wimsatt said. “[The cold by a tenacious Whirlwinds juniors] have made it to the defense while Welsh Family’s championship three years in a offense kept on putting points row with the A and b teams,  so on the board, highlighted by next year we look to make it four Wimsatt’s three-yard touch-in a row.” down pass to Michels and Playing in the championship 17-yard touchdown heave to inside Notre dame Stadium another senior receiver, bailey was an instant memory for ev-Scales, on a fourth-down prayer. ery member of both teams, and That play was made possible by Whirlwind junior co-captain an earlier fourth down conver-Sharon Chiang, hoisting the sion by Welsh Family, courtesy championship trophy after the of an impressive sideline catch game, did her best to put it into by Navotas to keep the key drive words. alive. Navotas broke down the “It’s an amazing experience play afterwards. … getting our win back from 
“Rachel literally told me, ‘get last year,” Chiang said. “It’s sur­to the [20-yard line],’” Navotas real being in the stadium where said. “It was difficult on the op-the football team plays.” posing team’s sideline to make the catch, and I had a moment Contact Joe Everett at  of panic, but I knew Rachel jeveret4@nd.edu 



NdSMCObSERVER.COM | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2015 | THE ObSERVER 


EMMET FARNAN | The Observer  EMMET FARNAN | The Observer  
Irish senior midfielder and captain Connor Klekota attacks a pass  Irish junior defender Brandon Aubrey goes to pass the ball during Notre Dame’s 1-0 loss against Syracuse  
during Notre Dame’s 1-0 loss against Syracuse Sunday.  Sunday at Alumni Stadium. Aubrey was named to the all-tournament team.  

M Soccer 
CONTINuEd FROM PAgE 20 
buescher sent a pass through to junior forward ben Polk, who then slid the ball past junior goalkeeper Chris Hubbard for the game’s only tally. 
“Full congratulations to Syracuse,” Irish head coach Michael Shipp. Hodan’s shot beat the goalkeeper but stroke the left post. 


“It was going to be a game of two halves,” Clark said. “There was a strong wind [east to west inside the sta­dium] and a low sun, so I was very happy going into halftime 0-0. I felt although they had played the game in our half they didn’t have any chances. That was the funny thing, in the second half, the one really good chance their boy took, it went very well.” 
Syracuse had three cor­ner kicks in the first seven minutes of play, leading the Irish 9-3 in that category for the match. Soon after, in the 12th minute, the Orange saw a solid scoring attempt when senior midfielder Juuso Pasanen diverted a Notre dame clearance pass that he sent flying over the net. 
“Any errors were really forced errors, and I think a lot of that came from the pressure,” Clark said. “They pressed us very hard in the first half. … We found it hard to handle the pressure, and between the wind and the sun, it wasn’t easy.” 
The second period opened much more quickly than the first. barely a minute into play, buescher found Polk, who beat Hubbard with a touch off the outside of his left foot for his 10th goal of the season to give the Orange the lead. 
Following the Syracuse goal, the Irish upped their pressure, tallying six shots on goal over the rest of the half. 
Freshman forward Thomas ueland sent a through pass to set senior tri-captain and midfielder Connor Klekota in the 59th min­ute, but Syracuse freshman goalkeeper Hendrik Hilpert made the stop. 
Sophomore forward Jon gallagher raced up the right wing 10 minutes later, but his shot sailed past the left post. Then in the 88th minute, ueland had a touch to gradu­ate student tri-captain and defender Max Lachowecki, but his shot, like gallagher’s, flew wide. 
“I felt we had four very good chances, obviously the one in the first half when [Hodan] hit the post,” Clark said. “We had several good looks in the second half.” 
Now, the Irish await their berth in the NCAA tourna­ment by the tournament’s selection committee. despite the loss, Clark said Syracuse provided a valuable game for the Irish as they move fur­ther into the postseason. 
“It was a good game be­cause it was a different type of team than we’ve played of late,” Clark said. “They were a much more direct team; they’re big and a little bit older. It was a good lesson for us, and I think we can learn a few things from the game, take it into the NCAA tournament.” 
Notre dame now antici­pates its at-large seed in the 2015 NCAA champion­ship when selection show is scheduled to air at 1 p.m. Monday on NCAA.com. 
“For us, it makes us hungry for the NCAA tournament,” Clark said. “It’s very hard to win this and go all the way. Now we have three games to win again to get to the final four, and that’s the way we look at it, so we’ll wait and see what the draw does to us.” 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 
bobby Clark said. “They had to go to North Carolina and pull out a result, they had to go to Clemson to get a result, and then they had to come here and pull out a result. 
“Any  team  that  can  do  
that  are  certainly  worthy  
winners.”  

The fourth-seeded Irish and the Orange recorded a low tally of shots on goal 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 
throughout the 90 min­utes, managing nine and 12, respectively. 
The two teams closed the first period in a 0-0 stale­mate. Notre dame’s best chance to score came in the 27th minute, when senior tri-captain and midfielder Patrick Hodan fired a left-footed shot in the box off a pass from senior defender 


THE ObSERVER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2015 | NdSMCObSERVER.COM 
MEN’S SOCCER | SyRACuSE 1, Nd 0 
Irish fall in ACC title game 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
Sports Writer 
Syracuse beat the Irish in the race for the ACC cham­pionship title on Sunday at Alumni Stadium. 
In a battle of two teams contending for their respec­tive first ACC tournament crown, the No. 13 Orange (12-5-3, 3-4-1 ACC) managed to squeak past the No. 9 Irish (11-4-5, 4-2-2), 1-0, on the road. 
The ACC title marks sev­enth-seeded Syracuse’s first conference title since 1985 and makes it the lowest seed to win the championship in the tournament’s his­tory. The Orange advanced to the final by knocking off No. 5 North Carolina, 4-3, in penalty kicks Nov. 8 and then No. 2 Clemson, 2-0, on Wednesday. 
barely a minute into the second half, Syracuse sopho­more midfielder Julian 
see M SOCCER PAGE 19 


ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | Nd 5, OAKLANd 0 
Notre dame thrashes Oakland 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 
No. 10 Notre dame lived up to the expectations that come along with a three seed Friday night, routing Oakland, 5-0, at Alumni Stadium in the first round of the NCAA tournament. 
The Irish (14-4-1, 6-4-0 ACC) wasted little time in their attack, barraging the golden grizzlies (8-6-7) and freshman goalkeeper Emily Zweng with four shots in the first five minutes before Irish senior forward Anna Maria gilbertson was able to put the first score on the board at the 
6:21 mark. 
Notre dame continued its offensive onslaught through the rest of the first half. Junior forward Kaleigh Olmsted, set up by the left post, sent a sharp header into the back of the net off a pass from senior defender brittany Von Rueden for the second score of the game in the 12th minute. 
Von Rueden picked up an­other assist when senior captain and defender Katie 
Naughton  scored  her  sec­ 
ond goal of the  season  near  
the  27-minute  mark,  and  

gilbertson found the goal for the second time that night to give the team a 4-0 lead seven minutes before halftime. 
All told, the Irish took 34 shots over the course of the game — 17 in each half — while Oakland managed only four. Eight of those shots came from gilbertson, and seven came from junior mid­fielder Sandra yu. 
“Anna had some incred­ible goals and Kaleigh had that great header. I loved that mentality to attack the goal,” Irish head coach Theresa Romagnolo said. “I loved the way we came out and just 
see W SOCCER PAGE 15 

WOMEN’S INTERHALL | WHIRLWINdS 26, duCKS 7 
Whirlwinds dominate ducks 
By JOE EVERETT 
Sports Writer 
On a perfect Sunday after­noon at Notre dame Stadium, Welsh Family defeated Howard 26-7 to win the 2015 women’s in­terhall football championship, earning its redemption after losing to Pangborn last year. 
“We were nervous coming into the game, but we knew what we needed to do, and we did it,” junior receiver Ariel Navotas said. “Today was also [junior quarterback] Rachel [Wimsatt]’s birthday, so we re­ally wanted to get this win for her”. 
The Whirlwinds scored 26 un­answered points, and secured their fifth-consecutive mercy-rule enforced victory, as the game was called in the fourth quarter after Wimsatt scored on a two-yard touchdown run. 
see W INTERHALL PAGE 18 

MEN’S INTERHALL | MANOR 12, KNIgHTS 0 
Manor repeat as champions 
By MAUREEN SCHWENINGER 
Sports Writer 
The men of Morrissey laid claim to their second con­secutive interhall title with a 12-0 win over Keenan at Notre dame Stadium on Sunday. 
A few key plays made the difference for the Manor in a game riddled with turnovers, penalties and emotion on both sides of the ball. 
On Keenan’s open­ing drive, Morrissey ju­nior linebacker Spencer Scannell picked off Knights senior quarterback Aaron digenova, but the Manor went four-and-out on its en­suing possession. 
The Knights then picked 
see M INTERHALL PAGE 18 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | Nd 85, buCKNELL 54 
Mcgraw wins 700th at Nd 
By MARY GREEN 
Assistant Managing Editor 

No. 3 Notre dame opened this season the same way it has done in the past 20 years: with a win. This time, it came against bucknell on Sunday at Purcell Pavilion, 85-54. 
While the victory turned the 20-year streak into a 21­year one, it also marked a bigger milestone: the 700th victory as Notre dame’s head coach for Muffet Mcgraw. 
despite the success she has earned in her 29 years patrolling the Irish side­lines, Mcgraw said it was never a landmark she pic­tured herself reaching as a coach. 
“No, I wasn’t much of a goal-setter,” Mcgraw said. “Really, I think my first and only goal here was to pack the Joyce — that was one thing, wanted to see a big crowd here, and we were able to do that and continue to do that. Every time that I come out to the arena before the game and see the people that are supporting myself, I just want to pinch myself.” 
Though the win did cap the achievement for Mcgraw, she was not satis­fied with her team’s perfor­mance in the opener. 
The Irish (1-0) were out-rebounded 44-33 and scored just 11 second-chance points off their 11 offensive boards. They also struggled 
see W bbALL PAGE 16 

MEN’S BASKETBALL | Nd 87, ST. FRANCIS (PA) 56 
Jackson scores 27 in victory 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
Sports Writer 
The crowd at Purcell Pavilion erupted as the blue and gold banner reading, “ACC Champions 2015,” was unveiled Friday night. 
However, there was no championship hangover for No. 19 Notre dame as it started its season with a 87-56 win against St. Francis (Pennsylvania). 
see M bbALL PAGE 17 






