The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 44 | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Exhibit critiques project 
Saint Mary’s club examines Planned Parenthood services 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL and ALEX WINEGAR 
associate saint mary’s editors 
last Thursday, 1,852 flags were displayed on library green at saint mary’s as a visual representation of the health services offered by planned parenthood. The exhibit was Feminists united’s response to a cam­pus visit from the planned parenthood project on oct. 15, religious studies profes­sor stacy davis said. 
The planned parenthood project is run by students for life of america, a na­tional organization with the goal of abolishing abortion, according to its website. 
“[The planned parenthood project] focused exclusively on abortion, one service that planned parenthood provides,” davis said. “Feminists united want­ed to present information about planned parenthood’s other services, including hiv tests, pregnancy tests and cancer screenings.” 

each flag represented ten services provided by planned parenthood that are not related to abor­tions or contraceptive ser­vices, stephanie szymas, vice president of Feminists united, said. collective 
conscience  sponsored  the  
flags  and  the  display,  she  
said.  

The saint mary’s Feminist united student group sup­ports the education of peo­ple on all sides of an issue 

see eXhibiT PAGE 5 

student files lawsuit against university 


Observer Staff Report 
a student filed a lawsuit against the university on Friday seeking damages for alleged sexual harassment and racial discrimination by an employee of notre dame, according to court docu­ments acquired and posted by wsbT. 
The suit alleges a white university employee — “Jane roe”  — coerced the plaintiff 
— “John doe,” an african­american student at the university — into a sexual relationship with her daugh­ter, who attends a “nearby school” but is also an em­ployee of the university. 
The suit also alleges university administrators knew  about the miscon­duct and, citing Title vi and Title iX, had a respon­sibility to intervene for the student’s wellbeing, which was compromised by a ra­cially and sexually hostile environment. 
according to court docu­ments, “Jane roe” allegedly engaged in the following be­haviors in the spring of 2015: 
“commanding, directing, encouraging, and convinc­ing plaintiff John doe to en­gage in sexual relations with defendant Jane roe’s own daughter; arranging for sex­ual liaisons for plaintiff John doe; interrogating plaintiff John about the nature, fre­quency, and quality of the sexual activities he had with defendant Jane roe’s daugh­ter; harassing and demean­ing plaintiff John doe with racially-charged comments; 
“pressuring plaintiff John doe to remain in the sexual 
see lawsuiT PAGE 5 




SMC promotes savvy media use 

Alumni secure corporate funding on ‘Shark Tank’ 


MARTHA REILLY 
news writer 
on a campus where students tweet almost as much as birds, social media week, celebrated at saint mary’s for the next five days, will encourage students to maintain professional online presences. 
stacie Jeffirs, director of the career crossings office, said she hopes this week teaches students more about the evolving world of 
see media PAGE 4 

By JP GSCHWIND 
news writer 
The opportunity to ap­pear on abc’s “shark Tank” is offered to a select number of entrepreneurs, but even fewer are able to close a deal with a shark and secure funding for their company. 
notre dame alumni mike doyle and drew mitchell were able to do both on an episode of “shark Tank” when they pitched their business, rent like a champion, and landed a deal with mark cuban and chris sacca. 
rent like a champion is a housing rental company that targets fans traveling to college towns for games and other major events. doyle and mitchell initially asked the sharks for an in­vestment of $200,000 for a 10 percent equity stake, and eventually, mark cuban and chris sacca matched their terms. 
“The whole ‘shark Tank’ 
experience  was  surreal,”  
doyle said.  
although  the  episode  

aired on oct. 30, doyle said it was filmed in June. The deal with cuban and sacca was signed in late august after the due diligence process. 
doyle said he became in­volved with the business by managing student apart­ment rentals as an intern during his time as under­graduate at notre dame. 
“we realized there’s a huge market for people who want to rent homes on game weekends,” doyle said. 
doyle said rent like a champion began in south bend, but expanded to other college towns when he real­ized the scalability of the business model. 
“we can do this not just at notre dame, but we should be doing this at penn state, at michigan, at Florida state, all of these college towns around the country where this service makes sense,” he said. 
This approach led to rapid growth, doyle said, with an average growth rate of 80 percent over the last three years and a projected reve­nue of $4.1 million for 2015. 
“it’s gone from me knock­ing on doors at penn state to 
see shark Tank PAGE 4 







Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                 Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


If you were a candy, which candy would you be? 

Adrienne Youngpeter 

Paige Spears 
junior 
junior 
le mans hall 
le mans hall 
“snickers.” 
“sour patch kids.” 

Megan Battaglia 

Hannah Beach 
sophomore 
sophmore 
le mans hall 
holy cross hall 
“peanut butter m&ms.” 
“Twix.” 

Mary Vicenzi 

Caroline Ebberwein 
sophomore 
junior 
holy cross hall 
le mans hall 
“Tootsie pop.” 
“whatchamacallit.” 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Want your event included here? 
News Sports 
katie galioto alex carson Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
selena ponio rachel o’grady alex winegar emma kate conlin 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
susan Zhu matthew munhall 

Photo Viewpoint 

Urban Plunge Workshop: “Crafting Reading Lecture Silent Retreat 
Zach llorens claire radler 

Information Session a Strong Grant Hammes Bookstore Hesburgh Library Moreau Seminary Geddes Hall Proposal” 7:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 4:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. 5:30 p.m. 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Brownson Hall Creative writing author “The Morality of Retreat focused on 


Corrections 

Information on winter 5 p.m.-5:45 p.m. Kate Bernheimer will Capitalism” by Steve silent prayer and 
The observer regards itself as break service program. Learn about grants. read her book. Forbes. reflection. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Respect Life Mass Snite Salon Series Student Micro Retreat Men’s Basketball vs. ND Volleyball vs. 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Basilica of the Sacred Snite Museum of Art LaFortune Student Caldwell Virginia Tech 
however, recognize that we will make 
Heart 5 p.m.-5:45 p.m. Center Joyce Center Joyce Center 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
5:15p.m.-6:15 p.m. Gather to discover 7:30 p.m.-8:15 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Pray for greater artwork and exchange New micro retreat The Irish take on the The Irish take on the 
we can correct our error. 

respect for human life. thoughts. series. Cougars. Hokies. 




Student reflects on implications of sexuality 
By ALLISON SANCHEZ 
news writer 
as part of the Justice Friday se­ries, a saint mary’s student dis­cussed the implications of being openly gay as a college student and explored ways to make the college a place where all students feel safe to be themselves. 
Junior maranda pennington started the discussion by remind­ing everyone that coming out is an individual decision and provid­ing some background about the lgbTQ community. 
“i want to make sure you under­stand that even though i’m going to be discussing coming out and why i think it’s important, i’m not urging everybody that is closeted to come out, because it’s such a personal thing,” she said. “you have to feel safe and ready for it ... but i do want people who are at that point or who are going to be at that point to feel empowered. i would never want somebody who chooses to conceal their identity feel to ashamed because they’re not out.” 
pennington said the word queer has been reclaimed as an umbrel­la term for the lgbTQ community. 
“coming out is admitting to yourself that you do identify as lgbTQ,” she said. “ ... The first step is coming out to yourself, and then you can choose keep build­ing on that and disclose it to other people. 
“There is no uniform way to disclose this aspect of your iden­tity,” she said. “For some people, i chose to write a letter to them because i was too uncomfortable to say it in person. ... it’s continu­ous. Throughout my entire life i’m probably going to have to come out to people several times.” 
coming out can be necessary for several reasons, pennington said, ranging from personal emo­tions to visibility for the lgbTQ community. 
“it’s important to be true to yourself and feelings,” she said. “concealing something so per­sonal and vital to who you are has detrimental effects. it turns you into the master of lying and hiding how you feel. it can also take away energy from other aspects of your life.” 
pennington shared her own coming out story. 
“growing up, i always felt like i had to be two people all the time.” she said. “ ... i was super involved and successful. but i had another side of me. i became so good at hiding that side of me. no one knew the level of anxiety i had and how generally unhappy i was. 
“i didn’t really let myself fig­ure out my sexual orientation, or even think about it, until my freshman year at saint mary’s. my shame, anxiety and internalized homophobia made this probably the most difficult thing i ever had to go through. i felt terrified and honestly thought being gay would make me unhappy forever.” 
pennington said she was able to tell a professor, who recommend­ed a counselor to her. From there, she was able to slowly come out to her friends and family. 
“you continue to get strength as you tell more people,” she said. “ ... The love and support i received was so overwhelming that it made the rejection i faced less scary.” 
pennington said people can make a difference by educating people on different perspectives, showing empathy and kindness and embracing and empowering each other, regardless of any as­pect of our identity. 
“i feel like i have this new con­fidence, a weight just lifted off my shoulders,” she said. “i’m more comfortable speaking up when people say something offensive or homophobic. some days, that does take a lot out of me, but other days i feel pretty empowered by it. 
a good addition to the college, pennington said, would be an lgbTQ resource center where those struggling with their iden­tity could go for help. pennington also suggested covering more lgbTQ topics during faculty and administration training as a way to help make saint mary’s a more welcoming environment. 
“The lgbTQ community at saint mary’s needs more visibility on campus,” she said. “it’s hard to feel validated and welcomed somewhere when your identity is not even acknowledged as exist­ing. you feel pretty invisible all the time.” 
The Justice Friday series takes place at saint mary’s every Friday in conference rooms a and b in the student center from noon to 
12:50p.m. 
Contact Allison Sanchez at asanch01@saintmarys.edu 


speaker explores music in ancient greek dramas 
her career as a literary classicist allusions to music literally. used chorus lines, hip-hop and approach allows is conducive to 
By MAURA MONAHAN 

news writer was transformed after a “call “song and dance are not op-tunes borrowed from beyoncé. the development of another type from dionysus,” in the form of a tional frills added to ancient gamel’s productions favored the of authenticity, one that clarifies 
The nanovic institute for petition from an undergraduate greek drama. They are an essen-latter approach. the art of adaptation as a proj­european studies hosted keynote theatre major, persuaded her to tial part of the meaning and ef-“here’s the catch-22 of his-ect of balancing tradition and speaker mary-kay gamel as part focus on translating, adapting fect, intellectual and emotional,” torical authenticity: the closer a development. of its graduate student conference and staging plays. gamel said. “song and dance al-modern production approaches “my justification for making “classics and/in performance” in performance studies of the low the larger-than-life charac-the formal (practices) of its origi-adaptations is that every ancient mckenna hall last Friday morn-texts generate a unique analytical ters to express important ideas nal production, the stranger it greek playwright did exactly the ing. her lecture, titled “greek lens for those works, gamel said. and feelings more powerfully, will be to a modern audience, same. They changed the myths drama: a musical Theatre,” ex-“you can find out things about intricately, and effectively than and the stranger the effect on a they inherited and sometimes plored the integrality of music greek drama by doing produc-in spoken dialogue.” modern audience, the [broader even explicitly criticized their to ancient greek dramas and tions that you can’t find out any gamel’s address was struc-the] margin of their reactions predecessors’ choices,” gamel stressed the desirability, both for other way,” she said. “and also, tured around video clips from will be from those of the original said. authenticity and for generating it’s a lot of fun.” modern adaptations of plays audience,” gamel said. gamel said the process of ad-meaning, of incorporating music gamel said music is an often such as ‘prometheus bound’ To narrow the reaction gap be-aptation can also discover the into contemporary theatrical ad-overlooked component of classi-and ‘orestes,’ which employed tween audiences, a production pertinence of ancient texts to aptations of those plays. cal dramas. references to music differing methods to pursue au-might pursue “inductive authen-modern social problems, and uti­
gamel, professor emeritus of in works urge characters to ex-thenticity to the original texts. ticity,” combining tradition and lizing modern music can help to classics, comparative literature press themselves in song. gamel one based its dances on ancient innovation to “lead the audienc-obviate the texts’ contemporary and theatre arts at the university said she hopes that contempo-artwork and costumed its cast in es to particular responses,” she relevancy. The idea of relating of california, santa cruz, said rary productions will treat textual traditional greek masks; others said. The innovation that this greek dramas to specific com­

munities is part of its history. paid adverTisemenT 
“There is a very strong connec­tion to democracy here — you don’t have to be an aristocrat to have artistic ability and train­ing. Theatrical productions at modern community theaters, in­cluding those on university cam­puses, can raise issues important to their community.” 
whichever musical styles a production engages to articulate meaning and to pursue these various strains of authenticity, gamel said what matters princi­pally is that contemporary adap­tations use music at all. 
“music is one element, i think, which we can believe connects the modern and the ancient world,” gamel said. “The nature of the music may be different, but the aim is the same: to make clear and powerful the feelings and the issues in this emotional medium, which both ancient and modern audiences can understand. The result can be fabulous.” 
Contact Maura Monahan at mmonaha4@nd.edu 

The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Shark Tank 
conTinued From page 1 
a team of seven employees,” doyle said. 
although rent like a champion was already quite successful, doyle said “shark Tank” represented a chance to rapidly accelerate their expansion from their current 21 towns to around 40. 
“we see ‘shark Tank’ as this opportunity to take things to the next level,” he said. “we’ve gotten to this point with a nice business that’s working really well, but the sharks are the most incred­ibly smart and accomplished business people you could possibly meet, and they know how to bump businesses up a notch or two.” 
cuban and sacca actively help rent like a champion, doyle said, by providing ad­vice and support. 
“They’re super plugged-in and very involved in the business,” doyle said. 
in explaining his plans for the future of rent like a champion, doyle said it is important to note that op­portunities for the big event rental paradigm exist beyond college sports. 
“There’s definitely a model for this outside of just col­lege sports towns, so any big time events that happen with regularity in smaller towns like nascar races, pga tour events, concerts, and even democratic and republican national conventions make sense with our model,” doyle said. 
despite rent like a champion’s track record of success and its plans to ex­pand, an investor on “shark Tank” episode expressed concern about competi­tion from airbnb and other companies. 
however, doyle said rent like a champion has a unique business model that differentiates it from airbnb. 
“we’re really event-fo­cused, they’re really destina­tion-focused,” he said. 
notre dame senior david o’connor interned at rent like a champion for the past two years and worked to help establish its identity in a market that airbnb does not serve. 
o’connor said this process involved focusing on what their customers wanted and using this information to at­tract them. 
“The first summer i was there it was a lot of figuring what works and what doesn’t work,” o’connor said. 
o’connor said a vital pri­ority for the company was making potential renters in college towns comfortable with their online business model. 
“The demographic tends to be older people with no kids, as opposed to [the typi­cal customers of] airbnb, 34-year-old young profes­sionals looking to make an­other $200 a month. we’re trying to get [our customers] accustomed to this digital sharing economy,” o’connor said. 


ultimately, o’connor said like a champion. however, the hard work behind rent he said they did not plan on like a champion has paid off being chosen for … “shark with its robust growth. Tank” because the compe­

“We see ‘Shark Tank’ as this opportunity to take things to the next level. We’ve gotten to this point with a nice business that’s working really well, but the sharks are the most incredibly smart and accomplished business people you could possibly meet, and they know how to bump businesses up a notch or two.” 
Mike Doyle 
CEO 
Rent Like a Champion 
doyle also said the “shark tition for spots on the show Tank” experience was a vali-was so rigorous. dation of the effort he and “we didn’t want to put all his co-founders put into rent of our eggs in that basket because we didn’t know if we were one of ten compa­nies vying for spot or one of 1,000 vying for spot,” he said. “There was definitely some ambiguity about how likely this actually was to happen.” 

despite the odds, rent like a champion made it onto “shark Tank,” and doyle said the final result was exactly what he and mitchell hoped for. 
“in a dream situation, if we could have any we want­ed, we would do a deal with mark and chris together.” doyle said. “so the fact that chris pulled mark into a deal meant it really couldn’t have worked out any better for us.” 
Contact JP Gschwind at  jgschwin@nd.edu 


Media 
conTinued From page 1 
social media. 
“social media continues to be relevant in our person­al and professional lives,” Jeffirs said. “so long as this continues, social media week, or at least the pro­gramming and messages, will continue to be relevant as well.” 
Those who incorporate so­cial media into their daily lives should know how to use it to propel their careers, Jeffirs said. 
“social media is weaved into the fabric of our ev­eryday lives,” Jeffirs said. “almost everyone has some sort of social media pres­ence today. social media has impacted the way we inter­act with one another, and this extends to recruiting relationships.” 
Jeffirs said social media week will teach students the value of connecting with po­tential employers online. 
“employers use social media today to recruit can­didates, conduct research on candidates and to pro­mote opportunities,” she said. “if you are not using social media in some way to connect with companies and brand yourself, you are missing out on a world of op­portunities and will likely be at a disadvantage in today’s job market.” 
social media week serves as a reminder that polished online profiles benefit stu­dents entering the profes­sional world, Jeffirs said. 
“our social media foot­print is an important one, and what we post has an impact,” she said. “it im­pacts the work that we do as well as our own personal and professional image. we want students to consider the impact of social media and how they can use it ef­fectively to shape their pres­ence online.” 
over the course of the week, events will allow stu­dents to take headshots for linkedin profiles and re­ceive advice to help them refine their social media profiles. Jeffirs said one of the most important compo­nents of the week is media chat monday, during which students and alumnae will exchange advice about so­cial media. The event will take place at 7 p.m. in rice commons. 
“For the kickoff event, students will take away dif­fering perspectives from stu­dents and alumnae on how social media has impacted their personal, academ­ic and professional lives,” Jeffirs said. “it is also an opportunity to learn about some of the exciting things saint mary’s alumnae are doing in their professions.” 
Jeffirs said social media week may cause students to rethink how they portray themselves online. 
“it is important for stu­dents to attend the events to hear different perspec­tives and get advice on how to use social media effec­tively,” Jeffirs said. “with digital media, what you put out there could come back to haunt you. clean things up that you don’t want poten­tial employers to see.” 
This week will teach stu­dents the importance of remaining active and con­sistent on social media, Jeffirs said. 
“keep your social media profiles up to date,” she said. “if you no longer use or post to an account, close it. it is better to stick to one or two active accounts than have lots of accounts that you don’t update.” 
Jeffirs said she is looking forward to this year’s social Jeffirs said. “it is always a media week because it will good feeling when students help the saint mary’s com-learn something new and munity grow in knowledge. will take it forward with 

“i am most excited about them in life.” being able to share really great and important in-Contact Martha Reilly at formation with students,” mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 





Lawsuit 
conTinued From page 1 
relationship against his will; providing lodging, transpor­tation, hotel rooms, and con­doms for sexual excursions across state lines; and engag­ing in threatening behavior towards plaintiff John doe as he attempted to end the sexual relationship with her daughter.” 
The defendant, who served in “a role designed to pro­vide academic support and counseling to students and student-athletes,” alleg­edly targeted other african­american males at the university including mem­bers of the football and bas­ketball teams, according to court documents. 
when the student sought to end the relationship with the woman’s daughter, the defendant allegedly “uti­lized her position at the university to convince the plaintiff John doe of his need for mental counseling, ar­ranging for plaintiff John doe to be seen by psychiat­ric support employed by the [university],” according to court documents. 
The defendant also alleg­edly sought to pressure the student into converting to catholicism, according to the suit. 
The suit goes on to say that the plaintiff was then seen by an employee who was “a friend and confidant” of the defendant, and who “sought to medicate plaintiff John doe to keep him passive, co­operative, and under control to forestall any exposure of this exploitative and per­verse conduct and hostile environment.” 

university vice president for public affairs and com­munications paul browne said the university is aware of the suit, but denies all allega­tions of misconduct. 
“The allegations against the university of notre dame in the complaint 
are unfounded, as are gra­tuitous and unfounded ref­erences to ‘student athletes’ 
— an allegation that is noth­
ing  more  than a  cynical  
attempt  
to  attract  publicity,”  

browne said in a statement. 


Exhibit 
conTinued From page 1 
in order to better understand complex topics, szymas said. 
“respectful disagreement helps students grow in their own personal understanding of difficult political and so­cial topics,” szymas said. “we believe empathy is a crucial part of the human experience, therefore, the saint mary’s Feminist united club and our supporters celebrate the services planned parenthood provides for all women, es­pecially women who may not have access to health insurance.” 
The event was originally planned for oct. 16 but was delayed until oct. 29 due to administrative issues. The 

“We intended to speak out on behalf of the one in five women who will turn to Planned Parenthood at least once. Ultimately, we want to inform our fellow Belles through a healthy and respectful discussion. ” 
Stephanie Szymas 
junior 
scheduling of this event during respect life week was a coinci­dence, davis said. 
“The flag display was the cul­mination of two weeks of hard work for Feminists united,” davis said. “Through their ar­guments, leadership and re­spect for the college’s existing policies, the students received permission to plant the flags.” 
Feminists united hoped the display would help inform members of the saint mary’s community on aspects of planned parenthood of which people may not have been we do not wish to offend any­one, however, we would like to challenge beliefs by foster­ing an informed discussion.” 

“wendy davis, a Texas state senator and candidate for governor, best stated what our 

“Feminist United is very touched and encouraged by the support that we received. We understand that supporting Planned Parenthood is controversial. We do not wish to offend anyone, however, we would like to challenge beliefs by fostering an informed discussion.” 
Stephanie Szymas 
president 

Saint Mary’s Feminist United Student Group 
aware, szymas said. 
“we intended to speak out on behalf of the one in five wom­en who will turn to planned parenthood at least once. ultimately, we want to inform our fellow belles through a healthy and respectful discus­sion,” szymas said. 
davis said students showed interest in the display, asking questions about the meaning of the flags and taking fact sheets. 
“The best conversation was with a student who identified as pro-life and wanted to talk about whether organizations such as planned parenthood work to reduce abortions,” davis said. “her questions and comments were thought­ful and showed saint mary’s students at their very best.” 
szymas said she thought the message was positively received. numerous students and alumnae reached out and thanked Feminist united for the display and awareness it created. 
“Feminist united is very touched and encouraged by the support that we received,” szymas said. “we understand that supporting planned parenthood is controversial. 

display meant to us,” szymas said. “she shared our social media posts and said, ‘young women often ask me, ‘how can we make a difference?’ my answer: follow your heart, speak up when you feel the need to be heard.’” 
Junior kayla gaughan said she believed the display was a way to increase conversations about women’s healthcare. 
“part of saint mary’s mis­sion encourages students to think about real world com­plex issues in an informed and educated way,” gaughan said. “... There are catholic organizations that support the right to choose — for ex­ample, catholics for choice. however, the visual was not about abortion or contracep­tion and adheres to school policy.” 
The next event co-spon­sored by the Feminists united student group will be a pan­el on reproductive rights on nov. 7 at 7 p.m. in spes unica 145. 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu and Alex Winegar at  awine01@saintmarys.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 

a troubling lawsuit 

Hunter McDaniel 
sports writer 

with all the buzz around campus this weekend sur­rounding halloween and irish football, it might have been easy to miss some pretty huge news. a student filed a lawsuit against notre dame on Friday for al­leged sexual harassment and racial discrimination. 
To be honest and open before starting this column, i luckily have little to no first-hand experience with sexual violence of any kind. 
From this outsider perspective, it seems the university has been making generally solid strides with regards to sexual violence. it appears the admin­istration is offering help and support to victims, and the student body seems to be standing behind victims in a much healthier and positive way. 
This is why the recently filed sexual assault lawsuit was so troubling to me. in the suit, a male student claims a university employee forced him into a sexual relationship with her daughter. Then, when the stu­dent tried to end the relationship, the employee con­vinced him he needed counseling and medication. The plaintiff also accused the employee of engaging in similar actions with football and men’s basketball student-athletes. 
another troubling aspect in this story is that the employee allegedly made “racially charged com­ments about his sexual prowess” toward the african­american male victim. 
now, i am not sure if these allegations are true, and it will probably take months to determine the validity of such accusations in st. Joseph county circuit court. 
what seems clear in this mess is that the student was not satisfied with the reaction by the notre dame ad­ministration to fix the situation for him and for other students on campus, prompting him to file a lawsuit. The suit alleges that university administrators knew about the misconduct and, citing Title vi and Title iX, had a responsibility to intervene for the student’s well­being, according to an observer staff report Friday. 
The university has said in a statement that the allegations are “unfounded, as are gratuitous and unfounded references to ‘student-athletes’ — an al­legation that is nothing more than a cynical attempt to attract publicity.” 
again, i cannot verify the truth of such allega­tions, but what troubles me is not so much the allega­tions themselves as much as the response to it. The university’s statement, in my opinion, is a classic case of victim-blaming. imagine if something like this had been carried out against a young woman on campus 
— the university rightly would have pulled out all the stops to help her in any way possible. 
The university’s reaction to this case has been se­verely lacking up to this point. i have heard nothing about this from the school itself, and nobody really seems to care. The administration in general seems to act only out of obligation rather than out of any sense of justice for the victims in sexual assault cases on campus, and currently that obligation does not appear to extend equally to male students. 
i don’t want to assume the accuser is lying or that the defendants are guilty. nevertheless, i think it’s safe to say a strong positive response from the university in support of the rights of the accuser and an ac­knowledgment that men as well as women can be the victims of sexual violence needs to come soon. maybe i’m simply being naïve, but nobody should have to fear sexual misconduct at notre dame, regardless of gender. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Ad hominem politics 

Kate Hardiman 
annuit coeptis 
in nearly all of the presidential debates this year, character attacks have predominated over real arguments. it is evident that “ad hominem” attacks — translated as “toward the man” in latin — are driving our political discourse: people target personalities to mask the fact that they lack policies. 
a form of character assassination to divert from discussing the actual topic at hand, ad ho­minem assertions serve to disparage or discredit one’s opponent rather than their argument. comments targeting someone’s integrity appeal to feelings or prejudices rather than intellect. 
unfortunately, they are quite effective. when considering the 2016 presidential field, it is clear donald Trump is a champion of the ad homi­nem method. in fact, he has devoted a signifi­cant amount of his on-air time to attacking just about everyone’s character rather than talking about more pressing national and international concerns. 
after finding himself second to dr. ben carson in the most recent iowa polls, Trump resorted to attacking his opponent’s religion rather than debating the merits of his proposed policies. 
Trump has insulted carly Fiorina’s face, of all things, saying “look at that face! would anyone vote for that?” not limiting his statements to the other gop candidates, Trump described Fox news anchor, journalist and lawyer megyn kelly as a “bimbo” and called syndicated columnist charles krauthammer “a totally overrated clown who speaks without knowing facts.” 
These statements serve no purpose but have somehow catapulted the real-estate mogul into the lead of numerous presidential polls. 
it is not shocking that Trump’s comments make the news, and his statements have domi­nated air time since he declared his candidacy over the summer. it is far more interesting to report on the spectacle of politics rather than its substance. yet, what is the virtue of turning our politics into reality television? more importantly, does this coverage of ad hominem character at­tacks leave us with an informed electorate come election day? 
yet, Trump’s statements present a clear ex­ample of how the prevalence of ad hominem at­tacks has distanced our debates and interviews from meaningful messages. Trump’s effort at a substantive closing statement in the cnn debate amounted to the following: 
“if i become president, we will do something really special. we will make this country greater than ever before. we’ll have more jobs. we’ll have more of everything.” 
hmm. statements such as these leave listeners with many unanswered questions. what will we do that is “special,” and how is it to be practically accomplished? how will the country become greater, and what will be the chosen mechanism for stimulating job growth? in a society char­acterized by consumerism and waste, is having more of everything even something for which we should strive? even if we do not want to hear the answers to substantive questions such as these, we need to hear them. 
regrettably, Trump is not the only candidate or political figure resorting to this form of falla­cious logic. The cnbc moderators also stooped to this level of discourse in the most recent gop debate. opening up the debate by asking Trump if he is “running a comic book campaign,” mod­erator John harwood targeted the businessman’s credibility from the first moments of the debate. 
Though it may be entertaining to watch can­didates and moderators shoot pithy insults at each other and draw cheers and jeers from a crowded room, doesn’t this resemble a strange sporting match rather than an educated discus­sion between the people who could potentially govern our country? debates featuring reasoned discourse about tax policy, pensions, immigra­tion reform, education funding, passing a timely budget, foreign policy and reducing the national debt may not attract as many viewers, but these issues are integral to our lives. 
ad hominem statements allow candidates to “win” a debate, as they depart with one-liners sure to appear on next morning’s front pages. yet, resorting to character attacks belies a great weakness: it is far easier to disparage the per­sonality of your competitor rather than their politics. ad hominem attacks breed ad hominem retorts, as it is natural to defend one’s pride, while more difficult to redirect the argument back to any basis in reason. 
ultimately, ad hominem attacks contradict the pursuit of truth approachable through a discourse that is driven by facts. helping to crown the candidates with the weakest argu­ments victors, ad hominem tactics distract from a dearth of facts, logic and reason. in the end, ad hominems make the attacker look bad, not their target, and it is the voting public that suffers. endemic in our political discourse, ad hominem tactics greatly impede the progress that could be made if we focus on critiquing policies rather than people. 
Kate is a junior majoring in the program of liberal studies and minoring in philosophy, political science and economics. She hails from Pittsburgh and is a proud member of Breen-Phillips Hall. Contact her at khardima@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Things can change 
Kitty Baker 
british invasion 

For weeks, i’m normally not very vocal about this, but i was told one too many times over fall break that i needed to smile. 
Telling me, “you should smile, you’re life’s not that bad” or “you should smile, you’d look much prettier” is not a compliment. and, in all honesty, it’s probably not really intended as one. while i will give the men who said these words to me the benefit of the doubt and accept that they may have genuinely wanted me to represent myself in a more cheerful manner, saying those words does not have that effect. They are ag­gressive. you do not have the right to comment on whether or not i should be doing something, whether it is something as trivial as smiling or something more serious to do with my body. 
i’ll be honest, i probably should smile more. if anyone has seen me walking around campus, they will have noticed that i have a very de­termined look on my face. it’s not that i’m not happy. it’s just my natural face. being told my natural face is not good enough by some man on the street is not helpful to my self-esteem or to my general perception of myself. 
a random man on the street telling me to smile more is different from a friend or family mem­ber. They tell me out of love, because they see me all the time, they know my thoughts, my de­cisions and whether smiling or not is something i should really do more. 
some might say i’m overreacting. but why? most men are not told to smile more. whether or not they smile, generally men are not called after, and their outside appearance is not com­mented on. why would you not treat me with the same respect as the man who is walking behind me? The comments are unsolicited and unwanted. 
i have the self-confidence to move on from these events. even as i am writing this now, the effect those words had on me has dulled. but not all women can do that. and it is not fair that women are treated as objects to be commented on and rejected. 
i am incredibly lucky and privileged. i have grown up with pretty progressive parents. i have never felt there is anything a man can do better than i can. i’ve discovered my talents on my own, and yes, it has taken me down a more traditional route of writing and perform­ing. but it wasn’t because i didn’t have options. i have been incredibly privileged to have great friends, men and women, with whom there is a mutual respect and a mutual understanding of differences. 
Treating women as objects on the street negates all of these positive experiences. catcalling, referring to women as sweetheart or honey, simply treating us differently from the way you treat your male colleagues is discouraging. 
The world is changing. i am extremely proud of how far this generation has gone in making ev­eryone feel free to represent his or her most real self. There is still so far to go, and part of the solution is to recognize our negative behaviors. sometimes, i will realize when i walk down the hall, i judge other women simply based on what they are wearing. but the only way we can move forward is to recognize it, wrestle with it, accept it and move forward knowing that change may come slowly, but it will come. and i thank every­one on campus that has shown me that it does come. 
Kitty Baker is a senior program of liberal stud­ies and film, television and theatre major and proud Cavanaughty. She can be reached at cbaker7@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The US, Cuba and the price of friendship 
Maria Oviedo 
guest columnist 

as a student at a catholic university, would you go on a study abroad program in a country that limits religious practice and freedom of expres­sion? several colleges around the country have arranged new exchange programs with schools in cuba since the white house eased travel restric­tions to the island early this year. but they are treading carefully, citing concerns about academic freedom. 
it’s a guardedness that many politicians also feel towards the u.s.-cuba thaw, which began when president obama announced late last year that the u.s. would restore full diplomatic ties with its old cold war foe for the first time in more than 50 years. 
This year has seen important milestones in their new relationship. in January, the white house loosened some travel and trade restrictions against the island. in may, the u.s. removed cuba from its list of state-sponsored terrorists. in July and august, both nations cheered as they raised each other’s flags during the re-opening of embassies in washington d.c. and havana. 
but not everyone shares the obama administra­tion’s enthusiasm. despite the president’s pleading, congress still won’t budge on lifting the decades-old economic embargo against cuba, which costs both nations billions of dollars each year. 
ending the embargo would open up a market of 11 million people sitting only 92 miles off our coast. For the u.s.’s manufacturing and telecom­munication sector, cuba’s decayed infrastructure and low internet penetration rate make the island fertile ground for business. 
For cuba, fully normalized relations could be a boon for tourism and the cigar industry, but most importantly, it would give its citizens access to technology, medicine and affordable food that hasn’t reached them in half a century. 
Just last Tuesday, the u.n. general assembly voted 193-2 in favor of a resolution condemning the embargo — with only the u.s. and israel vot­ing against it. but while international pressure is mounting, congress won’t get on board. 
behind the u.s.’s isolated stance are layers of dip­lomatic complexity. understanding why it’s been so hard to achieve fully restored relations gives us the chance to ask important questions. what are our values as a nation? what do our decisions signal to other nations? how much are we willing to com­promise for the sake of friendship? 
after all, the conditions the u.s. has required to lift the embargo — legalizing all political activ­ity, committing to free and fair elections, granting freedom of the press, releasing political prisoners, among others — have not been fully met. The gov­ernment did release 53 key political prisoners early this year and announced it would release 3,500 more ahead of pope Francis’ recent visit to the island in gesture to the pontiff, who was a key be­hind-the-scenes mediator in the early negotiations. 
but during his visit, cuban security forces also detained over 100 pro-democracy activists, alleg­edly to prevent them from disrupting the pope’s services. pope Francis, too, never met with them and never directly criticized the government in any of his speeches. The dissidents, who had hoped the pope would make a call for greater human rights protection, later expressed disillusionment at his mild language. 
These are criticisms the dissidents have also raised against the many u.s. officials who visited the island this year without meeting with them. perhaps putting the issue of human rights on the back burner is the only way to make progress in negotiations, but many cuban-americans— most notably Florida senator marco rubio — feel this is not only unethical but also futile, as the regime’s performance has only worsened this year. 
will commercial ties with the u.s. lead to a dem­ocratic transition in the island, or will cuba be­come — like china — another authoritarian trade partner? The future is uncertain. 
maintaining the embargo keeps the pressure on cuba’s president raul castro to allow more demo­cratic freedoms, but lifting it could also take away his ability to blame u.s. sanctions for the poverty and food shortages on the island and make him take responsibility. 
lifting the embargo could lead to better relations between the u.s. and the rest of the americas — especially the left-leaning countries with close ties to cuba — but it may send mixed signals about our own commitments to democratic freedom. 
is it hypocritical of us to demand better human rights protections while we reject cuba’s demand to hand back guantanamo bay? is it fair to main­tain sanctions that make u.s. medications inacces­sible or needlessly expensive just to make a point? 
The u.s.-cuba thaw is a delicate dance of give­and-take. For now, it remains painfully slow. 
The kellogg institute is hosting a current events discussion, “cuba, what’s next?” tomorrow at 
6:30 p.m. in the hesburgh center for international studies (room c103). 
The opinions expressed in this column are the author’s only and do not reflect those of the Kellogg Institute. Maria Oviedo is a guest columnist who works at the Kellogg Institute. She can be reached at moviedo@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By ERIN McAULIFFE 
senior scene writer 

amazon instant video released the original comedy “red oaks,” a campy, 80s-based summer-fun series, at the beginning of october. The series stars craig roberts, the welsh actor who starred in richard ayoade’s in­die “submarine,” who carries over his angsty “not a boy, not yet a man” woes to the small screen as david in this 10-episode series. 
The show follows david as he at­tempts to transition from fulfilling his father’s wish for him to be a pub­lic accountant to pursuing his own burgeoning film interests. he spends his summer as a tennis pro at the lo­cal country club, red oaks, where he also assists the seedy club photographer in documenting club happenings from the most artistic vantage points. as that photographer tells david, “you’re going to want to go handheld so you can get up in there and really see bar mitzvah boy’s reactions.” david’s interest in the arts is furthered when he meets skye, a moody artsy type reading erotica at the country club who proves a stark contrast to his blonde, complacent longterm sweetheart who consistently brings up their happy future to david’s blank stares. 
The casting is reminiscent of John hughes films — and not just because skye is a döppleganger to ally sheedy’s character in “The breakfast club.” we see the good girl, stoner, nerd and recluse archetypes and relationships between the people who “shouldn’t be together.” The country club setting mirrors “dirty dancing” (Jennifer grey stars as david’s mother) and its kitsch acts as a nice re­placement for those who are still itch­ing to see more “wet hot american summer” on the small screen (short shorts and scrunchies abound). 
The show starts out with a dark twist as david’s father, played by richard kind, has a heart attack during a tennis match and utters out his “last words” about the regrets he has about his mar­riage. The heavy message, and his fa­ther’s eventual survival, weigh on david as he realizes where his current path is leading: an accounting career and a mundane marriage. 
The cinematography of the show shines in tennis montages set to 80s jams. The wes anderson-esque art­istry — furthered by period-specific costume design and slow-motion cuts 
— alludes to david’s future career as­pirations as he stars in and furthers each scene. it is also worth noting that roberts directed his first film, “Just Jim,” in real life earlier this year. 
The show serves as a unique com-ing-of-age story as each character is involved in his or her own journey to happiness and, as such, each char­acter evokes empathy from the viewer. whether it’s nash, the optimistic head tennis pro who spends nights in the pro shop exiled by his wife, or karen, david’s kind-hearted girlfriend who is being pursued by the older, sleazy film­maker, there are lots of different story-lines to which audiences can relate. 
The town almost entirely adopts a self-motivated mindset as they become unsettled by their previous settlings. it is as if each character’s development alongside david’s serves to comple­ment and contrast his own narrative. it emphasizes that each person, even in cookie-cutter new Jersey suburbia, has a different outlook on success and definition of happiness: stock market profits, community college, nyu and free-wheeling to France all hold allure to different characters. 
The small town aspect of interconnect­ed characters is reminiscent of “Twin peaks.” From the place-rooted titles to the dark twists, the small-town themes and layered characters reflect lynch­ian influences — although the brighter, warmer setting in “red oaks” contrasts with the bitter washington winter of “Twin peaks.” 
we see a growth, or at least an attempt to move out of unhappiness, by nearly every character in the show. (besides maybe herb, the 80-something club member full of sage advice: “you know what my dad wanted be to be? a proc­tologist. you know what i was? a proc­tologist. and i hated every minute of it ... i couldn’t wait for the day i could stop staring up a**holes.”) however, the women’s storylines are developed to a much shallower standard than the guys’. perhaps this is because the narra­tive develops around a 20-year-old guy who is, himself, struggling to under­stand these women’s woes, but either way it proves a sore spot. 

we get a standout character in skye (think back to audrey horne from “Twin peaks”), who somehow makes wedgie-picking look hot, but we are be­reft of any insight into her psyche, past “daddy issues” and a desire to pursue art but a lack of self-confidence in her work. we also see an inadequacy of de­velopment in david’s mother’s sexual questioning. perhaps this is due to her putting the issue on the back burner as she struggles to keep her husband healthy and son happy. however, since her wavering stance was addressed it should have been developed, as its stagnation threatens to exploit the issue. 
“red oaks” proves amazon instant video was not a one-hit wonder with “Transparent.” The series fits multiple affecting character storylines into ten 23-minute episodes, an accomplish­ment that spreads some plots thin but has enough substance to illustrate an emotive coming-of-age story in a time before gossip girls or sub-tweets. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 

SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 


noTre dame 24, Temple 20 | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Just enough 
Notre Dame mounts fourth-quarter comeback to scrape past Temple in top-25 showdown 

ND’s championship hopes seem to fade each week 

Greg Hadley 
editor-in-chief 
philadelphia — barely, just barely, notre dame kept its playoff hopes alive against Temple this saturday with a 24-20 win at lincoln Financial Field. 
its national title hopes, on the other hand, took another hit. 
The irish may sit at 7-1. They may be ranked eighth in the nation, with many of the teams ahead of them facing daunting end-of-season schedules. but they just don’t look like a team prepared to take on and beat the best in the country. 
They haven’t looked ca­pable of that all season. The team’s best wins came against Texas, georgia Tech and massachusetts, who sport a combined 7-18 record. kelly’s squad had to rally desperately in the fourth quarter against virginia and usc, who are a combined 8-8. after Temple, 
see hadley PAGE 3 
By MARY GREEN 
assistant managing editor 
philadelphia — For a minute there — actually, two minutes and 36 sec­onds — it looked grim for no. 9 notre dame at lincoln Financial Field. 
it looked grim for notre dame’s playoff résumé, for will Fuller and mike mcglinchey’s philadelphia homecoming, for the large and loud collection of irish fans gathered among saturday’s sellout crowd. 
but then again, it was a scene somewhat strangely familiar for the irish (7-1). 
notre dame had just lost its late-game lead to a team that should have been put away long before then, and it needed to find a way to get back ahead and keep its playoff hopes as strong as it could. 
This time, the team trailed no. 21 Temple, 20-17, with 
4:45 left on the clock. 
enter Fuller and sopho­more quarterback deshone kizer — a duo most reliable for the irish and most formi­dable for opponents in late-game situations. 
on second-and-10, kizer found Fuller in the front right corner of the end zone from 17 yards out to give the irish a lead they wouldn’t relinquish in a 24-20 vic­tory over the owls (7-1, 4-0 a ac). 
“at this point in the sea­son, it’s part of the 2015 irish season,” kizer said. “we’re gonna be in those situa­tions. we learned quite a bit from our experiences in the virginia and clemson games to be able to have the confidence to come out and know we’re gonna score points.” 
For Fuller, it was his just his fifth catch of the game and 17 of his 46 total yards, his second-lowest yardage output of the season. no 
see comeback PAGE 2 

PLAYER OF THE GAME 
DESHONE KIZER 

IRISH SOPHOMORE QUARTERBACK 
The sophomore quarterback contributed to all three of notre dame’s touchdowns against Temple — two rushing and one passing — and became the second irish signal-caller to pass for 200 yards and run for 100 in a single game. 
QUOTE OF THE GAME 
“At this point in the season, it’s part of the 2015 Irish season.” 
deshone kizer on notre dame’s ability to put together comeback drives in late-game situations, which they have had to do against virginia, clemson and Temple. 
Irish overcome setbacks to keep playoff hopes alive 
By GREG HADLEY 
editor-in-chief 
philadelphia — plagued by injuries, slow starts and sur­prisingly game opponents, no. 9 notre dame has had its fair share of setbacks this season. 
saturday night against Temple was no different. 
Twice in the second quarter, the irish marched down the field into the owls red zone. Twice sophomore quarterback deshone kizer threw intercep­tions. The first turned into a 94-yard touchdown drive for Temple; the second came at the end of the half and kept the owls within one score. 
Then, in the fourth quarter, senior safety elijah shumate was ejected for targeting on a third-down pass in the end zone that gave the owls a first down on the goal line. They capitalized with a touchdown, putting Temple up, 20-17. 
but in the end, the irish ral­lied, both on offense and de­fense, with a resiliency head 
see seTbacks PAGE 3 



REPORT CARD 








QUARTERBACKS 

on one hand, notre dame’s offensive production almost ex­clusively ran through deshone kizer on saturday. however, he also threw two red-zone picks that kept notre dame off the board. but it was his performance that put points on the board for the irish, including the late touchdown to will Fuller that gave them the win. 
RUNNING BACKS 

it was clear from the start of the game that Temple had done its work over the week to stop c.J. prosise, and that mission was certainly accomplished in a way no other team had been able to do. The owls defense held the senior to just 25 yards on the ground on 14 carries, a meager 1.8 yards per rush. 
RECEIVERS 

while the receivers only accounted for one of notre dame’s three touchdowns, they also provided kizer with a wide variety of targets throughout the game. chris brown led the group with six catches for 72 yards, while Torii hunter Jr., Fuller and prosise added six grabs each. alizé Jones showed a flash of his skills with a 45-yard catch that set up the even­tual touchdown from kizer to Fuller. 
OFFENSIVE LINE 

The offensive line did prosise no favors saturday, but it was able to help kizer put up 143 yards on the ground. however, the irish as a whole gained just 168 rushing yards, while the center nick martin was tagged with strange-yet-harmful penalties for offensive pass interference and a late hit. 
DEFENSIVE LINE 

The line as a whole held Temple to just 107 rushing yards, and romeo okwara, sheldon day and isaac rochell each totaled six tackles on the night. day’s performance in par­ticular stood out, adding a sack, 2.5 tackles for loss, a forced fumble and a pass breakup to his stat line. 
LINEBACKERS 

Jaylon smith contributed his usual standout game, leading irish defenders with 10 tackles, but the other linebackers added four tackles total. Joe schmidt in particular looked lost for a large part of the game, missing assignments and tackles throughout the night en route to collecting two tackles. 
DEFENSIVE BACKS 

elijah shumate’s ejection for targeting was a major blow for the safeties, but the defensive backs were able to eventually regroup, with keivarae russell’s interception preventing Temple from taking a last-minute victory. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

Justin yoon was perfect saturday, connecting on all three of his extra-point attempts and adding a 23-yard field goal for good measure. however, Tyler newsome averaged a mea­sly 33.8 yards on his four punts and booted a kickoff out of bounds, an entirely preventable yet costly error. 
COACHING 

The decision to put nicky baratti in at strong safety after eli­jah shumate’s ejection instead of lining up with Farley and redfield was as absurd as brian kelly’s sideline scuffle with assistant strength coach david grimes. but the mistake was corrected in time for the irish to secure the late victory. 
OVERALL GPA: 2.93 (B) 

in a thoroughly pedestrian performance on both sides of the ball, the irish did enough, just enough, to win against a tough Temple squad. notre dame could have put the game out of reach in the first half but allowed the owls to stick around, putting pressure on the defense. brian kelly seemed to have game planned well, but his in-game decisions were costly and distracting. 
PLAY OF THE GAME 
KEIVARAE RUSSELL INTERCEPTS P.J. WALKER WITH 1:08 LEFT 
The senior cornerback once again came through in the clutch to stop a quickly progressing Temple drive at the irish 35-yard line and all but seal notre dame’s victory over the owls. 
Comeback 
conTinued From page 1 
matter, his hands closed in on the ball just when notre dame needed them to do so most. 
but even then, the game wasn’t quite over. 
That didn’t happen until senior cornerback keivarae russell jumped in front of redshirt senior receiv­er John christopher and picked off Temple junior quarterback p.J. walker with 
1:08 left at the irish 35-yard line, a grab that sealed the victory for notre dame. 
“i think there’s no ques­tion there are individual playmakers on this team, but collectively, there’s a demeanor on this football team of they’re not going to give in,” irish head coach brian kelly said. “They just keep playing, and they play hard for four quarters.” 
until that point, the irish and owls fought in a game that looked like it could have gone either way, with neither team building a lead of more than seven points. 
notre dame wasn’t able to capitalize on all its trips to the red zone, with kizer throwing two interceptions inside Temple’s 20-yard line, both in the second quarter. 
“i thought the first one was just an unacceptable mistake on deshone’s mis­take,” kelly said. “he knows that. he can’t throw the ball into traffic like that. he had a hot receiver on the bound­ary. it’s one of those mis­takes he’ll look back on, and he won’t make it again. 
“The second one, he was trying to fit in a skinny post in there, and we felt like will [Fuller] needed to come back to the football and make a play. we felt like he let it come into his body.” 
however, the quarterback played a role in all three irish touchdowns, with four-and 79-yard runs to the end zone and the game-winning pass to Fuller. kizer also led all rushers with 143 yards on the ground, the second-highest total by an irish quarterback in program his­tory. he was also the second notre dame quarterback to rush for 100 yards and pass for 200 yards (299) in the same game. 


“he got the game ball,” kelly said of kizer. “leading the drive on the road as a freshman and then the throw in the corner of the end zone in cover-2 was just outstanding. great poise, great leadership, deserving of the game ball.” 
kizer’s run game made up for the large absence of senior running back c.J. prosise, who was swarmed by the Temple defense each time he touched the ball. prosise put up 25 rushing yards on 14 carries with a long of 12 yards. 
after notre dame’s first score, the four-yard run by kizer, Temple took the lead with a 41-yard field goal followed by a 12-yard pass from walker to senior re­ceiver brandon shippen. The touchdown came on a 94-yard drive that started with kizer’s first red-zone pick. 
The irish responded on their next drive, when kizer found a hole in the right side of the line and sprinted untouched 79 yards down the field to put notre dame ahead at the half, 14-10. 
after a 23-yard field goal from irish freshman kicker Justin yoon, Temple put up 10 points to open the fourth quarter. The scores came on a one-yard rush by junior running back Jahad Thomas and a 36-yard field goal. 
Thomas’ touchdown came a few plays after senior safety elijah shumate put a hit on redshirt junior re­ceiver romond deloatch in the end zone that earned him a targeting penalty from the referees. shumate was ejected from the game and will have to sit the first half of notre dame’s match-up next saturday against pittsburgh. 
“They said it was target­ing which i just — targeting to me is when you’re trying to take somebody out,” kelly said. “i thought he led with his shoulder. but i’d have to watch it.” 
The irish marched 75 yards down the field on the their next drive, which was capped with the pass from kizer to Fuller that gave them the game-winning, four-point lead. The score was set up by a 45-yard con­nection from kizer to fresh­man tight end alizé Jones that brought the team in­side the Temple red zone. 
“alizé’s one of the fast­est, most athletic tight ends in the country, and i knew once the ball’s in his hands, he was going to make some­thing big with it,” kizer said. 
notre dame’s defense was able to contain the owl of­fense, with tackles from shumate and junior corner­back cole luke, among oth­ers, preventing would-be touchdowns. 
Junior linebacker Jaylon smith paced the irish with 10 tackles, while defensive 
linemen  romeo  okwara,  
sheldon  day  and  isaac  
rochell  totaled  six  each.  

okwara and day also added a sack apiece and combined for 5.5 tackles for loss. day completed his performance with a forced fumble and a pass breakup from the line. “he played as well as think i’ve seen him play,” kelly said of day. “he was active, he was in coverage, if you saw him playing. we did a lot of things with him. 
“he’s right now playing the best football of his ca­reer, and when your cap­tains are playing their best, that’s a good sign for your defense.” 
The irish return to pennsylvania next week­end for a noon game against pittsburgh on saturday at heinz Field. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 



Setbacks 
conTinued From page 1 
coach brian kelly said is part of this team’s identity. 
“collectively there’s a de­meanor on this football team [that] they’re not going to give in,” kelly said of his squad. “ … They just need to keep bring­ing to practice the resolve and the want to get better every single day, and that special trait they have of believing that they’re going to win football games. because obviously you can’t duplicate that.” 
notre dame entered the matchup 85th in the nation in red-zone offense, and on the road at a sold-out lincoln Financial Field, kizer was rat­tled near the end zones. his first interception was the result of a poor decision, kelly said, and his second came because he tried to fit the ball into a tight window and the intend­ed target, junior receiver will Fuller, did not make the neces­sary play. 
“he’s a resilient kid; he doesn’t carry anything with him,” kelly said of kizer. “we had a long talk on the sidelines about going back to the basics and doing things that had got [him] here, and he did.” 
“when you have the talent that you have around you, it makes things so much easier,” kizer said. “when i go into the locker room and you look at [senior offensive lineman] ronnie stanley, [graduate stu­dent offensive lineman] nick martin, will Fuller, [senior 
Hadley 
conTinued From page 1 
notre dame’s best game this year was clemson — a loss on the road in the rain, but still a loss. 
senior running back c.J. prosise has sometimes gashed opposing defenses, putting up five 100-yard games, but other times he has been stifled by intense pressure along the line. That happened again saturday, as he collected just 25 yards on 14 attempts. 
when that has happened, notre dame has relied on two offensive weapons: deshone kizer’s arm and deshone kizer’s legs. Through the air, the sophomore quarterback was as shaky as he’s been all year against the owls, throw­ing two red zone picks and go­ing below his season averages on completion percentage, yards per attempt, long and efficiency rating. 
on the ground, he did have a 79-yard touchdown run, but considering how junior malik Zaire fractured his ankle — on a designed Qb run — kelly might want to shy away from pounding the ground with his backup signal-caller. 
on defense, the word streaky doesn’t even begin to sum up notre dame’s issues. The irish have faced just two running back] c.J. prosise, [se­nior receiver] chris brown — everyone in there, they’re the best at their positions in the country in my opinion. when you have guys like that around you … no matter how back you think you played, it makes it a lot easier to finish things.” 

and as unshaken as kizer’s confidence was in his team­mates, their belief in him was just as solid. 
“we know he’s going to get his job done,” Fuller said. “we have a lot of confidence in him. he proved himself today.” 
on the defensive end, watch­ing two scores that could have blown the game open turn into owl opportunities didn’t faze the irish at all, junior line­backer Jaylon smith said, even though kelly said he had a feel­ing the turnovers would come back to haunt his team. 
what really tested the de­fense’s resolve, smith said, was the loss of shumate, who kelly had said earlier in the week was “sky-rocketing” in his develop­ment as a leader and player. 
on third-and-goal from the notre dame nine-yard line, with Temple trailing, 17-10, what would have been an in­complete pass for the owls turned into a fresh set of downs when shumate ran into red-shirt junior receiver romond deloatch. The referees upheld the initial call of targeting after a review, giving Temple a first down at the four-yard line and sidelining notre dame’s start­ing safety. 
“That play was huge consid­ering the difference between 
offenses who rank in the top 25 in the nation in yards per game, but rank 47th in yards allowed. 
Those yards tend to come in chunks. Fifteen times this year, the irish have surren­dered gains of 35 yards or more. That happened 17 times all of last season and the year before. kelly has admitted his team needs to get better at handling trick plays, but on a flea flicker against Temple, the secondary looked lost and allowed a 22-yard gain. 
and even if there was no trickery involved, notre dame still couldn’t stop the owls from making gains of 25 yards or more four times. 
when considering this year’s team, comparisons to 2012’s squad easily come to mind. Three years ago, the irish had a young quarterback and an experience defense. Three years ago, notre dame scraped by to an undefeated regular season, aided by clutch plays and not a small amount of luck. 
The 2015 edition of the irish has talented playmakers — junior receiver will Fuller and junior linebacker Jaylon smith in particular — who have come through for kelly thus far. but it has also been lucky, particularly with a schedule that’s been easier than ex­pected but not ludicrously a first down and a touchdown and a field goal,” smith said. “so we had to rally together and understand [shumate] wanted us to pull it out.” 
shortly afterwards, shumate’s replacement, se­nior nicky baratti, missed a tackle that would have stopped the owls short of a touchdown. but graduate stu­dent matthias Farley took over soon after, and from there, the irish secondary allowed just one completed pass the rest of the way. 
“when we lost shumate, that hurt us a little bit, es­pecially on the fourth-down play,” kelly said. “we would have loved to have [shumate] out on that play. but i thought they played hard. and on the whole, we limited the big plays … our mistakes were down.” 
in fact, senior cornerback keivarae russell had a big play of his own, diving for an inter­ception on Temple’s last drive of the game to seal the victory. 
“we were in a situation when we were down, and it’s just a great test to see how we respond,” smith said. 
even though Fuller had an uneven day, catching five passes for only 46 yards, well below his average, he respond­ed with the game-winning catch. he never doubted it could happen, he said. 
“we never lose confidence,” Fuller said. “we know we have explosive players, and it could happen at any moment.” 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
soft. 
but clutch plays can only go as far as notre dame’s luck lasts. To be more precise, they can get the irish to the college Football playoff. but so far, nothing notre dame has done this year suggests it can com­pete with the best three teams in the country. 
To be fair, kelly has been dealt a bad hand with injuries, and he can’t control his team’s strength of schedule. playing the teams in front of them with the players available, the irish have done a remarkable, commendable job this season. yet all the same, that doesn’t mean they’re capable of best­ing everyone else. 
saturday night, notre dame had the chance to make a statement against a ranked opponent during a week in which practically no other game of consequence was played. and the irish did man­age to come out with a thrill­ing win that buoyed fans’ hopes for the postseason. 
but barely beating Temple merely fit in with the pattern of notre dame’s season: good, but not great. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SCORING SUMMARY 






1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  TOTAL  
7  7  3  7  24  
3  7  0  10  20  

NOTRE DAME 7, TEMPLE 0 
deshone kizer 4-yard run (Justin yoon kick) 
9:00 remaining 

Drive: 12 plays, 74 yards 6:00 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 7, TEMPLE 3 
austin Jones 41-yard field goal 
2:25 remaining 

Drive: 8 plays, 34 yards, 2:35 elapsed 
TEMPLE 10, NOTRE DAME 7 
brandon shippen 12-yard pass from p.J.walker (Jones kick) 
6:17 remaining 

Drive: Eight play, 94 yards, 2:54 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 14, TEMPLE 10 
kizer 79-yard run (yoon kick) 
4:51remaining 

Drive: Three plays, 88 yards, 1:19 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 17, TEMPLE 10 
yoon 23-yard field goal 
7:03remaining 

Drive: 15 plays, 80 yards, 5:54 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 17, TEMPLE 17 
Jahad Thomas 1-yard run (Jones kick) 
10:51remaining 

Drive: 14 plays, 78 yards, 7:21 elapsed 
TEMPLE 20, NOTRE DAME 17 
Jones 36-yard field goal 
4:45remaining 

Drive: Eight plays, 42 yards, 3:48 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 24, TEMPLE 20 
will Fuller 17-yard pass from kizer (yoon kick) 
2:09remaining 

Drive: Six plays, 75 yards, 2:36 elapsed 
STATISTICS 


RUSHING YARDS  
168  
107  
PASSING YARDS  
299  
188  



The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


ZACH LLORENS | The Observer 

Irish freshman tight end Alizé Jones stiff arms Temple redshirt junior defensive back Nate L. Smith on a 45-yard gain during Notre Dame’s game-winning drive Saturday in a 24-20 victory over Temple at Philadelphia’s Lincoln Financial Field. It was Jones’ only reception of the night, but it put the Irish in position to win the game from the red zone. 
With ESPN’s College GameDay in Philadelphia, all eyes were on 
Lincoln Financial Field for college football’s only top-25 matchup Saturday. No. 9 Notre Dame trailed late, but a Will Fuller 
OVERCOMING 
touchdown reception with 2:09 left pushed the Irish past No. 21 Temple. It was the second time Fuller and DeShone Kizer connected 
THE OWLS 
for a game-winning, fourth-quarter touchdown this season. 





The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
scene writer 

when “you’re the worst” premiered last fall on FX, it was one of a handful of rom-sitcoms trying to revive romance on the small screen. attempting to dif­ferentiate itself from its sincere net­work counterparts, “you’re the worst” marketed itself as an acerbic show about terrible, self-absorbed people. its theme song sets up the expectation of a cynical worldview when it comes to love: “i’m gonna leave you anyway” goes its only lyric. 
The show’s premise seemed to con­firm that this wasn’t a typical roman­tic comedy. in the pilot, Jimmy (chris geere) and gretchen (aya cash) meet over cigarettes at his ex-girlfriend’s wedding and bond over their mu­tual contempt for matrimony. Jimmy, a british writer with one middling novel under his belt, and gretchen, a music publicist representing an odd Future-like rap group, initially pledge to keep things casual between them. both share a caustic narcissism and a bullheaded commitment to alienating those around them, seemingly preclud­ing the blossoming of any real romance beyond the obvious sexual chemistry. 
By KELLY McGARRY 
scene writer 

Third coast percussion has been pushing the limits of percussion perfor­mance for the past decade. during their performance at debartolo performing arts center on Friday, the chicago­based group pushed those boundaries even father. 
The group is currently the ensem­ble-in-residence at notre dame. it commissions new works by compos­ers and engage with the south bend community as well as the student body during its time on campus. recently the group has collaborated with the college of engineering for a project which challenges students to develop new instruments. 
Third coast percussion merges the energy of rock and dance music with the precision and innovation of clas­sical compositions. while the typical college student in me can’t help but be­lieve that parts of Friday’s performance 
over the course of the first season, however, “you’re the worst” revealed itself to be a deeply sincere series at its core — under their cynical facades, Jimmy and gretchen find themselves earnestly falling for each other. The end of the first season has the rough outline of a nora ephron rom-com, with Jimmy asking gretchen to move in with him (albeit after she acciden­tally burns down her apartment com­plex). “There is horrible sadness and pain coming, and we’re inviting it,” gretchen predicts, but she agrees any­way — they’re going to try to make it work, buoyed only by the belief that the high will hopefully be worth the pain. 
The show’s excellent second season has plunged right into what is often dangerous territory for a sitcom: what happens after the will-they-won’t-they couple decides they will. people still complain that “The office” went down­hill after Jim and pam got together, and the fourth season of “new girl” hit re­set on the nick and Jess coupling after it nearly derailed the show completely. The prevailing logic is that there are more laughs to be mined from sexual tension than from settling down. 
This season’s premiere finds Jimmy and gretchen grappling with the same 
would be better received at a festival, i found it challenging to refrain from dancing along. nevertheless, most of their work is better appreciated in a re­fined venue. 
a part of Friday’s performance, “a sound uttered, a silence crossed,” is a piece unlike any other. integrating the choral performance of notre dame’s collegium musicum with the unique percussion of Third coast, the result was overwhelmingly relatable and ag­gressively emotional. The work explores the human desire to communicate and connect, tracing the relationship with language throughout a lifetime. 
The music itself was innovative, in­volving the use of unconventional in­strumentation such as blowing into a seashell, swinging a tube in circles, us­ing a typewriter and outlining letters on a drum face. The underlying music, played on conventional drums and xy­lophones, drove a feeling of increasing tension. 
one of the many facets of the exact problem, worried about falling into a mundane routine now that they live together. They predictably course-correct too far in the other direction, exhausting themselves with whiskey-and-cocaine-fueled benders in their attempt to stave off boring coupledom. by the end of the week, they realize this lifestyle isn’t sustainable, but gretchen still worries they’ll become boring “sweater people.” “gretch, we couldn’t be one of the sweater people even if we wore, like, ten cardigans each,” Jimmy reassures her. 
The second season of “you’re the worst,” likewise, refuses to settle, ex­ploring what comes after the happy ending in a rom-com — the difficult work of making a relationship work 
— while remaining riotously funny. The show’s dramatic and comedic strains collided most explosively in “There is not currently a problem,” which is per­haps the best episode of the show’s run. Jimmy, gretchen and their friends are trapped in his house due to traffic from the la marathon, with grechen in par­ticularly becoming increasingly frus­trated from being cooped up all day. The tension eventually leads to an out­burst from gretchen, who lobs insults at all her friends, which would be funny 
composition required audience mem­bers to pull out their phones — a hugely important modern form of communi­cation. an extra layer of a part of the piece could be heard through the phone when you called in a certain number. Typically, using our phones requires us to block out the sounds coming from the outside world, but the coordination of sounds coming from the phone and from the stage created a profound and connected experience. 
The most unique part of the perfor­mance was the text that was projected above the stage. it included partially incoherent bits of statements demon­strating different life experiences, from learning to talk to writing letters to the desire to connect with those who have passed. The demonstration of confu­sion and limitation of language that was brought about by the text was a hugely impactful part of the piece. The result was disturbing, and i found my­self not quite ready to applaud after the abrupt conclusion. most people don’t if they weren’t so extremely cruel. 

This meltdown leads to gretchen revealing to Jimmy that she suffers from clinical depression, in an emmy­worthy performance from cash. “so the only thing i need from you is to not make a big deal of it,” she tells him, “and be okay with how i am and the fact that you can’t fix me.” by the next episode, however, Jimmy’s already ig­noring gretchen’s plea to not to try to fix her, planning a “sunday Funday” full of fun activities to get her out of her funk. when he gets upset that she’s not grateful for his efforts, she decides to pretend that he has fixed her after all. 
it’s unclear how long gretchen can continue lying about her depression 
— it reveals a growing rift between her and Jimmy. but in its second season, the show has done a masterful job ex­ploring the difficult task of keeping a relationship together, especially when one person suffers from depression. maybe they’ll leave each other any­way in the end, but “you’re the worst” will undoubtedly continue to be both uproariously funny and unflinchingly human. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at mmunhall@nd.edu 
enter a percussion show expecting to be brought to tears. 
The performance closed with an in­teresting piece in which the four per­cussionists shared one vibraphone, requiring meticulous coordination. The performance of “blindnesses” in­volved delicate and sensual motions like sliding a mallet or finger along the key. “being close to someone can mean agreeing not to see parts of them, and in some sense ‘blindnesses’ is about the absences that this mutual under­standing contains,” isaac shankler, the piece’s composer, said. 
The overwhelming accomplishment of this performance was to elicit an in­tense emotional response from the au­dience, involving pieces that were both beautiful and unsettling. its unique­ness alludes to an exciting future for percussion performance at notre dame. 
Contact Kelly McGarry at kmcgarry@nd.edu 

SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 


The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie 

JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson 


SUDOKU | The mepham group 


FOR SALE 
Executive family home in the country on 10 acres finished pole barn 5 bed 3 ½ bath Edwardsburg schools 68620 Leet Rd. Niles, MI 269-684-0885 $354,900 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
“But Thanksgiving is more than eating, Chuck. You heard what Linus was saying out there. Those pilgrims were thank­ful for what had happened to them, and we should be thank­ful, too. We should just be thankful for being together. I think that’s what they mean by Thanksgiving, Charlie Brown. Thanksgiving is a very important holiday. Ours was the first country in the world to make a national holiday to give thanks.” 
- A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: be a participant and gather information. The experience you gain by interacting with people from different backgrounds or traveling to unusual destinations will lead to improvements at work and in your personal life. make changes that will boost your emotional state of mind and your relationship with the people you care about most. money will come from an unexpected source. your numbers are 2, 9, 17, 26, 28, 38, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t let your emotions take over, causing you to make a fuss you’ll regret. Focus on personal changes you can make to ensure you are at your best. check out job postings and update your resume to fit a position of interest. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): reunite with friends or relatives. a reunion will bring back memories that will help you understand the personal or professional choices you made a long time ago. romance is in the stars and will lead to an intriguing offer. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): put your thoughts on paper. network or get together with people who are working in a field that interests you. someone you have done business with in the past will tell you about a position that can benefit you financially. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Follow a creative dream. present what you have to offer and fine-tune your project according to the feedback you receive. you are on to something that has the potential to boost your reputation and your income. romance will enhance your personal life. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): listen to the people you live with and acknowledge any complaints, suggestions or offers that will improve your relationships and your surroundings. your input will be valued and raise your popularity. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): social events will lead to new friendships with people you can benefit from by association. don’t let someone you live with limit you or put you down. have confidence in your abilities, skills and experience. participate instead of standing on the sidelines. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): emotional situations will escalate if you discuss your feelings with someone you are in a relationship with. bide your time and keep your distance until you’re sure you will be diplomatic enough to avoid saying something you’ll regret. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): put love and romance at the top of your list. plan something unique and you will improve your relationships, bringing about interesting plans and opportunities. a day trip will bring you closer together. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): keep your personal life private. someone will use whatever information you divulge against you. deception and disillusionment will occur if you are too trusting or self-indulgent. don’t intervene in someone else’s affairs. Focus on your home and family. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): a windfall or financial opportunity is heading your way. discussing your plans with someone who is a big part of your life will lead to positive decisions that will have an impact on your future. iron out all the details first. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): prepare to make last-minute alterations before you put a plan into motion. if you aren’t happy about something, do your best to address it before making a commitment. use a past experience as your guideline. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): make an effort to fulfill your dreams. if you enjoy doing something, find a way to turn it into a moneymaker. keep the people you love involved in your pursuit and share your victories together. children will have an impact on your life. 

Birthday Baby: you are perceptive, helpful and unique. you are sensitive and creative. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to:         The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed is $75 for one semester 
enclosed is $130 for one academic year name 
address 

city  state  Zip 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

November will clear uncertainty 

Alex Carson 
associate sports editor 
i’m going to start my col­umn like you might expect an eighth-grade term paper to start: 
F. scott Fitzgerald, author of one of the greatest books of all time, once said, “The test of a first-rate intelligence is the ability to hold two op­posed ideas in the mind at the same time and still retain the ability to function.” 
and after nine weeks of the college football season, i’m holding two opposed ideas in my mind. 
on one hand, i’m convinced there’s not a “really good” team in college football this year — each squad in the country has obvious flaws, unlike the dominant alabama or usc teams we saw reign throughout the last 10 years. 
but on the other one, there are still 11 unbeaten teams left in the Fbs entering november, eight of which are from “power Five” confer­ences. That’s an insanely high number that would seem to suggest there’s a slew of good teams in college football this year rather than a dearth of them. 
which is it? 
let's take a look at last season, where enter­ing november, there were just three teams in col­lege football left without a loss — mississippi state, Florida state and marshall. The seminoles survived a test against notre dame in october, and the bulldogs beat lsu, Texas a&m and auburn in consecutive weeks before november hit. 
amongst the one-loss teams, you had plenty of conclusive, important re­sults — ole miss topped alabama, baylor came from behind to beat Tcu, oregon beat michigan state, arizona knocked off oregon and auburn beat kansas state. add the Florida state/notre dame and mississippi state/ auburn results, and you’d already had an abundance of games between teams who entered november as one-loss or unbeaten teams. 
by the time the leaves had fallen, it felt like a legitimate season. 
but look at this year — it’s been filled with generally apathetic games to this point, with most teams’ schedules appearing to be backloaded. no. 1 ohio state’s best win? penn state, i suppose. no. 2 baylor’s is probably Texas Tech, and the same can be said about the other two big 12 unbeatens, no. 5 Tcu and no. 12 oklahoma state. 
no. 10 iowa’s best win is northwestern, while no. 6 michigan state’s best win is over a two-loss no. 16 michigan squad. 
Just a pair of undefeated teams — no. 4 lsu, who beat no. 11 Florida, and no. 3 clemson, who beat no. 8 notre dame — have wins over one-loss teams; and the num­ber of major one-loss squads who can say the same? one. Those same irish, who beat navy three weeks ago and no. 23 Temple on saturday. 
The point? 
There simply haven’t been many big games on the docket yet this year in college foot­ball. michigan state’s early-season contest with oregon looks inconsequential now, while michigan’s losses to the spartans and no. 13 utah are amongst the biggest games to this point. 
so thank you, november, for coming to the rescue. 
This saturday alone, we’ll see three marquee games, as no. 17 Florida state vis­its clemson, Tcu heads to oklahoma state and lsu goes to no. 7 alabama. That's three games that’ll have legitimate playoff implications, no mat­ter the result. 
no. 14 oklahoma’s trip to baylor will headline action nov. 14, while nov. 21’s slate looks really nice: michigan state visits ohio state, the four contenders in the big 12 play each other, and lsu’s trip to no. 19 mississippi could decide the sec west. 
Then the weekend after Thanksgiving comes — Tcu hosts baylor on Friday, while we’ll be treated to the bedlam series (oklahoma-oklahoma state), Florida state at Florida, ohio state’s trip to the big house and a potential “play-in” game between notre dame and no. 9 stanford. 
Throw in december’s con­ference title games, and so much of it is left to be decided on the field between now and the end of the year. 
so about that concept of a first-rate intelligence. 
i’ve got these two opposing viewpoints in my head: is ev­eryone good? is nobody good? 
and i’m content with not retaining the ability to function. 
because right now, there’s simply not enough evidence to do so. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL | seahawks 13, cowboys 12 

wilson leads seattle past dallas in low-scoring affair 
Associated Press 
arlingTon, Texas — The defending nFc champion seattle seahawks are back to .500. 
and the dallas cowboys are running out of time to find a way to win without Tony romo. 
russell wilson had a scor­ing pass for the game's only touchdown and directed a late drive to the winning field goal, leading the seahawks over the cowboys 13-12 sunday. 
The defending nFc cham­pions (4-4) are back to .500 af­ter an 0-2 start. The cowboys (2-5) lost their fifth straight without romo in dez bryant's return from a five-game ab­sence with a broken right foot. 
The seahawks started the decisive drive at their 15, with wilson converting three third downs capped by a scram­ble that helped run the clock before steven hauschka's 24-yard field goal with 1:06 remaining. 
seattle receiver ricardo lockette had an injury scare and came away with a concus­sion and was moving his ex­tremities after a vicious block by Jeff heath on a punt return. lockette was carted off the field after a lengthy delay. 
The dallas offense, held without a touchdown for the second time in five games without romo, didn't take ad­vantage of two good chances in the fourth quarter. 

First, the cowboys settled for a field goal after defensive end greg hardy tipped a pass from wilson and intercepted it — the first takeaway in five games for dallas. The only thing that kept him from scor­ing was wilson's arm tackle around the ankles the seattle 
16. Three plays later, dallas got dan bailey's fourth field goal and a 12-10 lead. 
after david irving blocked hauschka's potential go-ahead field goal, the cowboys couldn't get a first down on three runs by darren mcFadden, who had 64 yards on 20 carries. 
wilson, who was 19 of 30 for 210 yards, started the win­ning drive by finding Jimmy graham, who had game highs of seven catches for 75 yards, on third down. later facing third-and-7, wilson beat barry church to the corner and dived for the first down to al­low seattle to run more clock. 
with just over a minute to work with, the dallas of­fense fizzled again. cassel was sacked by bruce irvin on third down and went down again on what appeared to be the final play of the game. instead, be­cause of a false start, dallas got one more shot on fourth­and-16 with 12 seconds re­maining. cassel's heave along the sideline was broken up. 
cassel was 13 of 25 for 97 yards in his second start in place of romo, who will miss at least two more games with a broken left collarbone. brandon weeden lost the first three starts. 
bryant had two catches for 12 yards in his first game since the opener. mostly shadowed by richard sherman, he didn't have his first catch until the third quarter, and sherman promptly dropped him for a 3-yard loss. he had a 15-yarder a short time later. 
lockette's injury was a scary and tense moment for both teams, with some seattle play­ers appearing upset at heath. 
lockette was running downfield and appeared to be engaged with another player before he turned and ran into the block by heath. lockette immediately slumped to the ground on his side and ap­peared to be unconscious when trainers and medical officials quickly attended to him. 
after lockette was put on a stretcher and loaded onto a motorized cart several min­utes later, the receiver's face-mask had been removed from his helmet. he could be seen talking while moving both hands. he pointed his right hand toward his seattle team­mates on the sideline. 
heath was penalized for a blind-side hit, though replays showed the contact was with the players facing each other. and to the upper body. 
NHL | lighTning 4, hurricanes 3 

Lightning snap four-game losing streak on road 
Associated Press 
raleigh, n.c. — ryan callahan and steven stamkos scored in the second period to give Tampa bay the lead and the lightning beat the carolina hurricanes 4-3 sunday night. 
J.T. brown and Tyler Johnson scored in the third to help Tampa bay snap a four-game losing streak and beat carolina for the 10th time in the last 12 meetings. andrei vasilevsky finished with 31 saves in his first appearance of the season, and nikita kucherov had two assists. 
eric staal, kris versteeg and Jordan staal scored for the hurricanes, who snapped a three-game winning streak. cam ward stopped 27 shots and victor rask had three assists. 
callahan tied it 38 seconds into the second, beating ward stick side on a cross-ice pass from andrej palat. stamkos gave the lightning a 2-1 lead with 1:06 left in the period on a shot from the left post that rocketed over ward's right shoulder for his sixth of the season. 

brown made it 3-1 at 4:07 of the third, nicking the puck off the far post on a backhander from the left side. Johnson made it a three-goal gane with 
10:44 left. 

versteeg's snap shot pulled carolina within two with about 4 1/2 minutes to go and Jordan staal closed the scoring with less than 1 second left for his first of the season. 
carolina led 1-0 after the first period despite being out-shot 10-6. eric staal got the hurricanes on the board on the power play at with 4:53 left in the first, flipping a back­hander under vasilevsky from the left doorstep. 
noTes: The hurricanes have two more games left in their four-game homestand, beginning with Friday's game against dallas. ... it was the opener of a four-game road trip for Tampa bay, with the second on Tuesday at detroit. ... The attendance was announced at 9,081. ... c Joakim nordstrom (lower body) missed his ninth straight game for carolina, while Tampa bay lw Jonathan drouin (lower back) missed his third straight. ... The game marked the first time Tampa bay lw Tye mcginn and his younger brother carolina rookie brock had played on opposite teams in a high-level hockey game. They had never squared off in an nhl, ahl or chl contest. ... The teams play two more times. this season, on Feb. 21 back here in raleigh and march 5 at Tampa. 


The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S SWIMMING & DIVING | nd 174, michigan sTaTe 69 
Irish defeat Spartans in first dual meet 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 
in its first dual meet of the season, notre dame defeated michigan state 174-69 Friday night at rolfs aquatic center. 
The irish got off to a strong start from the beginning, with notre dame taking each of the top five spots in the 400­yard medley relay, the first men’s event of the evening. The winning relay team of se­nior bogac ayhan, freshman Zachary stump, sophomore Justin plaschka and freshman Tabahn afrik finished with a time of 3:19.74. 
in the 1,000-yard freestyle, freshman connor brown won with a time of 9:33.38, while sophomore richard mannix 
(9:34.12) and freshman steven shek (9:34.44) completed an all-irish podium in the second event of the night. 
Junior reed Fujan finished with a final time of 1:41.17 to win the 200-yard freestyle in the next event and once more, notre dame swept the podium as senior michael hudspith fin­ished in second (1:41.55) and junior Trent Jackson finished to place third (1:43.37). 
“we had some good energy,” notre dame head coach matt Tallman said. “it’s good to get our first dual meet under our belt and help set the tone for the rest of the season. i think some guys were excited about putting up some good times but we know we got some work to do still.” 
in the 50-yard freestyle, plaschka finished with a final time of 20.51 to win, freshman daniel speers finished second with a final time of 20.94 — though michigan state soph­omore nick leshok snapped notre dame’s sweep streak by taking third. 
as the meet progressed, the irish continued to dominate — junior Tom anderson won the 400-yard individual medley, clocking in 4:02.31, freshman matthew grauslys won the 200-yard butterfly with a time of 1:49.97, afrik took home top spot in 100-yard freestyle in 45.38, and sophomore robert whitacre won the 200-yard backstroke in 1:51.38 to keep notre dame’s win streak in the pool alive. 
on a big day for notre dame, 


Tallman said despite the dominant win, his team still has areas to improve in. 
“we keep messing up on a lot of the little things that, at the end of the year when it mat­ters most, are going to play a huge role either positively or negatively whether we execute correctly,” Tallman said. “i told them not to be satisfied, work on the little things. it was a good way to get the season started but next week is a new competition, and they’re going to be ready for us.” 

The irish are back in action this Friday and saturday on their first road meet, against pittsburgh and virginia Tech, at christiansburg aquatic center in christiansburg, virginia. 
Contact Michael Ivey at  mivey@hcc-nd.edu 

Tallman said he was most impressed with the distance swimmers. 
“our distance guys as a whole had some times that were better than they have had in previous seasons in those events across the board,” Tallman said. “i would say the distance crew as a whole were probably the best guys today. The [1,000-yard free] was re­ally good to have our guys fin­ish one, two, three in an event that traditionally we haven’t been great in was really good, and i thought that put us in a good place.” 
michigan state won the next two events to halt notre dame’s win streak in the pool, but the irish 200-yard free­style relay team restored order in the final swimming event: plaschka, afrik, speers and junior kevin bradley swam a 
1:21.92 to put notre dame back in the win column to close the meet. 
in diving, junior James lichtenstein won the 1-meter with a score of 318.82, while sophomore peter myers won the 3-meter with a 363.08 score. 
paid adverTisemenT 



W Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
bringing in sophomore de­fender ginny mcgowan. 
The substitution proved to be key, as mcgowan placed a shot past smith in the 73rd minute off a cross from se­nior defender brittany von rueden to put notre dame ahead 1-0. 
romagnolo said her de­cision to put mcgowan in the game had to do with mcgowan’s experience in key situations. 
“ginny’s played a lot for us this year,” romagnolo said. “she has a lot of valuable ex­perience and she’s a great defender, she can attack. she came in and obviously was ready to come in and have an impact. [i] love seeing people ready to step in and get it done.” 
The goal turned out to be the turning point of the game for the irish. Twenty-three seconds later, gilbertson blasted a free kick into the upper-right corner of the net to give notre dame a 2-0 lead. 
even after going up two goals, the irish continued to pepper virginia Tech with shots. with 30 seconds left in the game, gilbertson notched her second goal of the night on a cross from Flores to make the final score 3-0. 
gilbertson said scoring two goals in what might be the last home game of her career was a special experience. 
“it means a lot to me,” gilbertson said. “i’m so happy i could do that for my class and for this team. i think that this team is hon­estly national-championship caliber. ... i was proud of ev­eryone tonight, we played outstanding.” 
The irish will not make the acc tournament. however, they are expected to make the field for the ncaa tournament. 
gilbertson said the team will use the break to begin preparing for the gauntlet ahead. 
“we’ll take these days off to rest,” gilbertson said. “Take care of our bodies, take some ice baths, whatever it takes to get your body ready again for Tuesday practice. 
“ … it’s tournament time, there’s no holding back. we just have to go at believing in ourselves 100 percent.” 
The irish will learn their fate next monday at 4:30 p.m., when the ncaa tournament field will be unveiled. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 



M Basketball 
conTinued From page 16 
4-for-5 from the field, said. “i don’t want to admit that i look to pass first, but i like getting my teammates involved. That’s something i’ve always done. if i’m open i’m going to take the shot. i’m going to do whatever it takes to put the ball in the bas­ket, whether that’s by myself or setting my teammates up.” 
while the irish began the game with their expected starting five on the floor — Jackson, vasturia, junior forward v.J. beachem, colson and senior forward Zach auguste — it didn’t take long for head coach mike brey to go to his bench. sophomore forward martinas geben was the first off the bench when auguste picked up his second foul just three minutes and 10 seconds into the game, while Farrell checked in shortly thereafter. 
all 12 scholarship players saw action in the first half, which the irish finished on a 36-8 run for a 42-19 halftime advantage. 
The second half featured much of the same — all 12 schol­arship players saw significant time on the floor, as the irish maintained their lead, holding a 45-37 advantage in the sec­ond half en route to the 31-point victory. 
brey said he got a solid perfor­mance out of his reserves today and noted the rotation still isn’t set for the regular season. 
“The blueshirts played tonight in the game like they played in practice,” brey said. “i was really pleased with how they played. 
“ … we’ve got a lot to work with and a little bit more time to figure out what our rotation is but i thought the guys got in there and did what they were supposed to do.” 
while the irish turned the ball over 15 times, Jackson said se­curing the ball isn’t an area of concern after just one exhibition. 
“obviously, we take pride in taking care of the ball,” Jackson said. “guys were just really excited to get out there, espe­cially myself, just to get out there and play. our team’s a work in progress, so we’re going to con­tinue to get better in that aspect, but i don’t think it’s a worry right now. we just need to clean it up and be sharp, and as the games keep going and as we keep get­ting better, those things will fix themselves.” 
The irish were, however, solid on the offensive glass, posting a 
44.1 percent offensive rebound rate (15-for-34) in the exhibition opener. 
all three scholarship fresh­men, guard rex pflueger and forwards matt ryan and elijah burns, saw action for the irish. 
“it was just nice to play against somebody else,” ryan said. “we dominated the glass, we played together … i think we made some progress today.” 
last year the irish start­ed guard/forward pat connaughton at the “stretch four” power forward position, and brey said this year’s per­sonnel factors a little different 
— colson has moved into the four spot in the starting lineup, affecting the spacing in notre dame’s offense. 
“we are still a work in prog­ress on how Zach (auguste) and bonzie (colson) space off of each other,” brey said. “but as you saw tonight we subbed a couple of times, and we got to one big guy. is it matt ryan or v.J. beachem in your pat connaughton spot where you really stretch? it’s good to downshift sometimes. That’s why i’m encouraged when a matt Farrell is doing well, because he goes in and we can downshift. with matt ryan or rex pflueger, we can also down­shift when those guys go in.” 
notre dame is back in ac­tion Thursday at 7 p.m., when it hosts caldwell in another exhibition, before starting its regular season nov. 13 at purcell pavilion against st. Francis (pennsylvania). 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu 


 Observer File Photo 

Junior guard Demetrius Jackson drives to the basket during Notre Dame’s 65-60 loss to Syracuse on Feb. 25 at Purcell Pavilion. 
Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
vision to the shots that did make it through. 
while the first game of the weekend remained close throughout, the irish quick­ly asserted themselves in the second matchup. notre dame scored three even-strength goals in the first period and never let the huskies within striking dis­tance on the way to a 8-2 rout to secure the series sweep. 
senior alternate captain and center Thomas dipauli led the irish in scoring with an explosive afternoon, tal­lying a goal and three as­sists on the way to accruing a plus-five rating. This out­burst came despite a very ag­gressive huskies squad that came out seeking their first lead of the series, according to Jackson. 
“we were fortunate to jump on them early and it gave us some life,” Jackson said. “The first couple of shifts they were all over us. once we scored that first goal, we loosened up and started playing the way we want to play — good transi­tions and fast out of our own end.” 
Jackson said the game the first full effort he has seen from his squad this season. 
“we made some prog­ress today,” Jackson said. “i thought we played a 60-min­ute hockey game for the first power-play chances sunday, extending their penalty-kill streak. 


notre dame returns home this weekend for a pair of nonconference home games against minnesota on Friday and saturday. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 


time this season, and our special teams have been a real positive for us. all four lines played and when all four lines are playing, that means we are playing well 
– staying out of the penalty box, rolling four lines and finishing with speed.” 
The irish also managed to kill off all four of uconn’s 
paid adverTisemenT 




paid adverTisemenT 


M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
is the cutting edge of the sea­son, so hopefully we’ve got a lot of unfinished business to still take care of. 
“our seniors have been a fan­tastic group for our four years and i’d like them to finish with something tangible this year, because they’ve finished with something tangible in previous years. This was a good end and a good start, because it was the end of something for this class, but it was also the start of the next phase.” 
The irish thought they had the first goal of the game in the 14th minute. a piece of skill from sophomore forward Jon gallagher let him past a defender and into the box, where he played a square ball toward junior mid­fielder oliver harris. pittsburgh senior goalkeeper dan lynd got a touch to the ball, but harris still had no problem knocking it into the empty net. however, af­ter much deliberation among the officials, the goal was waved off due to an offside that occurred almost a minute earlier. 
it didn’t take long for the irish to make up that lost goal though, as four minutes later, a pass from senior midfielder evan panken set gallagher free with only lynd to beat. lynd left his penalty area to challenge the forward, but gallagher rounded him with ease and tapped the ball into the open goal. 
The irish had chances to widen their lead in the first half, includ­ing a cross from senior defender michael shipp to harris, but with most of the goal to aim at, the midfielder shot wide. 
as the second half began, heavy rain began to fall and the irish opened up the flood­gates with three goals in a two-minute run starting in the 55th minute. The flurry began with a cross from graduate student de­fender max lachowecki on the left wing, which went over most of the bodies in a crowded box to find panken on the run and unmarked. panken headed the ball straight down into the bot­tom left-hand corner of the net to make the score 2-0. 
“i definitely needed one, i hadn’t scored in a while,” panken said. “max, he got to the end line, and he whipped a good ball in and i just did my best to make to the back post and tried to get it on frame and i was lucky enough for it to go in, so that was a good feeling.” 

Just a minute later, senior mid­fielder patrick hodan sent a cor­ner to junior defender brandon aubrey on the back post. aubrey had time to take a touch and shoot, and despite a heavy de­flection off a panthers defender, the ball went in. 
The irish extended their lead again fewer than 30 seconds af­ter kickoff. a pass from shipp gave junior midfielder/forward mark gormley the ball in the box, and he tapped the ball past a defender before slotting it into lynd’s near post. 
“i think it could have happened any time,” clark said of the scor­ing outburst. “i think there were a lot of close chances in the first half, and it could have happened any time in the first half. we had 10 shots to one in the first half, it could have happened in the first half just as easily, but it didn’t. Then once you get the second goal, you can break their resis­tance. They lost their enthusi­asm when the second goal went in. when it’s a one-goal game they’ll always hang in there, there’s always a chance, but once it goes to two that was it, and [at] three they’ve given up almost.” 
notre dame was still not fin­ished, however. gallagher, re­turning to the field from the bench, again found himself on the end of a pass and dribbled the ball around lynd, but this time his shot from an angle could only hit the post. sophomore for­ward Jeffrey Farina was perfectly placed for the rebound though and needed little more than to let the ball hit him to make the score 5-0 in the 68th minute. 
From there, the irish remained in control, not creating many more serious chances, but giving pittsburgh very little of the ball until the final whistle. 
with the win, notre dame clinched the no. 4 seed for the acc tournament, meaning a home game against fifth-seeded no. 18 virginia to open postsea­son play. The game will begin at 1 p.m. at alumni stadium on sunday. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S SOCCER | nd 5, piTTsburgh 0 
Notre Dame shuts out Pittsburgh on Senior Day 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
notre dame honored one of its most decorated senior classes in style, cruising to a 5-0 senior day victory over pittsburgh on saturday. 
The no. 14 irish (9-3-5, 4-2-2 acc) dominated the shot count for the game but only pulled away from the panthers (5-9-3, 0-7-1) early in the second half to record their largest victory and highest goal count of the season. 
irish head coach bobby clark praised his seven seniors, who won regular-season conference titles in both the big east and the acc, as well as a national champi­onship in 2013, but said he hoped the class can still add to their haul of hardware. 

“it’s been a great senior class,” clark said. “The team did well to­day, but hopefully there’s more to come for these guys. This is the end of the regular season, but this is the most important part of the season. obviously to get into the tournament is important, but this AMY ACKERMANN | The Observer 
Senior midfielder Connor Klekota looks to pass during Notre see m soccer PAGE 15 Dame’s 3-1 victory over Virginia on Sept. 25 at Alumni Stadium. 

irish knock off no. 5 hokies 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
notre dame’s top scorer, senior forward anna maria gilbertson, tallied her 10th and 11th goals of the season Friday to lead the no. 14 irish to a 3-0 victory over no. 5 virginia Tech on senior night. 
going into the matchup, the irish (13-4-1, 6-4-0 acc) knew a win would still not put them into the conference tourna­ment. nevertheless, notre dame came out of the gate strong and generated a major­ity of the offensive pressure early in the contest. Junior forward kaleigh olmsted got off a point-blank shot 10 minutes into the game, but hokies sophomore goalkeep­er kaylyn smith made a quick save. with 17 minutes to go in the half, freshman forward natalie Jacobs tallied a shot on goal, and two minutes later, senior defender katie naughton put a header just over the crossbar. 
irish head coach Theresa romagnolo said she was pleased with her team’s offen­sive effort in the first half. 

“we were moving the ball exceptionally well,” romagnolo said. “we were pinging it, people were mov­ing off the ball well, creating support for each other. we were running into dangerous spaces behind the back four and i think we just had a great mentality to attack.” 
The irish kept the momen­tum going into the second half against virginia Tech (14-3-2, 6-3-1), as Jacobs drew a corner kick and smith had to make another tough save right off the bat. 
play halted with 31 minutes left as virginia Tech fresh­man defender megan goudy was injured and taken off the field after she and Jacobs col­lided on another irish scoring opportunity. 
after the injury timeout, the pace of the game slowed, and romagnolo substituted for sophomore defender/mid­fielder sabrina Flores, 
see w soccer PAGE 13 

HOCKEY | nd 2, uconn 1; nd 8, uconn 2 
petersen, irish sweep huskies 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writer 
The irish offense came alive during its first weekend of hockey east play, as notre dame swept connecticut in a two-game weekend se­ries — first winning on the huskies’ home ice in hartford, connecticut, on saturday and then claiming a second victory at the barclays center in new york on sunday. 
The first of the two games, falling on halloween after­noon, was the more hotly-contested of the two, with the irish (3-1-2, 2-0-0 hockey east) needing a third-period goal by senior left winger sam herr to break the 1-1 tie and secure the victory for the irish. 
irish head coach Jeff Jackson praised the play of sopho­more goaltender cal petersen, who stopped 14 of 15 shots, on saturday. peterson would add 19 more saves the following day, bringing his regular sea­son save percentage to .913. 
“i thought cal petersen re­ally made a difference [on saturday], especially at the end,” Jackson said. “i always compare a goalie in the third period to a closer in baseball, you have to have that abil­ity to step up when the game is on the line, and he has shown that growth over the last six months.” 

sophomore defenseman Jordan gross also tallied his first goal of the season to break the game’s scoring open just 16 seconds into the second period during a four-on-two chance that originated in front of the irish’s own net. The goal marked gross’ second career power-play tally. 
The irish penalty kill, which had a shaky start during the preseason, has settled down 
— the irish are on a run of 21 consecutive successful pen­alty kills, including five in saturday’s game. The irish limited the huskies (3-4-0, 1-3­
0) to six shots in those five at­tempts, keeping pucks to the outside and protecting the slot to allow petersen clear lines of 
see hockey PAGE 14 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | nd 3, virginia Tech 0 MEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 87, sT. Francis (illinois) 56 
ND wins exhibition with balanced attack 

Observer File Photo 
Senior forward Zach Auguste shoots a layup during Notre Dame’s 69-65 win over Northeastern in the 2015 NCAA Tournament. 

By ALEX CARSON 
associate sports editor 
Four irish players hit double digits Friday night as no. 18 notre dame topped st. Francis (illinois), 87-56, in its exhibi­tion opener at purcell pavilion. 
sophomore forward bonzie colson led the irish with 12 points, while junior guards demetrius Jackson and steve vasturia and sophomore guard matt Farrell chipped in 10 apiece in the winning effort. 
Though the final score shows a blowout win for the irish, the first four minutes of the contest were far from it, as the Fighting saints jumped out to an 11-6 advantage just past the 16:00 mark of the first half. 
Farrell delivered a spark com­ing out of the media timeout, however, going 3-for-3 from the field for seven points in a four-minute span to help spur notre dame to a 17-0 run to put the irish ahead for good. 
“if i’m open, i’m going to take the shot,” Farrell, who finished 
see m baskeTball PAGE 14 







