tHe iNdepeNdeNt to uNcoVer Newspaper serViNg tHe trutH Notre daMe aNd aNd report saiNt Mary’s it accurately 

VoluMe 48, issue 88 | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2015 | NdsMcobserVer.coM 
Boxers prepare for 85th Bengal Bouts 
Tournament participants reflect on event’s significance, impact before preliminary rounds begin Sunday 
By PETER DURBIN 
News writer 
sunday marks the start of preliminary rounds for the 85th bengal bouts tourna­ment, held annually in the Joyce center Field House. 
For all participants, the long-running boxing tour­nament is an opportunity to raise money for Holy cross missions in bangladesh. For others, the fight goes farther. 
bengal bouts captain pete Mcginley said the tourna­ment, which is broadcast on espN3 for the final round, “combines elements of sport and service to create a really unique experience.” 
“like dominic ‘Nappy’ Napolitano [who organized the first tournament] once said, the beautiful part of bengal bouts is that while there are some students who join simply for the boxing, most of the boxers are there because they know that they are doing something good for someone else,” Mcginley said. 
Mcginley said he has seen marked improvement in how connected the boxers feel with the people they are aiding. 
“this year we started hav­ing ‘Mission Mondays’, which would typically feature one of our boxers who has gone to bangladesh either tell­ing stories from his experi­ence or just emphasizing 
see bouts PAGE 5 

WEI LIN | The Observer 
Andy Faustone (right) fights Jeffrey Wang in a round during last year’s Bengal Bouts. The Bouts benefit Holy Cross missions in Bangladesh. 



shakespeare acting group visits Nd classes 


SMC appoints laywoman as vice president of mission 
Fean will head the division life. 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 

associate saint Mary’s editor for Mission, working with Fean said she looks forward both the college and the to continuing to integrate Judith Fean, director 
the mission throughout the 


By MEGAN VALLEY 
News writer 

Members of the actors From the london stage (aFtls) group visited arts and letters classes at Notre dame this week, hold­ing workshops while they were on campus for their five-person performance of “Macbeth” this week. 
peter Holland, associate dean for the arts and professor of Film, television and theatre (Ftt), said Notre dame has been the united states home to aFtls for more than 15 years. 
“we had booked their tours to visit us regularly before that, but when they were looking to shift from their previous home, we were thrilled to be able to take it on,” he said. “we have the responsibility for creating 
see actors PAGE 5 
of saint Mary’s campus 

Ministry since 1995, will be 
the first laywoman to lead the 
college as vice president for 
mission. 

the vice president for mis­
sion position is a joint ap-college. 

“i’m excited to work with so 
many people who have been 
developing and living the mis­
sion,” Fean said. “the position 
also means continuing our re­
lationship with the sisters and 
assessing what it means to be a catholic women’s college in 
see FeaN PAGE 5 
pointment of the president of the college and the presi­dent of the congregation of the sisters of the Holy cross. 
congregation to integrate the saint Mary’s college mission statement into community 


Three employees injured after aerosol can ruptures 
Observer Staff Report 

three south dining Hall em­ployees sustained minor inju­ries thursday around 11 a.m. after an aerosol can ruptured in the kitchen of the dining hall, university spokesman dennis brown said. 
brown said the employees were transported to st. Joseph regional Medical center for evaluation after the incident, which occurred when the can was accidentally exposed to heat. 
brown said the kitchen was not damaged. 
director of Notre dame Food services chris abayasinghe said the dining hall’s response proce­dure is to coordinate with other campus departments, such as the Notre dame Fire department, Notre dame security police and risk Management, and to review the incident afterwards. 





ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, Notre dame, iN 46556 024 south dining Hall, Notre dame, iN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann Marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian Hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: Mary green Scene Editor: allie tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’Mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite class this semester? 

Jen Cimons 
sophomore 
lyons Hall 
“chemistry across the periodic table.” 

Reed Hunnicutt 
freshman 
Morrissey Manor 
“stats.” 

Stephanie Mellert 
freshman 
walsh Hall 
“econ.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



Sophia Buono 
freshman 
lyons Hall 

“pls great books seminar, where you read classic books and discuss them.” 

Luisa Mader 
freshman 
pasquerilla west Hall 

“developmental psychology.” 

Matthew Gambetta 
freshman knott Hall 
“econ.” 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
the observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 
dame du lac and saint Mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. the observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
the news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, Managing editor, assistant 
Managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of the observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 
the observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
the observer is published at: 
024 south dining Hall 
Notre dame, iN 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices 
postMaster 
send address corrections to: 
the observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
Notre dame, iN 46556-077 
the observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
emily Mcconville Mary green Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Madison Jaros Zach klonsinski clare kossler Matthew Mckenna 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
erin rice Miko Malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 

Cookie Decorating Men’s Lacrosse “Treasure Island” SonnetFest 2015 Men’s Basketball 
wei lin Mary kate luft 

LaFortune Student Loftus Sports Center DeBartolo Performing O’Shaughnessy Hall Purcell Pavilion Center 12 p.m. - 2 p.m. Arts Center 11 a.m. - 3 a.m. 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 3 p.m. - 4 p.m. The Irish take on 3 p.m. - 5:15 p.m. Public reading of all The Irish take on Wake 
Corrections 

Celebrate Valentine’s Georgetown. National Theatre Live. 154 Shakespearean Forest. the observer regards itself as Day with cookies. Sonnets. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
“Macbeth” Hockey Game Men’s Boxing Women’s Basketball Student Skate Night 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

Washington Hall Compton Family Ice Joyce Center Purcell Pavilion Compton Family Ice 
however, recognize that we will make 
7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Arena 3 p.m. - 6 p.m. 9 p.m. - 11 p.m. Arena 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Actors From the 8:05 p.m. - 10:05 p.m. 85th Annual Bengal The Irish take on Duke. 10 p.m. - 11:50 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
London Stage perform The Irish take on Bouts Preliminaries. Proceeds support 
we can correct our error. 

Shakespeare. Providence. Operation Smile. 


UN official examines global business ethics 
By MATTHEW McKENNA 
News writer 
Joan dubinsky, director of the united Nations ethics office, wrapped up the Mendoza college of business’s ethics week by shar­ing stories from her professional experience that contained lessons about business ethics in a world of mixed cultures and experiences. 
dubinsky said in today’s world, ethics must be clearly defined, and people must not have argu­ments about what ethics is. 
“ethics is about how we make tough choices,” dubinsky said. “or, put more eloquently, ethics is the set of criteria or principles that we use when selecting a course of action in the face of competing values.” 
dubinsky said honesty in business is important, and her field was recently created to en­sure that morality occupies the proper place in the realm of business. 
“we ethics officers, well, we’re the experimental philosophers,” dubinsky said. “we creatively solve everyday problems and challenges. we look at rights, du­ties and obligations. we consider the perspectives of multiple stake­holders, and we examine how to exercise moral judgment in the every day challenges of business.” 
dubinsky said while her partic­ular field of work is relatively new, it has roots in the early history of humanity and civilization. 
“the Hammurabi code of babylon dates roughly to 1772 b.c.e.,” dubinsky said. “it repre­sents, as far as archaeology can tell us, the first written evidence of a legal system. in today’s knowl­edge it’s a bit draconian, an eye for an eye. but it set forth basic prin­ciples of justice like the presump­tion of innocence or the right of the accused to give evidence or speak. 
“From this very early example, we learn that the rule of law mat­ters,” she said. “as part of the united Nations, we reinforce every day the importance of the rule of law, because in our world, might does not make right.” 
dubinsky said never to assume people share the same ethical realities because an individual’s perception of ethics can be influ­enced by culture and other factors. 
“we are guests in the world,” dubinsky said. “as imperfect as our world is, there might not always be a best, or even a good, answer to a moral choice that we face. 

“because we are an interna­tional and diverse organization, i have to ask if our conflicts of inter­est are absolute or if they are influ­enced by the countries in which they arise or by the nationality of the people in the drama,” she said. 
dubinsky said there is a fine line between a genuine gift and gift given for reasons other than generosity. 
“sometimes i wonder if you can you ever exchange gifts in a busi­ness setting without strings at­tached,” dubinsky said. “conflicts of interest are not always ab­solute, and detecting them re­quires a great deal of finesse and empathy.” 
ethical action is not always the obvious or easy solution, and it takes real courage and pru­dence to act in a moral fashion, dubinsky said. 
“your ethical compass, as a business person and citizen of the world, permeates your choic­es,” she said. “you hold a mirror through which you can reflect your ethical self, and my prayer for you is that this mirror is not distorted.” 
dubinsky said united Nations ethics is a “contact sport” that is not purely theoretical. 
“to do ethics, we must be will­ing to engage in the world as we find it, with all its imperfections, and not the world that we wish it to be,” dubinsky said. 
Contact Matthew McKenna at mmcken@nd.edu 

sMc to serve students’ favorite home recipes 
a Viewpoint copy editor for The experiencing other people’s favor-appreciates the effort that the din-“the best part of ‘recipes from 
By MARTHA REILLY 

News writer Observer] “i’m excited to show ite meals. ing hall staff has invested to make Home’ is that students can have 
students that dining services does “i was so excited when i first this new initiative a success. meals similar to what they eat at 
instead of complaining for a take their opinions and wants into heard about ‘recipes from Home,’” “by asking us our opinion, they home, which hopefully will make weekend away or a good night’s account when choosing what to Matthews said. “there will be such are incorporating the views and them happy,” she said. sleep at home, students can now serve.” a wide variety of foods presented. opinions of the student body,” with some of students favorite cure homesickness with a simple according to luft, the reaction everyone will get to try something Matthews said. “they are serving foods made available, luft hopes trip to the dining hall. saint Mary’s so far has been a positive one. new. a girl can only have so many the exact meals that we ask for and that students realize that the din-new “recipes from Home” initia-“Many people have come up to hamburgers.” trying to make us feel comfortable.” ing hall prioritizes their individual tive will introduce some students’ me and told me they are looking Matthews said “recipes from according to luft, that is requests. favorite foods to the rest of the forward to ‘recipes from Home,’” Home” will make her feel like she’s the whole purpose of this new “‘recipes from Home’ will per-school, as the dining hall will now luft said. “they think it’s a great at her own dining room table back approach. sonalize the dining hall for stu­serve a different requested meal idea. Many people have already in pennsylvania, but she mostly “part of being a college student is dents by giving them more of a say each month. submitted recipes.” looks forward to the surprise ele-complaining about the dining hall in the food that is served, which 
senior Mary kate luft presented First-year Morgan Matthews ment, since there is a new meal food, because it can’t compare to will hopefully provide them with this idea to barry bowles, director said she looks forward to trying each month. what we have at home,” luft said. a more positive and interactive ex-of dining services, last year. foods she normally would not. “i’m not going to know what to “barry bowles and i will choose perience in the dining hall,” luft 
“He was more than happy to although she hopes that her dad’s expect,” Matthews said. “it’ll add the recipe of the month based on said. work with sga and make these seafood medley will be one of the some excitement because it’s more the viability of it to be prepared in special meals of our choosing,” featured “recipes from Home,” of a mystery.” the dining hall and what we think Contact Martha Reilly at luft said. [Editor’s note: Luft is she also recognizes the value of Matthews also said she students would most enjoy. mreilly01@nd.edu 
paid adVertiseMeNt 




tHe obserVer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2015 | NdsMcobserVer.coM 
professor examines prevention of civil wars 
By MADISON JAROS 
News writer 
in a talk thursday, professor of political science at university of colorado boulder Jaroslav tir said preventing civil war and the hor­rors that come with it require a change of perception. 
academia’s study of civil war is often not as in-depth as its study of interstate war, which leads many ex­perts to overlook the most important aspects of these conflicts, tir said. 
“we [tir and colleague Johannes karreth] think of civil wars as not just something where you pull a switch, flip a trigger of some sort and then you suddenly have a civil war,” he said. “this is something that is actually a process that builds up over time. so we’re thinking about looking at civil wars from a developmental perspective. 
“incidentally, this has been done in the context of interstate war, but it hasn’t really been applied before to civil war all that much.” 

tir said the goal of his research was to find the most effective way to prevent civil wars from breaking out because ending the violence of war is much more difficult once the fighting begins. 
“some of the consequences of civil wars actually turn out to be predictors of civil wars as well, which means that countries that have experienced one civil war find themselves in this business of what’s called a civil war trap, or a conflict trap,” tir said. “… basically, Ms. taylor swift would be disap­pointed by these countries that cannot just ‘shake it off’ and that get caught over and over again [in civil war].” 
tir said one reason nations con­tinue to fall into civil war is because of the distrust between civil war rebels and the governments they are fighting against. tir described this lack of trust as the “credible commitment problem,” which im­pedes peace efforts. 
“the rebels [in a civil war] worry and fear that the government won’t hold up its end of the bargain, and this is the story why peace deals may be difficult to reach or why they ultimately fall apart,” tir said. “… so if we’re going to come up with a way to prevent civil wars, we have to tackle this really tricky problem.” 
while traditional intergovern­mental organizations (igos) often lack the tools to influence their member states’ policies, particular organizations known as highly-structured intergovernmental or­ganizations (Hsigos) hold the key to tackling the credible commit­ment problem and preventing civil war, tir said. 
“what it takes to qualify as one of these highly-structured igos is that they have independent ad­ministrative monitoring bodies – which means the government of these member states can’t just shut the organization down if the organization is doing something the government doesn’t like,” he said. “so they have some author­ity, some oversight, basically, that is independent from the member governments.” 
these organizations, which include the world bank and the international Monetary Fund, are able to influence the political policy of member states because they pro­vide the aid on which many nations that struggle with conflict rely. this pushes governments to respond peacefully to rebel groups and even prevents violence from the rebel groups themselves, tir said. 
“if the rebels were to overplay their hand … what would happen is that these Hsigos would probably stop constraining the government or at least release some of their con­straints,” he said. “… so we argue that the rebels are actually better off playing along in this structure of interactions, which actually con­strains the government indirectly and the rebels as well, which basi­cally pushes their preferences to­ward peace and away from public escalation.” 
Contact Madison Jaros at  mjaros@nd.edu 





Author considers love in light of Christian teaching 
By GABRIELA MALESPIN 
News writer 
Jason evert, a speaker on chastity and virtue and author of books such as “How to Find your soul Mate without losing your soul,” offered a take on chastity, relationships and love to a packed audience at Jordan auditorium. 
the talk, sponsored by the Notre dame right to life and ti­tled “How to save your Marriage before Meeting your spouse,” focused on redefining the virtue of chastity for young adults who seek to form healthy romantic relationships. 
“Navigating the dating scene is obviously very tough,” he said. “what i’m proposing is a return to the concept of the virtue of chastity.” 
evert said while the contem­porary connotation of chastity frames it as a repressive attitude towards sex and sexuality, chas­tity is actually a virtue that, when practiced, liberates and ordains sexuality to god’s love. 
“chastity is a virtue like cour­age or honesty that applies to your sexuality,” evert said. “it does not eliminate your sexual desires; rather, what it does is it orders them according to the demands of human love. the purpose and function of it is to free the human person from a utilitarian attitude.” 
evert said working with with young adults showed him the de­sire young people have towards forming loving and healthy rela­tionships but also their inability to learn how to date and engage in romantic relationships in 
paid adVertiseMeNt 

light of christian teachings on abstinence and virtue. 
He said one problem in con­temporary dating lies in men’s lack of initiative in pursuing re­lationships with women. 
“what’s happening is today, we’re not initiating love. we’re either initiating lust, or we’re initiating nothing,” he said. “… it’s one thing to want this kind of love, but it’s not enough to want to find it. we need to know how to give it and how to receive it as 
well.”  
evert  said  women,  mean­ 
while,  feel  social  pressure  
against  developing  authentic  

relationships. He emphasized five points within his presenta­tion that addressed the prob­lems both men and women face when navigating contemporary dating. these points are enjoy­ing and understanding oneself in single life, looking for love from within, facing fear, cre­ating clear commitment and maintaining purity within relationships. 
evert said the distinction be­tween sexual desire and lust was important to understand­ing through what lens people should view men and women. according to evert, sexual de­sire is natural to men and wom­en, whereas lust is an unnatural perversion that impeded the ability to appreciate the person, and rather only appreciate the pleasure that could be derived from the person. He said absti­nence allows people to know and love the person as whole, and therefore stop lust. 
“what we learn through ab­stinence, is that abstinence is not about waiting to love your girlfriend, it is about loving that woman perfectly, by caring about her body, and her soul, in all eternity,” evert said. 
“when you grow in purity, you come to a greater awareness of the beauty of the human body, and that beauty becomes a light to your actions.” 
Contact Gabriela Malespin at gmalespi@nd.edu 

paid adVertiseMeNt 

Bouts 
coNtiNued FroM page 1 

the importance of the mis­sions,” Mcginley said. 
Mcglinley said a crucial part of bengal bouts’ re­lationship with the Holy cross missions is the international summer service learning program (isslp), which sends boxers to bangladesh every year. Freshman chris dethlefs, who will live in bangladesh this summer, said he hopes his experiences abroad will make him even more com­mitted to the club’s mission. 
“participating in the isslp will give me the chance to dedicate my­self more fully to the real purpose of bengal bouts, which is a fight for the poor and marginalized in bangladesh,” he said. 
dethlefs said he appreci­ates both the service aspect and the physical challenge of the tournament. 
“after a grueling workout and seeing how hard each individual was working, i could see that i was going to love the challenges the club presented,” dethlefs said. 
For junior chris bertini, the fight is personal. He said he was unable to com­pete his sophomore year because he was recovering from cancer, but he worked to regain strength for the 2015 tournament. 
“i was in terrible shape from my chemotherapy treatment four months pri­or, so i worked out on my own to get my fitness back,” he said. 
bertini said the tourna­ment is a way to show he has improved. 
“bengal bouts is my chance to prove to myself that i am capable of any­thing,” bertini said. 
in addition to its service component, Mcglinley said the tournament is a chance to connect with fellow stu­dents across grades – box­ers commonly hear about the club from older friends, and some even knew of the tournament while still in high school. 
“that’s one of my favorite parts of bengal bouts, the way that it allows older guys to connect with underclass­men, especially freshmen, and get them involved with a great team early on in the fall semester,” Mcginley said. 
bertini said he hopes ev­eryone attempts a chal­lenge on par with boxing at least once in his or her life. 
“you don’t know how strong you really are un­til you challenge yourself,” bertini said. “whether it be bengal bouts, running a marathon, a grueling aca­demic schedule or beating cancer.” 
tickets for bengal bouts can be purchased through the tournament’s website. student tickets cost $5, and a four-round season pass costs $20. 
Contact Peter Durbin at pdurbin@nd.edu 
program. the program, new in 2012, trains and develops a leader in each of the four residence halls to be an exten­sion of campus Ministry and to help students explore and deepen their spirituality. 
Fean said she will miss watching students grow and develop on such an intimate level, but she looks forward to working with faculty, staff and students to further the mission of the college. 
“i’m looking forward to breaking open the stories of the saint Mary’s community and seeing how the lives of students, faculty and staff are centered around the mission. 
“the sisters were mentors for me, and i look forward to carrying on the guid­ance i received and making a difference.” 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Fean 
coNtiNued FroM page 1 

the liberal arts tradition and how the mission guides us.” 
Fean said she is inspired by an iconic quote of for­mer college president sr. Madeleva wolfe: “i promise you discovery — discovery of yourselves, discovery of the universe and your place in it.” 
“i believe in this quote be­cause i discovered myself here and what it means to be a woman in the church,” Fean said. “i’m excited to see what this new chapter looks like and how we can continue to promise young women dis­covery of themselves.” 
Fean said she sees the im­portance of connection and using the core values as step­ping stones to make connec­tions with students, faculty and staff. 
the four core values of saint Mary’s are faith/spiri­tuality, community, learning and justice, which go hand­in-hand with the mission, she said. the interconnectedness of the core values is impor­tant in making saint Mary’s a place for young women to call home. 
“coming here, students realize the importance of women and how they can develop their gifts and what a wonderful unfolding it is,” she said. “everything we do is grounded in the philosophy of education, divine provi­dence of god [and] the hope of prayer, and the question is how do we integrate the core values and bring them to life on campus?” 
in her experience as direc­tor of campus Ministry, Fean said she has seen the mission statement guide programs such as the Ministry assistant luther king Jr.], Hamlet and Job 
— not three topics easily inter­twined,” she said. 
wagner said it was interesting to see the theatrical side of her classmates, and she loved the advice that warwick gave them. 
“it praised the art of acting because while it can be nerve-wracking being on a stage in performance, it is because of this vulnerability that we enjoy the theatre,” she said. “our class today experienced a small bit of this vulnerability by trying new things, but we came out better because of it.” 
the last aFtls performance of “Macbeth” will take place tonight in washington Hall, and $12 student tickets can be purchased at performingarts. nd.edu 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@saintmarys.edu 
Actors 
coNtiNued FroM page 1 

the tours, working with the associate directors [in london] who cast the shows and orga­nize the rehearsal period.” 
Holland said aFtls members act as ambassadors for Notre dame as they travel across the country for their u.s. tours. 
ben warwick, one of the actors, visited Holland’s shakespeare and Film class, where he gave feedback on students’ performances of scenes from “Much ado about Nothing.” Holland said this workshop is offered every se­mester, and it is always a class favorite. 
“every semester, when i ask my students what have been the most useful and enjoyable ses­sions in the semester, they pick the aFtls visit — and that after 31 sessions with me,” he said. “that stops me feeling too good about my own teaching.” 
Holland said the experience was useful because it offers a unique perspective for students. 
“i think they get the insights into how to turn text into per­formance that only an expe­rienced theatre professional, like ben, can provide,” he said. “of course i’d love it if he could come back many times in the semester but they’re on tour.” 
the actors didn’t just visit Ftt classes; warwick also led an acting workshop in Fr. kevin sandberg’s theology class titled discipleship: loving action for Justice. sophomore catherine wagner, a student in sandberg’s class, said it was a nice break from the usual class format. 
“i really enjoyed how he made connections between [Martin 

INSIDE COLUMN 

small moments 
Zach Klonsinski 
sports writer 
winter is upon us, finally. 

it took its time getting here, that’s for sure: when leaving for winter break, not having snow on the ground actually made me uncomfortable and question what was wrong with the world. Now, as i listen to others complain about being sick of winter already, i can’t help but feel a little sorry for them. 
My feeling of pity for those disgusted by the snow arises from the apparent inabil­ity of people on this campus to perform a simple act: to look up. in the last week and a half, there have been two or three of the most beautiful moments i have ever seen. 
last thursday a bright, cheerful sun shone in a deep-blue sky creating sharp contrasts with the pure snow that covers this beautiful campus. i began walking to North dining Hall but was struck by how defined the dome was and couldn’t help but take a few photos walking around god Quad. From there i just began walking. i spent almost an hour and a half outside before finally my phone succumbed to the cold and hunger drove me back. 
i thought this was a pretty normal ac­tivity on such a beautiful day, yet almost everyone who passed me shot only weird looks and side glances my way. indeed, the only acknowledgement i received directly the entire time was from an elderly couple who said ‘Hello’ to me while walking the shore of st. Mary’s lake. 
saturday night i was struck again, this time by the sunset as i trudged to dpac for a screening i was supposed to see for a history course. i paused to take photos on god Quad again and looked down south Quad. in that time though, i was nearly run over by a group that approached while i was clicking away, oblivious of me and that sunset until the last possible second. 
i missed the documentary that night. although an email from dan graff is sure to follow this column, i wouldn’t change a thing about that evening: sometimes living just gets in the way of life. 
that is my only complaint about this great place. there are times i’m taught more about how to make a living than about how to live. then again, you can’t really ‘teach’ how to live, can you? life is made up of moments that never return and you either seize or miss them and we can only help to draw attention to them. 
Maybe i’m just weird for taking a few minutes out of my day to do something i won’t directly obtain a degree, job or hangover from. i fear the possibility, yet it begins to feel more and more the most reasonable explanation. 
please, look up, pause and admire the small moments every now and then. i can’t promise this suggestion will land you that internship, but hopefully it’ll help you to live. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The two sides of anonymity 

EDITORIAL 


as humans, we experience a universal desire for connection, and in the age of social media this de­sire has only become more obvious. Various social networking sites that help us associate with others digitally allow us to be in contact with anyone, any­where and at any time. However, one of the most vital human interactions is conversation: the act of saying our thoughts and having someone willing to listen and respond. 
it is crucial that we have opportunities for construc­tive dialogue, particularly within a college campus community. it is necessary that students feel their voices can be heard in a respectful forum. the stu­dent body’s obvious desire for campus-wide conver­sation is demonstrated by participation in various events, lectures and panels, but also is latent in more controversial forums like yik yak. 
what makes yik yak unique is its anonymity, a feature of the app that has the potential to destroy constructive conversation as much as it provides a place for candid confessions. Having access to an anonymous voice gives the app’s users the courage to say things they might not admit otherwise, but it also lends itself to the ignorance and cowardice that comes from hiding behind a social media mask. 
there are two extremes that come with anonymity: the positive and negative. yik yak has often shown us the negative side of this coin, with users sharing discriminatory and hurtful messages with no ac­countability. but the positive results of anonymous speech can be found on campus as well. Forums like loyal daughters and sons and show some skin are constructive and empowering, giving voices to people who have been hurt or victimized and allowing them to use this verbalization to help in their healing. 
by its nature, anonymity magnifies the impact of what is said. in forums such as loyal daughters and sons or show some skin, presenting stories through anonymous voices provides a sense of universality to the accounts shared, allowing others to better un­derstand these incidents that they did not personally experience. when anecdotes about campus life are shared through show some skin and loyal daughters and sons, we gather to listen, empathize, reflect and discuss, and anonymity helps us do so more productively. 
on the other hand, when users on yik yak capitalize on the app’s anonymity, often it is the ignorant and hateful voices that are heard the loudest and given the most weight. these voices might not represent the Notre dame community at large, but behind a mask of anonymity and upvotes, we are bombarded with as many hurtful messages as helpful, and one voice can seem to represent many. 
what’s more, yik yak’s medium doesn’t allow for contemplation. as quickly as something is posted — whether poignant and interesting or hurtful and ig­norant — the post disappears, and opportunities for further discussion are gone. 
the popularity of yik yak may speak to a cam­pus-wide desire for conversation, but we must ask ourselves whether the lack of accountability dam­ages the potential for meaningful and productive conversation. 
we all want to feel comfortable sharing our thoughts, opinions and experiences, and while ano­nymity can be a useful way to start a conversation, it can’t simply end there. only by speaking to each other 
— having that essential human conversation — will our anonymous comments begin to take shape into productive dialogue. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 




tHe obserVer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2015 | NdsMcobserVer.coM 
Philosophy belongs in the core curriculum 
Alex Caton 
Modest proposals 

i will never forget when my introduction to philosophy seminar professor taught me that “which begs the question” was not just a flashy phrase i used to introduce new paragraphs in my act writing section. it turned out that begging the question was a specific kind of circular logi­cal fallacy, and i had been using the term wrong for a very long time. 
the university is now undergoing its decen­nial review of the core curriculum, the required courses every student must take to graduate and has given numerous indications that the two required courses in philosophy may soon get the axe. 
core curricula exist on a continuum. on one end is brown university, where students have one required writing class and a major and pick the rest for themselves. conversely, the university of chicago prides itself on “the core,” a roughly two-year gauntlet of liberal arts requirements that is closer to what we have currently. 
defending the two-course philosophy require­ment requires us to establish three things: first, that it is worthwhile to have a core curriculum of required classes; second, that philosophy is important enough to explicitly include in those requirements; and third, that the current two-course system is the best way to do so. 
while the question of whether having a core curriculum at all is plenty interesting, i am confident that at the end of this review the university of Notre dame will still have a core curriculum of 10-14 classes. so i’m going to move on to the second and third more interesting questions. 
in arguing that philosophy should be required at Notre dame it is tempting to list the “peer institutions” which also include philosophy in their general education requirements and then conclude that Notre dame should also require philosophy. For those interested, those colleges include georgetown, boston college, princeton (one course in “epistemology and cognition”) and the university of chicago. but listing peer institutions is a shoddy way of arguing that phi­losophy is a necessary part of a real liberal arts education, first because brown, Harvard and duke don’t explicitly require it (so much for peer institutions), and second because philosophy can stand on its own merits. 
philosophy is important for a number of rea­sons, and i will try to list the ones that are as divorced as possible from value judgments about the intrinsic worth of the humanities, reflections on “the unexamined life,” and the centrality of philosophy in an institution claiming a catholic heritage and worldview. i believe these argu­ments wholeheartedly, but also recognize that they appear romantic and impractical to those not already convinced when the cost of a Notre dame degree is $62,000 per year. For those keep­ing score at home, that is about $10,000 more than it was when i first arrived on campus. 
philosophy is worth keeping in Notre dame’s core requirements because it structures your thinking in ways that very few disciplines can and does so very quickly. it improves your writ­ing, forces creativity and punishes arrogance. it alerts us to the fact that sloppy and dishonest argumentation has too strong of a hold on our public discourse. if we believe that Notre dame students will be leading that discourse down the road, then we better prepare them to do it well. 
if Notre dame’s philosophy requirement as currently practiced has fallen short for some students, i think it speaks to the need to improve the quality of the philosophy 100- and 200-level philosophy classes taught here. it does not mean that philosophy forfeits its position as a subject Notre dame undergrads should engage. put an­other way, my struggles in statistics and calculus and the pencils i broke in the process do not in­validate the need for a university requirement in math. 
Finally i would like to note that Notre dame is a sufficiently impressive institution that it does not need to check in with other schools for final verdicts on its curriculum or any other matter. internal committee documents, including a four-page list of the core requirements at Harvard, chicago, duke, columbia and others circulated to arts & letters faculty in october by profes­sor of French Joann della Neva are indicative of this approach. these outlines can be instruc­tive and i am not about to question the commit­ment of a two-time National endowment for the Humanities Fellowship recipient. but adopting a general attitude of “i saw Harvard wearing army pants and flip flops, so i eliminated my philoso­phy requirement,” is a silly rabbit hole to fall down. 
when the committee completes its review Notre dame will still have a core curriculum of required classes. it should keep philosophy among them. if my arguments for taking two semesters to learn some of this discipline are not convincing (and they may not be) then i will defer to our president, Fr. John Jenkins. i hear he likes philosophy too. 
Alex Caton is a senior political science major in the one and only St. Edward’s Hall. He welcomes commentary at acaton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

divestment: a financial argument 
you’ve probably heard of the word “divestment” floating around campus, whether it was from classes, Facebook or a greeNd member knocking at your door about a petition. Maybe you haven’t heard the word at all. if that’s the case, it is important to understand what the word “divestment” means because it is a growing campaign not only at Notre dame, but also nationwide. 
divestment is the opposite of investment — it is the act of removing the university’s endowment from companies involved in the production of fossil fuels. as part of the we are Nine campaign, we are asking to withdraw the endowment from the top 200 fossil fuel companies (by size of coal, oil and gas reserves) and reallocate the money in more environmentally and socially responsible companies. this means that any new investments will be immediately frozen and any direct ownership or commingled funds in such com­panies will be divested over a five-year period. 
environmental implications aside, one must ask if divestment is a wise choice from a purely financial standpoint. the answer is a resounding yes. the main reasons are as follows: 
1. investment is a long-term commitment, but fossil fuels are in limited supply. this makes it an economi­cally irresponsible investment and violates fiduciary responsibility. 
2. 
strict regulatory controls from the epa have forced the demand for coal to go down, negatively af­fecting power stations and mining companies. 

3. 
if more than 20 percent of all fossil fuel reserves are burned, the costs of repairing the resulting global damage will enormously exceed the benefit of fund­ing fossil fuel companies. 

4. 
if the government takes action to keep 80 percent of fossil fuels in the ground, fossil fuel investments will becomes worthless, creating stranded assets. 

5. 
although it is unclear how much Notre dame invests in fossil fuels, the worst-case scenario (for removing investments from the top 200 fossil fuel companies) would likely decreases the endowment by 0.075 percent. and, if the university were to divest from the top “Filthy 15” fossil fuel companies, there would be only a 0.0002 percent decrease. this trans­lates to $19,600 from a 9.8 billion dollar endowment. 


divestment has been successful in the past. in a protest against apartheid in south africa, 155 uni­versities divested from south african corporate col­laboration by 1988, in addition to over 90 cities, 26 states and 22 countries. the movement dramatically affected the country’s international economy and caused considerable economic plight, contributing to the system’s ultimate removal. Fossil fuel divestment has already occurred in a number of cities, religious organizations and large universities such as stanford university. the university of dayton divested in the summer of 2014 from all fossil fuel companies, a deci­sion that was lead by the board of trustees. in proudly becoming the first catholic university to divest, the university of dayton encourages other catholics to respond to the growing necessity for the care of creation. 
From a catholic standpoint, divestment is the ethically appropriate decision, in accordance with care for god’s creation, a theme of catholic social teaching. From an environmental standpoint, di­vestment is as necessary as it is urgent, and a power­ful tool in spreading awareness. and finally, from a financial standpoint, divestment is both secure and responsible. taking this into account, the we are Nine campaign strongly encourages the university of Notre dame to realize the importance of divesting from fossil fuels. 
Sharlo Bayless 
sophomore walsh Hall Feb. 12 


tHe obserVer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2015 | NdsMcobserVer.coM 

By EMMA TERHAAR 
scene writer 

lynne tillman is a lady writer i heard read at the eck Visitors center on Feb. 11, a very special experience. english profes­sor steve tomasula said in tillman’s nov­el “Haunted Houses,” tillman is like an ethnographer who happens to be study­ing 20th century american girls. tillman read from “Haunted Houses” despite the strangeness of returning to a work she finished 20 years ago — which she said was like “being dropped into a river.” tillman then read from her later nov­els “Motion sickness” and “american genius.” 
tillman said it took seven years to write “Haunted Houses,” and yet when 
Jimmy Kemper 
scene writer 

Modern pop culture is an interest­ing phenomenon. it’s an obsession for me. between Facebook, twitter, red­dit, Myspace, aiM and whatever other outdated technology i’m hooked to, i’m constantly searching for any update i can get on the celebrity trends that make up the 24-hour news cycle. sometimes, if i’m lucky, my editor lets me write about these important new pieces of culture that will shift the paradigm of our very existence. like shoes. 
on saturday, 9,000 pairs of kanye west’s latest fashion project, the adi­das yeezy 750 boost, will drop. also on saturday, i won’t be getting a pair. Not be­cause i don’t have $350 to drop on some­thing as inane as sneakers or that i live an hour away from the nearest adidas outlet, but because i honestly think they’re the worst thing ever. 
Now don’t get me wrong, i’m a huge kanye west fan. all four of my roommates can begrudgingly attest to that fascination, especially since “yeezus” is the only thing we listen to in my car on our trips to Meijer. it’s just that 
ERIN RICE | The Observer 
she went to read it, she had to remind herself that she wrote it. “once i finish i can never go back,” explained tillman. she said she could never write the same book again. “i think we do what we can do when we’re drawn to it.” 
i find this terrifying, the idea that you have a story inside you for a certain amount of time, and you’ll never again be able to write it like you would right now. that’s some serious carpe diem lifestyle right there. but i suppose by this logic we can also be too close to a story to write it properly. some stories are impossible to tell later, and some stories need to gestate. 
Most of tillman’s novels are lauded as defying conventions. as a millennial, it’s hard to know what the conventions are or 
everything surrounding these sneakers, as hideous as they are, has been so ludi­crous that i think the entire sneakerhead industry needs to take a step back and calm down. 
i mean, seriously, the hype campaign alone for these new yeezy shoes has been absolutely absurd. adidas has done about everything it can to make this shoe seem as exclusive and as high-end as possible. For months, both adidas and kanye have been as tightlipped as possible about their first shoe collaboration, oc­casionally dropping a hint here and there about how awesome the shoes would be. Meanwhile, kanye’s friends have been hyping up the shoes, including big sean and theophilus london, who claimed that these would be “the future of sneak­ers.” that’s a pretty big claim for a shoe that has turned out to be as exciting and grey as the south bend sky in the dead of winter. 
then, adidas announced that it had developed an app called “confirmed” with the sole purpose of reserving shoes such as the yeezy boosts as soon as pickup dates are announced. on Feb. 5, kanye linked to the mysterious website “yeezy.supply” on his twitter. when you followed the link, a countdown timer what they were in the ‘80s and ‘90s when she was defying them. i think she must be different in the way she makes a per­son — she could tell you what every char­acter in a scene is thinking and what they had for breakfast, even if it’s a first-person story and none of that information ever enters. For “Haunted Houses,” tillman wrote three case histories of each main character in the text. the story is just a story; it moves and develops like any plot, but underneath the plot there’s some psychoanalyzing of characters and an argument for a determinist worldview. 

one of the best parts of the reading was when tillman responded to a question from the audience about the association between feminine sexuality and fear in her novels. tillman answered bluntly 
to 4 p.m. est on Feb. 12 appeared. No one on the internet knew what the timer meant when it first came out. a number of people claimed that we would finally hear about kanye’s highly anticipated new album. then the news came out that it was just for the announcement of the “kanye west x adidas” shoe, and sneaker-heads everywhere freaked out. 
after all this hype though, adidas or kanye didn’t even get the opportunity to reveal the shoe first in the end, because kanye’s friend ibn Jasper leaked a picture of them on instagram on Feb. 6. it didn’t matter to them, though, as the instagram photo just became kindle for the flames of hype and demand. so more and more announcements about the official an­nouncement came out. 
the yeezy.supply website updated with the news that you could reserve tickets to see a live stream of the announcement at 50 theaters worldwide. what are you doing with your life if you’re able to go to a movie theater in downtown chicago in the middle of a thursday to watch a live stream about an announcement that you already know about? 
i honestly just do not get the shoe or the hype. the shoes aren’t that good looking. the strap is about the same color and that sex is scary. we have birth control now and unwanted pregnancy is less prevalent, and yet there are still conse­quences that come from having sex. My mother has said the same thing to me a dozen times, so hearing lynne tillman, ladywriter and child of the ‘60s say it was like a grand “i told you so.” 
but don’t listen to me; check out lynne tillman’s stuff for yourself. she’s writ­ten five novels, three collections of short stories, one collection of essays and two nonfiction books. keep in mind the next creative writing reading is Feb. 18, ross gay at the Hammes Notre dame bookstore. 
Contact Emma Terhaar at                                   eterhaar@nd.edu 
size as duct tape, and the rest of the shoe is the same color and material as an ugg boot. so i guess it costs $350 for me to feel like a #basic Notre dame girl? 
“but these shoes are going to be worth the hype just because of the exclusivity,” you may say. “there’s only 9,000 pairs!” wrong. kanye confirmed in an interview with ryan seacrest this week that more pairs of the shoes would be made so that “everybody who wants to get yeezys will get yeezys.” so while traditional adidas or Nike special sneakers will be worth more down the line, like kanye’s Nike air yeezy red october collaboration — which can go for as high as $20,000 on ebay right now — these ones will not. 
No matter how i may feel about these shoes and the artificial hype that exists for them, i do not have a doubt that the initial run of the yeezy boosts will all sell out on saturday. so i guess kanye and adidas did their job, and 9,000 lucky peo­ple will be running around on Valentine’s day with $350 uggs. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
    Contact Jimmy Kemper at                 jkemper2@nd.edu 

tHe obserVer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2015 | NdsMcobserVer.coM 

By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene writer 

a playlist featuring a song for everyone’s unique Valentine’s day aesthetic. 
“Multi-Love” — Unknown Mortal Orchestra 
For those that can relate to the lyrics “you checked into my heart and trashed it like a hotel room,” head bob in agreement to this breathy, synthy track. 
“Get It” — Matt and Kim 

For those who are excited that Valentine’s day is on a saturday so they can capitalize on the “at 1 a.m. we go for gold / at 1 a.m. we lost control” holiday aesthetic, this song’s chorus is just like your roommate — repeatedly com­ing up to you on the dance floor and whisper­ing “get it.” 
“Fool for Love” — Lord Huron 

the swingy beat immediately entices you to bust into “the carlton,” causing you to look like a fool for more reasons than love. 
“Love Me Like You Do” — Ellie Goulding 
For those with pre-purchased tickets to you know what. you know who you are. 
“Elastic Heart” — Sia 

although the video may have undergone some scrutiny for weird romantic undertones between a tween dancer and 28-year-old 
By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
scene editor 

Valentine’s day is fast approaching, and unless you’re in a committed relationship or have been holding out for a secret admirer, you probably are less than thrilled about the holiday. 
some Valentine’s day grinches have taken to calling it “single’s awareness day.” others refuse to acknowledge the Hallmark holiday and its crass-commercialism altogether. a third party, lead by “parks and recreation” wonder woman leslie knope, have opened the holiday up to more than just romantic couples exchanging chocolates and flowers. 
in an episode of the show’s second sea­son, knope invites friends to celebrate “galentine’s day,” a celebration of lady friendship on Feb. 13. that was back in 2010, and in the last five years, there’s been a rise of real-life galentine’s day celebrations as well. 
in the spirit of leslie knope, rather than bombard you with a list of favorite rom­coms or sappy love stories, here are some movie suggestions to help you celebrate the “even stevens” veteran, this song’s echoey chords can inspire a Henry long-esque inter­pretive tutu dance from anyone. keep practic­ing and change your name to something to do with the aloof singer (ex: shia — sia, kristen wiig — sia wears a wig. Meta.) for a chance to be featured in one of her performances. 
“My Baby Don’t Understand Me” — Natalie Prass 
contrary to the lyrics, “i don’t feel much / afraid i don’t feel anything at all,” this song will you have you feeling everything. seriously, break out the tissues. with lyrics like “our love was like a long goodbye” and “where do you go when the only home that you know is with a stranger,” Natprass’s crooning will have you in full on sob as you think about past flings, the rocky future of your relationship or the fact that you are now teary-eyed in the library. 
“Crave You” — Flight Facilities, Giselle 
For the person who everyone is in love with but doesn’t care because the one who matters doesn’t know you exist — a) are you a real per­son or the protagonist of a rom-com? b) this is your anthem. some ideas to better (worsen?) this situation: let everyone who is in love with you follow you around like groupies and take all their compliments to heart, send out an Nd crush quoting this song, blast this song on your boombox outside his or her window a-la John cusack in “say anything.” 
“The Ideal Husband” — Father John Misty 
day of love without a significant other — or romance at all. 
whether you’re feeling lonely and would rather not cry over “the Notebook,” shrug­ging off the holiday (and maybe relation­ships) altogether or celebrating in your own way, this list is proof that you can watch a love story without the plot of a taylor swift song. 
“Frances Ha” (2012) — starring the de­lightful greta gerwig and Mickey summer, “Frances Ha” follows Frances (gerwig) as she struggles with adult life in New york city. while the film is undoubtedly a bildungsro­man, “Frances Ha” is also a wonderful look at the love between two friends, and gerwig and summer are flawless in depicting the ups and downs (and ups again) of friendship. 
“50/50” (2011) — while i was tempted to add a bromance movie like “ilove you Man” into the list, the relationship between Joseph gordon-levitt and seth rogan’s charac­ters in “50/50” is so much better. the film is heavy (and sure, it has a little romance too), 

a tribute to those at Notre dame on an ayahuasca-fueled search for that Mrsdegree. 
“Feeling Myself” — Nicki Minaj, Beyoncé 
who needs a Valentine when you have Nicki, beyoncé, a boombox and yourself? (at this point, log in to amazon and purchase a boombox. you can even get a pink one because Valentine’s day. trust me, it is my No. 1 most used/commented on purchase, besides the 12-pack of Heath bars i bought from the site last year when i realized North dining Hall was never going to replenish their fro-yo topping supply). 
“Lovers’ Carvings” — Bibio 
you are so sophisticated you would never buy into “this Hallmark-created b.s.,” so stay in and jam to the reiterative chords in this groovy, mollifying track that invigorate your senses more than any cheap candy or ridicu­lous card could. 
“Bonnie and Clyde” — Brigitte Bardot, Serge Gainsbourg 
Francophiles with a proclivity for larceny and murder in the name(s) of love, this one’s for you. 
“Pedestrian at Best” — Courtney Barnett 
“i love you, i hate you, i’m on the fence, it all depends / whether i’m up or down, i’m on the mend, transcending all reality / i like you, despise you, admire you” — the angsty 
but rogan and levitt together make the film completely worth the watch. 
“Auntie Mame” (1958) — if you’re looking a great but platonic movie, look no further than the classic comedy “auntie Mame.” the tale of a young orphaned boy sent to live with his eccentric aunt, the film looks at the unlikely friendship between the two relatives. 
“Big Fish” (2003) — another family-centric film, “big Fish” is a strange, fantas­tical tale of a man looking to make amends with his father. Maybe you’re skipping “the Notebook” this year, but if you’re looking for a cry, this one will have you covered. 
“Lars and the Real Girl” (2007) — though you could argue this one is a romantic tale, “lars and the real girl” had to make the list for its unconventional love story. (second place in the unconventional romance cat­egory goes to “Harold and Maude.”) starring ryan gosling in one of his weirder roles, “lars and the real girl” follows gosling’s Valentine aesthetic. 
ask your date for all his money in exchange for some homemade origami. if he refuses, tell him he’s a joke and you don’t find him very funny. strut away while blasting the next track on this list. 
“Dumb” — Jazmine Sullivan, Meek Mill 
“you must be dumb, dumb, dumb / i ain’t.” 
— the “i’m too regal for this, so i’m strutting back to my throne”-Valentine aesthetic. this song is also the perfect anthem for walks to and from class when you’re feeling sassy and better than everyone. 
“Only One” — Kanye West and Paul McCartney 
kanye said this heartfelt ballad came to him as “my mom was singing to me, and through me to my daughter.” the track, fea­turing kanye’s up-and-coming prodigy, offers sage advice and emotional sentimen­tality: “Hello my only one / remember who you are / No, you’re not perfect but you’re not your mistakes.” 
“Bound 2” — Kanye West 
uh-huh, honey — this song is on this list. you should have known i was bound to fea­ture my man twice. pour one out for all the people “tired of lovin’, of lovin’ / with nobody to love, nobody, nobodyyy.” 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at                                emcaulif@nd.edu 
character as he falls in love with a “real doll,” a life-size doll that looks like a woman. the film is beyond bizarre, but is also fantastic and, at times, surprisingly heart-warming. 
“Paris, je t’aime” (2006) — though the rest of these suggestions are love stories be­tween two people (whoever those two peo­ple may be), the object of affection in “paris, je t’aime” is paris itself. the film is actually a collection of short films by several direc­tors, but the collection itself (and especially the movie’s very last vignette) is one big love letter to the city. 
“Cutie and the Boxer” (2013) — if you’re a documentary-head, there are plenty of films about love and passion to explore (from “Man on wire” to “eames”), but “cutie and the boxer” looks at the lives of husband and wife ushio and Noriko shinohara as they discuss both their marriage and their ca­reers as artists. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at                      atollaks@nd.edu 
ERIN RICE | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Just how good is Kentucky? 
Tyler Wojciak 
sports writer 
down by two points with 3.2 seconds left, the 35-0 and No. 1-seeded team in the Ncaa tournament inbounds the ball to its starting point guard and conference MVp, who takes one dribble and pulls up from a few feet beyond the arc for the 3-pointer and the win. 
the shot has a little bit too much on it and clangs off the back of the rim and into the hands of the opposing team’s power forward. the buzzer sounds — game over. kentucky moves on. 
wait … what? 
How does kentucky move on? aren’t the wildcats supposed to be the undefeated team and No. 1 seed? 
on March 23, No. 8 kentucky defeated previously undefeated wichita state to advance to the sweet 16 of the Ncaa tourna­ment in an instant classic. after starting the season as the country’s No. 1 team, kentucky struggled mightily during the regular season but appeared to finally display the level of talent that many projected the team would have by going toe­to-toe for 40 minutes with the shockers and ultimately reign­ing victorious. the wildcats eventually lost to uconn in the Ncaa championship, but this game laid the foundation for one of the greatest teams in col­lege basketball history. 
this season, the wildcats are off to their second-best start in school history, with a 24-0 record and No. 1 ranking in every major poll. Many think this team has the best shot to go undefeated and win the Ncaa championship since indiana did it 39 years ago. 
but just how good is this kentucky team? coming off a 39-point demolition over ucla, bruins coach steve alford went as far to say, “in my 24 years of coaching, this is the best team i’ve coached against.” 
regarding pure basketball talent, this kentucky team might just possess the most of all time. of the 12 players on scholarship, eight were five-star recruits coming out of high school, two were four-stars and the remaining two players were three-stars, according to espN. Nine of these players were Mcdonald’s all-americans, and there is so much talent on the roster that coach John calipari has resorted to using two “pla­toons” to balance playing time among the team’s 10 best play­ers. at this point in the season, espN’s chad Ford projects that at least four kentucky players will be drafted in the first round of the upcoming Nba draft, with the potential for more depending on the amount of kentucky players that declare for the draft after the season’s end. 
with that said, talent doesn’t always lead to championships. in order for this team to go undefeated and win it all, it must have good team chem­istry and buy into calipari’s system. so far, calipari said that hasn’t been an issue. after throttling kansas earlier in the season, calipari raved about the wildcats’ teamwork in his post-game press conference. 
statistically, kentucky’s of­fense has been relatively aver­age through this point in the season. the wildcats are 48th in the Ncaa in points per game 
(73.5) and 66th in field goal percentage (46.1 percent), but they make up for this on the defensive side of the ball, where they are absolutely remarkable. kentucky is currently second in the Ncaa in opponent points per game (52.2) and in blocks per game (7.1) and first in team defensive efficiency rating 
(0.788) and opponent field goal percentage (34.2 percent). 
opposing teams have hardly any chance of scoring inside on kentucky’s imposing frontcourt, composed of 7-foot junior willie cauley-stein, 7-foot sophomore dakari Johnson, 6-foot-11 fresh­man karl-anthony towns, 6-foot-10 freshman trey lyles and 6-foot-9 sophomore Marcus lee. this has been frustrating for opponents, especially when finding open looks on the out­side over 6-foot-6 sophomore guards andrew and aaron Harrison comes seldom. 
with 16 games left to pull off the undefeated season, there are still some questions surrounding the wildcats. the inconsistent play by the Harrison twins has been a con­cern for some fans, and close calls against Mississippi, texas a&M and lsu could be reasons to believe this kentucky team won’t be able to go all the way without a loss. 
but these games also serve as examples of a great team un­derperforming on the road yet still walking away with a win 
— something not often done in college basketball. tough games will still be in the wildcats’ future, but with this much tal­ent along with enough experi­ence to compliment it, along with a great coach leading the way, kentucky will finish this season 40-0 and win the Ncaa championship. 
Contact Tyler Wojciak at twojciak@hcc-nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

PGA TOUR | at&t pebble beacH NatioNal pro-aM 
daly surprises field with opening-round 65 
Associated Press 

pebble beacH, calif. — sunshine is always a pleasant surprise at pebble beach, and thursday brought a real stun­ner: John daly was near the top of the leaderboard. 
with his best opening round on the pga tour in nearly 10 years, daly kept a clean card at pebble beach on a magnifi­cent day along the Monterey peninsula for a 7-under 65, leav­ing him one shot behind J.b. Holmes and Justin Hicks in the at&t pebble beach National pro-am. 
daly won an exhibition in turkey last year. the last offi­cial win for the two-time major champion was at torrey pines in 2004. so when daly rolled in a 15-foot birdie putt on his final hole, one of the volun­teers wasn’t joking when he said, “daly is at 7 under? on his own?” 
daly laughed when he heard that. then again, this day could put anyone in a good mood. 
His golf was as glorious as the sunshine. three years ago, a beautiful day gave way to fog and then rain without notice in a two-hour span. last year, the third round was ravaged by rain and 30 mph win. thursday brought long shadows. 
“to have weather like this now — it’s supposed to be like this all week — it is absolutely incredible,” said Jim Furyk, who made his 2015 debut with a 64 at Monterey peninsula. it’s already one of the most beauti­ful places i’ve been to and then to have weather like this, it’s just spectacular.” 
Hicks and Holmes each shot 8-under 64 at pebble beach, 
typically  the  easiest  course  
in  the  rotation  in  benign  
conditions.  

Furyk, former pebble winner brandt snedeker and chesson Hadley were at 7-under 64 at Monterey peninsula, while J.J. Henry and dudley Hart joined daly at 65 at pebble beach. the low score at spyglass Hill be­longed to alex prugh at 6-under 66. 
Jason day, coming off a play­off win at torrey pines that included Holmes, struggled to a 72 at pebble beach. He wasn’t even the low day in the day. glen day, in his final year before he is eligible for the champions tour, shot a 5-un­der 66 at Monterey peninsula. 
Holmes had a start as ideal as the weather. He holed a wedge from 123 yards on the 10th hole for eagle, and then hit another wedge to 5 feet for birdie on No. 
11. For all his length, he only birdied one of the par 5s, and that was with a 20-foot putt. 
even so, it was good way to forget last week, where he lost on the second playoff hole. 
“i’ve just got to keep remind­ing myself it was a great week for me, and i did everything i could do and just carry that on to this week and maybe things will go a little bit different this week,” he said. 

LITTLE LEAGUE WORLD SERIES 
Mayor calls for reinstatement of title 
Associated Press 

cHicago — Hours after little league international announced its stunning decision to strip a chicago team of its national cham­pionship, the city’s mayor was on the phone asking the organization to reverse a de­cision that he said unfairly 
made  the  young  players  
responsible.  
but  little  league  
international  ceo  stephen  

d. keener would not budge, telling Mayor rahm emanuel that as difficult as the deci­sion was and as tough as it has been emotionally on the children and their families, the decision by the organiza­tion’s charter committee was final, according to the orga­nization’s spokesman. 
the organization an­nounced wednesday that Jackie robinson west had been stripped of its title be­cause team officials falsified 

FOR SALE 

Well maintained ranch in Granger. 3BR, 2BA, beautiful sun-room. Open House Feb 15, 2-4. Call Janessa Traylor 574-340-1651 
boundaries so they could add ineligible players to the roster and that the officials then scrambled to persuade surrounding leagues to go along with what they’d done. 
little league international spokesman brian Mcclintock would not detail the conver­sation between keener and emanuel. but the chicago mayor’s office said that dur­ing the 10-minute call, first reported in the chicago sun-times, emanuel suggested alternative punishments could apply, including ban­ning the league from playing for a certain period of time. 
the decision has turned the young players into “per­petrators when they are victims,” emanuel said, ac­cording to his office. 
though Mcclintock said the decision is final, in chicago where the march of the all-black team from the city’s south side was one of the most heartwarming stories in recent memory, angry community activists made it clear that the fight to give the boys back their championship at the little league world series is not over. 
“we are asking a law group to look into this, to investi­gate, because we are hearing from folks all over the coun­try that the (boundary) stan­dards that Jackie robinson west is being held to is not being held to by other teams across the united states,” said the rev. Michael pfleger, a prominent activist and catholic priest on the city’s south side. 
Jackie robinson west of­ficials, who little league international either sus­pended or insisted not be al­lowed to remain in positions of authority, were expected to speak at a news confer­ence at a downtown law firm scheduled for thursday afternoon. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
“You had a career before the third com-they go to have their cake and coffee ic book movie, before people began when it’s over. And let’s face it, Dad, it’s to forget who was inside the bird cos-not for the sake of art. It’s because you tume. You’re doing a play based on a want to feel relevant again. Well, there’s book that was written 60 years ago, for a whole world out there where people a thousand rich old white people whose fight to be relevant every day. And you only real concern is gonna be where act like it doesn’t even exist!” 


TRACK AND FIELD 

Irish head to Ohio for Spire DI Invitational 


By ANDREW ROBINSON 
sports writer 
a week removed from host­ing the Meyo invitational, one of the largest and most competi­tive meets of the indoor season, many irish runners will return to the track this weekend for the spire di invitational in geneva, ohio. 
with only two events before the acc indoor championships begin Feb. 26, many of the Notre dame athletes will be vying to hit the qualifying benchmarks and secure spots in the conference meet. 
among the men’s 4x400-meter relay team, for example, which finished second at the razorback invitational with a time of 3:09.90, only senior all-american 
paid adVertiseMeNt 
chris giesting has qualified indi­vidually. irish coach alan turner said he thinks the younger members of the team — sopho­mores Harvey smith and John rutkowski and freshman eric ways — could all potentially translate their relay performanc­es into individual qualifying times. He noted a similar situa­tion on the women’s side as well. 
“we’re going to be watching for freshman parker english in the 400-meters,” turner said. “she ran a very good split last week at Meyo … but she needs to dupli­cate that effort in the open 400. she’s definitely someone who could score well for us at the acc [championship].” 
senior all-american Jade barber is also fighting to earn her spot in the 60-meter hurdles. barber last year won the acc championship with a time of 8.19 seconds and cut a further nine hundredths off to finish seventh in the Ncaa championships. However, her best time this sea­son is 8.32 seconds. 
turner, who said he remains confident in barber, said simply, “i’m looking for her to come up big time this weekend.” 
while many irish athletes will be at the spire invitational, ju­niors Molly seidel and Michael clevenger will head to ames, iowa, to compete in the mile run at the iowa state classic, a perennially fast meet for longer-distance races. last year, 22 percent of the eventual Ncaa championship field for middle-and long-distance events partici­pated in the meet. 

in the spire d1 invitational, however, the irish will carry pri­marily sprinters and jumpers. Most of the distance runners 
— with the exception of seidel and clevenger — will be resting to prepare for the alex wilson invitational, the last meet before the acc championships. 
Just as the past several week­ends have pushed Notre dame to keep up with high levels of competition, turner said he ex­pects this meet to test the team’s mettle once again. 
“it’s going to be a tough meet,” he said. “it’s not going to be as [many competitors] as Meyo, but the quality is still there.” 
at this point in the season, turner said he feels confident in his team’s ability. 
“we’re definitely progress­ing as i would like, especially on the women’s side,” he said. “the men’s side we’re just a little thin in a lot of areas. we don’t have the depth that we’ve had in the past…[so] it could always be better, but they’re progressing nicely.” 
irish athletes will travel to geneva, ohio, to kick off the spire d1 invitational on Friday at 2 p.m., and the meet will contin­ue through saturday afternoon. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 

tHe obserVer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2015 | NdsMcobserVer.coM 

W Lacrosse 
coNtiNued FroM page 16 
Halfpenny indicated that Notre dame might be able to change things up in formation this year, with a 3-5-3 formation potentially in its arsenal. 
“[Junior midfielder stephanie toy] is back, and we’re so deep in the midfield that we’re looking at the potential of being able to play a 3-5-3,” Halfpenny said. “[the formation] gives us an enormous amount of speed; it gives us the ability to keep players on the field while they rest behind the re­straining lines.” 
despite everything, the big­gest returner for the irish in 2015 might be one that made a mini­mal impact on the field last year, as senior captain and defender barbara sullivan returns after an injury-plagued 2014. 
sullivan, who was a first-team all-american selection in 2013, was named to the preseason all­acc team, and Halfpenny said the irish have a difference-maker back in the fold. 
“Now we have an X-factor play­er back to the lineup, which it’s very obvious that she’s been miss­ing,” Halfpenny said. “barbara’s back, ready to go, and hopefully we see that sophomore barbara, that first-team all-american player who raises the level of ev­ery set we run.” 
despite only playing in six games last year, Halfpenny thinks her defensive standout has improved her game since that sophomore season. 
“Her pressure is outstanding, and even though it was really hard to go an entire season with­out her at full-go, we’re seeing that she too grew in that year off,” Halfpenny said. “Her commu­nication has amped up, and her hunger has amped up.” 
anchored by sullivan, the irish have become known for their high-pressure defense, and Halfpenny said the team will continue that moving into 2015. 
“we’re very excited to con­tinue our aggressive defense,” Halfpenny said. 
though allie Murray, who started in goal for the irish in 14 games last season, is no longer on the roster, Halfpenny said she is confident in her two sopho­more options at the position, liz o’sullivan and Jennifer blum. o’sullivan saw time in 14 con­tests last season and started five of them. 
“our sophomore goalkeep­ers have just had a tremendous offseason,” Halfpenny said. “ … we’re thrilled with what they’re bringing to the table — their communication, their maturity just through having the freshman years under their belt.” 
despite winning last year’s contest 25-1, the irish are look­ing at today’s game against the bearcats as a good chance for a challenge. 
“we’re really excited to see what the team puts out there Friday against cincinnati, who will be an incredible opponent,” Halfpenny said “[they’re] super physical; they’ve been getting better every single year under the leadership of [coach] regina oliver.” 

Halfpenny said with another season of acc play on the hori­zon, Notre dame needed to find a good mixture of teams in its non-conference schedule. 
“playing in the toughest con­ference in the country, we have to find the right balance with our non-conference schedule as well,” Halfpenny said. “we want to play teams that are going to test us, that are going to look differ­ent from one to the next because that’s what the acc is like.” 
the irish take on cincinnati today at 3 p.m. on the road be­fore returning home sunday for a noon matchup with detroit at loftus sports center. 
Contact Alex Carson at       acarson1@nd.edu 

ND SOFTBALL 
irish prepare for busy weekend 
By MIKE GINOCCHIO 
sports writer 
coming off a 4-1 week­end that included an upset of No. 12 ucla, No. 20 Notre dame gets back to work this weekend. 
the irish (4-1) travel to take their cuts at the annual tiger invitational in baton rouge, louisiana, facing off against central arkansas, No. 16 lsu and Hofstra. 
For irish senior third base­man katey Haus, the winning weekend was all about finding and settling into a groove. 
“what worked best for us is when we play our game,” Haus said. “regardless of the competition, we need to focus on what we do best in order to play to our full potential, and so far when we have done that, we have been successful. as we continue to play more games, the small details that come with more game experi­ence will sort themselves out.” 
Haus had those small de­tails ironed out last weekend, catching fire at the plate by finishing the weekend with 
a .625 batting average, eight rbis and three home runs. Haus connected for two of them during sunday’s vic­tory over No. 25 cal state Fullerton. 
Having a hitter on a hot streak like that, as well as a team that is batting well in general, does wonders for a pitcher’s confidence, sopho­more right-hander rachel Nasland said. 
“as a pitcher, to have such a strong hitting team behind me is a relief on the mound,” Nasland said. “it makes the game more fun for me be­cause it allows me to pitch to batters more aggressively and gives me more liberty with my pitches.” 
Nasland appeared in three games over the weekend, starting two, and finished with a record of 1-0 with a 4.20 era and a tie for the team lead in strikeouts with 13. 
as with many spring sports stuck in the indiana cold, Notre dame has to travel to warmer climates to play early in the season. while this al­lows the team to escape from the cold, it also means Notre dame has to fit in a large and varied amount of teams to play in such a short time. the irish play four games against three teams in two days this week­end: central arkansas  (4-2) and lsu (5-0) on saturday as well as Hofstra (0-0) and a re­match against the host team slated for sunday. 
However, both Haus and Nasland said they view the busy schedule as just part of the life of playing college softball. 
“the best way to deal with our jam-packed weekends is to take it one game at a time,” Haus said. “our goal is to bring our best game ev­ery game, regardless of our opponent.” 
there is also one more ad­justment the irish have to deal with in their travels, Nasland said. 
“i think that right now we are just trying to get adjust­ed to playing on a dirt field,” Nasland said. “we have been practicing inside for couple months now. ... thank you, south bend.” 
the strong start for the irish has given them high morale heading into the weekend, and the enthusiasm carried over into Haus’ attitude. 
“i think the team’s chances [this weekend] are great,” Haus said. “we are rolling off a great opening weekend and some good practices this week.” 
the irish return to action saturday against central arkansas. the first pitch is scheduled to be thrown at 11 
a.m. 
they later take on lsu at 4 p.m. saturday, Hofstra at 10 

a.m. 
sunday and lsu again at 


12:30p.m. sunday. 
Contact Mike Ginocchio at mginocch@nd.edu 


paid adVertiseMeNt 



M Lacrosse 
coNtiNued FroM page 16 
think they’re a fast-paced, phys­ical team, particularly early in possessions.” 
warne posted a 10-19 record with Hoyas in his first two sea­sons. after a big east tourna­ment berth in 2013, the team struggled last year, dropping 10 games, including four by two goals or fewer. despite this, corrigan said georgetown has an ability to start strong. last year, the Hoyas won 65.2 per­cent of their faceoffs. 
“they really get after you and play very hard and fast at both ends of the field,” corrigan said. “so that’s something we’re go­ing to have to really get a feel for during the game.” 
For Notre dame, a strong start will largely depend on how quickly its newest players can integrate into the regular rota­tion, corrigan said. 
“getting contributions from all the players we can get con­tributions from if we play the right way is going to be one thing,” corrigan said on what the irish can do better. “we know we got some guys who can make plays, but i think if we really wanted to utilize all of our players and all of our talent, then we really got to play in a very unselfish manner. and it’s not that our guys are selfish; it just takes time to develop that team dynamic. … we’re in that process.” 
while developing that dy­namic, the irish will be led by senior midfielders Jack Near, graduate student midfielder Jim Marlatt and senior attack conor doyle, who were named team captains for the year Feb. 

6. both Near and Marlatt have earned all-american accolades in their careers, and doyle was second on the team in points last season. 
“good leadership involves a lot of people,” corrigan said. “i think our captains appreciate the quality of leadership, not just from other guys in their class, but from within each class. so i think they’ve made it a point of emphasis to be very inclusive in their leadership. … everyone has a voice in what we’re doing in our locker room.” 
goalie conor kelly is an­other senior who will see the field saturday, earning the start over sophomore shane doss and freshman owen Molloy after a heated preseason battle. However, corrigan stopped short of saying kelly had won the position permanently. 


“it’s been an extremely close competition, and all three of our goalies are — we have con­fidence in all three of them,” corrigan said. “but conor kelly is going to start this weekend.” 
the matchup was originally scheduled to be played out­doors at arlotta stadium, but with the forecast calling for temperatures below freezing and snow showers, the game has been moved inside to loftus sports center. 
Notre dame and georgetown square off to start the season this saturday at noon in loftus sports center. 
Contact Greg Hadley at     ghadley@nd.edu 
paid adVertiseMeNt 


Baseball 
coNtiNued FroM page 16 
have, in our minds at least, won those jobs, and so we’re going to give them a little op­portunity to see what they can do. 
“unfortunately, unlike the big leagues, where they’ve got 30 games of spring training, we have to tee it up and be ready to go.” 
last season, Notre dame played even its home games on the road until the last few matchups of the season because snow delayed the completion of Fieldturf instal­lation. the irish posted a 22-31 overall record and a 9-21 mark in the acc but closed out the season with six games at home, winning five of them against clemson and pittsburgh. 
“our outlook going into those [last few] games changed so much because we were fi­nally playing at home, and it breathed some excitement into an otherwise challenging year,” aoki said. “and i think the lesson that we tried to take from it was that perspective plays a really big deal in this. 
the way in which you choose to look at things makes a really big deal.” 
Notre dame has not forgot­ten that lesson, aoki said. 
“those last six games of the year, we really looked at it from a positive state of mind, and our kids … just kind of played with clear minds and a positive outlook, and i think that piece really has carried over to this year’s team,” he said. 
the irish return the major­ity of their regulars this season and add eight freshman to the roster. 
“these guys are at a really good place in terms of where they are from their confidence level, from the culture of our team, and i think at this point, our preparation has been real­ly, really good, and they’re just ready,” aoki said. 
the irish head to Norman, oklahoma, to match up against siu edwardsville at 2 p.m. Friday and against oklahoma at 6 p.m. Friday, 6 p.m. saturday and 1 p.m. sunday. all games are scheduled at l. dale Mitchell park. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 



tHe obserVer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2015 | NdsMcobserVer.coM 

Hockey 
coNtiNued FroM page 16 
a nationally-ranked team. 
“obviously, we want to fin­ish in the top four, but the most important thing for me is making sure we’re playing our best hockey heading into the playoffs,” Jackson said. 
Notre dame’s next six games are against three national-ly-ranked opponents: No. 11 providence, No. 3 boston university and No. 10 boston college. 
Four of those six games will be at compton Family ice arena, and while Jackson said this is a clear advantage, he noted the irish have struggled at times on their home ice. 
“it’s a little easier to play at home than on the road obvi­ously, but we have not come out as well as we should’ve on Friday nights this season, “ Jackson said. 
Jackson said there are two areas in which the irish must excel to have success during this tough stretch: goaltend­ing and possessing the puck at the blue lines. 
He added the goaltending percentage for the team must be at the 90-percent mark for the irish to be successful dur­ing this period. 
“there’s no question that goaltending is going to be the most important thing for us in the next six games,” Jackson said. “we have to get nine out of 10 saves on every given night if we’re going to do any­thing during this stretch run.” 
during this week of prac­tice, Jackson said he gave the team an extra day off for some rest and more time for schoolwork. 
“it was a difficult academic week with a lot of exams going on, so we took tuesday off,” he said. “i hope that helps them being able to get their aca­demic work taken care off be­fore we get out there Friday.” 



paid adVertiseMeNt 

talking about the irish op­ponent this weekend, Jackson said providence is an excep­tional defensive team with a tough goaltender, along with high quality forwards and defenseman. 
“they clamp down pretty tight, and they’re good on transition,” Jackson said. “they have good defensive numbers, but they’re not just a defensive team. if you turn pucks over against them, they’re going to capitalize.” 
providence allows a lit­tle more than two goals per game (2.04), and Friars ju­nior goaltender Jon gillies boasts an impressive .933 save percentage. 
Junior left wing Mario lucia, Notre dame’s leading goal scorer, said it’s a must that the irish put a lot of shots on goal against gillies, and he added that the irish special teams units will play a large factor this weekend. 
“we just have to focus on getting pucks to the net, and special teams are going to be huge this weekend,” lucia said. “if we win the special teams battle, i think we’ll have a good chance of win­ning the game.” 
lucia also said playing at home will be a big advantage for the irish in this last month and that the team must “uti­lize our fans” during this stretch run. 
“Having that element of the crowd cheering you on and getting into the game, that helps a lot, and when you have a full crowd in here, it’s intim­idating to the other team and helps our guys,” lucia said. 
Notre dame will square off against providence on Friday and saturday, with the puck dropping at 7:35 p.m. Friday and 8:05 p.m. saturday. 
Contact Benjamin Horvath at bhorvat1@nd.edu 




CROSSWORD | will sHortZ 
ACROSS 27 Curiosity’s 1 Some are square launcher 6 G.I. rank 28 Los Angeles district
9 Mardi ___ 30 Deleted13 It might keep you 31 Bangkok native 
up at night 35 With 37-Across, 
14 Feel bad 
events described 15 Vile by 23-/44-Across16 “And that’s ___!” 36 Abbr. after a 
17 Morgantown’s phone no. 
locale: Abbr. 37 See 35-Across 18 Some mirages 38 Rain delay sight 19 John Lennon, 39 Peace, to Pliny 
e.g. 40 Middle manager? 20 Dandy 41 Jr. in an office 
21 Glandular prefix 43 One of two on a short date? 
22 Sun Devil 44 See 23-Across 
Stadium’s sch. 48 Custodian’s tool 
23 With 44-Across, common 51 Flick not shown 
broadcasting on network TV phrase related 52 Lunkhead to this puzzle’s 53 Greenhouse outer circled squareletters 
54 Silver, in the 25 To a huge extent Sierra Madres 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
N  
B L O B  A S A P  V  I  B E  
A  I D A  S E X E D  E T R E  
B E E R  C A  I R O  C H A R  
S U R G E O N S P H O T O  
R A T  S C O U T  
S T P A T  T  I  S  E R G O T  
I H O P  P E S E T A  H R E  
L O C H N E S S M O N S T E R  
A R K  I N T U I  T  I  S A S  
S P E N T  Y E S  C N O T E  
E T A T S  D O C  
C R Y P T O Z O O L O G Y  
B L O C  A G L O W  A L O E  
M E M O  S  I G N S  I D Y L  
W E B S  F A K E  R E A L  

55 “Lord, is ___?”: Matthew 26:22 
56 Adhering to Strunk and White’s advice “Omit needless words” 
57 Mojito garnishes 58 X-ray unit 59 “Family Matters” 
role 60 Alumni grouping 61 “Very funny” 
cable channel 62 Short blasts 
DOWN 
1 Omertà organization 2 Works inspired by Calliope, e.g. 3 One saying 23-/44-Across 4 Request to a butcher 5 Mineo of film 6 In hock 7 Shortish race, for short 8 Pete Fountain played it 9 Lions’ foes 10 Knolls 11 “Would you like to see ___?” 12 Online honcho 15 Rips off, in a way 20 “Here we go again!” 23 Work, as a bar 24 Probably not Mr. Right 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  
13  14  15  
16  
 17  18  
19  20  21  
22  23  24  
25  26  27  
28  29  30  31  32  33  34  
35  
 36  
 37  
 
38  39  
 40  
41  42  43  
44  45  46  47  48  49  50  
51  52  53  
54  
 55  56  
57  58  59  
60  61  
 62  

Puzzle by Peter A. Collins 
26 Manet or Monet 36 Grovels 46 Miller product 28 Pond denizen 
37 Prod 47 Scored in the 80s 29 Vardalos of “My 
39 Tire spec abbr. 49 BeginningBig Fat Greek 40 Circulation 50 Bares fruit? 
Wedding” blocker
30 Pigskin stitching 53 Country
42 Greek walkways 
32 They appear at mentioned in one-yard intervals 43 Pool side Sinatra’s “Come 33 The “A” in IPA 44 Put on Fly With Me” 34 Verb after “das” 45 “I swear!” 56 Yank 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | cHristopHer brucker 
SUDOKU | tHe MepHaM group 


DOME NUTS | aleXaNdria wellMaN 



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
HOROSCOPE | eugeNia last 
 Happy Birthday: gullibility can lead you astray. Focus on facts, but use your creative imagination to come up with ideas and plans that will distinguish you from any competition you face. being a little reserved and secretive will be to your benefit. keeping debt under control and setting reasonable goals will build a solid base for your future projects. your numbers are 1, 3, 14, 21, 28, 34, 42. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): take pride in what you do, but don’t let anyone take advantage of your skills. you don’t need to prove yourself to anyone else. work diligently toward your goals. don’t spend unnecessarily or get involved in a risky venture. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): try not to overreact or take on too much. if you allow your emotions to lead the way, you will make a costly mistake. you may be able to persuade those working under you to do things your way, but superiors will push back. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): expect to face opposition if you get involved in a cause involving people from different walks of life. listen carefully, but don’t agree to do something if the boundaries are not set. demands coupled with insincere gestures of friendliness are apparent. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): put in the time required to get the results you are looking for. someone you care about will reciprocate if you send the right signals. share your thoughts and make plans for the future. an idea you have will help you excel. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Make the changes that will position you for advancement, and don’t lose sight of your goals. get involved with people who share your positions on worldly matters, and it will boost your plans to bring about worthwhile changes. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): trouble is brewing where personal and business partnerships are concerned. your status is on the line, leaving you in an impossible position if you aren’t ready to make a decision. Follow the rules and move forward cautiously. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): approach domestic matters with a serious tone. offer solid solutions. a change in the pecking order at home will take place if you are adamant about your position and what you are prepared to do in order to get your way. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): stick to your game plan and don’t allow yourself to fold under pressure. love is highlighted, and you should be able to find common ground with the right partner. ask pointed questions and you’ll uncover important information. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): keeping secrets will pay off in the end. a change of plans shouldn’t make you feel obligated to share your thoughts. listen, observe and follow the path that is best for you. don’t take on responsibilities that don’t belong to you. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): charity begins at home. don’t lend, borrow or fall victim to someone with a get-rich-quick scheme. be responsible and avoid taking on unnecessary debt. Find out all the facts before you lend someone a helping hand. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you will face emotional resistance. listen to what’s being said, and try to find common ground without jeopardizing your integrity, beliefs or future plans. strive for equality and it will make a difference to the outcome of a partnership. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Honor your promises, but don’t let anyone take advantage of you. avoid letting your emotions take over, resulting in a foolish mistake. Make amends for past mishaps so you can feel free to move forward with your plans. 

Birthday Baby: you are adaptable, aggressive and emotional. you are unique and fearless. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
ODORP  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
ONNKW  

YULDOC KUENTJ  
 



A: 



(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: ENACT SCOUT SPRING ATTAIN Yesterday’s 
Answer: When the Jumble artist went for a drive, he did this — SANG CAR TUNES 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

Make checks payable to and mail to:  the observer  
p.o. box 779  
Notre dame, iN 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year  
enclosed is $75 for one semester  
Name  

address 

city      state Zip 

tHe obserVer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2015 | NdsMcobserVer.coM 
HOCKEY 

Irish to play host to Friars 
By BENJAMIN HORVATH 
sports writer 
Notre dame will play No. 11 providence this weekend at compton Family ice arena in a pair of matchups that could be crucial in determining the team’s postseason fate. 
Notre dame (12-14-4, 7-5-4 Hockey east) enters this week­end’s series coming off a success­ful trip to Maine last weekend. with a tie Friday and a victory saturday, the irish earned three points in conference standings. 
with just six regular-season games remaining, the irish find themselves in fifth place in the conference, trailing fourth-place providence (17-9-2, 9-6-1) by just one point. the top four teams earn a first-round bye in the Hockey east tournament once the regular season wraps up. 
irish coach Jeff Jackson said his team cannot get too caught up in the standings, and instead he said he views this weekend as an opportunity to play well against 
see Hockey PAGE 14 


BASEBALL 
bats ready for oklahoma’s heat 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
assistant Managing editor 
Notre dame is more than ready for this upcoming season. 
when the irish head to Norman, oklahoma, this week­end, they can put last season’s weather-related challenges be­hind them. 
“they’re ready to get out of here,” irish coach Mik aoki said. “the position guys are ready to face some pitchers that aren’t our own, and our pitchers are sick of facing our own hitters, and it’s just time for us to get up there and play.” 
Notre dame plays siu edwardsville and oklahoma in a Friday doubleheader and then takes on oklahoma again on saturday and sunday to com­plete a three-game series. 
siu edwardsville ended last season with a 21-33 record over­all and a 16-14 mark in ohio Valley. 
oklahoma finished 29-29 and 8-16 in the big 12 in 2014. 
“they’ve got talented arms,” aoki said of oklahoma. “they’ve got kids with big arms. they throw hard and all of that. … saturday guy, [sophomore right-hander alec] Hansen, he’s a guy who gets up to throwing almost 100 [miles per hour], so they’ve got good arms. we’ve just got to go in there, do our thing and not be overly concerned about who it is that we’re facing, just be con­cerned about the things that we can control.” 
this weekend gives the irish starters their first opportunities to perform in their roles. the starters have security in their chance to get their seasons roll­ing, aoki said. 
“i think that there’s some cu­riosity in terms of what some of the guys that we aren’t starting might be capable of doing, for certain,” aoki said. “but i think that the guys who are starting 
see baseball PAGE 13 
ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Notre dame opens with two 
By ALEX CARSON 
sports writer 
No. 9 Notre dame starts off its season with a pair of contests this weekend, looking to build off a 10-win 2014 campaign. 
the irish (0-0) travel to cincinnati today for a 3 p.m. meeting with the bearcats (0­
0) before taking on detroit (0-1) in their home opener sunday at noon at loftus sports center. 
Notre dame returns a major­ity of its goals from last season 
— all eight players that reached double digits on the scoresheet last year are back — and irish coach christine Halfpenny said she feels like her team has gotten even stronger in the offseason. 
”we’re really excited about the amount of returning starters and returning contributors that we have this season,” Halfpenny said. “we’ve seen an enormous amount of growth physically, mentally and even emotionally on the field of play.” 
sophomore attack/midfielder cortney Fortunato led the irish with 46 goals in her freshman year and will be joined at the front by junior attacks rachel sexton and kiera McMullan, who each broke the 25-goal mark last term. 
“we’re excited to welcome some mainstays back — kiera and rachel and cortney — that are really locking down that low offensive area,” Halfpenny said. 
the returning leaders up front are not the only ones in the pro­gram though, and Halfpenny said a trio of freshmen attacks have acclimated well to the col­lege game. 
“they’ve had a very quick learning curve,” Halfpenny said. “[Freshmen attacks] abi cullinan, sydney cardozo and olivia Mikkelsen … have really shown us some really exciting looks at what the future holds.” 
while the irish return plenty of firepower on attack, the mid­fielders are no slouches for the irish, Halfpenny said. 
“[the midfield] is probably the deepest part of our team,” Halfpenny said. “we’ve really worked hard on amping up and bringing in players in the mid­field to really learn from the upperclassmen, and now we fi­nally have upperclassmen out­weighing underclassmen in the midfield.” 
with the midfield depth, 
see w lacrosse PAGE 12 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

After title game run, ND begins season with Hoyas 

EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 
Irish senior attack Conor Doyle slips away from an Air Force        defender during the two teams’ exhibition Jan. 31. 
By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 
on the eve of a new season, kevin corrigan is taking things one day at a time, so much so that the irish coach has not even had time to focus on who No. 2 Notre dame is playing saturday at noon. 
“the biggest challenge [this weekend] is that we don’t know anything about them,” corrigan said of his team’s season-open­ing opponent. “it’s a typical first game in that our emphasis is on ourselves and the way we play … ” 
For the record, the irish are playing georgetown. 
the matchup between will mark the fifth time in the last six seasons that the former big east foes have faced off. but the com­bination of a year-long gap last season and a third-year coach for georgetown in kevin warne means corrigan and the irish are relatively unfamiliar with the Hoyas, he said. 
“they got a new coach a cou­ple years ago, so we really don’t know much at all about them,” corrigan said. “we’ve watched film of them from last year, and i 
see M lacrosse PAGE 13 




