The INdePeNdeNT TO uNCOVer NeWSPAPer SerVINg The TruTh NOTre dAMe ANd ANd rePOrT SAINT MAry’S IT ACCurATeLy 

VOLuMe 48, ISSue 115 | FridAy, APril 10, 2015 | NdSMCOBSerVer.COM 
SMC hosts viewing of ‘The Hunting Ground’ 
BAVO sponsors showing of CNN’s documentary exploring sexual assault on college campuses 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
Saint Mary’s editor 
The Belles Against Violence Office (BAVO) sponsored a showing of and panel discus­sion on the CNN documen­tary “The hunting ground” 
on  Thursday  evening  in  
O’Laughlin  Auditorium  on  
Saint Mary’s campus.  

Saint Mary’s College President Carol Ann Mooney introduced the film, which deals with sexual assaults on college campuses includ­ing Saint Mary’s and Notre dame. 
“The film promotes action and an important message and voices that need to be heard,” Mooney said. “I am very proud that two Saint Mary’s women and a Saint Mary’s father were willing to be featured.” 

In addition to Saint Mary’s and Notre dame, sever­al other schools were also featured in the documen­tary, including university of Southern California, harvard, dartmouth, North Carolina and yale, among others. 
Lt. Pat Cottrell, a re­tired official of Notre dame Security Police (NdSP), was featured in the documentary to talk about sexual assaults on Notre dame’s campus specifically. 

see CNN PAGE 6 ERIN RICE | The Observer 



Court hears ESPN, NDSP lawsuit 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
News Writer 



SCC to hold first ever Dance-A-Thon 
By CLARE KOSSLER 
News Writer 
Just a few weeks after the holy half, Notre dame will see another kind of mara­thon come to campus — this time, a dance marathon. 
From 7 p.m. Friday night until 7 a.m. Saturday morn­ing in South dining hall, the class of 2017 Sophomore Class Council (SCC) will host Notre dame’s first an­nual dance-A-Thon, the proceeds of which will ben­efit Memorial Children’s hospital in downtown South Bend. 

SCC Treasurer Neil Joseph said the idea for the fun­draiser was derived from the example of a number of universities, including Penn State and Ohio State, which have raised thousands of dollars through month-long campaigns that culminate in massive dance parties. 
“A lot of other colleges have been doing dance-a­thons to raise money for hospitals in their area, and we just really wanted to do something where we had an impact on our community specifically,” he said. 

Joseph said all proceeds from the dance-A-Thon will help to fund the the esti­mated $10 million expan­sion of Memorial Children’s hospital in South Bend, which, according to its web­site, “treats children with a wide variety of medi­cal and surgical diagnoses from more than 20 refer­ral hospitals throughout Southwestern Michigan and Northern Indiana.” 
“They [Memorial Children’s hospital] were really in dire need of this new addition for their pe­diatric unit, and so we met with them, and they were really excited,” Joseph said. 
see dANCe PAGE 7 

Film reflects on Irish uprising 
By MADISON JAROS 
News Writer 
The Irish centenary cel­ebration, commemorating 100 years of Irish indepen­dence in 2016, will feature Notre dame’s documentary “1916: The Irish rebellion” as a major pillar of the festivi­ties, Thomas J. & Kathleen 
M. O’donnell Professor of Irish Studies Bríona Nic dhiarmada said. 
The documentary tells the story of the 1916 easter rising, an event that ulti­mately led to Ireland’s in­dependence. A three-part series, it will feature lead­ing scholars from around the world, many of them from Notre dame, dhiarmada said. The documentary was produced by award-winning director Pat Collins and will be narrated by Irish actor 
see FILM PAGE 7 


NeWS PAGE 3 VIeWPOINT PAGE 8 SCeNe PAGE 10 BASeBALL PAGE 20 MeN’S TeNNIS PAGE 20 



ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, Notre dame, IN 46556 024 South dining hall, Notre dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney                         Alex Jirschele Asst. Managing Editor: Mary green Asst. Managing Editor: Lesley Stevenson Asst. Managing Editor: Wei Lin 
News Editor: Margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 

Scene Editor: erin McAuliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach Llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: Brian Lach Online Editor: Michael yu Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine Park Controller: Cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu lsteven1@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 
dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-Chief, Managing editor, Assistant 
Managing editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 

Post Office Information The Observer (uSPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South dining hall Notre dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices POSTMASTer Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. Box 779 024 South dining hall Notre dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your dream circus job? 

Katrina Magno 
senior ryan hall 
“Tightrope walker.” 
Ryan Barry 
junior O’Neill hall 
“Trapeze artist.” 
Ernesto Aveledo 
junior Morrissey Manor 
“Lion tamer.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Cary Palmer 
freshman Breen-Phillips hall 
“Popcorn vendor.” 
Seton Brems 
sophomore howard hall 
“Acrobat.” 
Evan de la Rosa 
freshman St. edward’s hall 
“Tightrope walker.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Margaret hynds Zach Klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Clare Kossler Marek Mazurek Martha reilly Stephanie Snyder 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
erin rice erin McAuliffe 
Photo Viewpoint 

Startup Weekend “A Midsummer Women’s Lacrosse “Getting Started in Blood Drive 
Annmarie Soller Mary Kate Luft 
Innovation Park Night’s Dream” Arlotta Stadium Research” Rolfs Sports 6 p.m. Washington Hall 1 p.m.-3 p.m. Brownson Hall Recreation Center Kickoff to a three-4 p.m.-6 p.m. Notre Dame vs. 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 11 a.m.-5:30 p.m. 
Corrections 

day event to launch Theatrical Michigan. Undergraduate Appointments are 
The Observer regards itself as businesses. performance. Workshop. encouraged. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Baseball Fiestang: La Misa en Espaol “Mothers of Bedford” Softball 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
Frank Eck Stadium “Kapamilya, Of the Dillon Hall Geddes Hall Melissa Cook Stadium 
however, recognize that we will make 
6:05p.m. Same Family” 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 6 p.m.-8 p.m. 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
Notre Dame vs. Florida South Dining Hall Spanish Mass. Film and discussion on Notre Dame vs. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
State. 3 p.m.-7 p.m. mothers in prison. Bowling Green. 
we can correct our error. 
Filipino cultural event. 



Professor examines ethics of non-violence 
By JEREMY CAPELLO LEE 
News Writer 
Addressing a standing-room-only audience, Judith Butler, professor of compar­ative literature at university of California Berkeley, gave a lecture titled “The ethics and Politics of Non-Violence” on seems like a solitary act, it is mediated socially and de­pends on the recognition of conventions governing non­violent modes of conduct.” 
Butler said these prin­ciples of non-violence are often subverted by oppos­ing social structures. In par­ticular, the police response 
easily misconstrued. 
“A principled view on non­violence can sometimes be interpreted as violence. And when that happens those who make that interpreta­tion consider it to be the right one, and those whose actions are being interpreted as violence consider it to be very wrong,” Butler said. 
“even if non-violence policy meant to suspend or nullify recognition of the conventions of civil disobe­dience. ... This opens the way to construe non-violence as violence.” 
Butler said the traditional conception of self-defense when discussing non-vio­lence is an important one to consider, as it submits that killing for the safety of loved ones is justifiable. This exception to the principle against killing, however, eventually leads to ethical conflict. 
“The exception to the rule is important, perhaps more important than the rule it­self. If there are exceptions to the prohibition on killing, 
and if there always such ex­ceptions, this assumes that the prohibition on killing is less than absolute,” Butler said. 
Though people usually accept killing in defense of loved ones, they are not as willing to kill in defense of those with whom they have no relations, she said. 
“A dubious distinction emerges between those who are close to one in the name of whose protection one may commit violence, and those in the name of whose defense one may not kill,” Butler said. 
“you’ve started with a pac­ifist who makes a couple of distinctions, but now we see 
that some lives are simply more valuable than others.” 
To solve this ethical dilem­ma, Butler said it is impor­tant to uphold the equality of all lives, no matter how different. 
“I’m suggesting that a thor­oughly egalitarian approach to the preservation of life ... that subscribes to a notion of rational democracy that is usually left out of the ethical considerations of how best to practice non-violence,” Butler said. 
Butler said there is much opposition against this in­clusive form of non-violence, and as such, supporters of this policy should expect criticism. 
“Such allegations areThursday night at McKenna to the 2011 student protests 

hall Conference Center as at university of California that the logic according to meant to paralyze the 

part of the annual yusko Berkeley, during which un­which those exceptions are speaker, distort the position 
Ward-Phillips Lecture series. armed students were alleg­made is on a continuum with against war and violence. ... 
Butler said it is not only edly beaten, demonstrated a a certain war logic.” When that happens, the cri­
difficult to define non-vio­challenge to the established “The distinction between tique of war is actually mis­
lence with certainty, but the protocol of non-violence. populations that are worth construed as a battle-cry,” 
principle of non-violence, “What happens increas­violently defending and she said. 
once established, can also be ingly often is a deliberate those that are not implies despite this conflict, 
Butler said it is important to seek out like-minded groups willing to uphold this prin­ciple of non-violence. 
“It’s important to hope, but to embody the hope in ac­tion, to link arms and minds to form that overwhelming solidarity,” Butler said. 
Contact Jeremy Capello Lee at jcapell@nd.edu 


PAId AdVerTISeMeNT 



The OBSerVer | FridAy, APril 10, 2015 | NdSMCOBSerVer.COM 

Fiestang returns with new NDFS partnership 
and has great food. Sounds Programs and Services cheesy, but 110 percent hon-(MSPS), according to its est that is what our culture assistant director, Arnel boils down to — and food is Bulaoro. important, really important. “Fiestang is one of many Family is the core of every-signature events designed to thing and music and fun.” celebrate culture and create 
Aquino also said NdFS community building events,” is planning on instituting he said. “I am simply a sound-Filipino cuisine as a regular ing board for the organiza­rotation in the dining halls, tion. … It has been a pleasure similar to the current ar-to watch the exchange of rangement for the Korean, ideas between Food Services Vietnamese and Indian cui-director Chris Abayasinghe sine that appear roughly ev-and the FASO officers.” ery fortnight. According to FASO’s 
“It starts with the show Facebook page, the show will pretty much,” he said. “This offer free admission and the is so different from what we first 80 attendees without a have known Fiestang to be meal plan will receive free from previous years.” meal tickets for the Filipino 
The show has gained dinner. the support of other or­ganizations, including Contact Samuel Chan at Multicultural Student schan3@nd.edu 
PAId AdVerTISeMeNT 

By SAMUEL CHAN 
News Writer 
The Filipino-American Student Organization (FASO) will once again be holding its annual Fiestang Cultural Show but with a unique twist this year: It will bear the theme “Kapamilya: of the same family.” 
Attendees of the show, which takes place Saturday from 3 to 4:30 p.m. at South dining hall, will be able to enjoy “traditional and modern Filipino dances,” a university press release said. 
The show will be followed by a Filipino dinner served at both North and South dining halls until 7 p.m., with dish­es such as bistek (beef steak) and pansit bihon guisado (noodles), according to the Notre dame Food Services (NdFS) website. 
This is made possible through a “milestone” partnership between FASO and NdFS, Fiestang 
commissioners and seniors 
Chris  Aquino  and  Isabel  
Camara said.  
“This  has  always  been  

in the works, and this year was the right year for it to happen. The new person in charge [NdFS director Chris Abayasinghe] has a strong likening towards diversity and making people aware,” Aquino said. “There are also a lot of Filipino people on staff working in the dining halls, so combining those two it resulted in a NdFS sponsorship where it’s actu­ally the dining hall that pro­vides the Filipino food for the show, as opposed to just having it catered every year.” 
This move is expected to improve the club’s visibil­ity on campus. Currently, it has an active membership of about 50 students, Aquino and Camara said. 
Compared to the previ­ous venue of Stepan Center, the choice of location will “hopefully encourage some underclassmen to check it out, see that it’s a good event and expect it for the years to come,” Camara said. “It’s a giant part of the exposure.” 
Aquino and Camara said they anticipate around 200 people will come to Fiestang, with families from the South Bend community represent­ing about one-third of that number. 
“Filipino culture is so vi­vacious, you could walk around the Philippines and see someone singing their soul out with karaoke or be­ing very into a certain dance. … That’s what our culture is and why the show’s always been around,” Camara said. “We all come together for the sole purpose to just celebrate being Filipino.” 
Apart from this, Aquino stressed the importance of the values reflected in Fiestang. 
“The show is a celebra­tion of our culture,” Aquino said. “It’s full of music, joy, 

Activists appeal to youth 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
News Writer 
Last night in McKenna hall, the dean’s Fellows of the College of Arts and Letters invited three speakers from Kalamazoo, Michigan — Michael Wilder, yafinceio harris and Sam Bailey, a professor from Kalamazoo Community College — to speak about the Peace during War project. Peace during War is a group that visits high schools, juvenile homes and prisons to share Wilder’s and harris’s story about their life of drugs and crime and re­demption after prison. Wilder said they hope to change lives by showing young people they can turn their lives around. 
“We tell our story to the youth so that they don’t make the same mistakes we made and end up in prison like we did,” he said. “Our story ends in good, but a lot of young peo­ple that go on that same path don’t end up good; they end up dead, they end up in prison forever.” 
Wilder and harris talked about their childhoods and adolescences being surround­ed by a culture that did not encourage them to have a life outside of crime. harris said to have aspirations in that cul­ture was looked down upon. 
“To try to be positive is a neg­ative in our neighborhood,” he said. “But to be positive around you all, to be positive to your teachers, is a plus to them, and they make you feel glorious and good.” 
Wilder and harris said Peace during War has spoken with 3,000 to 4,000 troubled youth in the past three years, visiting all the juvenile homes and alternative high schools in Kalamazoo and has trav­eled to speak to youth in other parts of the country as well. 
Wilder said his work with the program has changed his life and allowed him to contribute 
“We tell our story to the youth so that they don’t make the same mistakes we made and end up in prison like we did. Our story ends in good, but a lot of young people that go on that same path don’t end up good; they end up dead, they end up in prison forever.” 
Michael Wilder 
Peace During War 
more to his community, after years of dealing drugs. 
“Now, I have seven police of­ficers’ personal numbers in my phone, including the narcotics agent that raided my house and caught me with drugs in 2008,” he said. “Now, they call on us for community help. If drug dealers get out of hand, they call Peace during War. If the gang violence gets to an ac­celerated rate, they call Peace during War. We’re so honored and proud to be a part of that.” 
harris said he and Wilder started speaking in schools because they wanted to share their stories, but they did not expect it to become a job for them. 
“We’re just happy to be here, to change lives,” he said. “We’re just happy to be who we’re becoming.” 
Contact Megan Valley at mvalley@nd.edu 




Author shares experience living with Asperger’s 
By MEGAN UEKERT 
News Writer 
david Finch, the author of the New york Times best­selling book “The Journal of Best Practices,” spoke with his wife, Kristen Finch, on Thursday in Carroll Auditorium at Saint Mary’s. 
Finch has written for both The New york Times and huffington Post on Asperger’s syndrome, which is also a central theme of his book. “The Journal of Best Practices” details a two-year period after his diagnosis of Asperger’s, five years into his marriage with Kristen. 
“I just wanted to write a book to make people laugh,” he said of the book. “I’ll write about how I ruined some­one’s life.” 
In addition to his writing, Finch has also been featured in an NBC feature that aired on rock Center with Brian Williams, and he travels around the country talking about the realities of autism and Asperger’s. 
“A lot of people who are on the [autism] spectrum are individuals who can observe very well what’s happening around them and really fly 
“I just wanted to write a book to make people laugh.  I’ll write about how I ruined someone’s life.” 
David Finch 
writer 
under the radar,” he said. “We hyper-process every­thing. Marriage and autism are very similar in the sense that ... you stand back and look at the relationship and think it’s completely normal, but you sometimes don’t re­alize what is going on inside.” 
Finch said when his first book went on sale, he re­ceived many surprising let­ters from people who were fighting their way through similar situations. The com­mon thread in all the letters was that the book gave them hope, he said. 
“Autism and Asperger’s doesn’t always have the word ‘hope’ attached to it,” he said. “It is not easy for everyone; some people have a very dif­ficult time. There are lots of amazing gifts and talents, al­most super powers out there in the minds of these people.” 
According to the CdC, one in 68 people are diagnosed with autism. however, Finch said even to this day he still strays away from telling people he has Asperger’s be­cause of the social stigma that comes with it. People still try to give him “special treatment” when he comes to speak at events, he said. 
“Most doctors should walk into the room with your child’s or your diagnosis say­ing, ‘you have a high power functioning machine here, he’s/she’s got an amazing mind.’ In reality, no doctors come in just saying that. They say that you have Asperger’s and it is going to be very dif­ficult for you.” 


Finch said there are four rules he has developed to lead to success, not only for people on the autism spec­trum. The fourth rule, he said, revolves around learn­ing to adapt. 
“ ... you cannot fail unless you fail to adapt,” Finch said. “We live in a neuro-typical world, not an autistic world. how do you fail when you have people to love you, to understand you and to guide you?” 
Contact Megan Uekert at muekert@nd.edu 

Students to compete in Chinese speech contest 
By WEI LIN 
Assistant Managing editor 
Students of the Chinese program will demon­strate their aptitude in the 

language by competing in junior Zachary Sturm will the eighth annual Chinese serve as emcees for this Speech Contest in hesburgh contest. Associate profes-Center Auditorium at 7 p.m. sor yongping Zhu, who is a Friday. chair in the department of Freshman Ailsa Xing and east Asian Languages and 
PAId AdVerTISeMeNT 


Cultures, will provide the introductory remarks to start off the contest. 
Approximately 20 students who were recommended by their language instruc­tors will have the chance to present on a variety of top­ics. These topics range from the student’s experiences in learning Chinese and the benefits of learning Chinese to topics including arts and addressing race. 
The contestants will be competing within their level of language proficiency, with the exception of fourth- and fifth-year Chinese students, who will compete with stu­dents from both levels. 
Associate profession­al specialist Chengxu yin spearheaded the event along with various other instructors. 
“Our primary goal in or­ganizing this event is to en­hance the study of Chinese at Notre dame and to foster a sense of community among our language students,” yin said. 
She said the large number of students in the Chinese language classes inhibits interaction between stu­dents of different levels of instruction. 
“The speech contest pro­vides an excellent oppor­tunity for students to get to know each other better,” yin said, “[It also] allows stu­dents at lower levels to be in­spired by the achievements of those at higher levels.” 
In attendance will not only be Chinese language students and the language instructors, but also facul­ty in the Chinese language program who are not in­volved in facilitating lan­guage acquisition. 
“The contest will also pro­vide an opportunity for [all of] our faculty to assess the learning outcome of our stu­dents, especially in the area of pronunciation and into­nation,” yin said. 
yin said students worked with their instructors to flesh out their speeches and rehearsed them their own time. She emphasized many hours of work went into preparations for the contest. 
Specific speech titles in­clude “evolution Of Chinese Music,” “China Allowed Me To Accept My Skin Color” and “under the dome,” among others. 
Along with the department of east Asian Languages and Cultures, the Office for undergraduate Studies of the College of Arts and Letters, the Kellogg Institute for International Studies and the Center for the Study of Languages and Cultures will also be sponsoring this annual event. 
The winners of each cate­gory will have the chance to compete in the u.S. Midwest “Chinese Bridge” Speech Contest, which will be host­ed by Notre dame on April 
18. The winners will com­pete against contestants from more than 10 different Midwestern universities and colleges. 
Contact Wei Lin at wlin4@nd.edu 


The OBSerVer | FridAy, APril 10, 2015 | NdSMCOBSerVer.COM 

ESPN 
CONTINued FrOM PAge 1 
November 2014, eSPN re­porter Paula Lavigne re­quested incident reports from NdSP related to student athletes. On both instances, Notre dame denied the re­quest on the basis that NdSP is not a public law enforce­ment agency and is therefore not subject to APrA. 
According to documents filed in St. Joseph Superior Court, eSPN Inc. filed a com­plaint against the university on Jan. 15 after Notre dame refused to release the inci­dent reports for the second time, contrary to the opin­ions of Indiana Public Access Counselor (PAC) Luke Britt. 
Britt, an attorney appoint­ed by the governor to pro­vide advice and assistance on Indiana’s public access laws, issued an opinion on Oct. 31 notifying NdSP that his office considers it to be a public law enforcement agency subject to APrA. On Jan. 5, in his response to Lavigne’s second complaint, Britt wrote that he expects NdSP to comply with APrA and release its records, al­though his opinion does not have the force and effect of the law. 
eSPN submitted both of Britt’s opinions as evidence for their argument in court, according to a report in the South Bend Tribune last Thursday. 
On Feb. 12, damon Leichty and georgina Jenkins, rep­resenting Notre dame as attorneys from Barnes and Thornburg, submitted a written defense outlining the university’s argument that NdSP is a private police department. 
Leichty argued that NdSP derives its power from the Notre dame Board of Trustees, not the Indiana state government, according to the Tribune report. 
“While campus police of­ficers enjoy ‘general police powers’ and ‘statutory pow­ers, privileges and im­munities as sheriffs and constables,’ the Trustees may restrict their abil­ity to serve civil process,” Notre dame’s brief stated. “By statute, campus law en­forcement serves at Notre dame’s pleasure and in ac­cordance with an oath that the Trustees describe — not the government.” 
Leichty’s defense brief also emphasized past cas­es involving the ArAP and private universities, stress­ing PAC opinions in Notre dame’s favor from 2003, 2009 and 2011. 
“For more than 30 years, and certainly well-settled for more than a decade, pri­vate university police de­partments have not been subject to APrA,” Leichty wrote. “There has been no intervening change in the law that justifies an abrupt shift on this issue.” 
Leichty argued that changing the status of NdSP to a public agency could lead to the public disclo­sure of private institutional records, according to the Tribune. 
“In a society where an open government is consid­ered essential to a properly functioning democracy, not every iota of information is subject to public scrutiny,” Leichty wrote. “That princi­ple resounds with even more force when eSPN (advanc­ing a sports media purpose) seeks to subject private in­stitutions, such as Notre dame or its campus police department, to a law intend­ed for government scrutiny.” 
According to the Tribune, James dimos, a Frost Brown Todd attorney representing eSPN in the case, argued Notre dame should be sub­ject to government scrutiny because it possesses the po­lice powers of arrest. 
“The university of Notre dame Security Police department desires to op­erate in the shadows as a secretive force with all of the police powers under Indiana law but none of the public scrutiny,” dimos wrote in the plaintiff’s brief, which was filed March 9. 
dimos also wrote the pri­vacy records of Notre dame students would not be af­fected if NdSP was declared a public agency because of protection under the Federal educational rights and Privacy Act (FerPA). 
Notre dame is asking for the case to be dismissed, while eSPN is asking the court to order Notre dame to release the papers and pay legal fees. 
Assistant Vice President for university Communications dennis Brown said Notre dame is confident in its po­sition after presenting its ar­gument in court. 
According to the Tribune report, hostetler plans to is­sue a ruling by April 20. 
Contact Katie Galioto at kgalioto@nd.edu 
CNN 
CONTINued FrOM PAge 1 
Cottrell said NdSP pre­ferred to keep its crime sta­tistics as low as possible. 
Cottrell said this problem was magnified as his bosses would say they had empa­thy for victims of crimes but did not really support them. Additionally, Cottrell said NdSP could not contact any athlete or athletic staff di­rectly, regarding of any ac­cusation, without first going through university officials. 
Paul Browne, vice presi­dent for public affairs and communications for the university, said Cottrell’s as­sertion was false. 
“‘The hunting ground’ ... was wrong in unsupported and inaccurate assertions that the university sought to suppress crime statistics and shield athletes from investigators,” he said in a statement. 
rachel hudak, a former Saint Mary’s student, was featured in the documentary regarding a sexual assault that allegedly happened on Notre dame’s campus. hudak said Mooney disre­garded her sexual assault complaint in a meeting. 
Tom Seeberg, father of Lizzy Seeberg, a former Saint Mary’s student who commit­ted suicide after an alleged sexual assault by a Notre dame football player, spoke on his daughter’s behalf. 
Seeberg said Lizzy reported the alleged assault the day after it happened and received a threatening text from another football player. 
Mooney spoke after the film and said students may wonder why she did not agree 
“‘The Hunting Ground’ ... was wrong in unsupported and inaccurate assertions that the University sought to supress crime statistics and shield athletes from investigators.” 
Paul Browne 
University vice president, public 
affairs and communications 
to be interviewed by CNN for the movie. 
“I hope you know that stu­dent privacy is of the utmost importance,” Mooney said. “you may also be wonder­ing about rachel’s comment, and I remember our conver­sation very differently than she does. It is through her pain that she remembers. I am, and was then, very sorry I cannot take her pain away.” 
response to the film 
Five panelists spoke after the documentary, including Karen Johnson, vice presi­dent of Student Affairs at the College, Connie Adams, director of BAVO, Stacy davis, chair of the gender and Women’s Studies depart­ment, senior Payton Moore and Brian young, command­er of the St. Joseph County Special Victims unit. 
Adams said two key areas stand out most to her after watching the documentary. The first area, she said, was the theme of survivors that feel alone. 
“We as a community can respond in a compassionate way,” Adams said. 
The second theme in the film is activism, she said. 
“They are so many ways we can take on this issue,” Adams said. “We can really assume that call to action.” 
davis said there was a hor­rible repetitiveness in the documentary of schools cov­ering up sexual assaults. 
“My first response was anger,” davis said. “Then I realized you all have an incredible opportunity be­cause all schools want to get paid and stay open. It was a good thing that [the docu­mentary] shamed schools, so that you [students] are treat­ed fairly.” 
reporting sexual assault 
Johnson said the number of reported campus assaults depends on where the as­sault is reported. She said there are between four to six reports of sexual assaults annually that come across her desk in Student Affairs. 
“If they report at Notre dame, our office doesn’t get 

that  information,”  Johnson  in the documentary. he said  
said. “It’s really important to  St. Joseph County SVu will  
know that we work with the  work with a student as soon  
Title IX coordinator at Notre  as an incident is reported to  
dame, and that’s as far as we  the department.  
can work with them. What  “We work with the victim  
we do here is to provide as  and want to be consider­ 

“When we’re talking about violence, we’re talking about taking power away. The support has to be about getting that power back, and the support we have on campus is to empower the students.” 
Connie Adams director, BAVO 
much support regardless of where they were assaulted. Things can change if we all work together to make that happen.” 
Adams said it is impor­tant to listen to the student’s needs through the healing process. 
“When we’re talking about violence, we’re talking about taking power away,” Adams said. “The support has to be about getting that power back, and the support we have on campus is to em­power the students.” 
As an alumna of Saint Mary’s, Adams said she has seen growth returning to the campus as the director of BAVO. The office began in the spring of 2010, and it has continued to evolve and grow since then, especially in regards to student activ­ism, she said. 
young said he was struck by the lack of compassion on the part of law enforcement ate to what has happened and certainly compassion­ate towards what she’s going through,” young said. 
Johnson said he also works closely the Title IX coordina­tor at Notre dame. 
“We can’t dictate to Notre dame what the outcome of a case should be, but we can only support our students. The hard part for all of us is that we are two separate le­gal entities, and therefore the best I can do is meeting and going through the pro­cesses,” she said. 
The panel concluded without answering all audi­ence questions. Moderator Frances Kominkiwicz said all questions submitted by members of the audience will be answered in a writ­ten document on the BAVO webpage and sent out in an email. 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 




Film 
CONTINued FrOM PAge 1 
Liam Neeson. 
“you either do something properly, or you don’t do it at all,” dhiarmada said. “And I suppose, being Notre dame, if we’re going to go for it, we’re going to go for it. So we wanted to do this at the high­est production values pos­sible, and we started like that from the beginning.” 
dhiarmada is Irish but said a documentary commemo­rating the American Civil War inspired her to write the series. 
“About five years ago, I had been watching Ken Burns’s ‘The Civil War,’ which is a fantastic documentary, and it really made the Civil War in­timate for Americans again,” dhiarmada said. “It was this wonderful, personal view — but it also contextualized it. And I remember thinking at the time, wouldn’t it be fan­tastic if we could do some­thing similar for 1916?” 
The Keough-Naughton Institute at Notre dame worked closely with scholars in Ireland to produce the doc­umentary, giving it a unique perspective, dhiarmada said. 
“I think if I were [creat­ing the documentary] in Ireland, it might be a differ­ent documentary,” she said. “The fact that I’m based in the states, it’s emanating from the university of Notre dame, which has a strong connection with Ireland. Particularly the Keough-Naughton Institute for Irish Studies — we’re a leader in Irish Studies. So we have this connection, this back and forth, and I think it’s that perspective that we’re able to look over back to Ireland, bring what we have over here over there and bring Ireland back to us.” 
Walter h. Annenberg­edmund P. Joyce Chair in American Studies and Journalism robert Schmuhl, who was also involved in the creation of the documentary, said the series’ global scope sets it apart. 
“This documentary will consider the global signifi­cance of the easter rising,” Schmuhl said. “Many depic­tions focus overwhelmingly on the consequences within Ireland. The Notre dame production takes a broader and more comprehensive approach, considering, for example, the involvement of Irish America in the rising and afterwards.” 
In 2016, Ireland will play a cinematic version of the documentary in Irish em­bassies around the world, dhiarmada said. director of Notre dame’s dublin Center Kevin Whelan said the doc­umentary’s broad and in­clusive scope and scholarly focus will tell the story of Ireland in a way it hasn’t been told before. 
“I believe that the docu­mentary will allow every Irish person to access the best recent thinking on the rising, a pivotal event in forming modern Ireland,” Whelan said. “Because of its high production values and content, I am very confident that it will also project very positive view of Notre dame.” 
This inclusive scope is im­portant to Ireland as it looks back at its history and growth as a nation, dhiarmada said. 
“Telling the story now, 100 years on, after the peace process, I think we can look at it as history,” she said. “It’s still quite contentious. But I think what we’re trying to do here, and it’s very much in tune with what the Irish government is trying to do in their centenary commemo­rations and celebrations, is to be more inclusive. Because we now have new sources … many more archives are opened up to us than would have been the case at the 50th anniversary. So I think we can be a bit more gener­ous in our telling. Painting parts of the story that had been left out before.” 
The documentary isn’t only looking back toward the past 
— it’s looking forward to the future, Taoiseach of Ireland enda Kenny said in a promo­tional video for the series. 
“I’ve been to Notre dame. I really am grateful to Notre dame for what they’re doing here, in leading in an aca­demic way the background, the understanding, the com­prehension, of 1916 — and more so, what it means and will mean for the future, for the start of the journey of the next century,” Kenny said. 
“That’s going to encour­age and invigorate and moti­vate Irish people all over the world — proud of their ances­try, proud of the journey our country has come on, proud of the way that we have dealt with sacrifices economically and otherwise over the years, and proud now that a young generation, a rising genera­tion in Ireland and abroad, are proud of their past, proud of their heritage, and will create and change the fron­tiers of the future,” he said. 
Contact Madison Jaros at mjaros@nd.edu 
dance 
CONTINued FrOM PAge 1 

“We were just thinking big.” 
SCC President Noemi Ventilla said the dance-A-Thon will be the second major event hosted by the SCC this year; their first was the great gatsby dance in September. 
“We did gatsby in the fall, and we realized that having campus-wide events, bigger events has a lot bigger im­pact and durability than a lot of the events that class councils do,” she said. 
But bigger events entail greater commitments of time and resources, and Joseph said organizing the dance-A-Thon has proved “a huge learning process.” 
however, Ventilla said the combined efforts of all SCC members — which have fueled a large-scale promotional campaign extending across social media, youTube and the event’s brand new website 
— have transformed what began as a distant vision of a dance marathon into an imminent reality. 
“There are 37 of us [on SCC], so there are 37 people working on it,” she said. “Before then, we had com­mittees, and they did their own thing, but because this is such a huge process, we all came together.” 
Ventilla said their promo­tional efforts have already generated a lot of excite­ment in the community. A variety of sponsors has contributed to the event, and even more organiza­tions have indicated their interest in participating in coming years. 
“We’re going to have a ton of really great things, but the real potential for this is in the future,” she said. 
Included in the festivi­ties lined up for this year’s dance-A-Thon are live per­formances by student or­ganizations, an inflatable obstacle course, music, free food and, of course, dancing. 
“It’s an all-night thing, so if you’re coming back to campus at 3 a.m. and don’t have somewhere to go, in­stead of Taco Bell, come to us,” Ventilla said. 
Both Ventilla and Joseph said their eventual hope is to create a club which will take over organizing future dance-A-Thons. 
For the present, how­ever, Joseph said the SCC’s primary objective is to encourage participation among the student body, both in terms of donations and attendance at the ac­tual event. 
“We really want people to come out and have fun, and that will set the tone for coming years,” he said. 
Joseph said students can support the event by do­nating through a link on the event website (http:// ndda nceat hon.weebly. com),or by texting “Beacon Nd” to 20222, which will make an automatic do­nation of $5 to Memorial Children’s hospital. 
he said the SCC will also be collecting donations in person throughout the night. 
“every little bit counts,” Joseph said. “It’s kind of corny, but it really does.” 
Contact Clare Kossler at ckossler@nd.edu 

Shooting of motorist in S.C. caught on camera 
Associated Press 
NOrTh ChArLeSTON, S.C. 
— The traffic stop starts like any other: an officer pulls over a motorist, walks up to the driv­er’s side window and asks for license and registration. What happened minutes later ap­pears to take place without any obvious sign of provocation or conflict: The driver opens the door and runs, and the officer chases after him. 
Video released Thursday from the dashboard of white North Charleston police Officer Michael Thomas Slager’s cruis­er captures the very first mo­ments he and black motorist Walter Scott meet, a strikingly benign encounter at its earliest stages. It changes within min­utes as Scott takes off running and the officer runs after him. 
The video captures the mo­ments leading up to a fatal shooting that has sparked out­rage as the latest example of a white police officer killing an unarmed black man. The shooting itself was captured by an eyewitness on his iPhone and provided the impetus for the officer to be charged with murder and fired. 
But questions had remained how the traffic stop turned deadly. The dash cam video provides a more complete pic­ture of the encounter. 
Seth Stoughton, a former po­lice officer and criminal law professor at the university of South Carolina, said the dash cam video shows nothing that would indicate that such a rou­tine traffic stop would escalate to a fatal shooting. 
“It’s not entirely normal. Most people don’t run during traffic stops. But it is not overly threatening or anything that should take an officer aback,” Stoughton said. 
The shooting took place on Saturday and the department and Slager’s lawyer said the of­ficer fired in self-defense during a scuffle over his department-issued Taser. Within days, the eyewitness video surfaced and immediately changed percep­tions of what happened, lead­ing the department to charge Slager with murder and fire him from the force he’d worked on for five years. 
The dash cam video shows Scott being pulled over in a used Mercedes-Benz he had purchased just days earlier. Police have said he was being stopped for a broken tail light. Slager is seen walking toward the driver’s side window and heard asking for Scott’s license and registration. Slager then returns to his cruiser. Next, the video shows Scott starting to get out of the car, his right hand raised above his head, then he quickly gets back into the car and closes the door. 
Seconds later, he opens the door again and takes off run­ning. Within a city block or two, out of the dashboard cam­era’s view, Slager catches up to him in an empty lot. 
A bystander noticed the con­frontation and pushed record on his cellphone, capturing video that has outraged the nation: it shows Scott running away again, and Slager firing eight shots at his back. 
There is almost nothing in Slager’s police personnel file to suggest that his bosses consid­ered him a rogue officer capa­ble of murdering a man during a traffic stop. In the community he served, however, people say this reflects what’s wrong with policing today: Officers nearly always get the last word when citizens complain. 
“We’ve had through the years numerous similar complaints, and they all seem to be taken lightly and dismissed without any obvious investigation,” the rev. Joseph darby, vice presi­dent of the Charleston branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, said Thursday. 
The mostly black neigh­borhood where the shooting took place is far from unique, said Melvin Tucker, a former FBI agent and police chief in four southern cities who often testifies in police misconduct cases. 
Nationwide, training that pushes pre-emptive action, military experience that cre­ates a warzone mindset, and legal system favoring police in misconduct cases all lead to scenarios where officers see the people they serve as en­emies, he said. 
“It’s not just training. It’s not just unreasonable fear. It’s not just the warrior mentality. It’s not just court decisions that al­most encourage the use of it. It is not just race,” Tucker said. “It is all of that.” 
Both Slager, 33, and Scott, 55, were u.S. Coast guard veter­ans. Slager had one complaint in his personnel file of exces­sive force that was ultimately dismissed. Scott had been jailed repeatedly for failing to pay child support. But neither man had a record of violence. Slager consistently earned pos­itive reviews in his five years with the North Charleston Police. 


iNSidE ColuMN 

 Awkward guests 
Annmarie Soller 
Photographer 

you may or may not have had this prob­lem. you are talking to your friend from home, and you are explaining why Notre dame is simply the best: the community, the sports, top academics, et cetera. your friend doesn’t believe you, so you say, “you need to visit.” 
Then you realize what you’ve just done. you’ve offered an invitation for your friend to stay and hang out with you. you may be off the hook if your friend is just as busy as you are being studious but also trying to create something that resembles a social life. Or you may be giving directions for how your friend can get to your dorm from Main Circle. 
I’m not saying guests are bad; I’m point­ing out that having guests is awkward. how are you supposed to entertain them? South Bend is not a thriving metropolis, and the majority of the school year is cold. 
you obviously begin with a tour of cam­pus: visit the grotto, take the typical dome pic and show off your tiny dorm room (un­less you live in one of the spacious West Quad dorms). But then what? 
What if there is no home football game or basketball game or insert favorite Notre dame sport here to spectate? What if there are no performances in dPAC or events at Legends? What if the Snite hasn’t changed its collections, and all you see from the li­brary windows is construction? 
While it is highly unlikely that nothing is happening, it is likely that you may not even think of these ideas. you want to be entertaining, but you also want to show your friend your college experience. Personally, when I’m not studying or working or in a meeting, I’m playing video games or, more likely, sleeping. My friends could do that anywhere. 
There is a lot of pressure to make the visit ideal, but what makes a trip to our lovely home under the dome worthwhile? A visit to our campus is rarely like what the media perceives a typical college campus to be like. The quads are dormant, save for those few warms days in late spring and early fall when it is nice enough to spend a good chunk of time outside. Parties only happen Thursday, Friday and Saturday (unless it’s syllabus week or Wake Week), and even then, there is no guarantee you can find one. 
And what happens when your friend plans to stay for a few days or their whole spring break? When do you reach the limit of the fun things you can do? I wonder if this burden of being the awkward host works both ways. Maybe other campuses go dormant, and there are certainly more remote campuses than ours. After you’ve “entertained” your friend, you should bring up how great it would be to see how their campus compares. Then once you’ve con­quered awkward guests, you can advance to hosting awkward relatives. 
Contact Annmarie Soller at asoller@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Fr. Ted and women at ND 
Richard Klee 
guest Writer 

Fr. Ted was a fighter for human rights. As chief of the Civil rights Commission, brokering landmark compromises that gave new legal protections to many Americans, and as Notre dame’s longest serving president, opening Notre dame to female students and integrating Notre dame’s leadership with lay men and women, Fr. Ted sought greater respect for the god given dignity of many. As Notre dame examines how to renew Fr. Ted’s tremendous legacy today, it could find no better concern than Notre dame’s under­representation of women in leadership and underrepresentation of minorities across the university. I will focus on the former here and write about the latter in a subsequent column. 
In 2013-14, Notre dame held a university-wide forum on “Women in Leadership.” during many events, scholars and leaders offered compelling research and personal experience regarding the unique and essential contributions of female leaders. Studies showing increased efficiency, transparency and effectiveness in organizations with strong representation of women in leadership were matched with stories of women overcoming great odds to lead. 
At the end of this same year, Notre dame had eight open posi­tions on the Board of Trustees to fill. The results were not what one would expect of a year dedicated to “Women in Leadership.” Seven men and only one woman were selected, further reducing the representation of women on the Board from 30 percent to 27 per­cent. The highest level of governance, the Board of Fellows, elected one male to its lone open position, maintaining its disproportion of 11 men and just one woman. For a governance structure in which business is approved by two-thirds majority, this means that for the Fellows and for the Trustees, the votes of women are not need­ed for approval of any matter. Such conditions undermine the lay participation in governance that Notre dame claims and that Fr. Ted began. There is no secular or religious definition of “laity” in which women are so marginalized. 
Talk about women in leadership, without dramatic improve­ment in their representation, degrades the university’s credibility as Catholic and as an institution of higher learning. having writ­ten about challenges facing female faculty and students in previ­ous columns, I will focus on staff here. In a recent town hall talk, executive Vice President John Affleck-graves voiced his concern about a lack of diversity at Notre dame, saying that he would “chal­lenge my nine direct reports to tackle the situation.” yet what was not said was that eight of these nine directly reporting administra­tors are male, a situation which Affleck-graves has had, in a de­cade as eVP, ample time to tackle. Indeed, many of these directly reporting administrators, in turn, oversee leadership structures that are dominated by men, such as the Finance division, with five of its six leaders being male; Auxiliary Operations, where all six who hold the title of “director” are male; the Controller’s Office, in which eight of the nine persons with the title of “controller” are male; Campus Safety, where all but one of the eight directors or chiefs are male; or the Investment Office, where all nine top administrators are male. These are just a few of many male-domi­nated leadership structures at Notre dame. Such structures breed insularity and artificially narrow the paths to leadership. 
As many of these positions are held by long-term employees of Notre dame, Notre dame’s “corporate culture” is indicted by such underrepresentation of women. Those men who fit the model of what Joan Williams, a scholar of work culture, calls the “work de­votion schema,” willing to greatly reduce family and community commitments in favor of long hours, heavy office responsibility and a nearly always engaged electronic connection to work, ad­vance. This model of “workplace devotion” was long ago rejected by the world’s most efficient economies like germany, and plenty of research describes both its inherent inefficiencies, as well as its deleterious effects on women’s vocations particularly. 
From a Catholic perspective, Pope Francis’ habit of testing fa­thers in the confessional about how much time they spend with their children and asking adults about how often they are with their elderly parents are vivid examples of how the Church defends the responsibilities of family as primary, against encroachment by work devotion. The failure of Notre dame’s administration in the last decade to improve the representation of women in leader­ship and their own practice of the “work devotion schema” speaks more stridently and effectively than talk of diversity. Put simply, the current path to leadership is debilitating for men and for wom­en, and male aggrandizement in leadership is a symptom of Notre dame’s sick culture of work. 
A prominent female scholar recently shared a story of having a photo taken with Fr. Ted. Near the end of his life, he was seated in a chair, and she crouched down to be nearer to him for the picture. Fr. Ted looked at her and said, “Notre dame women stand tall.” She stood for the photo and shares it today as a memento of Fr. Ted’s gesture of respect. Such respect for women as leaders, present and future, motivated Fr. Ted to make many controversial but effective changes to Notre dame’s organization and culture. Now there are generations of Notre dame women who blaze trails in many fields. 
Notre dame needs many more women in leadership. until this happens, Notre dame is not truly governed with the laity, and its potential as a Catholic research university is hindered by its infirm work culture and insular, inefficient and mostly male governance. The university can only benefit from greater organization and col­laboration, especially led by female alumnae, faculty and staff, to recruit, retain and advance more women at Notre dame. To cel­ebrate and promote Fr. Ted’s legacy, the time has come for effective changes at his beloved university, to restore the vision of men and women as partners in leadership. 
Richard Klee graduated from Notre Dame in 2002 and is now a doctoral candidate in the Department of Theology. He can be contacted at richard.f.klee.12@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EdiToriAl CArTooN 


The OBSerVer | FridAy, APril 10, 2015 | NdSMCOBSerVer.COM 
PE replacements, student input, straight talk 
Alex Caton 
Modest Proposals 

In April 2014, the university announced it would replace the freshman Pe requirement with a new First year of Studies class beginning in fall of 2015. having passed the swim test with flying colors and become a force in team handball as a freshman, I can’t say I was pleased about it. I was less pleased when First year of Studies dean, skillful speaker and fellow blues player hugh Page told the South Bend Tribune, “The decision was made based on what we see around the country and what’s in the best interest of our students.” This approach is, as I’ve argued elsewhere, an incomplete way to go about making decisions since the actions of our peer universities shouldn’t dictate what we do here and because “in the best interest of our students” comes off a little paternalistic when the ad-hoc committee making this decision last spring did not have a student on it. 
But since the decision was made long ago, the impor­tant thing this April is to make sure that whatever form the new First year Studies course takes is a positive use of stu­dents’ time. The class of 2019 will be the most talented and accomplished class ever to attend Notre dame until the class of 2020 moves in, and it deserves to have academic requirements worthy of its attention and increasing sums of money. eliminating Pe will lay off or reassign at least 12 people on the university’s payroll and remove another timeslot where a smartphone and MacBook-dependent generation can be uninterruptedly social. In short, we need a really good reason to back up the change. 
A proposed syllabus exists. I can’t get a copy of it. But having read around the topic and talked with some who are important enough to see the syllabus, I am going to do something I rarely do in The Observer and remain neutral for now. 
We know at least the following. The class, called the “Moreau First year experience,” will be a graded, one­credit-per-semester course with a 50-minute meeting once a week. Thematically the class is based on the “five pillars” of a holy Cross education — mind, heart, zeal, family and hope — and seven themes — “Orientation to university Life, Strategies for health and Wholeness, Community Standards and Cultural Competence, Strategies for Success in the Classroom, discernment, Cultivation of Spiritual Life and Mind-Body Awareness.” There will be light reading and/or online assignments to complete before class to guide discussions and a capstone project at the end of each semester. All this will hopefully be commensurate with the time commitment of a normal one-credit course. 
One could not infer this information from the university’s press release last April, in which dean Page was quoted saying the following: “rebranding and further centralizing health, wellness and cultural competency initiatives campus-wide — within the context of an inte­grative paradigm for our First year experience — better enables us to meet the evolving needs of students. It also promises to strengthen and diversify linkages between the academic, co-curricular and residential dimensions of the larger Notre dame ethos and the Congregation of holy Cross educational charism that informs it.” 
“Initiatives campus-wide — within the context of an integrative paradigm … to meet the evolving needs of students” is weighed down with more linguistic baggage than Taylor Swift/Charlie Sheen/Mel gibson/Scott Stapp/ Courtney Love/Kurt Cobain/Lindsay Lohan pulling a Conestoga wagon. Capping it off with linkages, ethos and an informative charism gives it a buzzwordy finish that tells us nothing about the content of the course. Were someone, hypothetically, inclined not to like a given policy change and looking for weak, nonspecific verbiage to de­mean in writing as devoid of substance and indicative of a bad policy program, this would be it. If someone looking for evidence that purely in the name of doing as the Ivies do we were going to pan a constructive, decades-proven method of soberly acquainting Notre dame students from every corner of campus, this passage would be the smok­ing gun. 
What brought me around to the possibility that this change could be a good idea was talking with Jake Wittenberg, a fellow Stedsman and a student representa­tive to the team designing the course. When I asked him how the course accomplishes anything you couldn’t get from simply living as a Notre dame student, Witt said this over email: “Oftentimes students are only made aware of the incredible resources available to them too late to truly take advantage of them (I think everyone knows this feel­ing).” As a second semester senior who sometimes regrets never applying for a CuSe grant and just found out that you can access Ancestry.com through the library website, this resonates with me. 
I’m not ready to embrace the course. I’m concerned about firing staff, inflating grades and decentering physi­cal activity from student life. But I’m not ready to trash it in the student newspaper yet, either. For policy-making ad­ministrators not interested in stoking 1,000-person strong online petitions and viewpoint wars, the way forward is simple: get students involved, stop making big decisions at the end of the year and, for the love of god, stop using “paradigm.” 
Alex Caton is a senior political science major in the one and only St. Edward’s Hall. He welcomes commentary and jam session invites at acaton@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
lETTEr To THE EdiTor 

“how was break?” “good.” 
As I boarded the plane on my way back to campus this weekend, I couldn’t help but notice the shamrock Notre dame tie that the suited man sitting across the aisle from me was wearing. As I found my seat, I con­sidered whether or not to engage him in conversation. Perhaps he was an alum, maybe a fan or even one of the many that seem to sport Nd apparel for no par­ticular reason. My first instinct, this being a two-hour, early morning flight, was of course to say nothing. But as I settled into my seat and opened my book, I could tell that he was glancing over at my dillon hall t-shirt, and, figuring that at most we would engage in some casual banter about last week’s basketball games, I de­cided to go for it. “did you go to Notre dame?” I asked. “Class of 2010, losingest class in Notre dame football history,” he responded with a smirk. We spent about 15 minutes talking, catching up on dorms, the basketball team, campus construction and the current state of Feve. Just before the end of our conversation, he of­fered one piece of advice: “In these last few weeks, talk to everyone around you. My biggest regret is that I took for granted that I would always be surrounded by such talented, interesting and passionate people as I was during my time at Notre dame.” 
As I returned back to my reading, I couldn’t shake my new friend’s words. I began to reflect back on the past few days before break and then the previous few weeks, and I struggled to think of many meaningful conversations in which I had engaged. Sure, there had been plenty of acquantainces in passing, debates with my roommates, the parade of five-minute conversa­tions at Finni’s that all seem to blur together and an endless string of questions about how spring break had been and plans for next year. When I returned to cam­pus, I began to ask my friends, particularly those that seemed to be most engaged, if they had ever stopped to reflect on the meaning of their daily conversations. 
I heard from one that he believes students to be “gen­erally indifferent about one another beyond their close friends.” Closer attention to detail revealed that students rarely engage in anything beyond shallow conversations with their classmates in the majority of my classes. I don’t believe that this indifference is intentional. On the contrary, I have had the opportu­nity to get to know so many incredibly interesting and genuinely engaging individuals during my four years here. Nevertheless, I believe that there is a true social problem here at Notre dame. We are surrounded by some of the most interesting people that we may ever know, but we are too wrapped up in our own lives to make an effort to get to know them. 
The costs of our neglect of those around us are two­fold. First, there are the direct personal costs: the lost opportunities for friendship, the unexplored common ground and the failure to move beyond our comfort zones. After I began to ponder this problem, I became aware of just how many times a day I pull out my phone to pass spare moments in time: in the dining hall, between classes, at the gym, seemingly every­where. each of these times that we fail to meaningfully engage those around us, we lose out on a potential connection. Perhaps you’re OK with that. Maybe you have your friends, and that’s all you need. As a rela­tively introverted person, I have certainly felt that sense of complacency before. But there is a deeper, more indirect cost to our perpetuated culture of soli­tary busyness, a social cost that exceeds the sum of the individual private costs. As a result of our indiffer­ence, the vulnerable in our community go unnoticed. A passing glance at yik yak reveals that there are many people here struggling to fit in, feeling lost or isolated. even if as individuals we deem our own personal costs incurred from the lack of meaningful discourse on campus to be insignificant, we must acknowledge and take responsibility for these social costs. 
My suggestion is not that there is not currently any meaning in our daily lives, nor that we must complete­ly reorient our priorities. Nevertheless, there is clearly much that can be done to cultivate more meaningful conversation and relationship building in the midst of the hectic, overcommitted lives we live. Schools across the country, including harvard, Princeton, duke and Virginia, have begun participating in the Sustained dialogue Campus Network, an initiative that orga­nizes students into groups that meet regularly to build relationships and develop strategies to improve stu­dent relations. Perhaps that is something that Notre dame can explore in the future. In the meantime, I have a few simple suggestions. 
First, make a purposeful effort to be mindful of those around you and the many opportunites you have to engage them. Second, resist the temptation to withdraw into the safety and security of your phone and your closest friends. And finally, feel free to reach out to me directly at bobrien6@nd.edu with any ques­tions or suggestions. I have been assembling a list of individuals who are interested in forming an informal network of students to facilitate conversation on cam­pus. My initial goal is quite simple. I thought it might be helpful to have a google doc with some limited information like interests and availability to get us started. I’m not quite sure where it will go, but I hope that it is a step in the right direction. If you are intested in discussing relationship building on campus or any­thing else that is on your mind, we would love to hear from you. 
Brendan O’Brien 
senior 
off-campus 
April 9 

The OBSerVer | FridAy, APril 10, 2015 | NdSMCOBSerVer.COM 

By ISAAC LORTON 
Senior Scene Writer 

rick roszkowski tried to come back to the police force after being shot in the line of duty as a South Bend Police Corporal in 2004, but after a few years, he had to give that up due to permanent lin­gering injuries. 
he retired from the force in 2008 and began searching for what to do next. he worked under his cousin, who roszkowski said taught him a lot about business, as a facility manager. But he had always wanted to start a bar and grill. And with the help of family and friends, he did. It began in 2011. 
“I had never really noticed this build­ing before — it had been vacant for a few years — I happened to drive by and look in the windows,” roszkowski said, look­ing out of his office onto his two-leveled bar and restaurant. “The second I looked in the windows, I said ‘This is it. I’ve got to get this building.’ 
“So with some investors’ help, I was able to purchase the building and get the bar going. When I walked in, I knew what design I wanted, I knew what vision I wanted for the building. So we started with just friends and family working. Most of them pitched in, and most were unpaid for almost three years. They’re making this happen.” 
he called it “Finnies Next door” or “Finnies Nd.” After four years of sav­ing money and attracting generous in­vestors, working hard to convert a bank to a bar and hurdling red tape, Finnies Next door will have its grand opening Saturday. The bar is roszkowski’s dream actualized, he said. 
“As a matter of fact my wife and I — we’ve been together over 30 years — we were walking around downtown Indy, and I couldn’t have been maybe 18. We were walking together, and we walked past rick’s Bar or rick’s Place or whatever it was down there, something, and I said, ‘That’s my dream to own one one day,’ and sure enough.” 
roszkowski drew upon the good and bad qualities he experienced while work­ing at bars, both as a civilian and as a po­lice officer working security at local bars. he said he thinks Finnies Nd will em­phasize all of the positive qualities he has gathered and fill a void in South Bend. 
“Well, looking forward, that’s what I want to do,” roszkowski said. “I’ve had the opportunity to learn from a lot of people, both bad and good, and I take little bits from each bar that I’ve worked and just try to learn things and see things I’d either like to duplicate or make changes to, things that weren’t working. I’m a social person, so I like to talk to people and get their in­put, so all throughout the years of doing it, I just felt like I could bring something that people wanted.” 
The goal of Finnies Nd was to bring all kinds of people together, roszkowski said. he added that Finnies Nd does not cater to one socioeconomic group or another — it caters to everyone. 
“My thought process was, ‘Why should the rich have it all? Why because I’m a working-class guy, why can’t I have a nice clean, upscale environment, without the upscale pricing? Something that I can af­ford, something that I would be happy go­ing out to. Why do I have to settle for my shoes sticking to the floor when I walk in? I can’t afford to go to [upscale places]. Why can’t people like you and I be able to have that experience without being in an upscale bar?’” roszkowski said. “I just thought I could provide something that South Bend needed: a big city feel, without big city prices.” 
This idealism, however, did not mean roszkowski was going to provide a less­than-quality product. he said the only times he “cracks the whip” is for cleanli­ness, safety and “strict attention to detail.” 
“Ninety percent of people do not recog­nize detail; they won’t come in and know all the little things,” roszkowski said. “It’s about those little things. One hundred percent of people recognize lack of detail.” 
Born and raised in South Bend, roszkowski wanted his bar to reflect both South Bend and Notre dame. A giant golden dome topped with Mary sits on the main square bar, a giant shamrock with a leprechaun challenges patrons from the wall, and Notre dame homages and mem­orabilia are all around. 
“I’ve been a Notre dame fan all my life 
— and Cubs — and it’s exactly what South Bend is,” roszkowski said. “It’s kind of a thing to honor. I am a die-hard Notre dame fan. I don’t want to hide that, I guess.” 
In creating the atmosphere, roszkowski said he wants to burst Notre dame’s bub­ble and increase involvement in the city but also rid South Bend residents of their preconceived notions that students are “spoiled brats,” born with “silver spoons in their mouths.” With Finnies Nd, roszkowski said he didn’t want to perpet­uate the status quo of separating students and South Bend citizens. he wants them to come together, relax and just have fun all together. The demographic of Finnies Nd is “everybody.” 
“There’s a divide,” roszkowski said. “you have your ‘townies’ and your ‘domers.’ Working in bars and security, I have made some very very close — to this day — friends who were students of Notre dame. They’re just as hard-working as [South Bend residents]. I have heard both sides, and I kind of want to incorporate both and say we’re not all against Notre dame. Without Notre dame, South Bend doesn’t exist. It’s as simple as that. It’s hard for students to break that bubble, but it’s also hard for people in town to get along with students.” 
roszkowski said he hopes students, blue-collar workers and wealthy business people will all be able to come together and enjoy themselves at Finnies Nd, “like a wedding.” A bar where everyone feels at ease. A bar where everyone feels right next door. 
“What I did when I designed this place was I wanted an at-home bar feel,” roszkowski said. “So when you’re sitting down at our main bar, I want you to feel like you’re at a neighborhood bar — you’re welcome, people know your name. I want that feel at that main bar. 
“We have almost 600 capacity, and I think with 600 people here at a time, I can still make them all feel at home,” roszkowski said. “That’s the biggest goal. There’s something for everybody.” 
Finnies Nd’s grand opening will begin Saturday at 11 a.m. on the corner of Main St. and Wayne St. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 


The OBSerVer | FridAy, APril 10, 2015 | NdSMCOBSerVer.COM 

ERIN RICE | The Observer 


SPorTS AuTHoriTy 

Crisis nears for college game 
Tyler Wojciak 
Sports Writer 
Well, that was fun. 
After erasing a nine-point deficit in the second half to beat Wisconsin, duke was crowned as the champions of college basketball for the fifth time in the school’s history. duke’s dra­matic win over Wisconsin was an outstanding conclusion for yet another fantastic year of March Madness, as the NCAA tourna­ment proved itself once again as the most exciting tournament in sports. 
But that’s exactly what it is: a conclusion. Now what? 
Outside of the diehard college basketball fans, many casual fans won’t reinvest their interests into the sport for another 11 months. For most, fans have already redi­rected their attention to baseball and won’t concern themselves with college basketball again un­til the football craze that sweeps over the nation every year reach­es its end by March of next year. 
The hangover college basket­ball feels following its riveting postseason is no secret, and NCAA basketball officials have addressed the need to close the gap in popularity between the sport’s postseason and its regular season. 
“I don’t think internally we’re blinded by the success of the NCAA tournament,” dan gavitt, the NCAA vice president of men’s basketball champion­ships, said during the Final Four in Indianapolis. “We realize the game needs to be worked on the other 11 months.” 
But why does the sport reach such a lull during its regular season? 
It doesn’t lack star power, as the one-and-done rule basically en­sures the most gifted recruits out of high school play college bas­ketball for at least one year. The coaches who have been the faces of college basketball for years are still present and succeed­ing — just look at the Final Four. Mike Krzyzewski, Bo ryan, Tom Izzo and John Calipari are four of the 10 best coaches in the sport over the last 15 years and were all competing against each other in Indianapolis. 
The problem is, as Iona head coach Tim Cluess simply put it in an interview with The New york Times, “The product stinks.” 
Connecticut women’s basket­ball head coach geno Auriemma said he shares a similar belief and made a splash publicly by criticiz­ing the men’s game even more harshly than Cluess. 
In a pre-Final Four teleconfer­ence last week, Auriemma said, “I think the game is a joke. It really is. I don’t coach it. I don’t play it, so I don’t understand all the ins and outs of it. But as a spectator, forget that I’m a coach, watching it, it’s a joke. There’s only like 10 teams, you know, out of 25, that actually play the kind of game of basketball that you’d like to watch.” 
That’s quite a bold claim, es­pecially when coming from the mouth of one of the best basket­ball coaches to have ever lived. unfortunately for the sport of college basketball, the statistics back up Auriemma. 
According to KPISports.net, the average points per game for teams has seen a relatively steady decline from 75 in 1995 to 67.1 in 2015. 
Furthermore, according to Seth davis of Sports Illustrated, this season was the slowest season in terms of possessions per 40 min­utes since tempo started to be tracked in 2002. 
These numbers can be attrib­uted not to any specific problem with the players and coaches, but mainly to the style in which the game is now played. 
Men’s college basketball is being played with more physi­cality than ever before, and this increase in physicality has led to a slower and lower scoring game than the sport has seen in quite some time. This is a far stretch from the way the creator of basketball James Naismith had intended for the game to be played, as he explicitly prohibited “shouldering, holding, pushing, tripping or striking in any way the person of an opponent” in the fifth of his 13 original rules for the game of basketball. 
This style of play is also far less exciting for fans, as the lack of scoring makes the game a lot less entertaining and is a primary reason why the game is nearly ir­relevant for many viewers during the regular season. 
It is clear college basketball is nearing a crisis state, and the of­ficials of the sport have to address these issues as they enter into one of the sport’s most critical offsea­sons in its history. 
Many fans, coaches and bas­ketball experts are calling for rule changes to enhance the game’s entertainment value, including a shortened shot clock, an ex­tended arc under the basket and a wider lane. 
The NCAA men’s basketball oversight committee will meet May 13-15 to discuss potential rule changes for the sport in order to enhance its entertainment value to fans. This three-day span will be extremely critical not only for the current state of college basketball but also for the future of the sport. 
Contact Tyler Wojciak at twojciak@hcc-nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Mlb | INdIANS 5, ASTrOS 1 

Indians’ pitchers barely miss out on no-hitter 
Associated Press 

hOuSTON  — even if four Cleveland Indians pitchers had combined on a no-hit­ter, manager Terry Francona wasn’t certain it would’ve been cause for celebration. 
Jed Lowrie broke up the bid by homering with one out in the ninth inning for houston’s only hit Thursday in a 5-1 win for the Indians. 
Before that homer, Trevor Bauer and the Indians’ bullpen had walked seven batters. 
“I asked Millsy (bench coach Brad Mills) in the ninth: ‘If we get through this with a no-hitter are we supposed to be excit­ed?’ I wasn’t really sure,” Francona said. 
“There’s a lot of baserun­ners. So that was probably the least of our thoughts. We were just trying to set up our staff and win a game and do what we think is right.” 
Bauer was pulled af­ter throwing 111 pitches through six innings. he struck out a career-high 11 and walked five. 
he was slightly more ex­cited about the prospect of taking part in a no-no. 
“Anytime you have a no-hitter going, it’s fun and there’s a special air in the building,” Bauer said. “Obviously it’s unfortunate to see the home run, but the team won and at the end of the day that’s what matters.” 
relievers Kyle Crockett and Scott Atchison each pitched a scoreless inning before Nick hagadone took over. 
hagadone struck out Chris Carter to begin the ninth. Lowrie then sent a 94 mph fastball far over the left-center field wall for houston’s only hit. 
“Lowrie swung and missed on a fastball and I tried to throw another one and he didn’t swing and miss,” hagadone said. 
Lowrie and the Astros were relieved to escape with a hit. 
“It’s a weight lifted off the whole dugout, the whole team,” Lowrie said. “hopefully it was good for morale.” 
The Indians have not pitched a no-hitter since Len Baker threw a per­fect game in 1981 against Toronto. 
Bauer and the Cleveland relievers teamed to strike out 16. 
Corey Kluber opened the Indians’ season Monday night by holding houston hitless until Jose Altuve’s two-out single in the sixth. 
There were five no-hit­ters in the majors last year, capped by Washington’s Jordan Zimmermann throwing a gem on the final day of the regular season. 
Lowrie’s shot came 50 years to the day after a well-known home run in houston history. The old Astrodome opened on this date in 1965 with an exhibition game, and Mickey Mantle hit the first home run inside the building. 
The Astros struck out a to­tal of 36 times in losing two of three to Cleveland. The houston lineup features several players who either hit it far or don’t hit it at all. 
NFl 

Colts make Luck one of NFL’s highest-paid players 
Associated Press 

INdIANAPOLIS — Andrew Luck is sticking around Indianapolis for at least two more years. If Jim Irsay has his way, it will be for a whole lot longer. 
The Colts surprised nobody Thursday by announcing they would exercise the fifth-year option on their franchise quar­terback, a move that guarantees him a salary of more than $16.1 million. 
But before making the 25-year­old one of football’s highest-paid players, Irsay wanted to make a shot at winning another Super Bowl title this season. So rather than going full throttle on Luck’s second contract, the Colts have been working the free-agent market and now will turn their attention to the draft to improve Luck’s supporting cast. 
Then, Irsay & Co. will try to lock up some other key players from Luck’s rookie class. Thursday’s decision gives the front office a chance to get it all set up. 

“It’s not like we don’t have conversations about a possibil­ity, so to speak, of something,” Irsay told reporters during last month’s owner’s meetings. “But I really think the most likely sce­nario is going to be going into the offseason next year is when that second contract will come up. That’s the vision I have right now.” 
Luck’s agent did not return a message left at his office Thursday. 
There’s little doubt, though, that the Colts will do anything it takes to keep Luck in town. 
Since taking him as the No. 1 overall draft pick in 2012 in­stead of heisman Trophy winner robert griffin III, Luck has start­ed all 48 games, led the Colts to the playoffs three straight times, been to the Pro Bowl each sea­son and emerged as the league’s best young quarterback. 
With Luck running the show, the Colts have advanced one step deeper in the playoffs each season, losing to the Super Bowl champion Patriots in January’s AFC championship game, and he’s shown steady improvement each year, too. 
In 2014, Luck broke the Colts’ single-season records with 4,761 yards passing, 40 touchdown passes and eight straight 300­yard games. 
This season, he could play with the most talented offense of his career after Indianapolis added three receivers — Andre Johnson, Vincent Brown and CFL veteran duron Carter — and running back Frank gore to the mix. And they’ll be looking for even more help in the draft. 
And coach Chuck Pagano ex­pects Luck to continue on that path in 2015, regardless of the looming contract talks. 
“My focus is on the football team. Andrew’s focus, like I know Andrew, is on being the best quarterback that he can be. We’ve got a job to do. We’ve all got jobs to do,” Pagano said last month. “We’ll focus on those jobs. We’ll focus on those roles that we all play. It (the contract) won’t be a discussion.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


SMC GolF 

belles prepare for Trine Spring Classic 
By DAISY COSTELLO 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s rounds out its regular season this week­end after a two-week hiatus in the Trine Spring Classic at Zollner golf Course in Angola, Indiana. 
The Belles’ last tourna­ment play resulted in a 13th­place finish at the WuSTL Spring Invitational, with the team finishing just two spots from the bottom of the pack. Belles head coach Kim Moore said she has a more optimistic outlook on this weekend, attributing it to more opportunities for out­side practice time over the past couple of weeks. 
“We have had some opportunities to get some nine-hole practice rounds in,” Moore said. “I’ve been very impressed with the shots and scores I’ve seen during those sessions.” 
The Trine Spring Classic will feature 11 division III schools, including confer­ence foe hope, Moore said. hope leads MIAA standings, averaging 323.3 strokes per tournament, with Saint Mary’s sitting in third place with an average stroke count of 343.2. hope and Trine are on a roll coming into the Classic, as both earned first-place finishes in their last events. despite the high level of competition, Moore said she has strong faith in her roster. 
“I’m looking for us to have a good team finish,” Moore said. “I think with this field and this course, we can achieve that goal.” 
Belles junior Katie Zielinski has recently estab­lished herself as one of the highest performers on the Belles squad. Zielinski led the team both at the WuSTL Spring Invitational, where she posted a two-day score of 177, tied for 56th place, and was among the high­est performers at the Jekyll Island Collegiate Invite in mid-March. Moore said she expects the junior, who has shown dedication and effi­ciency in practice, to contin­ue to build upon her earlier success this weekend. 
“She has had some real­ly good practice days, and I’m really looking forward to seeing how that relates to her play on the course,” Moore said of Zielinski. 
The Trine Spring Classic is the Belles’ last regular season tournament before NCAA Automatic Qualifier rounds for MIAA regionals. The Belles would earn a spot in the NCAA Automatic Qualifying rounds, should they maintain their third-place standing in-confer­ence. With the end of the season and finals quick­ly approaching, however, Moore said she wants to make sure the Belles main­tain focus. 
“We have finals coming up in the first week in May, and there is always a tendency to lose a little focus, knowing that [school] is almost over,” she said. 
Moore said she wants the Belles to use the tournament as a way of maintaining fo­cus going into postsea­son play, with a strong performance giving the team confidence going into tournaments with the best teams in the conference. 
Saint Mary’s closes its season this weekend at the Trine Spring Classic in Angola. The Belles are set to tee off at Zollner golf Course on Saturday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Daisy Costello at  mcostel4@nd.edu 
SMC SoFTbAll 

Saint Mary’s seeks to hold up during hectic weekend 
By DOMINIC BUSH 
Sports Writer 
With conference play in full swing, the Belles are set for a busy weekend featuring six games in three days — if the Midwest spring cooperates. 
Today’s doubleheader at MIAA rival Alma was original­ly scheduled for Wednesday, but consecutive rainouts forced its postponement. 
After Friday’s trip to Alma, Michigan, the Belles (16-6, 3-1 MIAA) have a short turn­around as they play host Saturday for a doubleheader against another conference foe, Olivet. 
The Belles conclude their hectic weekend by travel­ing to elmhurst, Illinois, to play two against nonconfer­ence opponent elmhurst on Sunday. 
The Belles have relied on a host of new faces for the bulk of their offensive production. 
“We have a strong fresh­men class, no doubt about it,” Saint Mary’s head coach Kelli Zache said. 
Belles freshman outfielder/ third baseman Makenzie duncan has led the team’s of­fense this season. She is hit­ting at a .431 clip with four home runs and 21 rBIs. The La Salle, Michigan, native leads the team in slugging percentage (.738), total bases 
(48) and doubles (eight). She ranks third in hits (28) and second in runs scored (21). 

duncan has not been the only bright spot for the class of 2018. Sisters Cassie and Jamie young have excelled at the plate and in the field. Cassie, who anchors the out­field in center, has provided a consistent bat all season. She is one of two position play­ers on the team batting above .400 and has been a threat on the base paths with five steals in six attempts. 
Jamie young, hitting .366, also leads the team in runs scored (23) and is a perfect 4-for-4 in steal attempts. She and classmate Kelsey richards form one of the league’s best young double-play combos at shortstop and second base, respectively. 
Alma (16-10, 7-1) is lead by one of the best pitchers in the country. Sophomore Morgan Stratton boasts a 9-3 record with a 1. 45 erA and enters Friday’s action with 92 strike­outs on the season against only 14 walks. She was recent­ly named the conference’s pitcher of the week and has the benefit of extra rest from the rainouts. 
The Belles then face the of­fensive powerhouse Olivet (10-10, 2-4) on Saturday. At the heart of the Olivet lineup is freshman Kris Forest. The first baseman doubles as the team’s cleanup hitter, and she comes in batting .411 with two home runs and 25 rBIs. 
Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmcobserver 
Forest is joined by sophomore pitcher Ashlynn grubb, who is batting .470 and leads the team in hits with 31. 
elmhurst (15-7, 1-1 CCIW) is built around senior Bella Masini. The second baseman presents the biggest challenge for Belles pitching on Sunday. Masini carries a .383 batting average along with 16 rBIs and 30 total bases, both of which are team highs among qualified players. 
Zache said the Belles know they have their work cut out for them during such a busy weekend. With the MIAA tournament fast approach­ing, Zache said the quality of Saint Mary’s schedule has prepared them for postseason play. 
“So far this season, I wouldn’t say we have played weaker opponents. We have a tough schedule this year,” Zache said. 
Zache also said she remains positive and excited about what her young team “can ac­complish this season and sea­sons to come.” 
Weather permitting, today’s first pitch in Alma, Michigan, will be 3:30 p.m. Saturday’s doubleheader at the Saint Mary’s softball fields is sched­uled to begin at 1 p.m., as is Sunday’s away series in elmhurst. 
Contact Dominic Bush at dbush@nd.edu 
SMC lACroSSE 

SMC aims for hot start at Trine 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
Sports Writer 
The Belles look to bounce back from Tuesday’s loss to Olivet in a critical confer­ence matchup with Trine on Saturday. 
Saint Mary’s (5-6, 1-2 MIAA) has struggled with consisten­cy as of late, going 4-4 in its last eight games and dropping two of its three conference matchups. This weekend, the Belles will try to avoid losing two consecutive games for the first time since the first two matches of the season during their 1-2 road trip to Oregon. 
Trine (3-4, 0-3 MIAA) rep­resents an opportunity for the Belles to gain ground in the MIAA against a streaky opponent. The Thunder won three close matches in March, only to lose all three of their early April matchups by a combined score of 46-17. The Belles have given up 28 goals to conference opponents this season. 
Saint Mary’s head coach Amy Long said it would be important to get off to a good start against Trine, citing a poor offensive effort in the first half against Olivet as an area she would like to see her team improve upon. 
“Moving forward from the Olivet game in which we struggled to produce more than two goals in the first half, we plan to focus on scor­ing first and getting the lead in the first 10 minutes of the game at Trine,” Long said. “Momentum is huge in our game, and we failed to gain any momentum in the Olivet game until the second half, and it ended up being too late for a comeback.” 
The Belles defense must be sound in order for the team to build an early lead, Long said, and Trine senior midfielder Taylor gast poses a threat to that game plan. gast has excelled offensively for the Thunder, scoring 21 points in seven games to lead the team. 
Long said the Belles have built a defensive strategy spe­cifically with gast’s offensive ability in mind. 
“Trine’s Taylor gast’s num­ber of goals this season is definitely reason to watch her closely and crash quickly on any drive she makes to goal,” Long said. “We always inform our defenders of our opponent’s leading scor­ers, and they communicate when those players have the ball so that we are able to crash quickly and hopefully shut down any shot opportu­nity or at least take the angle away. I am confident in our defense’s ability to limit the number of goals gast scores on Saturday.” 
The Belles currently sit tied for third in the MIAA with one win and two losses behind Albion, Calvin and Kalamazoo, who hold a three-way tie for first place with identical 2-0 conference re­cords. A win against Trine would tie Saint Mary’s for sec­ond, while a loss would allow Trine to climb out of last place. The conference champion is determined by regular season record, with no postseason. 
The Belles clash against the Thunder this Saturday at 1 
p.m. in Angola, Indiana. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 


The OBSerVer | FridAy, APril 10, 2015 | NdSMCOBSerVer.COM 

TrACk & FiEld 

Nd gears up for Big Ten test 
By ANDREW ROBINSON 
Sports Writer 
With many of the standouts from the Stanford Invitational taking a breather, the Irish will head to Louisville, Kentucky, for the ACC/Big Ten Challenge this Saturday with a large, somewhat younger crew. 
Notre dame and Louisville will represent the ACC in the meet, and they will be butt­ing heads with Indiana and Michigan State from the Big Ten. The scores of each team will be combined with its partner, and the winners will claim bragging rights for their conference. 
Though the Irish will bring a large team — there are 87 Notre dame entries across all events 
— some notable athletes will be taking a rest after compet­ing on back-to-back weekends. 
Senior Chris giesting and ju­nior Margaret Bamgbose in the 400-meter races, junior Molly Seidel in the 5,000 meters, sophomore Jacob dumford in the 1,500 meters and senior Jade Barber in the 100-meter hurdles will not be competing after winning their respective events at Stanford. 
“These are our athletes that we know are going to be com­peting at the end of the year at the national championships,” Irish head coach Alan Turner said. “The travel [to Texas and Stanford] the last two weeks has been pretty brutal, so giv­ing them a break during this long season will go a long way. 
“We’re going to take larger numbers and give our younger kids a chance to compete. For about two dozen of them, this is their first outdoor meet. Our goal is to let people compete, have some fun and get better.” 
For those who did run last week at Stanford, Turner said he expects them to carry their momentum to Louisville. 
“For those that are coming up on their third meet, last weekend [at Stanford] should be a building block, and I ex­pect them to just get better and better every meet,” he said. 
Turner said he has been espe­cially impressed by freshman javelin thrower greg Bombara and expects him to perform well again at Louisville. 
he also said he will be looking for freshman Parker english to have strong per­formance in the 200- and 400-meters. 
“Parker has run some very good splits on relays, but she still hasn’t had that great in­dividual breakout race yet,” he said. 
Senior discus thrower dominick Padovano will com­pete again at Louisville af­ter throwing 54.42 meters at Stanford, enough for a fourth-place finish. 
With a lot of younger ath­letes, Turner said he views this weekend as primarily as an opportunity for growth. 
“My objective for this week­end is not necessarily for the ACC to defeat the Big Ten,” Turner said. “All the coaches there are … saying, ‘Let’s use this meet to get better.’ But at the same time, of course we still want to beat each other. 
“It’s been a friendly rivalry [between the conferences]. At Louisville, they give the athletes T-shirts, dinner af­terwards — it’s a good atmo­sphere to compete in.” 
The Irish will travel to Cardinal Park in Louisville for the ACC/Big Ten Challenge, which is scheduled to begin at 11 a.m. Saturday. 
Contact Andrew Robinson at arobins6@nd.edu 


rowiNG 

Notre Dame steers west for Natoma regata 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
Sports Writer 

The No. 16 Irish departed by plane Thursday morning as they set out on their lon­gest trek of the year to the Lake Natoma Invitational in Folsom, California. 
The Lake Natoma Invitational is a two-day regatta featuring a host of teams from across the nation, including Pac-12 hosts and yearly NCAA competitors California and ACC rival Virginia. The team has been preparing for this regatta for two weeks, having kept a regular training schedule save for a short break over the easter break. The Irish are look­ing to improve upon their heat times as they reach the halfway point in their spring season. 
Junior coxswain Jill ryan praised the growth of her team­mates in recent weeks. 
“I think that we are not the same team that raced Virginia in Oak ridge,” ryan said. “I think we’ve made a lot of improve­ments. On our most recent 2k test, we had several girls [set personal records], which I think says a lot about our potential for California.” 
ryan said the Irish squad hopes to rise in the rankings with fast times against crews like No. 
3 California and No. 4 Virginia. If the Irish do not win the ACC tournament later this year, they will have to rely on their regular season showings to obtain an at-large bid to the NCAA cham­pionship. For that reason, re­gatta performances such as this weekend’s showing at the Lake Natoma Invitational are vital for the team’s postseason hopes. 
The team, however, is confi­dent in its ability to continue im­proving, according to ryan. 
“This weekend, we just need to come together as a team,” she said. “[We need to] focus on row­ing together. I’m feeling really optimistic. 
“So far I think the team has done a much better job at rac­ing. We were inexperienced in Tennessee. having had two weekends under our belt and a lot of good practices, I feel like we’ve gotten to be better, more compet­itive racers.” 
That said, Skorcz also add­ed the team had some things to work on, including some of the more mental aspects of the competition. 
“I think we still need to work on getting our blades in the wa­ter, being more aggressive and harping the racing mentality,” she said. “[We’re focused on] re­ally throwing it out on the line and not getting intimidated by our competitors. I think we’ll be in a really good place by the end of the season.” 
Irish head coach Martin Stone said he had high expectations for the weekend’s events. 
“We want to have our best race of the year,” Stone said. “We’re progressively getting better. Practice went well this week — we’ve gotten better overall.” 
The distance between Indiana and California does not pose an obstacle to the well-travelled Irish, who have competed in Ohio and Tennessee already this season, Stone said. 
“We’re here early enough, we got out early today,” Stone said on Thursday. “We’ll be alright. Travel isn’t an issue. We’ve done this before, so we’ll be good to go.” 
despite the regatta’s formi­dable attendance list, Stone said he was excited for the opportu­nity for his team to show their improvements. 
“We race very tough competi­tion,” Stone said. “It will be inter­esting to see how this turns out.” 
The Irish will take part in the first of two race days this Saturday in Folsom. 
Contact Brett O’Connell boconne1@nd.edu 

SMC TENNiS | SMC 7, BeTheL 1 
Belles handle Pilots, look forward to Knights 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
Sports Writer 

Saint Mary’s extended its winning streak to three match­es against Bethel on Thursday afternoon, winning by a fi­nal score of 7-1 at South Bend racquet Club. 
In singles action, the Belles (9-7, 3-1 MIAA) took five of six matches, all of them in straight sets. Senior Kayle Sexton won at No. 2 singles, 6-2, 6-1;  senior Jackie Kjolhede was also victo­rious, 6-4, 6-2. Senior Shannon elliot dropped only a single game her entire match, winning 6-0, 6-1, while junior Margaret Faller took her match at No. 5 singles by an identical score. Freshman Bailey Oppman was even more dominant in her match, completely shutting out her opponent, 6-0, 6-0. Junior Andrea Fetters’s match at the top of the singles lineup ended during the second set after she had captured the first by a score of 7-5. 
In doubles action, the Belles’ top doubles team of sophomore Sam Setterblad and Sexton ended up on the wrong side of their match, dropping an 8-6 decision. The second doubles team of Fetters and elliott were victorious, 8-1. In the third and final doubles match, the team of freshman Maddie Minuado and Faller blanked the their op­ponents, 8-0. 
“They did a nice job of playing efficiently overall,” Belles head coach dale Campbell said of his team. “They knew they were fa­vored to win, but they did what they had to do. Shannon elliott, Margaret Faller and Bailey Oppman all won their matches, losing only one or no games, so they were probably our best per­formers on the day. [Faller] only lost one game in both matches combined. 
“No. 2 and 3 doubles teams won convincingly, and really everyone did pretty well in dou­bles. We are getting stronger, but still need to communicate a bit better in doubles.  We can’t get frustrated by hurdles. We just have to move on and think of the next shot or the next point.” 
The Belles are back in action Saturday afternoon when they take on Calvin in a home con­ference game. The Knights (7-6, 2-1 MIAA) are coming off of a 5-4 win over Albion on Wednesday. 
“We just have to get every­one ready for their best day,” Campbell said. “Calvin will be tough, and I believe one team will win 5-4 or 6-3.  It should be close in most every position.  It will be whichever team pre­pares itself the best and wants it more.  I hope that is us, and I will do what I can to help get the team ready.  They just need to get into a rhythm tomorrow and get their timing down, along with some rest for Saturday.  If we can win Saturday, we will most likely be guaranteed a spot in the conference tournament final four.” 
Saint Mary’s and Calvin are scheduled to face off 1 p.m. Saturday at Saint Mary’s Tennis Courts. 
Contact Michael Ivey at  mivey@hcc-nd.edu 




PAId AdVerTISeMeNT 


w lacrosse 
CONTINued FrOM PAge 20 
Penn State. 
The two teams’ common oppo­nents include No. 14 Ohio State, Virginia Tech and Marquette. The Irish beat all three by at least eight goals, while the Wolverines fell to both the Buckeyes and the hokies by scores of 13-5 and 13­12, respectively. Both teams beat Marquette in Milwaukee ear­lier in the season — the Irish ran away to a 18-8 victory March 25, and the Wolverines pulled out a 10-7 decision March 20. 
Sunday marks the first-ever meeting between Michigan and Notre dame in women’s la­crosse, as 2015 is only the second year the Wolverines have fielded a varsity team. Consequently, Michigan’s team is made up entirely of sophomores and freshmen. 
The Irish will have to avoid looking beyond Michigan as matches against No. 5 Northwestern and No. 11 Louisville loom next week. The three-game homestand marks the end of the regular season for Notre dame, as the ACC tourna­ment begins in Charlottesville, Virginia, on April 23. A win would also be Notre dame’s ninth on the season, the magic number for the team to clinch a .500 record and be eligible for the NCAA tournament. 
Notre dame’s offense has managed to score at least 12 goals in five of its last six games, fueling the squad’s recent suc­cess against ranked teams. Sophomore attack Cortney Fortunato paces the Irish in goals with 42, far ahead of the team’s next leading scorer — ju­nior attack rachel Sexton, who has 27. Fortunato also ranks No. 13 in the country with 3.23 goals per game. 
The win over Virginia on Saturday was a landmark game for sophomore goalie Liz O’Sullivan, as she made a career-high 11 saves and then added nine more against the Orange on Tuesday. Senior defender Barbara Sullivan also tied a school record by hauling in nine draws against the Cavaliers. 
defensively, the Irish have held opponents to an average of 8.85 goals per game this season and force an average of 11.31 turn­overs per game, placing them fourth in the NCAA. For its part, Michigan is tops in the Big Ten in caused turnovers and is 17th in the NCAA, forcing 9.5 per game. 
Notre dame and Michigan square off at Arlotta Stadium at 1 p.m., as the Irish hope to carry their current momentum into the postseason. 



M Tennis 
CONTINued FrOM PAge 20 
Notre dame will meet up with Wake Forest on April 17 and North Carolina State on April 18. 
The first home match of the Notre dame’s final three-game stretch comes against a Clemson team amidst one of its toughest stretches of the season. The Tigers have lost five straight matches, the last four of which were at home. Their most recent defeat was a 6-1 loss to Wake Forest last Sunday. 
“Clemson’s a really good op­ponent,” said Sachire. “We played them twice last year. They may not be doing as well right now, but they were a top-20 team last year, and many of those guys are still on the team this year.” 
Notre dame’s most notable player this season, junior Quentin Monaghan, picked up consecu­tive victories over top-15 singles opponents to end Notre dame’s road trip. Monaghan was ranked 10th when this week’s rankings were announced, the highest a Notre dame singles player has been ranked all year. The junior is 


w Tennis 
CONTINued FrOM PAge 20 
the match will be a difficult one for his team. 
“They’re very, very good,” Louderback said. “They’ve done well in the conference and nationally, too, especially during the indoor season.” 
In order to come away from the match with a victory, Louderback said there are two points of emphasis for his team. First, he said the Irish must be sure to play within themselves. 
“For us, the biggest thing we have to do is not worry about what they’re ranked and just go out there and play,” Louderback said. “That’s something that I think we’ve done a good job of this season and just need to continue to do going forward.” 
In addition to staying riding a 10-match winning streak and will seek his 11th consecutive win against the top singles player for the Tigers, presumably senior Alejandro Augusto. 
Outside of Monaghan, Sachire said he has been particularly im­pressed with the recent play of ju­nior Alex Lawson and sophomore Josh hagar. 
“Alex Lawson has played particu­larly well lately. At the beginning of the year he wasn’t finishing match­es, but lately, he has done a good job of doing that and performing well overall,” said Sachire. “It might not look like it on paper, but Josh hagar had a great weekend as well and has really improved a lot in recent weeks.” 
heading into the match Friday, Notre dame’s 4-5 conference re­cord has it currently in eighth place in ACC standings. Clemson comes into the contest in 12th, ahead of only Boston College. 
The match between the Tigers and Irish is slated to begin at 3:30 
p.m. Friday at Courtney Tennis Center. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu 
focused, Louderback said the doubles point will be a key point in the match. 
“Our best shot at them is if we can go out there and get the doubles point to put some pres­sure on them in the singles,” Louderback said. “That would be really big for us.” 
Following this matchup, the Irish will only have two match­es remaining next weekend be­fore the ACC championship in Cary, North Carolina, on April 22-26. Louderback said he be­lieves his team is prepared for postseason play, given the level they have been playing at all year. 
“Our big thing is to keep playing like we have been,” Louderback said. “We’ve done a really good job of competing, and that’s what we want to do. every match we’ve played, our kids have continued to fight, and that’s been the reason we’ve seen people step up at different times and when we’ve needed it.” 
While he does not believe this matchup serves as a mea­sure for where the team stands going into the postseason, Louderback said he does be­lieve it will be a great opportu­nity for his team to continue to prepare for the postseason. 
“We’ve shown that we can be competitive with everyone and have had tight matches with some of the best teams in the country,” Louderback said. “It’s a really good opportunity for us to play such a highly-ranked team.” 
The Irish will take the court this afternoon against Miami at Courtney Tennis Center, with the match set to start at 
3:30p.m. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 


PAId AdVerTISeMeNT 
PAId AdVerTISeMeNT PAId AdVerTISeMeNT 




baseball 
CONTINued FrOM PAge 20 
Irish head coach Mik Aoki said the Irish simply have to take advantage of the slight opportunities they are given by some incred­ible teams, including the Seminoles this weekend. 
“I think a lot of it is a timely hit here and there, but I certainly don’t want to take anything away from Louisville or uVA when we had the opportunities to maybe convert a run, like in that 18-inning game, or maybe get a base hit that gets us the winning run,” Aoki said. “ … I thought we competed great against [Louisville], I thought we competed great against Virginia — we’ve just got to do the same thing and hope that the score at the end of the game has us with more runs than they do.” 
The Seminoles don’t have the highest team batting average in college baseball. They don’t even crack the top 10. They do, however, know how to get on base and score and score in bunches, Aoki said. 
“As usual, [the Seminoles] are an offensive jugger­naut,” Aoki said. “The thing I think you have to do against Florida State is you have to limit them to one run or two runs in the innings they score because they are so good at turning one run into five runs.” 

Florida State is tied for second in the nation in on-base percentage at .418, leads the country in walks and is fourth in runs with 
265. Notre dame pitchers will have to be at their best, Aoki said. 
“They’re a team that is in­credibly disciplined at the plate,” Aoki said. “you have to make pitches to get them out. They’re not really go­ing to chase a lot outside of the strike zone. It’s not like they’re a high-prolific bat­ting average team, but the hits that they get are balls that typically run them­selves into the gap or find themselves over the fence. So we just have to limit it and we have to go out there and continue to compete they way we have all year long. I think slowly but surely we’re sort of return­ing. I like where we’re at, and I like our chances going into the weekend.” 
Notre dame’s start­ing rotation has been in flux in the past few weeks, though. Senior pitcher Scott Kerrigan was removed from his usual Friday start in the Pittsburgh series due to some soreness in his arm. Freshman hurler Brandon Bielak and junior pitcher Nick McCarty both moved up in the rotation while freshman evy ruibal took over the Sunday slot. 
Aoki is again moving the lineup around for this week­end against Florida State, and the Sunday starter will likely be McCarty but is still to be determined. 
“[Sophomore] ryan [Smoyer] will go Friday,” Aoki said. “Brandon will go on Saturday, so we kind of keep him on his rest, which we felt like he’s got the 120 or whatever it was on Saturday, so we wanted to keep him on schedule. On Sunday, Nick is getting a little bit more soreness than he’s sort of accustomed to, so we’ll play that one by ear now.” 
The Irish will look to take down the top-10 Seminoles this weekend at Frank eck Stadium, with first pitch slated to be thrown at 
6:05 p.m. Friday, 2:05 p.m. Saturday and 1:05 p.m. Sunday. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
Softball 
CONTINued FrOM PAge 20 
senior outfielder emilee Koerner’s nod in 2013. 
On the mound, the Irish are led by sophomore rachel Nasland and junior Allie rhodes. Nasland (15-6) leads the team in wins, erA (2.34), innings pitched (146.2) and strikeouts (146). rhodes (12­
4) sports an erA of 2.79 and has struck out 74 batters in only 80.1 innings pitched. In addition, rhodes has either won or saved every game she has pitched in since March 21, when she was the win­ning pitcher in a 13-0 victory against georgia Tech. 
On the other side of the dia­mond, the eagles (16-15, 1-8 ACC) have lost two of their last three games and had a scheduled game against Boston university on April 8 postponed due to inclem­ent weather. They will rely on the young bat of freshman outfielder Annie Murphy, who leads the team with a .318 batting average and 28 hits while also swiping 13­of-14 bases. Junior outfielder Megan Cooley has compiled 
a .280 batting average but is a perfect 14-for-14 in stolen base attempts on the season. 
On the mound, the eagles rely on freshman Allyson Frei, who leads the team with an 11-9 record and a 2.85 erA, with 119 strikeouts in only 113 innings pitched. The other pitcher of note for the eagles is sophomore Jordan Weed, who is 3-2 on the sea­son with a 5.14 erA in 46.1 in­nings pitched. 
The Irish look to continue their winning ways against the eagles when they travel to Chestnut hill to play at Shea Field for the first of two games Saturday. First pitch is scheduled for 1 p.m., and the final match-up is scheduled for Sunday at noon. 


PAId AdVerTISeMeNT 




CroSSword | WILL ShOrTZ 


HiGHly PuNlikEly | ChrISTOPher BruCKer 
Sudoku | The MePhAM grOuP 

doME NuTS | ALeXANdrIA WeLLMAN 

HoroSCoPE | eugeNIA LAST 
Happy Birthday: This is a year to take action. Sitting back will only make you anxious and will lead to regret. Step up and get started. you are responsible for your own happiness. Set your sights high and don’t be afraid to make mistakes. What you learn from your experiences will contribute to a prosperous future. express your thoughts and don’t look back. your numbers are 4, 11, 15, 27, 32, 39, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): get involved in the events, activities and networking functions that will allow you to use your skills and make new contacts. don’t be discouraged by negative or critical individuals when you should be putting your thoughts and energy into exceling. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): you’ll be tempted to overspend on items you don’t need. Think before you commit to any deal that requires monthly contributions or payments. unexpected bills are likely to leave you short of cash. Pace yourself in all aspects of your life. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): emotional deception will be present when dealing with business partnerships. Focus on what’s in front of you instead of wallowing in past regrets or failures. There is much to gain if you approach life in a vibrant and engaging manner. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Make career choices that will lead to professional advancement and more money. educational pursuits will lead to contacts that will play a part in helping you reach your goals. Love and romance will have an impact on your life. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): your energetic mood will attract attention and bring about an opportunity to get ahead. Attend conferences, seminars or networking events that will allow you to meet potential clients. don’t let an emotional situation ruin your chances to advance. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Interacting with people who have knowledge or expertise regarding something that interests you will lead to an unusual opportunity. explore your options and consider a partnership that can help you develop new skills. Love is in the stars. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): your ability to see all sides of an issue will help bring order to a chaotic situation. your talent will not go unnoticed, and greater personal and professional assistance will be offered. A positive change regarding an important relationship is apparent. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): draw from past experience in order to avoid being taken for granted. Keep life simple and refrain from unnecessary spending. Concentrate on home, developing innovative ideas and mastering what you enjoy doing the most. Make romance a priority. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Put honesty and integrity first. don’t evade issues that need to be addressed. The purpose of clearing the air is to allow you the right to move forward without guilt. do what needs to be done and don’t look back. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Size up whatever situation you face without getting into a dispute with someone who is disagreeable. Work alone in order to avoid interference. Put more into home, family and self-improvement, and you will make gains and avoid disruptions. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Surround yourself with people who are aiming to get the same results as you. Focus on work, partnerships and getting ahead. don’t get into senseless arguments over petty matters. do your own thing and try to make monetary gains. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Keep a low profile. Now is not the time to confront a situation. Instead, put your time and effort into your dreams and ideas. Once you have an ironclad plan in place, you can make your move with confidence. 


Birthday Baby: you are entrepreneurial and powerful. you are charismatic and appealing. 
JuMblE | dAVId hOyT ANd JeFF KNureK 



Make checks payable to and mail to: The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre dame, IN 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Name

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
Address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
City State Zip 

The OBSerVer | FridAy, APril 10, 2015 | NdSMCOBSerVer.COM 
bASEbAll 

Notre Dame set to host No. 8 Seminoles for three games 
By ISAAC LORTON 

Senior Sports Writer  
The Irish will have a tough  
task ahead of them this  
weekend when they host No.  
8 Florida State in a three- 
game ACC weekend series.  
Notre dame looks to  
steal the series from the  
Seminoles (26-9, 11-4 ACC),  
who currently sit in sec­ 
ond place in the Atlantic  
division of the ACC, behind  
Louisville. The Irish (21-10,  
6-9) are second-to-last in  
the Atlantic division, just in  
front of Boston College.  
despite taking its best  
shots at No. 6 Louisville —  
including an 18-inning mar­ 
athon — and No. 16 Virginia  
in ACC series during the  
month of March, Notre dame  
came out empty-handed.  MICHAEL YU | The Observer  
Freshman pitcher Brandon Bielak steps up to bat against Central  
see BASeBALL PAGE 18  Michigan in an 8-3 win on March 18 at Frank Eck Stadium.  

Nd SoFTbAll 

Bats look to keep slugging in ACC 
Observer Staff Report 
It has been almost a month since Notre dame has lost a game, and as the team heads to Chestnut hill, Massachusetts, to take on Boston College, the Irish look to extend what is at this point a 15-game winning streak in a three-game con­ference series against one of their traditional rivals. 
during the streak, the Irish (29-11, 10-5 ACC) have been an offensive power­house, outscoring their op­ponents by a staggering margin of 130-18, and as a team, they have been bat­ting at a .407 clip. The Irish have also been strong at home, winning their last 11 games at Melissa Cook Stadium. At the plate, the Irish are led by sophomore outfielder Karley Wester, who leads the team with a .445 batting average and 61 hits. Wester has also scored a team-leading 42 runs and is currently a perfect 23-for­23 in stolen base attempts on the season. elsewhere, the Irish are boosted by senior infielder Katey haus’ team-high 11 home runs and 41 rBIs. Overall, seven of Notre dame’s starting nine are batting over .300, and three are batting over .350. 
Wester’s play for the sea­son has been critical for the Irish, and she is drawing na­tional attention for it: Wester is currently one of 26 final­ists for the uSA National Softball Collegiate Player of the year Award. She is the second Irish player in pro­gram history to be named a finalist for the award, joining 
see SOFTBALL PAGE 18 
MEN’S TENNiS 

Irish return home against Clemson 
By RYAN KLAUS 
Sports Writer 
Notre dame returns home Friday for the first time since March 22 when it  takes on Clemson to kick off a regular season-ending homestand. 
The Irish (12-9, 4-5 ACC) finished their four-game road trip Sunday on the wrong side of a 5-2 decision against No. 16 North Carolina. After winning their first matches against Miami and Florida State, the Irish dropped their 
Nd woMEN’S TENNiS 
final two matches of the trip to No. 6 duke and North Carolina. 
“We’re feeling pretty good,” Irish head coach ryan Sachire said. “The last two matches were both losses, but those were both against top-level opponents.” 
Following the loss to North Carolina, Notre dame will play its final three regular season matches at home. After Clemson (10-13, 1-8), 
see M TeNNIS PAGE 16 


MICHAEL YU | The Observer 

Junior Quentin Monaghan follows through on a shot in a 4-3 victory against Oklahoma State on Jan. 24. 
Squad to battle ACC rival Miami 
By BEN PADANILAM 
Sports Writer 
Notre dame returns to Courtney Tennis Center today for its penultimate home match of the season, welcoming No. 17 Miami for an ACC contest. 
The Irish (14-6, 8-3 ACC) are coming off two road wins this past weekend. First, they swept Wake Forest in a 7-0 victory on Friday in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, and then they followed that performance with a tightly-contested 4-3 win at Virginia Tech on Sunday. 
Today, however, the Irish return home to battle the hurricanes (12-5, 8-2). The match is currently scheduled to be played outdoors at Courtney Tennis Center, which would make it the first outdoor home match for the Irish on the season. Their previous matches have been played indoors at eck Tennis Pavilion. 
entering today’s match, the Irish have won five of their last six ACC matches and six of their last seven overall. By comparison, the hurricanes have lost two of their last three. despite the differing momentums entering the game, Irish head coach Jay Louderback said he recognizes 
see W TeNNIS PAGE 16 


MICHAEL YU | The Observer 

Junior Julie Vrabel prepares a backhand stroke in a 6-1 loss to Stanford on Feb. 6 at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Nd woMEN’S lACroSSE 
ND, UM to sqaure off 
Observer Staff Report 
No. 13 Notre dame has the chance to build off back-to-back upsets of No. 8 Virginia and No. 6 Syracuse when it faces Michigan at Arlotta Stadium on Sunday afternoon. 
The Irish (8-5, 3-3 ACC) will have the advantage of momentum when they re­turn home, as they cruised by the Cavaliers, 14-4, on Saturday to kick off a short road swing. The squad then traveled to Syracuse and eked out a 12-11 overtime win over the Orange on Tuesday. Sunday’s game will be the first Irish home game in April; their last match in Arlotta Stadium was a 9-8 loss to No. 2 North Carolina on March 29. 
The Wolverines (5-7, 0-2 Big Ten), meanwhile, are currently on a five-game los­ing streak following a 11-5 defeat at the hands of No. 12 
see W LACrOSSe PAGE 15 






