The IndependenT newspaper serVIng noTre dame and saInT mary’s 




1917–2015 
niversity president emeritus Fr. Theodore hesburgh’s last day was characterized uby the act that was most central to him throughout his life — saying mass. although he wasn’t able to preside, Fr. hes-burgh was able to say mass with his brothers at holy cross house on the day of his death. doyle said other men present commented on how “happy and peaceful he looked” throughout the service. It had been a prayer hesburgh prayed for de­cades, to say mass on the day he died. This desire wasn’t a surprise to those who knew him, dillon hall rector Fr. paul doyle said. hesburgh was a man who thought of himself as a priest before anything else, who spent his life in prayer, doyle said. “[hesburgh] was a prayerful guy, and he prayed from the gut,” doyle said. “The prayers were very much between him and the lord. he would talk to mary, and the rest who heard him would feel like bystanders — like this is an intimate relationship and exchange here. he would do that at mass, after communion for example. he would just pray out loud to the lord.” 
hesburgh prided himself in saying mass every day — only missing one or two days in almost 72 years as a priest, doyle said. 
“[hesburgh] said mass in the Kremlin; he said mass in buckingham palace; he said mass in the south pole, in the military installation down there,” he said. “he said mass in submarines and every­where else.” 
Fr. ernie bartell, professor emeritus of eco­nomics, was present at hesburgh’s last mass. he said he remembers saying mass with hesburgh even in the forests of rural mexico, the site of a notre dame service project for students during the begin­ning of hesburgh’s stint as university president. 
“he was a great adventurer ... but wherever he was, he said mass. when he came to mexico, 
see mass PAGE 3 





ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, In 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, In 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: Isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: Kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: Kelly Konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: Keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 

possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 

expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office Information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, In 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, In 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is Father Ted’s legacy for you? 


Brittany Restic 
freshman 
ryan hall 

“he made it possible that I could go here, and it was a dream of mine.” 

Casey Horan 
senior 
off-campus 

“he gave me a different perspective on how to look at the events around the world when I read to him.” 

Eliza Moore 
senior 
off-campus 

“he made this university what it is today. after coming to this university, I’ve come to appreciate him more.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



Gen Li 
senior 
Keough hall 
“he was a model to my catholic faith and a model to how we can make a difference in the world.” 

Juan Velasquez 
sophomore 
duncan hall 
“he was a great notre dame figure that led to much-needed changes in the world.” 


Monica Robinson 
sophomore 
pangborn hall 
“when I met him, he reminded me of my grandpa.” 



carolyn hutyra  erin mcauliffe  
lesley stevenson margaret hynds haleigh ehmsen Kayla mullen  allie Tollaksen gabriela leskur Tabitha ricketts Keri o’mara  TABLE OF CONTENTS:  
emily mcconville  erin rice  
mary green  michael yu  
Jimmy Kemper mike monaco  rachel o’grady  wei lin  Page 4 Students reflect on Fr.  Page 8 The transition to lay  Page 12 Campus tributes to Fr.  Page 19-20 ND leaders reflect on  Page 24 Religious figures  
Zach Klonsinki  Hesburgh’s life  governance  Hesburgh  Fr. Hesburgh  reflect on Fr. Hesburgh  
alex carson  
Page 5  Page 9  Page 13  Page 21  Page 25  
Corrections  Fr. Hesburgh’s role in civil rights  Chaplainship and Cigars  Fr. Jenkins reflects on Fr. Hesburgh  Official statements of Obama and Jenkins  ND community members remember  
The observer regards itself as  
a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. we do, however, recognize that we will make  Page 6 The transition to co­education  Page 10 Fr. Hesburgh’s papal appointments  Pages 14-17 Timeline of Fr. Hesburgh’s life  Page 22 Athletes reflect on Fr. Hesburgh’s legacy  Pages 26-27 The letters of Fr. Hesburgh  
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  Page 7 Hesburgh’s emphasis  Page 11 Reading to a ‘living  Pages 18 Inside column and  Page 23 Benefactors reflect on  Page 28 Carter, Malloy and  
on integrity in athletics  legend’  Observer editorial  Fr. Hesburgh’s legacy  Beauchamp remember  


, M H 2

ndsmcobserVer.com | MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2015 | The obserVer 




MONDAY 
MARCH 2 
AN EVENING OF PRAYER 
7 – 9 p.m. 
BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 




TUESDAY 
MARCH 3 

PUBLIC VISITATION 

12 – 6 p.m. & 9 p.m. – 10 a.m. BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 

WAKE SERVICE 

7:30 p.m. BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART (INVITATION ONLY) 


WEDNESDAY 
MARCH 4 
FUNERAL MASS 
2 p.m. BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 

MEMORIAL TRIBUTE 
7:30 p.m. PURCELL PAVILION 

PROCESSION TO BURIAL SITE 
3:30 p.m. BASILICA OF THE SACRED 
HEART TO HOLY CROSS COMMUNITY CEMETERY 

Mass 
conTInued From page 1 
we had mass every day.
 … and that wasn’t for show or to impress the students or anything. That was the way he was.” 
hesburgh carried a mass kit with him wherever he traveled so that he could say mass wherever he was, bartell said. 
“The mass was central [to him], no matter where he went,” bartell said. “If he had a really busy schedule, he’d say mass at five in the morning in the hotel room, or two in the morning as he got in his hotel room the next day because the mass for him was this central prayer.” 
what was central for hesburgh, though, wasn’t necessarily the ritual of mass, but the meaning behind it, bartell said. 
“For Ted, the mass was very central to his life,” he said. “but he wasn’t like some priests who make the mass the center of their lives, but then they become the people who tell you exactly how to hold your fingers or exactly how long to pause between this and that. 
“That wasn’t Ted. … The mass is, after all, an offering of all of your talents and all of your ser­vice to the lord. and so I sup­pose it’s true that there have been some priests that focus on the mass, and then they spend all their time telling you how you said it wrong today. … but that’s rubrics; that’s not prayer.” 
as hesburgh grew older, traveling to the grotto and pre­siding over mass became more difficult. but he was still dedicat­ed to a life of prayer, doyle said. 
“we would drive by the grotto, and since he moved over to the priest’s infirmary, he couldn’t make his daily trip to the grotto,” doyle said. “but if we were driving back, he wanted to stop, and he would talk to mary out the [car] window, even though he couldn’t see her because he’s been mostly blind lately. he would just talk to mary beautifully. I’d sit there and say, ‘oh my.’” 
during his stay at holy cross house, hesburgh continued to go to mass every day, bartell said. 
“he used to be walking. and then he came in [the chapel] with a walker,” bartell said. “and to­wards the end, they were wheel­ing him in, and he had to stay in the wheelchair … because it was so hard to move him. so he knew his days were going, but he did his best. he couldn’t go down to the dining room anymore at the end. They brought his meals up to his room, but he wanted to go to mass.” 
up until his last day, when hesburgh said mass, bartell said it came from the heart. 
“when he said mass, he really meant it,” he said. “he wasn’t do­ing it for show or to impress the trustees or anything like that. … he became a very real role model in that respect.” 
News writer Madison Jaros wrote this article. Contact Madison at mjaros@nd.edu 

“The Mass was central [to him], no matter where he went. ” 
Fr. Ernie Bartell professor emeritus economics 



The obserVer | MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserVer.com 




Students reflect on Fr. Ted’s achievements 
group of pe residents were
By EMILY McCONVILLE, 
supposed to meet with


MADISON JAROS AND ERIN 
hesburgh on Thursday

McAULIFFE 

afternoon. she said the dorm-wide response to the For the students who met invitation to see hesburgh him, university president was so overwhelming that emeritus Fr. Theodore the coordinators limited hesburgh was a powerful the visit to upperclassmen, and memorable presence. though the meeting was 
sophomore andrew eventually cancelled. lehmer met hesburgh, To meet hesburgh was a who died Thursday at the once-in-a-lifetime opportu­

nity, white said. “It served as an integral 
news writers 
“Just being in his 

notre dame experience,” presence was she said. “It was something just unbelievable you would go on to tell your 
children about.”
because this man 
Junior diego Valenzuela
has accomplished 

visited hesburgh with his so much done section of stanford hall last so many great year, to talk with hesburgh 
and hear his stories.
things for Notre 
“Just being in his presence
Dame and the 

was just unbelievable be-accomplishments — as a during a tour Thursday, the meet hesburgh, but when he United States cause this man has accom-university president, as a day hesburgh died, he told heard of his death Thursday, and Catholics plished so much and done leader in civil rights and a group about hesburgh’s he, like dozens of other stu­
so many great things for catholic education — and accomplishments. dents, headed to the grotto
everywhere.” 

notre dame and the united gravitas, students were “I told the girl who I was to pay his respects. 
Diego Valenzuela 

states and catholics every-struck by his congeniality touring about how students “he’s really affected a 
junior 

where,” Valenzuela said. and concern for each indi-are sometimes even called lot of people here,” he said. 
late in his life, hesburgh vidual student. up to read to him, if they’re “everyone I talk to, like my age of 97, during his fresh-lost most of his sight as well Junior anthony barrett studying on the upper floors first week here, Fr. hesburgh man year after attending a as most of his mobility, but also visited hesburgh with of the library, and she turned came up, like, ‘you should latino retreat. his mind remained sharp his section from stanford to her dad, and she was like, definitely meet him.’ he’s 
“It was crazy how im-and his speaking powerful. hall. barrett said the former ‘I want to come here,’” he someone who can change pactful his presence was,” Junior Jesse hamilton said president asked for each said. “... little did I know. your life. he’s someone lehmer said. “you could each time hesburgh spoke person’s name, hometown “he was a great university sense every word meant to his roTc class, he would and major. president. he was probably 
“He’s someone

something bigger.” be slowly led onstage. “he would say some-the closest thing to a liv­lehmer said he asked the “It was such a slow, gin-thing kind to each person,” ing saint that I ever was in 
who can change 

former university presi-ger process to get him up barrett said. “he’s done so a picture with and shook 
your life. He’s 

dent, civil rights activist, to the podium, and as soon much for us as a school, on a hands with. he was certain-
someone who 

diplomat and priest what as he spoke, he spoke with large level, and he also still ly good for the university, 
truly represents

he could do to make his such clarity and sharpness,” took the time to get to know but also good for catholics own life as meaningful as hamilton said. “It was in-people on an individual lev-everywhere.” 
Notre Dame and 

hesburgh’s. credible just to see how all el. That’s the kind of person many students who nev­
really brings the 

“he told me ‘be a of his mind was there and that we should all aspire to er met hesburgh also felt 
meaning of it to 

good catholic,’” he said. all the love he had for us. be.” his influence. Junior erin 
this entire school.” 

“obviously, that can be any words that came out of Junior paul coletti said he bishop said in the days after taken a lot of ways, but I’m his mouth, you knew were first met hesburgh in front his death, she kept thinking 
Gabriel Gaspar 

trying to figure it out by genuine, and just the couple of the library named for him about his decision to make 
freshman 

actively pursuing the faith times I met him, he inspired during a scavenger hunt in notre dame co-educational. and keeping what he said in me to be the best christian his freshman orientation “without him, none of us who truly represents notre the back of my mind.” I can be, the best leader I weekend. hesburgh stopped would be here,” she said. dame and really brings the 
sophomore mary white, can be. he will be greatly and spoke with the group. “There would be no women meaning of it to this entire the president of pasquerilla missed.” later, colletti became here. That thought just keeps school.” east hall (pe), said a but for all his a university tour guide. going through my head, you grotto candles were re-
know? without him, this arranged to spell “Ted,” wouldn’t be my life, and this and people left a cigar and is such a big part of my life. notes in candle holders. The university is really go-The gathering at the grotto ing to miss him. and I hope on Thursday also included that they choose to celebrate an impromptu rendition of his life rather than mourn the alma mater. Freshman his loss.” will lederer, who attended 
Junior bryan ricketts, the event, said hesburgh student body president-inspired a sense of com-elect, said he went to the munity among notre dame 13th floor of the library af-students. ter hesburgh’s death to see “For the six months I’ve his office. he said hesburgh been here, I don’t think I’ve was instrumental in mak-felt this way yet,” letterer ing notre dame co-ed and said. “Just the community, a premier research institu-the service and the gratitude tion, and he looks to him for we owe Fr. hesburgh, and inspiration as a leader. the outpouring of support is 
“I hadn’t had the chance just truly inspiring. It’s re-to speak to him after being ally heartwarming. I’m glad elected; it was something I I was here.” was hoping to do with the team,” ricketts said. “he’s Contact Emily McConville at such an inspiration and left emcconv1@nd.edu, Madison such a legacy.” Jaros at mjaros@nd.edu and 
Freshman gabriel gaspar Erin McAuliffe at never got the chance to emcaulif@nd.edu 




ndsmcobserVer.com | MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2015 | The obserVer 




Fr. Hesburgh leaves behind legacy of equality 

Photo courtesy of the Notre Dame archives 

Fr. Hesburgh, second from left, links arms with Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., to his right, and sings “We Shall Overcome” during a 1964 civil rights rally at Chicago’s Soldier Field. This photograph hangs both in the Smithsonian Institution’s National Portrait Gallery and outside of the U.S. president’s Oval Office in the White House. 
By KAYLA MULLEN 
associate news editor 
“The good lord and creator meant for every man, woman and child to enjoy his or her human dignity, and until all do, here and elsewhere in the world, we must be charged to move ahead more quickly with our unfinished human busi­ness, which as John Kennedy said, must also be god’s, too.” 
widely known as a lead­er in civil rights, university president emeritus Fr. Theodore hesburgh penned these words in a 1972 edito­rial on racial justice in the new york Times. 
president dwight d. eisenhower appoint­ed hesburgh to the u.s. commission on civil rights in 1957, and the committee was tasked with recommending legislative solutions to nation­al racial problems, according to hesburgh’s autobiography, “god, country, notre dame.” 
according to hesburgh, the commission, which included one african-american com­missioner and two african­american lawyers on the legal team, often met oppo­sition traveling through the south, as many hotels and busi­nesses refused to serve them. 
despite these setbacks, over 70 percent of the commission’s suggestions were made into federal law, most notably the civil rights act of 1964, the autobiography said. hesburgh continued his work on the com­mission after these successes, knowing the act would not end racial inequality on its own. 
“It is a part of my real hope for america that all, or most, of this daily affront to the human dignity of blacks was outlawed in one day by the civil rights act of 1964,” he wrote in the 1972 editorial. 
“but there is no known way of outlawing prejudice, and all of us whites must confess that the sense of white superiority is still deeply rooted within us.” 
hesburgh strongly believed that education could be used as a tool to combat social injustice. 
“children are not born with prejudice; they have to ac­quire it,” he wrote in the 1972 editorial. 
“an important prerequisite for living in a pluralistic society is education in a milieu free of prejudiced, stereotyped judg­ments about people who are different. classroom instruc­tion in the democratic goals of tolerance and understanding affirms and strengthens what is learned in the living integrated context.” 
president nixon appointed hesburgh chairman of the civil rights commission in 1969, a position hesburgh held until 1972, when nixon dismissed him from the chairmanship for his and the commission’s criti­cisms of the administration’s civil rights record, accord­ing to hesburgh’s autobiogra­phy. however, the work that hesburgh did in 15 years on the commission resonates today. 
“I point you to the fact that the president of the united states is today a black man, and that when I began working in the civil rights commission, a black man couldn’t have any decent job, and now he’s presi­dent of the united states,” hesburgh said in a 2013 inter­view with The observer. 
over his time at notre dame, hesburgh also worked tireless­ly to integrate the campus fully. 
“when I came to notre dame in 1934, there wasn’t a single black student on cam­pus,” he said in a 2009 talk at notre dame on the civil rights movement. “when I came back with a doctorate’s degree to teach, there was one black student.” 
The sole african-american student was at notre dame by accident; the navy reserve officer Training corps had incorrectly placed him at the university, hesburgh said. 
“when I became president, it was not a fair nation. … It sim­ply did not carry out the open­ing words of our constitution as a country: ‘we take these truths to be self-evident, that all mean are created equal,’” hesburgh said in the 2013 interview. 
“... That’s a wonderful goal for a nation. It’s the opening words of our constitution. and I think in the time of my presidency and work in washington, we made those goals come true.” 
when arthur mcFarland, class of 1970, arrived on notre dame’s campus in 1966, he was one of twenty-eight black stu­dents, he said. 
“In the fall of 1967, my room­mate, bill hurd, along with other african-american stu­dents, began discussions about the lack of inclusion of black students and black culture in the life of the university except in football and basketball,” mcFarland said. 
“we saw a ‘race problem’ on campus. we invited black stu­dents from saint mary’s to par­ticipate in these sessions. 
“as a result of these meetings, we agreed to create a student organization to address our concerns with the university administration.” 
by mcFarland’s graduation in 1970, the administration had addressed each of the objec­tives presented to Fr. hesburgh in 1968 by the group. 
“It is clear that Fr. hesburgh’s efforts in the national struggle for civil rights informed his response to our demands as well as those of other student leaders on what appeared to be a rapid transition to a more open and inclusive campus,” mcFarland said. 
“his high profile as a catholic and civil rights leader during the height of racial tensions in america dictated that notre dame be an example for others to follow.” 
Thomas hawkins, class of 1959, was the notre dame bas­ketball team’s first african­american all-american. during his time at notre dame, a south bend restaurant re­fused to serve him because of his race, hawkins said. Fr. hesburgh encouraged notre dame students to avoid the res­taurant until it publicly apolo­gized to hawkins, he said. 
“Fr. Ted always preached the dignity of man regardless of race, creed or color,” hawkins said. 
“he marched with the cham­pion of human rights, dr. King. Fr. hesburgh was far ahead of society. 
“he made it perfectly clear to the nation that anywhere notre dame’s minority students weren’t welcome, neither was notre dame.” 
during Fr. hesburgh’s time, the first african-american man was appointed to the board of Trustees. bayard rustin, a prominent civil rights leader, was appointed to the board of Trustees in 1969, according to an observer article from that year. 
In 1973, hesburgh founded the center for civil and human rights at notre dame, daniel philpott, director of the center, said. The center today has edu­cated 300 human rights lawyers from 30 different countries, philpott said. 
“all of this continues to draw inspiration from Fr. Ted’s founding vision,” philpott said. 
“… soon after I became di­rector in January 2014, I went to see him in his office on the 13th floor of hesburgh library. 
“I told him how pleased and honored I was to be taking up the directorship of the cen­ter that he founded and how I hoped to build the center into an endowed institute. ‘dan, now is the time,’ he replied.” 
In 2009, hesburgh said he was proud of the racial progress he had made at notre dame, but the fight was not over yet. 
“I still say that I won’t rest un­til we have the same percent­age of black students at this university that we have in the general population,” he said. 
“I don’t want to rest until the institution that I love best has done its part to make blacks no­ble citizens of this great land.” 
For hesburgh, the notion of equality is tied intricately with the ideas of democracy and greatness. 
“remaking our beloved american in its professed image can be adventurous, inspiring, exciting, even fun,” hesburgh wrote in 1972. “we must be willing to shuck the status quo when it is retrogressive, unjust and going nowhere. we have to be open to change and alert to the great values that inspired this land’s beginning and led it to greatness.” 
Contact Kayla Mullen at kmullen2@nd.edu 


The obserVer | MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserVer.com 


hesburgh spearheaded co-education initiative 
together a very good record, of 


Observer Staff Report 
which I’m very proud.” 

long heralded as the driv­ing force behind coeducation ‘Impossible conditions’ at notre dame, university although hesburgh’s person-president emeritus Fr. al convictions about the role of Theodore "Ted" hesburgh said women in university life largely he had simple reasons for open-propelled the transition to co­ing the university to under-education, the final decision graduate women in 1972. came after discussions in 1971 
“when god made the human with saint mary’s college about race, he didn’t just make men; a potential merger between the he made men and women,” schools. hesburgh told The observer For about six years, notre in February 2013. “since this dame and saint mary’s had is considered the best catholic operated a co-exchange pro-university in the world ever, gram in which students at one well, why shouldn’t half the institution could take classes people here be women as well at the other. This arrangement as men, since women … are just brought undergraduate wom­as important in the scheme of en to notre dame’s campus, things?” where a few female students al-
To hesburgh, this logic was ready were enrolled in graduate “Ted emphasizes that there cekanski-Farrand to make sure complementing the work of their obvious. but to many notre programs. was just a different view of what everything in the women’s hall male counterparts. dame supporters in the early Then, departments at the two the final institution would look was running smoothly. “women more and more have 1970s, the idea was “heresy,” he institutions started to work to-like,” blantz said. he shared her commitment, had their say on campus. … men said. gether more closely, and some ultimately, “impossible con-she said, to integrating women and women tend to think very 
“They said, ‘you’re giving almost merged. meanwhile, ditions” prevented notre dame into the student body and bring-much along the same lines at away the store. This is the great-many saint mary’s women be-from agreeing to merge with ing notre dame to the place it is a catholic university,” he said. est macho, male-dominated came cheerleaders for notre saint mary’s, hesburgh said. today. “I’d have to work hard to scrape thing. … The place will go soft. dame sports teams, former Vice “after two or three of these “[hesburgh] took the time to up a problem [between men and It won’t amount to anything president for student affairs Fr. forays … I said, ‘well, why don’t do that,” she said. “I couldn’t women]. … I think we get along anymore,’” hesburgh said. “I Tom blantz told The observer in we just say it’s been an interest-have asked for a more gracious as a happy family where we’re said, ‘look, I’m in charge, and november 2013. ing discussion. we’re still open individual who was wanting both making good contribu­this is what I think is impor-blantz, who stepped into that to merge with saint mary’s at to make this a positive for the tions to the good of the whole tant. If we’re going to be the position in 1971, was among the any time. If you want to reopen university.” enterprise.” greatest catholic university, we administrators who determined the discussion, that’s fine, but In February 2013, more than 40 hesburgh said he thought the should be open to women, as the university would directly there’s no point getting into a years after the proposed merger inclusion of women made the well as to men.’” admit women to its undergradu-discussion where one side has failed, hesburgh said his feelings university a microcosm more 
although hesburgh did not ate student body following failed a strong power blocking every about it had not changed. he was representative of the world in face overt opposition to the discussions to combine notre time we get close to a merger,’” happy to see women succeed as general. It became, he said, “a proposed inclusion of women, dame and saint mary’s. For a he said. notre dame students and to wit-much more normal human instituting coeducation re-while, however, it looked as if ad-ness growth in the relationship situation.” quired extensive discussion ministrators from both schools ‘The best of all worlds’ between notre dame and saint Indeed, the world outside and personal initiative. would approve the merger. administrators at notre dame mary’s. notre dame had a major im­
“people didn’t come out with “There was a lot of closer re-and saint mary’s officially an-“I was in favor of the merger, pact on coeducation and the battle axes trying to shut the lationships in different areas nounced the cancellation of and I think the superior general university as a whole, especially place down or something. … of the university,” blantz said. the merger in november 1971. [at saint mary's] was in favor of in the midst of the Vietnam war, like anything else that goes on “Then [administrators] started shortly thereafter, then-associ-the merger. … To this day, I favor the civil rights movement and in a university, [coeducation] to investigate the idea of just ate provost Fr. Ferdinand brown joining, but I don’t think it’s nec-other political turmoil at home got thoroughly discussed, and merging and making one big called blantz to tell him notre essary,” he said. “I think we’ve and abroad. there were pros and cons, but university. It looked like it was dame would admit 325 under-become closer to [saint mary's] “The great national deci­someone had to make the deci-going that direction anyway if graduate women — 125 first-in many ways. … I think we have sions that were going on … all sion,” he said. “I figured I was each department was going to years and 200 transfers — for the the best of all worlds short of a of these things that affected the president, so I made the de-start merging.” next academic year. merger, so I’ve been happy to see the world were bound to affect cision that, no. 1, we were going additionally, blantz said, “many of those transfer wom-that develop.” the university,” he said. “I was to be coeducational and, no. 2, university administrators en obviously would be from saint hesburgh said the mutually very happy that the students women were going to have the thought admitting undergradu-mary’s,” blantz said. “I think we beneficial relationship between were very active in world affairs same … profile of excellence as ate women to notre dame would probably felt that since the two the schools is due in part to their and came at them from differ-the male students.” raise the level of academics, schools had jointly announced shared history, beginning when ent points of view as men and 
hesburgh also thought wom-teach men to work with women, that we were merging, that if Fr. edward sorin founded notre women.” en deserved access to personal make the school more attractive then there were some women dame in 1842 and the sisters of Though the political and social space in dormitories separate to prospective male applicants that enrolled at saint mary’s for the holy cross followed suit and climate outside the university from male students. he be-and support catholic education programs that saint mary’s did opened saint mary's in 1844. has changed considerably since lieved women didn’t need “men for young women. not have, because we told them “I think it’s interesting that 1972, hesburgh said such a dy­looking over their shoulders “Those were some of the rea-we were going to be one school when sorin began the school in namic environment encourages every hour of the day or night” sons that I think Fr. hesburgh … notre dame probably felt those days, there were no [co-notre dame students to con-and, after a certain time in the and others decided that it’s some obligation if those students educational] schools,” hesburgh sider their role in the world after evening, should have areas all time for men and women to be wanted to transfer over here, that said. “[notre dame] became a graduation. their own. educated together,” blantz said. we should let them transfer.” men’s school, but only a year or “I think [involvement in world 
hesburgh spent 35 years “and a logical thing to do would as a first-year law student so went by before [sorin] asked affairs] was a good thing for edu­in the office of the president, be to merge with saint mary’s. in 1970, Kathleen cekanski-the sisters to start a school on the cation at notre dame because leading notre dame from 1952 They had a very good college Farrand was one of 12 women other side of the road. our his-we don’t want to be in another to 1987. In that time, he doubled over there, and we had a very out of 250 students in her class, tory is almost identical, … and world,” he said. “we want to be the university’s enrollment, good college over here, and rath-part of only the third coeduca-from [the 1840s] on, we’ve been in the world that exists right grew its endowment, added 40 er than starting from scratch tional graduate class in the law close together and should be. now. we want to compete in that new buildings, increased stu-some place, and especially with school. Two years later, she was [saint mary's] has been helpful world, and we want to be leaders dent aid and added lay people the co-exchange program going mailing letters to welcome 119 to us and vice versa.” in that world, and that’s true of to the board of Trustees. but so well, that seemed to be the women of the first female under-both men and women.” he said he considered institut-logical thing to do.” graduate class into her care as ‘A more normal human ing coeducation to be the best but administrators strug-rector of badin hall. situation’ Former Assistant Managing decision he made while at the gled to determine how to hesburgh gave the women of In the decades following wom-Editor Marisa Iati, class of 2014, university’s helm. keep the college’s name alive. badin their first mascot — a small en’s admittance to notre dame, former News Editor Kristen 
“I moved ahead quickly, Furthermore, operating one snoopy statue that represented hesburgh saw their successors Durbin, class of 2013, and and I’ve never regretted it,” he combined school seemed like the dorm for years. he judged a make significant contributions former Managing Editor Megan said. “I think women are hold-it would cost, rather than save, door-decorating competition at to the university’s intellec-Doyle, class of 2013, contributed ing their own here and putting money. christmastime and often called tual, athletic and religious life, to this story. 


ndsmcobserVer.com | MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2015 | The obserVer 



Fr. Ted stressed academic integrity in athletics 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
managing editor 
sixty years ago, well before the advent of espn, conference realignment and a playoff, the college football system faced many of the same questions it does today regarding the role of student-athletes in univer­sity life, the balance between academics and athletics and the need for institutional in­tegrity in the face of big-time college sports. 
sixty years ago, a university president just two years into his job wrote an article for a fledgling sports magazine ad­dressing such college football-related issues. 
The president was Fr. Theodore hesburgh, the mag­azine was sports Illustrated, and the views hesburgh set forth would come to define his and notre dame’s view of in­tercollegiate athletics for the next three decades of his term and beyond. 
In the sept. 27, 1954, issue of sports Illustrated — the seventh ever produced for the magazine that now has more than three million subscribers and was the first to feature a college football player on its cover — hesburgh, who had recently started his term as notre dame president in June 1952, penned an article titled “The True spirit of notre dame.” 
In it, hesburgh espoused his views on intercollegiate athletics as a so-called “spectator” of the game, rather than as an expert. early in the piece, hesburgh made clear that administrators at notre dame are “in favor of intercollegiate athletics,” though with a few caveats. 
“I must add that we favor intercollegiate athletics with­in their proper dimensions,” hesburgh said in the sports Illustrated article. “It goes without saying that the proper dimensions should be those of university life and purposes.” 
To understand these dimen­sions, one must understand that college and professional athletics differ because col­lege athletes must be students above all, hesburgh wrote. 
according to hesburgh, col­leges can emphasize the role of the student-athlete by not admitting any student inca­pable of doing collegiate work, requiring athletes to follow the same academic requirements as other students, taking “no fresh-air courses” and giving athletes the same treatment in campus life matters as they would for other students. 
hesburgh then set forth a framework governing how notre dame selects and treats its student-athletes. he noted that entrance requirements for athletes are the same as they are for everyone else at notre dame and that “many excel­lent athletes are not admitted because of their high school deficiencies.” 
Tommy hawkins, who played basketball for the Irish from 1956 to 1959, said the admis­sions criteria for the university was particularly stringent, focusing on even more than grades and athletic ability. 
“That was a very sensitive time because the athletes who were chosen for scholarships were hand-picked at that time,” hawkins said. “Their families were investigated; they wanted to see that people came from good families. 
“It just wasn’t how good you were as an athlete. nobody said this to me, but I got the feeling that you had to clear the deck on a lot of different levels before you were extended a four-year scholarship to notre dame.” 
dave casper, who played tight end for the Irish foot­ball team between 1971 and 1973, said athletes knew of hesburgh’s standards for them from the start of their careers. 
“I know that [hesburgh] thought it was important to have a great athletics pro­gram, just as it was important to have everything … every­thing should be of excellence,” casper said. 
once athletes were enrolled at notre dame, their major focus was not to simply win a monogram but also to re­ceive a diploma, hesburgh said. athletes had to stay eli­gible in order to do both, which required them to have a 77 percent academic average at the time, even above notre 

paId adVerTIsemenT 

dame’s then-passing mark of 70 percent. 
gerry Faust, who coached the Irish football team from 1981 to 1985, said hesburgh was very resolute in what he considered his top goal for the football team. 
“he and [former university executive vice president] Fr. [edmund p.] Joyce both felt the most important thing was that the young men gradu­ate,” Faust said. “If they didn’t graduate, then they’re not ful­filling what the university is all about, so therefore they never took anybody that couldn’t make it academically.” 
The final main tenant on which student-athlete life at notre dame was based, hesburgh wrote, was that ath­letes should “live a normal col­legiate life.” living such a life required that athletes not be swayed by the promise of ille­gal deals or recruiting benefits and that the university display integrity in all aspects, doling out the same punishments to athletes that they would to any other student 
gene corrigan, who served as notre dame’s athletic director from 1981 to 1987, said adher­ence to ncaa and university rules was something hesburgh emphasized from his first mo­ment on the job. 
“he said to me one time, on one of my first meetings with him, ‘do you know all the rules of the ncaa?’” corrigan said of hesburgh. “I said, ‘Father, I don’t know them all, but I un­derstand them.’ he then said, ‘I want to tell you something. If you or any of your people ever break those rules, you’re out of here by midnight, and I don’t talk to attorneys.’” 
similarly, hesburgh stressed notre dame’s role as an integ­rity leader in the 1980s, an era when college football was be­ginning to grow into the bil­lion-dollar business it is today, corrigan said. 
“he felt like we had to be a leader as far as ethics were con­cerned, as far as doing things right, as far as graduating peo­ple, behaving themselves as athletes,” corrigan said. “he did not want [athletes] to live together. he and Fr. Joyce were adamant that we would not have anything like an athletic dormitory.” 
despite some of his hard-line stances, hesburgh had little involvement in the day­to-day affairs of notre dame’s sports teams, mainly leaving that responsibility to Joyce, who hesburgh described as his “watchdog” in the 1954 sports Illustrated article. 
“I would have lunch with Fr. Ted probably once a year, and we’d just talk about all things that had to do with intercol­legiate athletics, what we were doing, what’s going on in the whole country,” corrigan said. “but that was never his interest.” 
while Joyce largely oversaw athletics, hesburgh wouldn’t hesitate to intervene if he felt athletes weren’t living up to standards, corrigan said. 
“he would get upset if there was a sport where the kids weren’t behaving,” corrigan said. “That meant more to him. he liked to win, don’t get me wrong, but that wasn’t every­thing to him, not at all.” 
hesburgh also took a spe­cial interest in ensuring some of notre dame’s early african­american athletes felt wel­come, according to hawkins. The former basketball play­er, who was one of just 10 african-american students when he arrived on campus, said hesburgh personally wel­comed him to cavanaugh hall at the start of his freshman year and continued to check in on him afterwards. 
“he always kept track of me and from time to time, I’d get a message to drop in and see him so he could see how I was doing or if there were things that were bothering me,” hawkins said. “amazingly enough, as busy as he was, he always took the time to say, ‘hello’ and ‘how are you doing? Is everything okay?’” 
hesburgh attended notre dame home sporting events, but rarely, if ever, went to away games, according to corrigan. while hesburgh wasn’t an overly vocal fan at games, he cared deep down about notre dame’s athletic performance, Faust said. 
“when we were on the road, he would invite my wife to watch games at wndu-TV,” Faust said. “my wife said he would never show his emotions in public, but privately, he was rooting right and left all the time.” 
after his retirement as university president, hesburgh took a role in influencing pol­icy on the national college athletics landscape, serving as co-chairman of the Knight commission on Intercollegiate athletics from 1990 to 2001. hesburgh and co-chairman william c. Friday, president emeritus at the university of north carolina-chapel hill, oversaw a committee that re­leased two reports, one in 1992 and one in 2001. The 1992 report called for stronger presidential leadership and academic and financial integrity in colle­giate athletics, while the latter report set forth the academic standards that formed the ba­sis for the ncaa’s academic progress rate (apr). 


In 2004, hesburgh received the ncaa’s gerald r. Ford award, which is presented to an individual who has provid­ed leadership as an advocate for intercollegiate athletics over the course of his or her career. 
hesburgh’s receipt of the award, which came a half-cen­tury after his sports Illustrated article, represented the culmi­nation of an approach to inter­collegiate athletics that often deviated from the norm at the time. 
hesburgh himself recog­nized the difference in his views compared to others, particularly when he wrote in sports Illustrated of the criti­cism that came from his deci­sion to bench a star basketball player for a game against Kentucky for having an aver­age below 77 percent. after the Irish lost to Kentucky by one point in overtime without the suspended player, hesburgh defended his approach with the following words: 
“at times like this, when the walls are falling in on an ad­ministrator, it is good to seek quiet courage in the epigram above a hero’s grave: ‘death is not rare, nor is it of ultimate importance. heroism is both.’” 
Contact Brian Hartnett at  bhartnet@nd.edu 


The obserVer | MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserVer.com 



Hesburgh advocated for lay governance of ND 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
amid the triumph and turmoil of the civil rights movement, the changes of the second Vatican council and the push for academic freedom for catholic universities, the 1960s saw what Fr. Theodore hesburgh called one of his great­est administrative achievements: placing university decision-making power in the hands of laypeople. 
“I would have to say that of all the accomplishments during the 35 years of my presidency at notre dame — improving the academ­ics, the quality of the students, the endowment, the building program 
— the greatest change made dur­ing my administration was turning the university over to lay control,” hesburgh wrote in his 2000 auto­biography, "god, country, notre dame." 
until 1967, holy cross priests made all major decisions for the university, which was valued at half a billion dollars, hesburgh wrote. a lay advisory board existed, but it had no real power. 
In the summer of 1965, at a university retreat house in land o’lakes, wisconsin, hesburgh and several other holy cross leaders set out to change that. 
“The time had come for the priests of the holy cross to relin­quish ownership and control of the university to a lay board of trust­ees who would be better equipped to oversee its future well-being,” hesburgh wrote. 
a key motivating factor was the recently-concluded second Vatican council, which empha­sized involvement of laymen and laywomen in the church. hesburgh even wrote his 1945 doctoral dissertation at catholic university of america on the role of the laity in the church. 
“Vatican II had said that laypeo­ple should be given responsibility in catholic affairs commensurate with their dedication, their com­petence and their intelligence,” he wrote. “many people may not have taken that seriously, but we did. For me, it was the most natural thing in the world.” 
The separation of the university from a religious order would also be a step towards establishing its independence and academic free­dom, hesburgh said. 
“an organization as big as a catholic university, which is totally faithful to the church, wants to go on and be a catholic university, needs a lot of elbow room,” he told national public radio's Fresh air in 1990. “and I thought we'd have more elbow room if we were run by lay people.” 
In early 1967, the process of trans­ferring ownership of the university from the congregation of holy cross to a lay board — which re­quired Vatican approval — began. according to hesburgh’s autobi­ography, Fr. edward heston, holy cross’ procurator general in rome, put in a request for the transfer. 
approval “sailed right through,” hesburgh wrote, “which is highly unusual for the Vatican.” 
hesburgh then called in ed stephan, a 1933 graduate and a chicago lawyer, to legally trans­fer ownership and to set up a new governing structure. a continual priority, hesburgh said, was to be “careful not to load anything in fa­vor of the clergy.” 
“we all wanted notre dame to continue as it had before, as a pre­mier catholic university, and also to grow stronger academically and economically,” he said. 
The result was a two-tiered sys­tem of governance: a 12-member board of Fellows — six holy cross members and six laypeople — and a board of Trustees, whose mem­bers could be lay or religious. The Fellows would set the number of, elect and oversee members of the board of Trustees, allowing the laity to make decisions but main­taining the voice of the clergy. 
Fr. Thomas blantz, a professor emeritus of history and a trustee 
paId adVerTIsemenT 
emeritus, was an assistant rector on campus in the mid-1960s. he said while he was not involved in the decision to transfer control, hesburgh was open with the holy cross community throughout the process. 
“There were very good discus­sions,” blantz said. “Fr. hesburgh was very open in his discussions with the holy cross. he’d bring [stepan], and he was there to an­swer our questions also, at these meetings.” 
over the next several decades, the new structure resulted in the input of trustees from a range of backgrounds and fields, such as law, business, media and aca­demia, who could both act as ex­amples for notre dame students and bring their expertise to the university’s decision-making, blantz said. 
“one of the things a board of Trustees does is represent the wid­er public at the university,” blantz said. “we are, at notre dame, every university, training people for life in american society and maybe even leadership in american soci­ety. Therefore, it’s probably good to have that perspective of these leaders in american society over­seeing your product and how you are doing.” 
The expertise of those leaders also helped notre dame expand financially. For example, don Keough, the former chairman of the board of trustees who died last Tuesday, donated or raised billions of dollars for the university. 
"we reached out into the world and picked out some of the best leaders in the country like don Keough, head of coca-cola, and he came in, and he helped us carry off a great fundraising campaign," hesburgh said in an interview with The observer in 2013. 
one of the biggest impact of the transfer, hesburgh wrote, was to give notre dame the independence it needed to expand intellectually. 
“I think we are more catholic today than we were in the past — both big c and little c,” hesburgh wrote. “one could argue with that, as many do, but I stand by that statement. It is very important that we continue to have independent catholic universities. They are the very places that do the most of ad­vance catholic thought and influ­ence in this country. 
“we have, and deserve to have, the respect of everyone who values academic freedom and commit­ment to the principles of reason seeking faith, and faith freely seek­ing a deeper understanding of all that faith means in our times." 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 




ndsmcobserVer.com | MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2015 | The obserVer 


Fr. Ted honored as Navy chaplain at 96 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
senior news writer 
If young Fr. hesburgh had his way, he would have boarded an aircraft carrier in the pacific to serve as a naval chaplain dur­ing world war II upon his re­turn to the united states from gregorian university in rome. 
but his superiors in the congregation of holy cross had other plans, and he was instead told to finish his doctoral stud­ies at catholic university in washington, d.c. 
“with the war on the whole time I was at catholic university, I was really itching to get out of washington and into the mili­tary service," hesburgh wrote in his autobiography. “but Father Tom steiner, my provincial su­perior at notre dame was ada­mant. ‘get your doctorate now, or you will never get it,’ he told me. ‘Then we’ll talk about your becoming a navy chaplain.’” 
he worked overtime to finish the doctorate in just two years, and in the summer of 1945, he wrote to Fr. steiner again to re­mind him of their discussion about the chaplainship. 
“It was as good as done,” hesburgh wrote about his plans for the chaplainship that summer. 
but when the response letter came from Fr. steiner, it was not what he expected. 
“I was to … report for duty at notre dame on July 5, my orders said,” he wrote. “Father steiner wrote that the navy was sending thousands of officer candidates to notre dame for training, and notre dame was in desperate need of faculty. That sank my hopes for a carrier in the pacific. 
“little did I know that a month or so later the war in the pacific would end and I would become chaplain for all the returning veterans at notre dame. It was as if the lord were saying to me, ‘your planning is terrible. leave it up to me.’” 
seventy one years later, weeks away from his 96th birthday, hesburgh’s dream came true when rear admiral mark Tidd, then-chief of chaplains for the united states navy, came to campus to designate hesburgh honorary naval chaplain in a special ceremony held april 17, 2013, in the carey auditorium of the library. 
when he awarded hesburgh that day, Tidd said he could think of no one who better ex­emplified the navy chaplain motto “vocati ad servitium.” 
“The latin words on the naval chaplain corps seal are trans­lated ‘called to serve,’” Tidd said at the ceremony. “In my mind, there is no one more deserving to be named an honorary naval chaplain than someone who has answered the call to serve our nation, the call to serve the world and the call to serve god. 
“Fr. hesburgh, I am humbled to be able to declare: you are an honorary navy chaplain.” 
at the ceremony, hesburgh said he would “continue to serve our navy and country in every way possible.” 
“I can’t tell you how much I am touched to be honored by my navy brothers,” he said. “notre dame is better because we’ve had the navy here as long as we’ve had roTc. 
“I can feel even closer to our naval roTc students now that I am an officer in the navy. … anchors aweigh.” 
captain earl carter, for-since Fr. hesburgh’s selfless ser­mer commanding officer for vice to the nation provides them the naval roTc, said in 2013 with such a shining example as that the ceremony was meant they look forward to their naval to honor “this selfless leader careers.” who has done so much for so many.” Editor’s note: This article 
“I thought it was a faithful draws on reporting by former tribute to a very, very deserving News Writer Christian Myers, leader,” carter said about the cer-class of 2013. emony. “I’m honored we were able to do the presentation in front Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski of our battalion of midshipmen, at ajakubo1@nd.edu 


Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, center, speaks during his ceremony to become an honorary naval chaplain April 17, 2013. 




‘... and to enjoy the occasional cigar’ 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 

In his 97 years, Fr. Theodore hesburgh oversaw the civil rights commission, the International Federation of catholic universities, several Vatican and united states delegations and the university of notre dame. 
The rest of the world took care of the cigars. 

“Just when I think I’m getting low,” he told The observer in 2013, “someone will come in out of nowhere and say, ‘hey, by the way, I was in central america and I picked up something for you,’ and they come up with a box of cigars.” 
Junior Tommy schneeman said the presi­
dent emeritus was smoking the first time he 
met him. 

“he was over 90, and it was like, alright, in­teresting,” schneeman said. “[he] never had any health problems, which is like a miracle in itself. 
“... he was like, in his gravelly voice, ‘they’ve been trying to get me to quit smoking in here forever, but I told ‘em, if you don’t let me smoke in here, you’re going to have to take my name off the building.’” 
so hesburgh kept smoking cigars — and 
people kept sending them — until his death 
Thursday. 

“he continued, in his final days, to visit with family, friends and fellow holy cross religious and to enjoy the occasional cigar,” university president Fr. John Jenkins said in an email to the notre dame community Thursday night. 
That evening, among the grotto candles lit 
in his memory, someone left a cigar in a candle 
holder for him. 

on Friday, schneeman and juniors brian cimons and andrew glover gathered to light cigars under hesburgh’s statue in front of the library named for him. 
“I always kind of wanted to smoke one with 
him but never got to,” schneeman said. “so this is the best we can do,” glover said. 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 



The obserVer | MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserVer.com 



Fr. Hesburgh fulfilled papal assignments 
“… I let spellman know that 

By HALEIGH EHMSEN 

associate saint mary’s editor if I was going to do this for the Vatican because they had no 
In his years as university one who knew about atom-president, Fr. Theodore ic energy, I expected to be hesburgh served four popes able to vote according to my and offered advice to the own conscience and my own Vatican on matters of atom-knowledge of atomic energy. ic energy, ecumenism and I did not want to get to the catholic education, among conference only to find some other topics. Vatican monsignor whisper­
hesburgh was especially ing in my ear every time a vote close with pope paul VI, but came up. as The new york Times re-“… I rearranged my sched­ported, he challenged the ule. From then on, for the church’s attempts to assert weeks the meetings lasted, I greater control over catholic spent monday through Friday universities in the united at the conference and did states at times and argued for my university work on the a broader view of academic weekends.” freedom in the catholic uni­versity context. Academic Freedom and 
hesburgh received five Catholic universities papal appointments, the hesburgh was able to bal­first as permanent Vatican ance both faithfully serving city representative to the and respectfully challenging International atomic energy the Vatican throughout his agency in Vienna, austria, life and presidency at notre from 1956-1970. dame, especially on matters the modern world” after be-
of academic freedom. ing unanimously approved by International Atomic “notre dame would lose all 40 delegates to the Federation Energy Agency its credibility in the united representing 23 countries. 
cardinal Francis spellman, states, and so would I, if an of-“after nine years of hard archbishop of new york, re-ficial in rome could abrogate work and negotiation, it ceived approval from the our academic freedom with a seemed, at long last, that ev­pope to appoint representa-snap of his fingers,” hesburgh eryone was agreed on what tives with knowledge of atom-wrote in his autobiography. catholic universities were, ic energy to the International In 1963, his peers elect-what we were, what we should atomic energy agency, and ed him president of the be doing, and how we should spellman reached out to International Federation of be doing,” he wrote. hesburgh. catholic universities against 
hesburgh’s involvement his will. The election was Ecumenism with the agency delegations also against the will of a cer-at the request of pope paul made him a crucial bridge be-tain Vatican archbishop, who VI, hesburgh spearheaded tween the united states and hesburgh didn’t name in his the construction of the Tantur the soviet union during the autobiography, but was even-Institute for ecumenical cold war. tually confirmed by paul VI. studies, which opened in 
“The last thing I wanted to hesburgh encouraged for-Jerusalem in 1970. do was pack up and fly to new mer dean of arts and letters hesburgh, paul VI decided, york and argue with russians charlie sheedy to write a should head the Institute, for the next several weeks,” he papal letter on academic because of his leadership wrote in his autobiography. “I freedom in 1965, which he as head of the Federation of The later years one time, george shuster for-told [spellman] that if it was presented to the pope. after catholic universities. despite upon pope paul VI’s death mer assistant to hesburgh very important for me to rep-years of work, it was ap-hesburgh’s lack of experience in 1978, his secretary sent said, ‘The university president resent the Vatican at the con-proved nov. 29, 1972 and with ecumenism, the pope be-hesburgh the pope’s white that you don’t see off campus ference, I would do it. he said published as the papal letter lieved in hesburgh’s abilities. cassock and skullcap to be probably isn’t worth seeing on it was. “The catholic university in “It occurred to me that the displayed in notre dame’s campus,’” blantz said. “you’ve 
pope’s ecumenical institute museum with the episcopal got to be off campus to meet might be just the project and ring paul VI had given him other university presidents sense of purpose that the years before. and politicians and draw from Federation needed to raise it-according to notre dame’s their expertise. so yes, Fr. self from the dead,” hesburgh website, in 1983 Father hesburgh was off campus an wrote. “The pope knew he had hesburgh was appointed awful lot, but did it hurt his given me a difficult, time-by pope John paul II to the presidency? I don’t think so.” consuming task, and he was pontifical council for culture, hesburgh’s papal ap­always very good at express-charged with finding ways in pointments and personal ing his gratitude.” which the saving message of interactions with Vatican of-
The Vatican purchased the the gospel could be preached ficials helped to publicize the Tantur property and leased it effectively in the world’s var-university, blantz said. to notre dame for 50 years at a iegated cultures. “we had Vatican officials dollar a year, heburgh wrote. hesburgh served two oth-coming to campus periodi-The Institute opened in 1970 er appointments from the cally,” he said. “notre dame after seven years of planning. Vatican including un human is an outstanding catholic 
“most important, since rights declaration in Tehran, university, and they might 1970, more than 2,000 Iran in 1968, member of the have come here on their own, protestant, orthodox, holy see’s un delegation. but Ted getting to know them anglican and catholic theo-Fr. Thomas blantz, pro-and being involved with the logians of all ages, both men fessor emeritus of history at Vatican gave notre dame a and women, have lived, stud-notre dame, said hesburgh lot of publicity and I’m sure ied, prayed together at the in-was away from the university it made a good impression on stitute,” he wrote. “The dream often, but when he was on people in the Vatican.” of pope paul VI lives on today campus he could accomplish at Tantur in Jerusalem, work-a lot more than most other News Writer Emily McConville ing to achieve christian unity presidents because he had contributed to this report. at a place were christianity outside expertise, including began.” his work with the Vatican. Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at 
“There was a statement at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 






ndsmcobserVer.com | MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2015 | The obserVer 


Reading to a ‘living legend’ 
would give me a definition. It was 


By ISAAC LORTON 

assistant managing editor great. I loved it.” spesia said she was definitely not The late Fr. Theodore hesburgh cut out for handling hesburgh's ci­enjoyed cigars and reading news-gars, however. papers in the afternoon. “one time, melanie [chapleau], he continued to smoke cigars his secretary, was busy doing every day, but once his eyesight something so he asked me if I began to fade, students would read would light his cigar," spesia said. newspapers to him in his office "I don't think I did the best job of on the 13th floor of the hesburgh it. I was trying to angle myself, I library. couldn't get the lighter to work senior beth spesia was one of and it was just a disaster. so I think these readers. she began work-it was best that I just stuck to my ing her freshman year at the Kroc reading.” Institute for International peace sophomore madeleine paulsen, studies, the founding of which was another one of Fr. hesburgh's inspired by Fr. hesburgh's work. To readers, said that she learned how return the favor, the Institute sent to cut and light cigars from her one student to read to Fr. Ted every time reading to Fr. hesburgh. afternoon. "he usually had a cigar already, “I started working at the Kroc but if it went out, if he wanted a Institute my freshman year in the new one, or on the rare days when fall," spesia said. "I didn’t know he didn't have one originally, I to spend so much time with him." — he just seemed older," spesia incredible," walsh said. "For me, this at the time, but a part of the would get him a new one," paulsen on football weekends, many said. "he just seemed more tired. the kindness and attentiveness job is that office sends one stu-said. "Fr. Ted actually taught me people would stop into Fr. There were some days he wouldn’t Fr. Ted extended to me made me dent every afternoon to read to Fr. how to cut and light his cigars, as hesburgh's office in an attempt to chat as much while we were read-strive to be a better person. It may hesburgh. since the Kroc ... [has] it was something I had never done meet with him, walsh said. ing. he was always really sharp sound corny, but when you meet a really strong tie to Fr. hesburgh, before last summer." "In these moments, I was acutely — he was still having visitors, even Fr. Ted, you kind of feel like you're they send someone every day. as a The literature that the students aware of how lucky I was to be with this semester — so I think hearing meeting the next closest thing to first-semester freshman, I started would read aloud was always the Fr. Ted," she said. "some people the news every day he enjoyed it in god." going once a week to read to him. same: The observer, the new york just wanted to meet him once in a way because it would make him Fr. hesburgh was a world-I knew Fr. hesburgh was a big deal, Times and if he was up for it, Time their life, and I got to see him and think of stories and keep him up to renowned activist and scholar, but after a few times going, I real-magazine, spesia said. talk with him every week. people date on what was going on in the walsh said, but he was first and ized I didn’t really know enough “he always liked to start off with often brought medals or jewelry to world. so when he kind of started foremost a friend. about him, so I remember getting The observer, he would say, ‘we’ve be blessed by Fr. Ted, and I felt in-slowing — I could just tell, and I "I think that's the beauty of Fr. 'god, country, notre dame' in the got to figure out what’s going on credibly privileged to be blessed by think other people could tell too — Ted," walsh said. "despite his lofty library. It was a very meta expe-around here first before we figure him every week." that he just seemed slower." achievements and celeb status, he rience, [reading] ‘god, country, out what’s going on in the world,’" reading often turned into dis-From her the start of her fresh-was always a true friend to all he notre dame’ in the hesburgh spesia said. "I always thought it cussing, reminiscing and other man year in august 2011 to now, met. I can't ever thank him enough library. It was a very notre dame was really cool that he still wanted stories, spesia said. spesia noted a shift in her interac-for his contributions to notre experience.” to hear what professors were given "he’d comment lot on the news," tions with Fr. hesburgh, but she dame, to the study of peace, to the after the news of Fr. hesburgh's awards and what lectures were go-she said. "some days he was chat-also noted that he remained true united states — but most impor­death Thursday night, spesia ing on. so I would usually read the tier than others, but sometimes to his values and opinions, espe-tantly, I can't thank him enough said she "had a moment" in the main stories of The observer and it would be commenting on the cially on education. for being a friend." mcglinn chapel to herself and re-the some of the letters to the editor news, and sometimes it would be “our conversations definitely spesia said she values her time flected on the time she had spent and the editorials. reflecting. something I would read changed throughout the years," with Fr. hesburgh above any other with the holy cross priest. “sometimes when we would to him would jog a memory about spesia said. "This past year he experience at notre dame because “when I heard the news, I was finish the new york Times, we a trip that he took once, and he was slowing down a bit. he always of what she learned from him. she by myself," spesia said. "It was ob-would read Time magazine. The would tell me about it.” would ask me about my major said although she was only read­viously really sad, and I just felt like one thing that I really liked about Fr. hesburgh was especially because I think he would just be ing to him a couple hours every there was a sadness everyone on reading to him was that he really vocal about the Iraq war, the refreshing his memory. he would week, it meant a great deal to her, campus was experiencing. knew what he liked to hear, so if I american government's struggle ask, ‘who are you again, and what’s and she took away a lot from those “I also immediately felt so grate-was reading a story and he had got-with bipartisanship and race your major?’ I would tell him the meetings. ful that I had all of these hours I ten enough out of it, he would say, relations. program of liberal studies, and he “I guess I really just got to ob-had spent with him. It just kind of ‘That’s enough, let’s go to the next “The last four years with a lot would say, ‘That’s the best one we serve how much he cared about hit me hard at first.” one.’ sometimes he would ask me of the news that were about Iraq, have,’ which is really great.” others, about notre dame, about spesia recounted the many what I thought about things. at he would talk about the times spesia hadn't read to hesburgh individual students who had come hours spent with the former first, when I was a freshman, this he had traveled there," spesia since Feb. 10 because of his failing to see him, about the world really," university president. was very intimidating. I was like, said. "anytime there was a story health and the cold weather, she spesia said. "That was the nature “The first time I went, I was re-‘oh my gosh. Fr. hesburgh wants about the conflict between the said. of our discussions, about issues ally nervous," spesia said. "I knew I to know what I think about the democrats and republicans, he “I haven't gone in in the past a going on in the world. he was just was going to read for a very impor-middle east, what am I supposed would get a little worked up about couple of weeks because he hadn't so giving of his heart to the notre tant person. at that time — back to say now?’ but I definitely got it because his whole thing was that gone into the office because it dame community that I think when I started freshman year — I more comfortable talking to him." we need to get through it and work was too cold,” she said. "I think he there’s a reason that he’s so be-would read close to three hours, It was in Fr. Ted's nature to make together. so that would get him was getting a little sick too, and it loved by students even of my gen-which can be kind of tiring. I was people feel comfortable, spesia going. would just be too dangerous to go eration because people still felt this nervous that I wouldn't do a good said. “he would bring up issues re-out in the cold. That was a bum-connection to him that they could job reading, and I was nervous that “everyone who meets him right lated to the work he did in the civil mer, missing a few weeks, because go into visit. I would mispronounce countries away I think would agree with me rights movement with things reading to him every week was al-"he’s a living legend. I always that I should know how to pro-that he puts people at ease like no that are relevant today like the ways the highlight of my week. was really in awe of him — and go­nounce or something.” one else," she said. "he is — was — Ferguson incident. he comment-"It was just a nice routine. I ing into his office, it’s hard not be, although spesia was corrected just a kind, gentle soul that even for ed on that a few times. he was sad would go in there and it wouldn’t there’s pictures up of presidents, many times over her four years a scared freshman, I felt that right about the situation, and he talked matter what other stresses I had awards left and right — but getting reading, she said, hesburgh's cor-away I had an ease in that maybe I about how all the work that had going on in my life, it was just this to know him in such a regular, rou­rections always came from a good wasn't expecting." done for civil rights to give people peaceful sort of relaxing time, tine way, and the time we had to-place and were valuable to her. Junior Kerry walsh, another a voice.” where I would get into this rhythm gether when I would be reading, I “I did get corrected on some of one of Fr. hesburgh's readers, said spesia studied in chile in the of reading and being able to have got to see what a truly great person my pronunciations, but it was a he truly cared about every person spring 2014 semester. upon her conversation. I really enjoyed the he was outside of all of the amaz­good learning experience,” spesia that walked into his office. return to campus this past fall, she part of the week where I got to see ing things he had done and all the said. “There were sometimes that "my absolute favorite part of noticed that Fr. hesburgh was dif-him. even before he passed away, awards he had won, and for that I I thought he would be asleep — I reading to Fr. Ted was always at the ferent. however, she said reading I was like, ‘I hope next week it’s not am truly grateful.” would be an hour and a half in, very end, when he told me to stand seemed to get a positive reaction this cold, so I can go read to him.’” page 10 of the new york Times — in front of him to be blessed," she from Fr. Ted, and it appeared to be walsh said Fr. hesburgh's legacy Associate News Editor Kayla when he would awake out of no-said. "he would ask god to watch helpful to him. will be the kindness that he ex-Mullen contributed to this report. where and correct me. he would over me, and told me that I would “so I would just say — from the tended towards others. say this is the correct way to pro-be in his prayers. I constantly left fall of my junior year until when I "The feeling of meeting of Contact Isaac Lorton at  nounce it, it means this and he his office in awe of how lucky I was came back the fall of my senior year befriending Fr. Ted is truly ilorton@nd.edu 



The obserVer | MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserVer.com 


Tributes spring up across campus 
Observer Staff Report 
since the death of Fr. Theodore hesburgh on Thursday night, the notre dame community has hon­ored him with various tributes around campus, spontaneous and planned. we have col­lected some of those moments here. 
Feb. 27 
1:07 a.m. — The observer tweeted out the news Fr. Theodore hesburgh died at the age of 97, confirmed by a university spokesperson. 
Throughout the night — notre dame students, faculty and community members gathered at the grotto to re­member Fr. Ted. candles spell­ing out “Ted” were arranged on one of the racks, and some people sang the alma mater. 
sunrise — The notre dame grounds crew began putting up hesburgh banners on light poles across campus. 
11:00 a.m. — notre dame president Fr. John Jenkins held a press conference to reflect on Fr. hesburgh’s influence on the university and to provide de­tails about the schedule for the upcoming days. 
“next to Fr. sorin, no one had a greater impact on this university,” Jenkins said. “notre dame lost a piece of its heart last night. but Fr. Ted lives on.” 
3:00 p.m. — a bouquet of flowers sits in the snow at the feet of the Fr. hesburgh statue in front of the “word of life” mural on the south face of hesburgh library. 
3:28 p.m.  — The notre dame softball team announced through its Twitter account that players would wear black ribbons in their hair during games against no. 20 missouri and georgetown “in honor of the late Father Theodore.” 
5:27 p.m. —  senior associate athletics director John heisler sent out an email to the notre dame football media list reading, 
“beginning today, notre dame athletic teams will wear ‘Fr. Ted’ patches or stickers on some combination of their uni­forms, warm-ups or helmets. moments of silence will be ob­served prior to home events in each of notre dame’s 26 var­sity sports. In the near future, there will be commemorative signage created for each notre dame home athletic venue — to be featured either on the field or court itself or displayed elsewhere at the facility.” 
7:00
 p.m. — Fr. Ted was hon­ored by the hockey team before its game against no. 9 boston college at compton Family Ice arena with a moment of silence and a video tribute, in addition to “Fr. Ted” stickers on the Irish helmets. 

“I had no idea when I first started here what kind of man we had with us here on cam­pus,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. 

7:00 
p.m. — The 85th annual bengal bouts Tournament re­membered Fr. hesburgh with a moment of silence and a 10-bell salute while his picture was put up on the video boards. 


9:45 p.m. — notre dame symphony orchestra played the notre dame alma mater in honor of Fr. Ted following its concert Friday night. 
“notre dame lost her great­est son,” orchestra director daniel stowe said. 
Feb. 28 
all day — The american flag in the middle of south Quad flew at half staff. 
1 p.m. — The no. 2 notre dame men’s lacrosse team ob­served a moment of silence in honor of Fr. hesburgh before its game against dartmouth in loftus sports center. The team also wore “Fr. Ted” stickers on its helmets. 
“If you look at the history of notre dame, Knute rockne made notre dame famous, and Fr. Ted took that and made notre dame a great universi­ty,” Irish coach Kevin corrigan said. 
March 1 
9:33 a.m. — The notre dame women’s lacrosse team unveiled the patches it will wear to honor Fr. hesburgh in its sunday afternoon game against duke. 
10 a.m. — university president emeritus Fr. edward “monk” malloy celebrates mass at the basilica of the sacred heart and reflects on Fr. hesburgh’s legacy in the hom­ily. The liturgical choir led a rendition of the alma mater in hesburgh’s honor at the end of the mass. 
11 p.m. — a rosary was held at the grotto in remembrance of Fr. hesburgh. 


paId adVerTIsemenT ndsmcobserVer.com | MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2015 | The obserVer 








Jenkins addresses media, outlines memorial plans 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news editor 
Friday morning, with the news of university president emeritus Fr. Theodore hesburgh’s death just reach­ing many notre dame stu­dents, university president Fr. John Jenkins reflected on his time with the priest, who was 97.
 “I extended my heartfelt condolences to the hesburgh family, to my brothers in the congregation of holy cross, to the university of notre dame family and to all those the notre dame campus. 
“he was one of the na­tion’s most influential fig­ures in higher education, the catholic church and national and international affairs,” Jenkins said. “serving four popes and nine presidents, Fr. hesburgh was a moral force in virtually all major social issues of his day, in­cluding civil rights, peaceful uses of atomic energy, cam­pus unrests, third-world de­velopment and immigration reform. 
“whatever else we may say about Fr. Ted, he was a priest 

“When I became president, he became really a mentor, an advisor, a confidant in so many ways, and I had many conversations with him. I remember one of the things he said that’s always stayed with me is ‘Stay close to the students.’ ... He was loved by and he loved our students. So I took that advice ... and I 
appreciated that.” 
Fr. John Jenkins president University of Notre Dame 
whose lives were touched and enriched by Fr. hesburgh’s remarkable life and minis­try,” Jenkins said. 
Jenkins said hesburgh, the longest-serving president of the university of notre dame, died at holy cross house late Thursday night. In an email to the resident assistants of dillon hall, rector Fr. paul doyle said hesburgh cele­brated mass earlier that day, as was his daily custom. 
“Fr. Ted had long prayed that god would allow him to say mass on his last day on earth,” doyle wrote. “Fr. hesburgh did just that at 
11:30 a.m. Thursday among his brothers in holy cross.” 
On Hesburgh’s legacy 
Jenkins said hesburgh’s in­fluence extended well beyond and a man of faith who had a confident hope in god’s love and the promise of eternal life. we believe he is now with the god he served so faith­fully and in the arms of notre dame, our lady, whom he was so devoted to. 
“notre dame lost a piece of its heart last night, but Fr. Ted lives on at notre dame and among the millions of lives he touched around the world.” 
On his relationship with Hesburgh 
Jenkins said his last inter­action with hesburgh was last sunday, when they en­joyed a casual conversation and smoked cigars together. 
“he seemed in good spir­its. he’s always been so en­couraging about my work as president,” Jenkins said. “… 
he had become a great friend of my mother and he asked about my mother; we talked about mom a lot. 
“and so it was just a usual conversation and he — he was as jovial and excited about life as ever in that conversation.” 
Jenkins reflected on the de­velopment of his relationship with hesburgh, starting from his time as a student, when hesburgh was president, to now. 
“you know, I was a stu­dent in the 1970s when Fr. hesburgh was president, and those were the days when he was very much involved in the national scene,” he said. “he had been very prominent in civil rights and segrega­tion, obviously in the confer­ences in the ‘60s over the war, in the catholic church. 
“… I did not know him when I was an undergradu­ate — I mean, personally — but he was an admired figure for me and an inspiration for me in so many ways,” Jenkins said. “when I entered the congregation of holy cross, I entered studies and I got to know him better. 
“… [he] was still kind of a revered figure for me, but always encouraging, and he was a model for me as a priest, as a religious, as an ac­ademic, and I always looked up to him.” 
Jenkins emphasized the impact hesburgh had on the early years of his presidency and the best advice he re­ceived from his predecessor. 
“when I became president, he became really a mentor, an advisor, a confidant in so many ways, and I had many conversations with him,” he said. “I remember one of the things he said that’s always stayed with me is ‘stay close to the students.’ … he was loved by and he loved our stu­dents. so I took that advice … and I appreciated that.” 
Jenkins spoke on hesburgh’s influence during the difficult moments of his presidency, highlighting hesburgh’s rela­tionship with his mother. 
“In challenging times, he was always there. he was always encouraging. I men­tioned my mother — in 2009, we invited president obama and there was a great deal of controversy about that, as you may recall,” Jenkins said. “he heard that, you know, and it was a difficult time — but without asking me, talk­ing to me, he called my mom, just to say … this would turn out well. They became best friends from that day and that’s … Fr. Ted. he cared about people.” 
On the week before Hesburgh’s death 
Jenkins said hesburgh’s death, though not expected, came after a period of de­teriorating health for the priest. 

“Fr. hesburgh … lost his sight to macular degenera­tion,” Jenkins said. “he was slowing down but he had good days and bad days. 
“I think he was going to [his office in the hesburgh library] until, I believe, last week. he celebrated mass daily; he had a cigar daily. he was very engaged. 
“The past week, he seemed to slow down a bit. he wasn’t going to the office. we knew when he wasn’t going to the office that that was a sign. 
“he was actually, even yes­terday I’m told — I didn’t see him yesterday — but I’m told he was engaged, talk­ing to people, seemed okay but in the evening seemed to struggle to breathe and passed away a little bit before midnight.” 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 


Courtesy of University archives 

Fr. Hesburgh signs a construction beam as construction begins for the Hesburgh Library in the early 1960s. Hesburgh planned the construction of more than 40 buildings during his record-breaking 35-year tenure as University president. 

The obserVer | MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserVer.com 
FATHER THEODORE M. 




HESBURGH TIMELINE 
1917 - 2015 






1917 
May 25, 1917 

BORN THEODORE “TED” HESBURGH 
Theodore martin hesburgh was born in syracuse, new york, to Theodore bernard hesburgh and anne marie hesburgh. 
1934 
September 1934 to May 1937 


NOTRE DAME 
he attended the university of notre dame and holy cross seminary to become a priest. 

1937 
November 1937 to June 1940 


GREGORIAN UNIVERSITY 
hesburgh was sent to rome to attend gregorian univer­sity.  with the impending second world war, he left rome after the american consul there  ordered u.s. citizens to leave Italy. 
1940 
June 10, 1940 

HOMECOMING 
he arrived back in the u.s. and began attending holy cross college in washington, d.c., to complete his theol­ogy studies. 
1943 
June 24, 1943 


SACRED HEART CHURCH 
hesburgh was ordained a priest along with 15 other seminarians in notre dame’s sacred heart church (now the basilica of the sacred heart). 

“MY DOOR IS ALWAYS OPEN, NO MATTER HOW DIFFICULT A PROBLEM THAT PERSON HAS THAT KNOCKS ON THAT DOOR, I WILL DO MY BEST TO SOLVE IT. I WOULD HOPE THAT THE STUDENTS CAN TALK TO ME ABOUT THEIR DREAMS. THEY’RE VERY IMPORTANT, THEIR DREAMS.” -FR. THEODORE HESBURGH 
ERIN RICE | The Observer 


The obserVer | MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserVer.com 
“I’D JUST LIKE TO SAY THAT IF YOU HAD TO PICK ONE PLACE IN THE WHOLE WORLD IN WHICH TO LIVE AND WORK AND TO REALIZE YOUR DREAMS, I CAN’T THINK OF A BETTER PLACE THAN THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.” - FR. THEODORE HESBURGH 






1943 
August 1943 to May 1945 


BACK IN THE CAPITAL 
after his ordination, he returned to washington, 
d.c. to work on his doctor­ate in sacred theology at the catholic university of america. he was awarded a doctorate of sacred Theol­ogy and returned to notre dame to teach as a theology professor. 
1945 
1945 to 1948 


VETVILLE CHAPLAIN 
hesburgh became the chap­lain for wwII veterans and their families at the univer­sity of notre dame. 

1945 
August 1945 to May 1948 


TEACHING 
he served as an assistant professor in the department of religion at notre dame. 
1948 
1948 to 1949 

DEPARTMENT CHAIR 
hesburgh served as the chairman of the department of religion at notre dame. 
1949 
1949 to 1952 


EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT 
he was appointed to the position of  notre dame executive vice president by then-president Fr. cavana­ugh. 


The obserVer | MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserVer.com 
“I JUST LOOK OUT THE [13TH FLOOR LIBRARY] WINDOW, AND I SEE THE LADY. I’M ABOUT THE SAME HEIGHT [UP HERE] AS SHE IS ON THE DOME, AND MY PRAYER IS ALWAYS VERY SIMPLE: ‘LADY, IT’S YOUR PLACE. AND IF WE HAVE A FEW PROBLEMS AT THE MOMENT, I KNOW YOU’LL HELP US OUT. AND STAY WITH US AND HELP US, PERIOD.’ AND IT WORKS.” - FR. THEODORE HESBURGH 


1952 
June 27, 1952 


PRESIDENT 
The 35-year-old hesburgh was named the 15th presi­dent of the university of notre dame, a position he would hold for 35 years. 

1957 
September 9, 1957 to November 16, 1972 


COMMISSION ON CIVIL RIGHTS 
he was appointed to presi­dent dwight eisenhower’s commission on civil rights. hesburgh would serve as the chairman in his final three years on the commission. 


1964 
July 21, 1964 


CHICAGO RALLY 
hesburgh walked and sang arm-in-arm with dr. martin luther King Jr., at soldier Field in chicago to protest the killing of three young civil rights workers in mississippi. 

1964 
September 14, 1964 

MEDAL OF FREEDOM 
president lyndon b. John­son awarded hesburgh the medal of Freedom for his work in civil rights. It is the highest honor that can be bestowed upon a civilian by a u.s. president. 
1967 
January 1967 


BOARD OF TRUSTEES 
under the leadership of hesburgh, the congregation of holy cross hands over control of notre dame to a predominantly lay board of trustees. 


The obserVer | MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserVer.com 






2013 
June 24, 2013 
2000 
70TH ANNIVERSARY 
July 13, 2000
1987 

OF ORDINATION CONGRESSIONAL 
June 1, 1987 hesburgh was honored at a 
1972 
GOLD MEDAL Jubilee mass in honor of his 70th anniversary as a priest. 
RETIREMENT 

August 7, 1972 
president bill clinton awarded hesburgh the con-after 35 years of serving 

CO-EDUCATION gressional gold medal for 
as the university of notre 
his lifetime of achievements. 
dame’s president, hesburgh 
The congressional gold 

hesburgh announced that retired. medal is the highest civilian 
notre dame would become a award bestowed by the u.s. 
co-ed institution and begin to congress. 
admit women. 
2015 
FEBRUARY 26, 2015 
DEATH 
hesburgh prayed for decades that he would be able to say mass on 

“IT IS EASIER TO EXEMPLIFY VALUES THAN TEACH THEM.” 
the day he died. and Thursday, Father hesburgh said mass at holy cross house. Father doyle said men present at the mass commented on how “happy and peaceful” hesburgh looked.
- FR. THEODORE HESBURGH 
ERIN RICE | The Observer 


INSIDE COLUMN 
 ‘BUILT US UP’ 

Ann Marie Jakubowski 
senior news writer 
Fr. hesburgh, in your 97 years you trans­formed notre dame, the united states and the world. you had the most purposeful and inspiring life I can imagine, and your presence will be deeply missed. 
I wish there had been a way to watch the news of your death travel with a bird’s eye view, slowly at first and then lighting up our entire campus in a single night and echoing across the nation and the world all weekend. I suppose you have exactly that perspec­tive on us now, looking down and watching the impromptu tributes and memorials and plans materialize on campus and the heart­felt reflections and anecdotes pouring out nationwide. 
These past 72 hours have felt like both a sprint and a marathon in our newsroom, and every moment has been dedicated to honor­ing you as best we can. The more reflections I read and photos I flip through, the more I real­ize how utterly irreplaceable you are. you are an infinitely deep source of inspiration for our community. 
The more I learn about your legacy, the more certain I feel that for the next century and beyond, notre dame will keep you al­ways in our collective mind, draw guidance from the precedent you set and turn to you as a source of both motivation and reassurance. 
This weekend, I’ve read your quote dozens of times about wanting to be “nothing more, but nothing less” than a priest. we’ve tried to make that the guiding theme of our coverage this weekend, but I’m only beginning to wrap my mind around just how powerful a state­ment that is. 
To say you were a great religious leader, but “nothing more” would be completely inaccu­rate, looking at the extraordinary list of your global accomplishments. but to say you were “so much more” than just a priest because your impact was felt beyond the catholic church would completely fail to convey the centrality of your priestly vocation to your life’s work. 
you devoted your life to unceasingly build­ing up the good in our world and building up the catholic church. you spent your life build­ing up notre dame as an institution capable of, in turn, building up its own students in spirit, mind and body. 
you represented what is best and truest in notre dame by fulfilling your priestly voca­tion to represent christ to the world, whether you were acting on behalf of the university or the united states or the Vatican. 
your legacy is inextricably tied to your identity as a priest; you unceasingly built the university and the world into a better place. nothing more, and nothing less. 
we have much to celebrate this week. as much as we mourn your death, we now have the chance to gather as a community and re­visit the tangible fingerprints you left on the story of notre dame, the united states and the world. we will thank you over and over again, in as many different ways as we can think of, for unceasingly building us a better world. 
Jakubowski served as The Observer’s 2014-2015 Editor-in-Chief. Her term ended officially Saturday.  
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

THANK YOU, FATHER TED 

EDITORIAL 

Thank you, Fr. Ted. 
by glancing at a timeline of university president emeritus Fr. Theodore hesburgh’s life, one can tell he lived it to the fullest. he collaborated with popes. he worked alongside u.s. presidents. he broke the sound barrier, received prestigious awards and served on committees of national and international importance. 
we would like to thank him most, however, not for these endeavors, but for his commitment on a most personal and engaging level to the university of notre dame and its students. 
when The observer was founded in 1966, Fr. Ted was university president. over the years, he took the time to give interviews to the paper, provide feedback on its coverage and participate in valuable campus dialogues. he assured The observer of its editorial independence from the university administration, and in recent years, he had students read the paper to him in the morning. we thank him for lending such a thoughtful ear to campus voices in this, and so many other ways. popes, presidents and notre dame stu­dents alike listened to Fr. Ted because he listened to them so well. 
The outpouring of letters we have received from former students wanting to share precious moments spent with Fr. Ted has also illustrated his sincere love for the university. 
he lived a life highlighted by greatness and also marked with genuine dedication to small but dear moments, often including notre dame students. It is a marvel how he found time for it all. while he pro­vided leadership and advice to prominent national organizations, like the civil rights commission, he simultaneously guided notre dame and helped the university grow into one of the nation’s premier catholic institutions and a recognizable entity around the world. 
his high-profile work on a national level, day-to-day duties as university president and busy retirement didn’t prevent him from welcoming students into his office for a chat when he worked late, pausing for a moment to bless an alumna’s baby or meeting groups of students in his library office to tell stories and offer advice. 
In doing so, he set a beautiful example for what it means to strive to be a “force for good” at notre dame. 
Fr. Ted stood for equality, inclusion and all those who might otherwise be forgotten. he stood for notre dame, establishing himself as the face of the school and an inspirational model for generations of students, many of whom he made a point of personally getting to know. many of the exciting aspects of the university we report on today — athletics, the work done by wom­en on campus and distinguished professors — origi­nated with Fr. Ted and his commitment to notre dame and its students. 
one of our goals as a newspaper staff in serving notre dame and saint mary’s is to connect mem­bers of the community with one another, something Fr. Ted did throughout his life with his vision for the university and its values. he shaped notre dame through his powerful leadership abilities, represented by the changes he helped implement, and also through the generous person he was, evidenced by the loving tributes he received during his life and now after his death. 
we are most sincerely grateful Fr. Ted made so much time for The observer and for all notre dame students. 
Thank you, Fr. Ted. rest in peace. 



In ways great and small, Fr. Hesburgh has left an indelible mark on the Notre Dame community, the country and the world. Though he will certainly live on in history for his enormous contributions to important causes such as the Civil Rights movement and Notre Dame’s transition to coeducation, Hesburgh’s legacy echoes deeply through the hearts of those he touched. 
To preserve the personal impact Hesburgh had on so many, The Observer has gathered letters on Hesburgh’s life and legacy from various members of the community. 
MCCORMICK: ‘FR. TED WILLINGLY EMBRACED THE UNCERTAINTY OF THE MOMENT’ 
In truth, I don’t know Fr. hesburgh very well. have I listened to some of his incredible sto­ries, marveled at the number of years he served as president of notre dame, pondered how he kept track of the 150 honorary degrees he received or gushed with pride every time I see him standing arm and arm with dr. King? absolutely. 
For those of us who did not have semi-regular interactions with him, attend one of his masses or recall a personal anecdote, how are we to situate these days? Intentionally. look, I understand that these are really busy days. mid-terms, group projects, papers, travel plans and the need for sleep are all presenting themselves as much more pressing matters. 
here’s the deal: significant history happens when people are present in the moment. each of us have it within ourselves to refuse to allow the malaise of life or the stress we encounter to prevent us from seeing the beauty of an unexpected opportunity. all too often we move through life with this feeling that when times get better, less stressful or more ideal, then 
paId adVerTIsemenT 


we’ll start working toward the things that matter. until then it’s time to batten down the hatches and just get by. but the truth of the matter is that the holy trifecta of things becom­ing better, less stressful and more ideal rarely lines up. 
what are we to do? here’s my strong recommendation: slow down this week and learn from a man who repeatedly refused to accept the malaise and stress of life as normative, but instead sought to share the joy of faith and humanity with those most in need. 
let me offer an example. In 1963, dr. martin luther King Jr. was jailed for his nonviolent resistance in birmingham, alabama. during his time in jail, dr. King wrote a letter titled “letter from a birmingham Jail,” in which he outlined the struggle up to that point and his reasons for continuing to defy the law. here’s just a paragraph from dr. King’s im­pactful letter: 
“I have heard numerous religious leaders of the south call upon their worshipers to comply with a desegregation deci­sion because it is the law, but I have longed to hear white ministers say, follow this decree because integration is mor­ally right, and the negro is your brother. In the midst of blatant injustices inflicted upon the negro, I have watched white churches stand on the sidelines and merely mouth pious irrelevancies and sanctimonious trivialities. In the midst of a mighty struggle to rid our nation of racial and eco­nomic injustice, I have heard so many ministers say, ‘Those are social issues which the gospel has nothing to do with,’ and I have watched so many churches commit themselves to a completely otherworldly religion which made a strange distinction between bodies and souls, the sacred and the secular.” 
It was in april 1964, with the struggle for civil rights still raging on, that the now famous picture of dr. King and Fr. hesburgh was taken at a rally at chicago’s soldier Field. There were no doubt other things Fr. Ted could have been do­ing that day. Further, his very presence at such a rally would have brought forth risks to both his own reputation and quite possibly that of the university he represented. but it did not prevent him from taking action. Fr. Ted willingly embraced the uncertainty of the moment because he knew it mattered. he knew it mattered for him as a priest to represent the love of god for all people, and he knew it mattered to demon­strate his solidarity with the african-american community. 
Today, we are faced with any number of challenges that must be thought through, prayed about and faithfully acted upon. In the death of Fr. Theodore hesburgh, we have an example of how living in response to the world’s need and re­fusing to accept injustice, inequality and daily malaise does make a difference. 
as a member of the congregation of holy cross, I am proud of my brother. as a member of the notre dame family, I am grateful that we have the opportunity to honor this faithful priest. 
Fr. Pete McCormick 
director of campus ministry 


SPITTLER: ‘FR. TED GAVE US OPPORTUNITY’ 
The three hours I spent with Fr. Ted were easily the most worth­while three hours of my notre dame career. It was august before my junior year had begun. I was back on campus early and look­ing for something to do before my classes began. on several occasions the previous year I had tried and failed to make an appointment with Fr. hesburgh’s secretary to read to him. before the masses descended on the library, I figured being back on campus early was the best op­portunity to spend time with the living legend. 
after being denied a slot on the calendar of the most Interesting man alive two days in a row, on the third I finally received the time with Fr. Ted I had been hoping for. The following day, a saturday, I hurried to hesburgh library to read to the man without whom I would not be attending my dream school. 

scurrying into his office, I told his secretary my name. she responded by telling me she would be leaving after I went in with Fr. Ted, and he didn’t have another appointment until later that day so I should just wait until his next engagement to leave. nervous, I followed her into the office where the man himself sat smoking a cigar. I introduced myself and he handed me the paper to get reading. 
Two hours and two cigars later, I was hoarse. we had made it through the wall street Journal, The 
DUFFY: ‘WE WERE BLESSED BY HIS 
PRESENCE’ 
In the few short days since Father hesburgh’s passing, I’ve been struck by the overwhelm­ing stories. not the stories of his work on civil rights or immigration. not the stories of his meetings with world leaders. and not the stories of the brilliance and foresight that made him a transformative figure in catholic education. 
Those impressive feats are inspiring and well-documented, but I’ve been most moved by the humble stories of how deeply he touched so many notre dame alumni, students, par­ents and friends. The stories of a kind word after the death of a loved one. of the loving advice given to an expectant mother. of tak­ing time out of his famously busy schedule to play in a friendly poker game. of welcoming anyone to one of his daily masses. of opening his door at any hour of the night for a student brave enough to knock and come inside for a friendly conversation and a blessing. 
he was available to everyone, and nearly everyone who has been a member of this community over the past 80 years has at least one of these stories. we were blessed by his presence. we loved to catch a glimpse of him on campus.  we savored our chances to strike up a conversation with him, even if just for a moment.  and we loved to hear others’ stories about how he impacted them. 

This week, we celebrate Father hesburgh’s legacy as a university president, an influen­tial advocate for peace and justice and an adviser to popes and presidents. but we also celebrate the legacy he leaves behind on this campus and with all of us around the world who are proud to call ourselves members of the notre dame family. For us, Father Ted was a friend, a teacher, a mentor, a colleague and most importantly, a priest. 
Dolly Duffy 

executive director notre dame alumni association 
TUTHILL: ‘WHAT A TRULY AMAZING AMERICAN LIFE’ 
I’m reflecting on Fr. Ted’s 97 years with awe, not sadness. what a truly amazing american life. For me, one of the greatest gifts of Fr. Ted’s life was coeducation. notre dame has had such a tremendous impact on my life and the lives of so many women. my notre dame experience not only enriched me intellectually, it strengthened my faith and commitment to service. my connec­tions through the notre dame family con­tinue to bring countless and unexpected gifts. my time as editor-in-chief of The observer helped drive a lifelong passion for journalism. Fr. Ted made that all possible. 
most of all, he allowed me to share this unique and often hard-to-describe experi­ence with my dad, bruce Tuthill, class of 1964. over the years, we have bonded over football victories and heartbreaks. we have lit countless candles together at the grotto and shared beers and pizzas at rocco’s. and now we mourn together that you are gone but celebrate all the ways you have strengthened our lady’s university and made our country better through your commitment to civil rights. 

my favorite personal memory was in 2006. I came to campus with my three-month-old daughter cecilia and saw Fr. Ted at a football game. he said a blessing over my baby girl and then asked mary to bless her mother as well. Three months later, I was diagnosed with breast can­cer. I’ve always believed Fr. Ted’s bless­ing worked and gave me strength to face a challenging year of treatment. It’s now eight years later, and I am healthy and ex­pecting another baby girl. Thank you, Fr. Ted, for blessing my life in so many ways. 
Kelley Tuthill 

class of 1992 news reporter, wcVb-TV (boston) advisory board member, John w. gallivan program in Journalism, ethics and democracy 
observer and a chapter of a biogra­phy. Fr. hesburgh sensed that my voice was getting tired of reading, so he stopped me by saying, “That’s enough now. what about you? Tell me about yourself.” so, I explained that I was a double major in theol­ogy and peace studies. he imme­diately responded, “oh, so you’re one of my girls.” my eyes and heart filled to the brim at the knowledge that the most important man at the university valued my studies. 
without Fr. Theodore hesburgh, notre dame would not be the in­credible catholic institution it is today. I would not have a peace studies institute at which to study. I would not be a part of one of the most outstanding theology departments in the world. In fact, without him, I would never have been able to attend the university of notre dame. 
upon hearing of his passing Thursday, my heart immediately broke. I was overwhelmed with grief and sadness, and it has yet to evaporate. I will never forget the time I spent with Fr. hesburgh. I will never forget the amazing things he did for this university. I will never forget his awe-inspiring contributions to this country and to the world. all I can say now is thank you, Fr. Ted. 
Sara Spittler 
senior off-campus 

Fr. Hesburgh speaks to members of Zahm House in 2012. 
paId adVerTIsemenT 




OBAMA: ‘[HE] INSPIRED GENERATIONS’ 
michelle and I were saddened to learn of the passing of Father Ted hesburgh. during his lifetime of service to his coun­try, his church and his beloved university of notre dame, Father hesburgh inspired generations of young men and women to lead with the courage of their convic­tions.  his deep and abiding faith in a lov­ing god, and in the power of our shared humanity, led him to join the first-ever united states civil rights commission, and join hands with dr. King to sing “we shall overcome.”  his belief that what unites us is greater than what divides us made him a champion of academic free­dom and open debate. 
when I delivered the commencement address at notre dame in 2009, I was honored to thank Father hesburgh for his contributions to our country and our world. Father hesburgh often spoke of his beloved university as both a lighthouse and a crossroads – the lighthouse stand­ing apart, shining with the wisdom of the catholic tradition, and the crossroads joining the differences of culture, 

religion and conviction with friendship, 
civility and love. The same can be said 
of the man generations of students knew 
simply as “Father Ted.”  our thoughts and prayers are with his fam­ily, his friends and the notre dame commu­nity that loved him so dearly. 
“HIS BELIEF THAT WHAT UNITES US IS 
GREATER THAN WHAT DIVIDES US MADE 
HIM A CHAMPION OF ACADEMIC 
FREEDOM AND OPEN DEBATE.” 

JENKINS: ‘FATHER TED WAS A MORAL FORCE’ 
To the notre dame Family: class schedule will re­sume on Thursday. Veni sancte spiritus. come, holy Visitation is open spirit. to all, from noon through 
with these daily words of prayer, 6 p.m. Tuesday, rev. Theodore m. hesburgh, c.s.c., resuming at 9 implored the holy spirit to fill p.m. Tuesday the hearts of the faithful and to through 10 a.m. kindle in us the fire of god’s love. wednesday in last night, at the age of 97 and after the basilica of 71 years of priestly ministry in the the sacred heart. congregation of holy cross, Father a funeral Ted has gone home to the lord. I ex­tend my heartfelt condolences to the hesburgh family, to my brothers and sisters in holy cross, to the university of notre dame family, and to all whose lives were touched and enriched by Father Ted’s re­markable life and ministry. we welcome stu­dents, faculty, staff and the pub­lic to campus on Tuesday, march 3, and wednesday, march 4, to cel­ebrate Father Ted’s life. classes after 12:20 p.m. on wednesday are can­celed. The regular mass, with reserved seating, will be held at 2 p.m. wednesday in the basilica. all are welcome to join the procession after mass to holy cross community cemetery. doors will open at 6 p.m. wednesday for a tick­eted memorial commemoration at the purcell pavilion at 7:30 p.m. 

Father Ted served as the 15th presi­dent of the university of notre dame from 1952 until his retirement in 1987. he was one of the nation’s most influ­ential figures in higher education, the catholic church and national and in­ternational affairs. while serving four 
popes and accepting 16 presidential appointments, Father Ted was a moral force in virtually all major 
social issues of his day, includ­ing civil rights, peaceful uses of atomic energy, campus unrest, 
treatment of Vietnam draft evaders, third-world develop­ment and immigration reform. next to notre dame’s found­
er, Father edward sorin, c.s.c., no one has had a greater im­pact on the university than 
Father Ted. with his appoint­
ments to the faculty, his creation of great centers and institutes for scholarship and research, his commit­ment to our catholic char­acter, and most of all his leadership, charisma and 
vision, he turned what was a school well-known for football into one of the nation’s great institutions for higher learning. 
of his many accomplishments at the university, Father Ted was particularly proud of notre dame’s admission of women to the undergraduate program beginning under his leadership in 1972. 
For me personally, Father Ted was a brother in holy cross, a mentor, a friend and a model of what a priest should bawe. I think of his example every day I serve as notre dame’s pres­ident. although saddened by his death, I take consolation in knowing he is now in the company of heaven praying for all of us. 
yours in notre dame, 
Fr. John Jenkins 
president 
university of notre dame 
“HE TURNED WHAT WAS A SCHOOL WELL-KNOWN FOR FOOTBALL INTO ONE OF THE NATION’S GREAT INSTITUTIONS FOR HIGHER LEARNING.” 



PHELPS: ‘FR. HESBURGH WAS A LIVING SAINT’ 
To me, Fr. hesburgh was a living saint. what he’s done his whole life of being a priest is no different than what mother Teresa did in her life as a nun. To me, he’s the godfather of the civil rights act. 
what he’s done with personalities and how he can just motivate you to be more than what you think you can be mentally, physically and spiritually by his own example, but always his words of wisdom to individuals gives them the energy to make change in the world that needs change — no matter if it’s poverty, war, health issues, whatever. 
he did that with president José napoleón duarte of el salvador. duarte and his brother came to notre dame in the late 40s and came up by train through central america, mexico, and they ended up in Fr. hesburgh’s dorm because he could speak spanish. 
and then I want to say after duarte graduated, there was a universal notre dame night down in panama city, panama. Fr. hesburgh was there. and he saw duarte and said, “nappy, what are you doing?” he says, “well, I’m a civil engineer back home in my country.” hesburgh looked at him and said, “no, it’s time for you to take your country and lead it out of that dictatorship and com­munism and bring in democracy.” 
so nappy decides to start a revolution. he gets captured. but yet they pull off the revolution, and they bring in de­mocracy. he gets elected president. and duarte told that story in the early 80s at a commencement ceremony where Fr. Ted gave him an honorary doctorate. 
he and I have been close. he was on the bench for eight games in my 20 years as the game priest, would say mass and then with the medals, bless them, give them to the players and then put himself in the position to sit on the bench during games. Fr. Joyce would always say mass for the ucla home games but never sit on the bench. 

so Fr. Ted goes 8-0 and beats no. 1 depaul in double overtime. orlando woolridge made two free throws to seal the deal. I’m walking with him off the court, put my arm around him, and I said, “Fr. Ted, boy a lot of prayers to get through this.” he said, “yeah, digger, I was running out of hail marys.” he always had that sense of humor to do things with you and get you going. 
what I became was from coaching basketball, he got me coaching the streets to implement the civil rights act to a lot of these people who didn’t not only know and understand that there’s a way out of poverty. 
we’ve stayed close all those years, and he’s been good to me. I’ve survived two cancers — prostate cancer and bladder cancer. and when I went to get a bless­ing before my bladder cancer surgery, he gave me a blessing and looked at me right in the eyes and said, “have the courage,” which I wrote down on that date, and I have it in my wallet. That was april 23, 2013 — 3:10 p.m. I went and saw him and got a blessing. 
I went to mass Tuesday, wednesday, Thursday this week. I saw him Thursday, and I said to him, “you’re the guy that put the civil rights act, and you’re the one that got me coaching the streets.” and he said, “I want you to do some­thing for me.” and I said, “what?” he said, “Keep coaching the streets.” I said, “I want you to do something for me.” he looked at me, and I said, “I want you to do what you told me when I went in for my prostate cancer — have the courage.” 
I was still praying for him to live, get through this and go another six months maybe. 
I guess I’d say I’m a disciple of hesburgh. he believed in this place. he made it co-ed. That was one of his goals. 
It’s a sad time because he touched so many people in so many different ways. and I was just fortunate to be one of those people. when I say I’m a disciple of hesburgh because I just believe in what he did spiritually and what he did in his own life and how he did with outreach and go after certain issues — no matter if it was poverty or the civil rights act. 
It was sad yesterday. There’s a bunch of us in his inner circle, we’d go to parisi’s six or seven times a year so he could have his alfredo sauce because he and pope paul VI used to go to alfredo’s restaurant where it originated in rome, about four or five blocks from the Vatican. and we’d have a night together, and that’s where I could get him to talk about issues or events or his life. we just bonded and just stayed close. what he wanted done from civil rights, I went out from coaching basketball to coach­ing the streets. 

what he has been in my life, especially spiritually, and that’s why I just say, “hey what mother Teresa was as a nun, he was as a saint.” she was a living saint, and so was he. 
so hopefully someday rome recog­nizes that and the Vatican makes him a saint. 
Digger Phelps 
former coach notre dame men’s basketball 

HAWKINS: ‘THE MAN WAS FAR AHEAD OF HIS TIME’ 
In 1955, I accepted a four-year bas­ketball scholarship to notre dame. Fr. Theodore m. hesburgh was then in his fourth year as president of the university. I chose notre dame from the numerous scholarship offers I had because of the tremendous sense of belonging I felt when I first set foot on campus. The majesty of it all was overwhelming. It didn’t matter one bit that our nation was beset with racial conflict and that segregation was ba­sically still the law of the land, nor was I overly concerned at becoming one of 10 blacks in the entire university. I had attended an early integrated parker high school in chicago and served as a student racial ambassador there. Fr. Ted confirmed my decision by making my day on the morning of freshman check-in at cavanaugh hall, where he greeted my family with open arms and told my mother that he expected great things from me as a student, an athlete and a developing notre dame man. I was inspired be­yond belief, but the inspiration didn’t stop there. Fr. hesburgh announced to the world that anywhere notre dame’s minority students weren’t wel­come, neither was notre dame. The man was far ahead of his time. as has been expressed in the vernacular, he “talked the talk and walked the walk,” he was a champion of civil rights. he marched with dr. martin luther King, Jr. he was a national leader on the human rights commission and was a major contributor to our country’s first civil rights legislation, all while guiding the growth, development and fortunes of notre dame. I have trav­eled the world and have interacted with some pretty important people, but Fr. hesburgh remains the most productive and inspirational person I’ve ever known. 

my favorite photograph is not of me slamming home a high-flying dunk, but of Fr. hesburgh presenting to me my bachelor’s degree in 1959. Through the years, I have frequently visited the campus and always made a point of getting together with Fr. Ted. we have always enjoyed a strong relationship. my last visit was with my family on Jan. 16 of this year, the day before my induction into the notre dame ring of honor. Fr. Ted regaled us with stories of the past and individually blessed us all. 
my all-time favorite memory of huddling with Father was three years ago when I presented to him the free-verse narrative I wrote about him in my book, “life’s reflections, poetry for the people.” It is entitled, “The house of hesburgh.” I read it to him as he quietly listened. The narrative is reprinted below: 
“The house of hesburgh” 
a salute to Father Theodore m. hesburgh 
president emeritus, university of notre dame 
“welcome to the house of hesburgh 
— it has no walls and yet it is a fortress of humanity, intelligence and dignity. It is a bastion of religiosity, with win­dows open to the world. It is a place that you can go to restore your faith, talk and listen to your soul, chart your life’s course and fortify yourself for the road ahead. 
This home is filled with the love of god and our sacred mother. It is a storehouse of forthright conviction, understanding and sage advice, honed by years of education, fervent prayer and effective living. 
It is well decorated with memen­tos of an eclectic past. It features an endless array of both national and international awards and photographs documenting a life of historic accom­plishments. It is a place where the echoes of the past miraculously blend with the hope of the future. 
This wonderful homestead is land­scaped with the beautiful flowers of spring, the green leaves of summer, the radiant change of colors of the fall and tinged with the blustery winds and swirling snows of winter. It is in every respect a place that stirs your being and inspires the spirit within you. 
as you leave please go in peace, and upon departing, know that you have experienced the wonders of god through one of the most powerful and enlightened vicars of our time. rest assured you will never forget that you have visited the house of hesburgh.” 
when I finished, Father shed a tear and said to me, “darn you Tom hawkins, I don’t cry,” to which I re­plied, “why should I sit here and cry alone?” what a great man. 
Tommy Hawkins 
class of 1959 former nba and Irish player basketball ring of honor inductee 



HESSE: LESSONS ON LIFE, LOVE, MARRIAGE 
It is with a heavy heart, that during the week my wife diane and I are celebrating our silver wedding anniversary, we learn of the passing of a great man who played a part in our union and helped us stay together these 25 years. 
on Feb. 23, 1990, we walked into Fr. hesburgh’s office atop the hesburgh library to have our “dutch uncle Talk” (as Fr. Ted called it) with the man who was to marry us the following day.  Fr. hesburgh was holding press interviews when we arrived, as el salvador’s former president, napoleon duarte, a notre dame grad­uate and Fr. Ted’s close friend, had passed away earlier that day. when finished, Fr. Ted came into a room we waited in and told us he was going to fly to el salvador to perform the funeral after he married us at the log chapel. 
he then gave us advice about keeping a marriage together.  his most memorable story was about the need for open communica­tion.  he told the story of a couple he knew well.  The wife had suf­fered for decades with her husband’s foul-smelling breath.  she never told her husband to brush his teeth or use mouthwash in fear of offending him or hurting his feelings.  he urged us not to keep things inside, to communicate openly.  Father Ted (we know you can hear us), thank you for some great advice. 
as fate would have it, a snow storm hit south bend the next day (surprise).  It was 10 minutes before the ceremony was supposed to begin, and Fr. hesburgh still had not arrived at the log chapel. Then, Fr. ned Joyce walked in and handed us a hand-written note. In it, Fr. Ted apologized that due to the storm’s worsening nature, the national guard needed to drive him to Indianapolis right away, before our ceremony was to begin to board air Force Two with then-Vice president dan Quayle for el salvador.  he said he had arranged for his friend Fr. Joyce to marry us. (we may be the only couple with two marriage certificates, one signed by Fr. Joyce and one signed by Fr. hesburgh). 
when I was a student in the 1970s, we revered Fr. Ted.  he was such an impressive public speaker and national figure, and he gave us all pride to be domers.  he made many positive changes at the university during his tenure, perhaps the best being admitting women, which I got to experience first-hand as women came to notre dame for the first time my sophomore year. 
we saw Fr. hesburgh a number of times over the years, usually on council weekends.  after listening to him speak, I always felt I could become a better man. 
I received an email today from a 
friend, derrick mayes, who 
summed up Fr. hesburgh well 
with the quote, “If he wasn’t 
a priest, he would have 
been president, and if 
he wasn’t american, 
he would have been 
pope.” 
we will miss this 
wonderful, humble 
man. 
Dan Hesse 
class of 1975 Former ceo, sprint corporation 


JORDAN: ‘A TRULY ICONIC GLOBAL FIGURE’ 
I am a 1969 notre dame graduate and currently serve on the university’s board of Trustees. Two of my children are notre dame graduates; Jw, class of 2001, and Jennifer, class of 2003. my family and I are so saddened to learn of Fr. Ted’s passing. he was, and shall always remain, a truly iconic global figure, not only in higher education but across all social, political, economic and spiritual worlds. admired by all, his inspirational leadership will con­tinue to guide us. 
Fr. Ted taught me that notre dame is not just a leading center for catholic spiritual­ity, a great academic enterprise or a lead­ing member of the intercollegiate sports community, notre dame is much more: it is a “way of life.” It is a way of life that has deeply embedded notre dame as a very important mem­ber of the american cul­tural landscape. under Fr. Ted’s leadership, our way of life occupies a very special home in higher education that no other institution can claim; it is the one defining feature that coalesces all of us who are dedicated to our lady’s university. 
as a true entrepreneurial educator, Fr. Ted has laid a foundation for future genera­tions of leaders. a true champion of civil rights, social justice and the elimination of poverty, his entire persona will provide an umbrella which will not only allow our great university to survive, but will enable it to continue to thrive in his image. 
Fr. Ted’s life touched and influenced a multitude of people, of all races, colors and creeds, in so many special ways. his wisdom particularly influenced me in a very unique experience I had with Fr. Ted a number of years ago after a trustee meeting when we flew together to boston and had two hours of uninterrupted conversation. It was during a particularly difficult time in my life, and while dedicated to my children, I expressed to Fr. Ted that I wasn’t entirely sure how to 
let them know how much I loved them. he gave the advise of a lifetime when he said, “The greatest gift a father can give to his children is to love their mother.” This was a very special moment for me from a very special person. 
when asked by a non-notre dame friend to briefly define Fr. hesburgh’s persona and life, I responded by say­ing, “priest, educator, advisor and 
counselor, global Inspirational leader, author, Intellectual, proud, selfless, humble, 
gentle, Firm in his beliefs but Fair, an entrepreneur, a modern day renaissance 
man, respected, revered and adored by all, a human being with the common Touch, my hero in life.” 
Fr. Ted, you will be re­membered forever and dearly missed. 
Jay Jordan 
class of 1969 member notre dame board of Trustees 

PHILBIN: ‘EVERYBODY KNEW HIM AND LOVED HIM’ 
naturally, I am stunned and saddened by the passing of Fr. hesburgh. we all knew it was com­ing one day, but when it did it was like a tremendous loss for all of us and our school. 
The first time I saw Fr. hesburgh was in the 1950s. I was working in the small ice cream parlor behind the cigarette stand, and I could hear a crowd forming behind our building.  I opened the window to see what was going on and there he was, shovel in hand, getting ready for the next building. I swear to you he looked just like [the actor] Tyrone power. good-looking, smiling and ready to bring notre dame to its next level. 
I remember him handing me my diploma in the stadium with a big smile and then I was off to the service. years later, working in hollywood, I was asked to host a notre dame meeting. It was Fr. hesburgh and Frank leahy. what a night. what a team. 
I’ve been to washington d.c. when he was there surrounded by senators and congressmen. everybody knew him and loved him. at notre dame games, I always made it a point to see him up in one of the booths, to shake his hand and thank him for everything. once I couldn’t resist, I gave him a kiss on the cheek. he was just that kind of man to all of us, and we will never forget him and neither will notre dame. 
Regis Philbin 
class of 1953 media personality 





RHOADES: ‘FR. TED SOUGHT THE GRACE OF GOD’ 
I first met Fr. hesburgh five years ago at my installation as bishop of Fort wayne-south bend. he warmly welcomed me and told me how welcome I should always feel at notre dame. In fact, every time I later met with him at notre dame, Fr. Ted showed me that same warmth. my conversations with him have been a wonderful blessing in my life these past five years. his strong conviction that there be a close relationship between the university of notre dame and me as local bishop impressed me greatly. he saw this as an essential part of notre dame’s catholic identity. 
his spiritual wisdom has inspired me in many ways. what touched me the most was Fr. Ted’s deep faith and convictions about his priestly identity. numerous times he shared with me the importance of daily mass throughout his priestly life. clearly he discovered his priestly identity in the eucharist. he shared with me the many places throughout the world where he celebrated holy mass. It was clear to me that this is what immersed him in the mystery of christ and stirred him to give so much of himself in service of the church, notre dame, our nation and humanity. I was also struck by his intimate relationship with the blessed Virgin mary, whom he experienced as his spiritual mother and the spiritual mother of notre dame. I think she gave him the strength to respond so generously and wholeheart­edly to the demands of his priestly ministry, including his presidency of notre dame, which he always saw as a work of priestly ministry and not merely administrative leadership. 
Fr. Ted gave me a copy of his autobiography a few years ago.  I had some questions after reading it that Fr. Ted was so gracious to an­swer. he helped me to understand some of the issues and challenges he faced. I was especially grateful to discuss with Fr. Ted the catholic identity and mission of notre dame. 
I remember with special gratitude a visit of my family and me with Fr. Ted in his office at the library. he was most gracious, and we spent a very enjoyable hour together. my family was amazed to learn about some of Fr. Ted’s experiences. he did not boast of his accomplish­ments, but clearly he was excited about the opportunities he had to be involved in so many important events. he gave wonderful advice to my nephew and nieces about the call to service of the poor and living the faith through love. his words were impactful. I imagine he gave similar advice to students at notre dame through the years. I saw how he naturally related to young people and inspired them in their commitment to the gospel. 
Throughout his life, Fr. Ted sought the face of god. he encountered christ each day in the eucharist under the forms of bread and wine. I pray that he will now meet him face to face and celebrate at the heav­enly banquet feast that the eucharist foreshadows. and may mary, our mother, welcome her faithful son to the communion of saints in heaven. 
Bishop Kevin C. Rhoades 
bishop of the diocese of Fort wayne-south bend 

DOLAN: HESBURGH ‘FIRST AND FOREMOST, FROM CROWN TO TOES,’ A PRIEST 
sure, his sterling leadership in higher educa­tion comes to mind as we praise god for Fr. hesburgh’s life; how could we ever forget his prophetic voice in civil rights, international justice and peace, nuclear disarmament and the dignity of the unborn and the immigrant? Then again, we recall his writing and speaking, his voice in the public square and of course, we will never forget his epic service at our lady’s university. 
The litany of his accomplishments and our reasons to thank god for him are lengthy, but what towers above them all would be his priesthood. 
Ted hesburgh was first and foremost, from crown to toes, a catholic priest. 
no one can read his autobiography without sensing his joy in being a priest: daily mass, the divine office, visits to Jesus in the blessed sacrament, love of the mother of Jesus, his loyalty to the successors of st. peter, his bond to his spouse, the church — we all called him “Father,” the title he cherished most. In his mind, the medal of Freedom and 150 honorary degrees he was awarded shrink in comparison to his vocation. 
In the hours after his passing, we all remi­nisced about the impact he had on us. what most of us recall most would be his priestly touch: the masses offered in basilicas, al­leys and huts all over the world, the sermons preached, the babies christened, the fallen-away coaxed back into the arms of holy mother church, the infirm anointed, confes­sions heard, couples united in marriage, the friends buried. 
when all is said and done, he was — even more than educator, reformer, political con­sultant, civil rights leader, international relief worker, and ecumenical friend — all this and more because he was above it all, a faithful priest. 
requiescat in pace. 
Timothy Michael Cardinal Dolan 
archbishop of the archdiocese of new york 
paId adVerTIsemenT ndsmcobserVer.com | MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2015 | The obserVer 





MCGOWAN: HIS HEART WAS ‘FULL OF THE HOLY SPIRIT’ 
I’m a double domer (ba in 1966/ma in 1968) and was an admissions officer from 1966-1968.(I later received a doctorate from columbia university). I got to know Fr. Ted in particular over my last four years at notre dame, especially during my stint in admissions, when my office was a couple floors below his in the administration building. 
I was immensely impressed by his person and leadership, and he inspired my career in catholic higher education, not only in the beginning but throughout, including to this very day. 
I had the good fortune to keep in touch with him as our paths crossed throughout my life, especially over my career as a dean and vice president at Fordham university, and for the past 25 years as president of bellarmine university. 
Three interactions are particularly memorable for me. The day I received a seven-figure gift to complete funding for bellarmine‘s new library and was headed to an ncaa presidents council meeting, I met Fr. hesburgh in the us air terminal at washington dc’s national airport and had coffee together. he congratulated me and said that the new library would transform bellarmine as notre dame’s library trans­formed notre dame, and it has. 

a second special interaction was when my wife maureen and I were living in new york city and had fraternal twin sons. he came to our apartment for a visit and to give his blessing to the two newborns, matt and Joe. 
and the third was just a few years ago on the occasion of bellarmine‘s 60th an­niversary and my 20th as president, when we had an exchange of correspondence that was especially poignant and beautiful. 
my favorite prayer is the one Fr. Jenkins mentioned in his recent email as a fa­vorite of  Fr. Ted’s, “come, holy spirit….” Fr. hesburgh’s heart was full of the holy spirit, and it did enkindle in him the fire of god’s divine love, a love that many of us throughout the world have been blessed to experience over the years of our friendship with this distinguished and very special man, priest and leader. may he now rest in peace and in our memories, forever. 
Thank you, Fr. Ted hesburgh, for your inspirational, formative presence in my life and in the lives of all who knew you. notre dame and the world is a better place be­cause of you. 
Dr. Joseph J. McGowan 

class of 1966, m.a. 1968 president, bellarmine university 
RYAN: ‘THE NAVY IS BETTER OFF BECAUSE WE HAD FR. TED’ 
with Fr. Ted’s passing, our university, the navy and the nation have lost a great leader, mentor and friend. It is no secret of Fr. Ted’s love of the u.s. navy or the navy sailors’ love for him. I was privileged to be able to visit him numerous times over the last few years, and he would always talk about how important the relationship was between notre dame and the u.s. navy. he talked how the relationship started on the football field and was strengthened back in the 1940s when they established a full-time training presence on campus with the V-7, V-12 and naval roTc programs. but since then, the relation­ship matured into the one forged today based on the shared institutional values of integrity, honor, courage and commitment. I am not eloquent enough to capture in words his importance or on the national stage serv­ing as the chairman of the usna Visitors board, saying mass or hearing confessions while underway on a sub­marine or aircraft carrier or hosting the nroTc mid­shipmen for a “fireside” chat up in his office on the 13th floor, he always inspired us to be better sailors and ambassadors for our nation. The navy valued Fr. Ted so much that in 2013, we com­missioned him as an honor­ary navy chaplain. during the ceremony, Fr. Ted said, “I can’t tell you how much I am touched by my navy brothers. … notre dame is better because we have had the navy [and naval roTc] here on campus.” The navy is better off because we had Fr. Ted. I will miss him dearly. 
Capt. Mike Ryan 
class of 1985 

KENNEY: UNDER FR. TED, NOTRE DAME ‘FOSTERED AND GREW’ 
dear Father Ted, 

It is with gratitude and deep devotion that I write to reflect on your legacy at notre dame and your lasting gift to the women of our lady.  Forty-plus years later, we women of nd are the proud legacy of your having the vision and the courage many years ago to break the mold and allow us to attend this great university. The notre dame community fostered and grew under your good guidance, and the men and women that now serve as our lady’s ambassadors are positive proof that co-education is the best environment for men and women to learn how to live and work together.  we women of notre dame are blessed and thankful for having been given this opportunity to grow and serve in the spir­it of our lady. 
you have set an example for all of us, the men and women of notre dame, of the impor­tance of service to god and others above self. your legacy will live on in all of us who were made to feel as equals on this campus, whether in the classroom or the athletic arena.  you inspired us to strive toward excellence, to challenge the status quo, to break barriers in our careers and our lives and to look to our lady for guidance and support. 
your dedication to god, to country and to notre dame (to paraphrase from a “best-sell­er”), has given us the moral compass to live by.  whether in our professional lives, or more importantly in raising our families and within our communities, the lessons you helped impart while we were at notre dame have shaped who we are.  we are the women of notre dame, and we are a powerful, spiritual and responsible group who cherish life and seek justice and truth. 
we thank you for your influence in our lives, which will live on in eternity. your work on this earth is now complete; may you rest in peace in the comfort of your lord. 
we are notre dame. 
yours in our lady, 
Tara C. Kenney 

class of 1982 first female student body vice president Kellogg Institute for International affairs, advisory board managing director, deutsche bank boston 
impact on the u.s. navy or commanding officer her sailors. whether it was naval roTcnotre dame 




“In the best of worlds, I would hope that we would not have to have specific rules about human sexuality any more than we should have to have rules about other major precepts of Christian conduct.” 
“For the great majority of students on this campus one might assume a Christian standard of conduct that represents the kind of standard ... that might be expected of the type of students who come to Notre Dame.” 
Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh 
published Friday, Jan. 31, 1975 

Editor’s Note: This letter written by Fr. Hesburgh appeared in The Observer on Monday, Nov. 25, 1968, after a student protest on campus prevented interviews by recruiting representatives from Dow Chemical and the CIA from taking place. 
dear notre dame Faculty members and students: 
you are all aware of the protest this past week against recruiters from dow and cIa. There has been considerable static from outside the university and a good deal from inside, as you can imagine or have heard. 
my own reaction is this: students have a right to protest, according to the ground rules established in the student manual by a Faculty-student­adminstration committee last spring. all of these rules were observed until wednesday morning when a number of students did everything possible to create a confrontation. In doing this, I believe they used their freedom of action to obstruct the freedom of oth­ers and impose their own personal convictions on others. 
In a free society like the university, this is completely out of order, whatever the sincerity of their mo­tives, which I concede. at this junc­ture, it seems to me that the whole community must take a stand, the student life council, the Faculty senate and the academic council. most universities have already stated clearly that while peaceful protest is legitimate, protest that infringes on the rights of other members of the community or obstructs the normal functions of the university is cause for separating from the community those who indulge in such action. The first duty of the whole university community, as an open society, is to preserve its own right to be and do that which it needs to be and do to be itself. Freedom cuts both ways. 
If the university community will declare itself, I shall take whatever action is appropriate if this situation is repeated. 
may I add that no one in this com­munity should be forced to do some­thing inhumane, such as walking on others, to exercise normal freedom of action. a small minority may exercise leadership, but there is a great differ­ence between leadership and tyranny. last wednesday’s performance was clearly tyranny. I sincerely invite this community to declare itself, through its proper representatives. If not, there is no saying who will be tyran­nized next, for whatever reason, or on whatever pretext, with or with­out sincere interest in what makes a university a very special kind of place 
— if it can establish its standards and maintain them. If you establish them clearly, I will maintain them with your support. 
These are my reactions and my call to action — as clearly and as frankly as I can state them. I could have acted unilaterally, and many have accused me of weakness or lack of leadership in not doing so. however, I much pre­fer to appeal to you, for this is your community and your university and it cannot be what it should be without your support. 
sincerely yours, in notre dame, (rev.) Theodore m. hesburgh, c.s.c. president 
p.s. one last reaction: while I be­lieve that the students involved in last week’s episode should be cited as violating established standards, and put on disciplinary probation, I would be inclined to use the occa­sion for greater profit in the future by not suspending them, but declaring our intentions clearly for any future recurrence. young people are under great strains today, and we should all be satisfied by a recognition by the total community, from here on, that so is the university. If it goes under, so do all of us and our life commitment. 




Editor’s note: This letter written by Fr. Hesburgh appeared in The Observer on Thursday, Nov. 12, 1970, in response to an editorial appearing in “Our Sunday Visitor,” a weekly Catholic newspaper. The letter was proceeded in the print edition by an editor’s note, which has been included to help pro­vide context to the letter: 
The following are excerpts from University President Theodore M. Hesburgh’s letter to Monsignor James 
P. Conroy’s editorial in last week’s “Our Sunday Visitor.” The editorial attacked various aspects of Notre Dame life, including the presence of Ti-Grace Atkinson on campus, The Observer’s coverage of Miss Atkinson and the abortion ad that ran in the paper the week after the controversial Atkinson article. In general, Hesburgh reaf­firmed the University’s open speaker policy, supported the non-censorship of The Observer and requested the pa­tience of the Catholic community in the educational process. 
dear monsignor conroy: 
In the interest of fairness and un­derstanding, I must respond to your recent editorial on notre dame. I trust you will share this with your readers. 
our students have a right to invite here speakers on a wide variety of subjects. so do our faculty members and so does the administration. The fact of an invitation in no way sug­gests that we agree with whatever might be said, because in every case we have no idea what will be said. It so happens that in a long list of speakers, representing every pos­sible range of opinion on the widest range of subjects, one of our student academic commissioners invited a woman to speak on women’s lib­eration, a subject of great interest to young people today. I am not trying to justify his choice of a speaker. I never heard of her before she was invited. but, women’s liberation is certainly a suitable topic for discussion in the university today. 

It so happened that this was a sorry choice. The reasons behind the invi­tation were valid enough; the book written by this woman was not par­ticularly provocative, but she did take this occasion to proclaim such outra­geous things that she completely lost her audience and, by her vulgar and blasphemous language, convinced them that she is not a good repre­sentative of what is good in women’s liberation. 
our student press, which is not sub­ject to prior censorship, decided to play the story straight and to repeat some of the more outrageous things she said in an effort to portray just how bad a performance it was. 
again, one can argue about the journalistic judgment involved here. There are those who find no fault in this treatment. personally, I do, and so do many others here, and it is my opinion, after a discussion with the editors, that if they had it to do all over again, the story would have been treated differently. 
It is easy to stand on the sidelines and carp. It is difficult to try to create in our age a great catholic univer­sity with all the risks it necessarily involves. 
I think such a university is be­ing created at notre dame in a way unique in all the world. If I did not believe this, I would not be here. I am willing to be here because I do be­lieve in notre dame, in its past, pres­ent, and future, in its dedication to our lady as well. I am willing to take my stand with our christian young people who do, indeed, make enor­mous mistakes from time to time, but who make them in good faith and in the interest of trying to make christianity relevant to an age of un­believers, chauvinistic catholics, and some times insensitive elders. 
The greatest challenge to the church today is not to discipline and browbeat the young — it is to win young people for the Kingdom of god and his Justice and his salvation and to do all this in freedom, by manifest­ing to them his love. 
Very sincerely yours, (rev.) Theodore m. hesburgh, c.s.c. president 
“Student life at this school is reckoned to be a powerful and essential part of the educational experience.” 
“Life in the halls should infuse the life of study with a grace and a humanity and a maturity that make the scholarly life something unique here.” 
“We all interlock here. We all have personal and communal responsibilities.” 
“Notre Dame is and can be different from many universities today, can be a community of concern and growth, can better the present quality of academic and social life.” 
“Change is easy enough. ... Special character takes years to achieve.” 
Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh   
published Friday, Oct. 29, 1971 



Photos courtesy of University Archives 


The obserVer | MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserVer.com 
CARTER 
For 40 years, I have been blessed by the friendship and 
inspirational counsel of Fr. Theodore hesburgh. 
Fr. hesburgh has devoted his long and consequential life 
to serving humanity, always taking courageous stands on 
the serious moral issues that have faced our nation and the 
world — from his fight for civil and human rights and against 
nuclear proliferation and global hunger to his ongoing efforts 
to seek peace among people in conflict. 
as has every u.s. president since eisenhower, I had the 
privilege of his advice and personal service when I was 
in office. his invitation for me to deliver notre dame’s 
commencement address early in my presidency provided 
a forum to inspire a new generation with the concept of 
human rights. his vocal concern regarding the treatment 
of immigrants led me to name him chair of the select 
committee on Immigration and refugee policy, and his 
recommendations served as the basis of crucial congressional 
reform legislation. 
A ‘DEVOTED,’ ‘COURAGEOUS’ FRIEND 
Following up on a humanitarian fact-finding mission to 
the former Vietnam war zone with my wife rosalynn, Fr. 
hesburgh helped spearhead relief efforts that averted mass 
starvation among cambodian refugees. because of his 
progressive views about the role of science and technology 
in world development, I appointed him u.s. ambassador 
and chairman of the u.s. delegation to the u.n. conference 
on science and Technology for development, the first time 
a priest had served in such a diplomatic role. he succeeded 
beyond expectations in all these tasks. 
Fr. hesburgh has made the world a better place — for those 
of us whose lives he has touched directly and as an inspiration 
for generations to come. 
Jimmy Carter 
39th president of the united states 
BEAUCHAMP 

‘I WILL ALWAYS BE GRATEFUL’ 
I had the privilege of working as the executive assistant 
to Fr. hesburgh before I was appointed executive Vice 
president of the university. It was a privilege to have had the 
opportunity to work so closely with this very special man. 
of course, he was remarkable in what he accomplished 
and who he knew. he was advisor to popes and presidents, 
and during my time as his executive assistant I travelled 
with him, met incredible people, and saw first-hand how 
he worked and how much he was respected. his pragma­
tism combined with his vast knowledge and active mind 
enabled him to come up with solutions to problems that 
seemed insurmountable. he had a unique ability to bring 
people together to discuss issues and arrive at solutions, 
people who otherwise might not even be talking to each 
other. he was also probably one of the most well-read per­
sons I had ever met. 
but, of all the things about Father hesburgh that are 
important, he was first and foremost a holy cross priest. 


STUDENTS KNEW HE 

MALLOY 
WAS ‘GREATNESS’ 

Fr. Ted hesburgh was my immediate that before every major moment in their predecessor as president of notre dame, lives, before all important decisions, they my fellow holy cross priest and my close should simply pray, “come holy spirit,” personal friend. In recent years, I and they could be confident that god’s had some of my undergraduate will would be done. students read his wonderful memoir Fr. Ted hesburgh has left a mar­“god, country, notre dame.” we velous legacy for all of us who walk then went together to his office in his footsteps. as our leader atop the library and he warmly for 35 years, a role that he took welcomed us and regaled us with on with all of his manifest in-stories spread out across his telligence, courage and amazing life of ministry and strength, may they one service. The students told me day say about us what afterwards that they now knew we proudly say about Fr. what greatness looked like, Ted, greatness combined with a “love Thee notre deep personal faith and a dame.” decades long ethic of service. 
when asked what advice he Fr. Edward A. “Monk” had to pass on to the young-Malloy est members of the notre president emeritus dame family, he told them university of notre dame 
he made that clear in so many ways. It was how he identi­fied himself, and how he lived his life — from the simple room he resided in at corby hall to the worldwide stage on 
which he operated. celebrating daily mass and praying the divine office were givens, no matter where he was. reaching out as a priest to people in need (sometimes 


even in danger to himself) was taken for granted. he was “Fr. Ted” to everybody who knew him, no matter how rich or poor, important or unknown that person might be. he was a wonderful role model for his broth­ers in holy cross. 
I will always be grateful for the years I spent working with Fr. hesburgh, years that helped shape my life as a priest and university administrator. 
Fr. William Beauchamp 
president university of portland 




