The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 61 | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Symposium to examine health care justice 
Justice Education Program uses talks as opportunity to educate students on ethical issues in health care 
By MARTHA REILLY 
news writer 
in an effort to raise awareness about underrepresented societal issues at the college, the Justice education program will host a symposium on health care jus­tice featuring speeches from ad­vocates and practitioners this Thursday at rice commons. 
The Justice education program’s student advisory committee or­ganized this event to inform students about health care dispar­ities in the united states, commit­tee member and junior maranda pennington said. 
pennington said she encour­ages people to attend Thursday’s talks to gain valuable and applica­ble information about a pertinent topic. 
“if more people are aware of the injustices that occur in our society, more can be done to fix them,” pennington said. “health 




App caters to senior citizens 

By SELENA PONIO 
news writer 
The development of a new app at notre dame is catch­ing the attention of a specific group: senior citizens. 
researchers at the university’s interdisciplinary center for network science and applications (icensa) developed eseniorcare, a com­prehensive app that helps se­nior citizens manage, organize and provide feedback on their health care. 
nitesh chawla, director of icensa, said the opportunity for personalized health care and a focus on the mental, phys­ical and the social well-being of senior citizens were sources of inspiration for eseniorcare. 
“our goal was to build a net­work for seniors to be more empowered … to set their own goals and track them and truly achieve a personalized jour­ney on health and wellness,” chawla said. 
chawla said researchers 
see app PAGE 4 


student government hosts refugee dinner 
By JENNA WILSON 
news writer 
in light of the recent refugee crisis, notre dame student government held a din­ner to discuss the issue and provide a forum for several refugees to share their experi­ences Tuesday at the morris inn ballroom. 
according to a student government email, the dinner was intended to “[bring] to­gether refugees, students, fac­ulty and members of the south bend community for a night of conversation … and [focus] particularly on religious per­secution as a means of forced migration. This dialogue helps students build relationships with members of the commu­nity, while learning about a global issue.” 
according to the email, over 135 notre dame students and faculty members attended the dinner, which featured com­mentary from refugees from iraq and south sudan. 
“it’s the perfect time to be having this conversation, with all the political rhetoric and the fear-mongering that we’ve been exposed to since the paris bombing,” barbara szweda, former director of notre dame immigration clinic and legal aid clinic, said. 
szweda, now a refugee law­yer for catholic charities, was the first speaker of the evening. she explained the extensive process refugees must undergo in order to gain entrance to the united states. 
“a refugee is a person who because of well-founded fear of persecution [due to their] race, 
see reFugees PAGE 4 


news PAGE 3 scene PAGE 5 viewpoinT PAGE 7 men’s baskeTball PAGE 12 women’s baskeTball PAGE 12 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                 Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 

News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite Christmas song? 

Connor Hayes 
senior alumni hall 
“all i want for christmas is you.” 
Fatima Montez 
senior howard hall 
“i’ll be home for christmas.” 
Jesus Mendoza 
senior off campus 
“silent night.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Kyle Planck 
junior 
alumni hall 
“all i want for christmas is you (extra Festive remix).” 
Lily Crawford 
senior 
badin hall 
“minut chrétiens (o holy night).” 
Nick Rice 
sophomore 
siegfried hall 
“rudolph the red-nosed reindeer.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

catherine owers Zach klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Jp gschwind ben padanilam megan valley victoria llorens 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
lauren weldon adam ramos 
Photo Viewpoint 

“Mastering Silent Auction Laudato Lunch Shakespeare Festival Violin Performance 
caitlyn Jordan bianca almada 
Leadership” LaFortune Student Geddes Hall DeBartolo Performing Snite Museum of Art Hammes Bookstore Center 12:30 p.m.-1:30 p.m. Arts Center 2 p.m.-3 p.m. 
4:30p.m.-6:30 p.m. 6 p.m.-9 p.m. Discussion about 10 a.m.-6 p.m. Faculty member Tricia 
Corrections 

Bob Anderson Fundraiser for Notre Dame at Paris Auditions for “Pericles” Park and guest Taylor 
The observer regards itself as launches his new book. Hannah’s House. Climate Conference. and “The Tempest.” Morris will perform. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Fall Reading Series Father Ted Talk: Ed Hockey vs. “Anchored in Hope” Créche Pilgrimage 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Geddes Hall Coffee Hums Massachusetts Keenan Hall Eck Visitors Center 
however, recognize that we will make 
House Reckers Compton Ice Arena 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 2:30 p.m.-4 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7:30p.m.-9 p.m. 8:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 7:35 p.m.-9:35 p.m. The Voices of Faith Visit nativity scene 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
MFA students read Lecture on an Notre Dame takes on Gospel Choir Fall exhibits around 
we can correct our error. 

their work. integrated life of faith. the Minutemen. Concert. campus. 

ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2015 | The observer 


university announces new mlk day events 
Observer Staff Report 
in an email to the student body sent nov. 23, university president Fr. John Jenkins announced plans for the commemoration of martin luther king, Jr. day on Jan. 
18. all classes and campus activities from 11:30 a.m. to 
1:30 p.m. will be canceled to allow for student, faculty and staff participation in the events. 
after receiving feed­back from students, faculty and staff, the president’s oversight committee on diversity and inclusion “rec­ommended last spring that we take time as a commu­nity on mlk Jr. day to both celebrate the diversity that currently exists on our cam­pus and to reflect on how notre dame might become even more welcoming and inclusive,” Jenkins said in the email. 
“The committee did so, too, in recognition of the fact that we have an obligation at notre dame to participate in and learn from the ongo­ing national and even global conversation on diversity and inclusion. all students, faculty and staff will be in­vited to participate, making this a special opportunity to gather as a campus commu­nity,” he said. 
The committee is current­ly planning several events for mlk Jr. day, which in­clude a candlelit prayer ser­vice and midnight march from the word of life mu­ral at hesburgh library to the grotto, the email stated. There will be a luncheon and program for 3,000 students, faculty and staff in the Joyce athletic and convocation center and a celebration mass in the basilica of the sacred heart at 5:15 p.m. featuring the voices of Faith gospel choir, Jenkins said. 
“most importantly, i hope you will use this occasion to reflect on the values that are so central to dr. king’s lega­cy and to notre dame’s mis­sion. whether in the context of the courses you are taking, through attendance at cam­pus lectures, or in informal discussions, your participa­tion in our ongoing dialogue about what it means to be the kind of community we strive to be at notre dame and the ways that we, indi­vidually and collectively, can be a force for good in the world, is critical,” he said. “at notre dame, we of­ten speak of community. as president of the university, i have the privilege of ex­periencing the strength and depth of the notre dame community in many set­tings, in our residence halls, at alumni gatherings, in the friendships formed on campus, and in the ways we come together in times of joy and sorrow. our commemo­ration of mlk Jr. day will be an opportunity to reflect on how we can make our com­munity more welcoming and inclusive, and what we can do to make our nation and our world more just and har­monious. i look forward to joining with you for these important events.” 


ND researcher develops drug for diabetic wounds 
she said there is almost no from notre dame’s depart-The research team is able much better inhibitor, and 
By EDDIE DAMSTRA 

news writer knowledge of the causes of ment of chemistry and bio-to analyze the mice wounds now that the team has proven this specific complication, chemistry that has made and gather data, she said, their discoveries yield suc­
many diabetic patients suf-and this limited knowledge significant progress in find-and the mice have already cessful results, she can envi­fer associated complications has led to the inability to ing ways to fix the prevalence led the team to new discov-sion the practical benefits of with their disease, but dr. combat the problem. of chronic wounds in diabet-eries. in an earlier study, the these discoveries. mayland chang, a research “This results is more than ic patients. research team found two en-“if you had an mmp-9 in-professor in the department 70,000 lower limb amputa-The team’s main tools are zymes in the diabetic mice hibitor like nd-336, that of chemistry and biochemis-tions in patients every year diabetic mice, she said. wounds: mmp-8 and mmp-9. in itself can become a drug try, is attempting to mitigate just in the u.s.,” she said. “we inflict wounds to mice, chang said the research that you can apply to heal the complication of chronic “about half of those patients, db/db mice, so they have team hypothesized that wounds,” chang said. wounds. within three years, end up type 2 diabetes, and we go mmp-8 was coming in to re-other options, chang said, 
“diabetes has many com-dying.” with a biopsy punch,” chang pair the wound. would be to apply mmp-8 plications and one of them These statistics drove said. “if you can imagine it, it “we also saw that mmp-9 to the wounds or utilize the is that patients with diabetes chang to look for solutions is like trying to punch a hole up regulated in diabetic ani-combination of both. First get wounds that don’t heal,” to these problems, she said. in paper, you make a wound mal wounds, so we thought the team would have to move chang said. chang leads a research group in the back of the mice.” that mmp-9 was the cause on to human trials, she said, 
for why the wounds did not which will not be happening paid adverTisemenT 
heal,” she said. in the near future. 
The first study also led to “you need first to get in-the team to utilize an mmp-9 vestment money that usually inhibitor, nd-322, in attempt does not come from federal to heal the wounds, chang agencies. it may be like $2 said, but the results did not million to manufacture kilo-overly impress the team. grams of the compound that 
“we would see improve-we can’t do here, and then be ment, but not great improve-able to do the toxicology in a ment, so then we worked on rodent and non-rodent spe­making a more selective in-cies. we would submit that hibitor,” she said. to the Fda and then they 
in their most recent study, would grant us approval published in the proceedings so we can test on humans,” of the national academy of chang said. sciences, the team utilized Finances, not time, are the a new and improved mmp-main obstacle, chang said. 9 inhibitor, nd-336, chang “it is not that it is a long said. while low levels of se-road, it is that you have to go lectivity lessened the earlier and find the money to do it. inhibitor’s healing abilities, if you have the money, you the new inhibitor, nd-336, can get it done in one year. is far more sophisticated, The problem is just getting chang said. the money to do that,” she 
“The nd-322 was a three-said. fold selectivity, this is like a 50-fold selectivity,” she said. Contact Eddie Damstra at  
chang said nd-336 is a edamstra@nd.edu 




Health care 
conTinued From page 1 
care,” matthews said. “it’s a topic that pertains to all citi­zens, regardless of race, gen­der, sexual orientation or background. it’s good to know about, especially as college students, who will need to use this information as we grow older.” 
matthews said students should consider planning for their futures as they absorb this new information. 
“right now, we can hear from primary sources about this im­portant topic,” matthews said. “one day, you’ll have to worry about yourself and your family. people should recognize that it’s not something that you can keep putting off or delaying. a discussion of health care is necessary not only as we grow older but also now, at this age.” 
The symposium will dem­onstrate that connections ex­ist between justice and health, two topics that people may not normally associate, matthews said. 
“when you look at the in­equalities in health, you realize that you want to do something about [it],” matthews said. “you want to make that change. you want to work toward improv­ing those conditions.” 
The symposium contributes to the community aspect of saint mary’s, matthews said, because knowledgeable stu­dents can unite as they work on this issue. 
“students should realize what exactly they are getting themselves into,” matthews said. “health care is often de­bated, and we want students to be informed when they ap­proach this topic.” 
The Justice education program’s student advisory committee centered this year’s symposium around health care because it finds value in informing students of prob­lems they may encounter in real life, matthews said. 
“Through giving people this convenient way to learn more about health, we can lay out the facts and prepare them,” matthews said. “experts are ready to talk, and students should be ready to listen. Things are changing, and we need to be prepared.”Things are changing, and we need to be prepared.” 
Contact Martha Reilly at  mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 
Refugees 
conTinued From page 1 
religion, nationality, mem­bership in a particular social group or political opinion ... is unable or unwilling to avail themselves to the protection of the country and is unable to return,” szweda said. 
szweda called on members of all faith traditions to accept refugees, mentioning the em­phasis both islamic and Judo-christian traditions place on aiding and sheltering those seeking refuge. 
“refugees are among the most vulnerable people in the world. They are fleeing their homes and all that is familiar to them because of war or nat­ural disaster. They come with absolutely nothing, some leave with just the clothes on their back,” szweda said. 
haider, a refugee from iraq who did not wish to share his last name, spoke of the diffi­culty he had when deciding to come to the united states. 
“i did not have any plan to come to the united states un­til 2009, when i lost my wife in a car bombing. at that time, i had two kids — the youngest one was nine months old. at that point, i decided i needed to keep the rest of my fam­ily in a safe place,” he said. “i thought, if i flee out on iraq, who is going to [make the country better]. why am i go­ing to make those american boys take the heavy load of making my country better, while i flee to another coun­try. i decided to stay, until that horrible accident.” 
according to haider, there is a common misconception that refugees are only looking for government handouts. 
“i just want everyone to know that refugees they are just normal people. They have jobs and have families,” he said. “my house [in iraq] was decent, with a big garden. The house we rent now is half the size of my garden. i hear my son talking, saying ‘i remem­ber when we used to be rich,’ and i try to explain to him, it is not important to be rich, it is important to be safe.” 
ngor majak anyieth, a notre dame junior and refugee from south sudan, also spoke. 
“i am not an expert on the topic,” anyieth said. “i am just going to tell you about my ex­perience with the hopes it will help you think through the crisis at hand.” 
according to anyieth, life in a refugee camp is both a strug­gle and a joy. he said there is an overwhelming sense of community in the camp but also challenges during ev­eryday life, including dealing with overcrowding and food scarcities. 
“my experience as a refugee started 10 years ago, when i left my home country and went to a refugee camp in northern kenya, where i would spend the next six years,” he said. “now, every time i [leave notre dame] and go home, i go to uganda, to the refugee camp.” 
madison king, director of communications and event coordinator for student government, concluded the event with a call to action. 
“Take a rose outside as you leave, give that rose to your roommate or someone else that was not able to attend the dinner. Tell them something that you heard here tonight,” king said. “This will help us start the conversation around here on campus, as notre dame students, community members and friends of the human family.” 
Contact Jenna Wilson at  jwilso35@nd.edu 
App 
conTinued From page 1 
wanted to create an app that made a difference in society by catering to a vulnerable group. he said senior citizens were especially vulnerable, as many are unaccustomed to technology, but the devel­opmental process was not al­ways easy. 
“when we first launched the pilot … the seniors did not like it,” chawla said. “when we first launched it they were actually quite frustrated. we were persistent … and we had multiple focus and feedback sessions with the seniors.” 
chawla said collabora­tion with senior citizens was key to developing esenior­care’s appeal to its specific audience. 
“we learned with them on what that entire user experi­ence should be like for them,” chawla said. “now they basi­cally are champions of this application.” 
eseniorcare contains fea­tures such as setting and tracking personal goals, mon­itoring sleep, brain games and more, chawla said. however, its main purpose is to help 



paid adverTisemenT 
communicate that with the health providers and give feedback to the health pro­viders as well,” he said. 
chawla said that as the population ages, demands for technological advances like eseniorcare are necessary to provide mental, medical and social support for senior citizens. 
“in 10 years ... there will be an expectation of this kind of technology,” he said. “i be­lieve that we are ahead and constructive in that space.” 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 
cultivate an enhanced com­munication system between senior citizens and their care­takers by providing interac­tive medical features such as medication scheduling, re­minders and history. 
“The seniors have a sense of empowerment as a result,” he said. “They feel empowered when they go to a physician and they take their tablets with them.” 
chawla said the develop­ment of the app was a two-year process, and what was once a study only requir­ing 16 participants is now a study with 38 participants. 
he said eseniorcare has not only helped the south bend senior citizen population, but the development has also had scholarly benefits. 
“it gives students a trans­lational experience,” he said. “it is an immediate feedback on outcomes [that] actu­ally makes a difference to a person.” 
eseniorcare has created a new support system for se­nior citizens that allows them to create their own personal social network, he said. 
“The individual is able to have more knowledge, more awareness and be able to 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By ADRIAN MARK LORE 
scene writer 

There is something about absurdity and nonsense that has gripped left-leaning electronic musicians as of late. i noticed it first back in 2011, when a ri­diculously melodic squeak was paired with a gratuitously thick bass in hudson mohawke’s cult hit “cbat.” That was only the start: in 2012, the notorious re­lease of “TnghT,” the first and only ep of mohawke’s self-titled project in col­laboration with fellow trap-producer lunice, didn’t just hit the underground electronic scene with a blast of air-horn maximinimalism but jettisoned the scene as a whole to the mainstream (for better or worse). That fact alone would have one expecting a rather impres­sive affair of an album, not — as actu­ally turned out — a dumbfoundingly catchy agglomeration of 8-bit chimes, baby noises and … bubbles? but at least, i freely admit, there was quality there. let’s not forget, on the other hand, the almost idiotic simplicity of baauer’s major worldwide hit (?), the infamous “harlem shake.” 
The music, overall, was a parody of 
By MIKO MALABUTE 
scene editor 

it’s that time of year again, where the temperature is consistently cooler and people do what they can to bundle up and stay warm. however, no amount of down vests and beanies can match the warmth (and accompanying heartwarming!) that the perfectly holiday drink can provide. 
Apple Cider 

anyone who has tailgated in the midwest can tell you, the best way to brave the cold isn’t necessarily with a beverage reserved for the over-21 year olds — it’s the piping hot mug of apple cider. The sweet, rich taste of apple in the hot beverage slowly itself, and it’s not unlikely that it was, to a certain extent, born from the idea that the electronic music industry – laugh­ably mediocre as of late – has been tak­ing itself way too seriously. 
at least, that’s where sophie seems to be coming from on “producT,” a collection of eight singles recorded over the past couple of years, most of which have been previously released in other formats. (and there’s something hid­eously appropriate in this fact alone, in an age that has shirked the album in favor of ephemerally chart-topping sin­gles.) sonically, the best way to describe them is as the soundtrack to sour patch kids learning how to twerk, an ineffably strange attribution that nevertheless shines through the comically saccha­rine vocals, sour synths and smacking, head-banging kicks. 
but perhaps the most meaning­ful label for this music is “antiseptic.” everything about this music is airtight, clean, perfectly produced, engineered and designed like … well, a product. and is not the title itself a point-blank an­nouncement that this music, like most of the other popular electronic music being released these days, is intended 
travels down the throat and cours­es through the veins up and down the body. people instantly feel the warmth from that perfect cup- of apple cider and are liable to break out into christmas carols. 
Eggnog 

one of the most polarizing of the holiday drinks, eggnog (and here we of course are referring to the non­alcoholic version) is one of those drinks that people hear and — if they have never tried it — will instantly shudder and shy away from. but here’s why they shouldn’t: there’s a reason why it’s been around as long as the holiday itself. in fact, speak­ing of mount rushmore, george washington himself was known to partake in the sweet, creamy drink. 
to be nothing more than a product to be consumed and inevitably excreted once the fad has faded? indeed, we find on the cover art for side-project QT single “hey QT” another blatant stab at the advertising industry (and by ex­tension the sales-minded nature of the mainstream music industry), in which a similarly “perfect” doll-like female figure — cue the synthetically high-pitched vocals that poke at our inaccu­rate modern conceptions of femininity 
— holds the eponymous soft drink she seductively attempts to advertise. but the video takes it to a whole other level, as we watch attractive, made-up mod­els don beats headphones while enjoy­ing this apparently revolutionary new soft drink in a “formula testing lab,” as if indeed the whole purpose behind the music video itself were to merely excuse the blatant product placement (sound familiar, miley cyrus?). For the record, they give the drink glowing reviews. 
but you wouldn’t catch any of it at first, because the music, after all, is pretty good. satirical music doesn’t tend to beat around the bush; it’s usually purposefully terrible so as to parody the mediocrity of that which it is mocking. 
Thus, it’s hard to say no when one of our founding fathers gave the drink his seal of approval. 
Hot Chocolate 
if you still can’t bring yourself to the presidential level of washington and down a cup of eggnog, then this drink is the way to go. The fool­proof drink appeals to everyone, and whether you’re seven, 17 or 70 years old, an inviting cup of hot chocolate will always get your heart singing your favorite christmas tunes. Just a word of the wise to keep you more santa than grinch: stay away from simply using chocolate syrup and milk and throwing it in the micro­wave — you deserve better. bring out the pots and melt some of your high-end chocolate, then mix in the milk. 
but therein lies the brilliance of these singles: They are the guy with the ironi­cally wild dancing at the club who — wait a second — actually has some great moves. and as such, the moves sneak into the mainstream repertoire and, before you know it, you’re un-ironically doing them too. but more than being a compilation of trendy but ultimately for­gettable singles, “producT” represents for dance music what vaporwave was to ’80s muzak and what nightcore was to vocaloid pop. it’s catchy, it’s stylish, it’s chic … but take that glittery mask off, and it’s subversive to the core. 
Contact Adrian Mark Lore at asanch11@nd.edu 
“PRODUCT” 
SOPHIE 
Label: Number Tracks: “VYZEE” If you like: Arca, TNGHT, Eprom 

Pumpkin Spice Latte 
i know, i know. people will read this and instantly roll their eyes as the in­famous drink has been known to draw many people’s ire and scorn. but here’s the fact of the matter — people secretly love it, and everyone knows that once those leaves turn a different shade of color and drop to the ground, they’re instantly craving that autumn/winter concoction. call it whatever you want: basic, cliché or even played-out. you can discuss it with everyone else standing in line for the “psl.” word to the wise, in­stead of simply putting milk into it, try the flavored syrups! you still get the caf­feine, less calories and — above all — it is a win-win. it tastes like christmas. 
Contact Miko Malabute at                    mmalabut@nd.eud 


LAUREN WELDON | The Observer 

The observer |  WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
The integrity of chinese factories 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Travel with Fr. Ted 
Caroline Genco 
photographer 
“you work in the library?” 

“wait … you asked them for this job?” 
“are you not just bored all the time?” 
These are the typical questions re­ceived when explaining to other students that you work in the university archives. although i typically never trek to the library to study from my cozy abode in ryan hall, this job makes the journey worthwhile. 
on the first day of september, i went to the sixth floor of hesburgh library and asked if there were any internship posi­tions available for students. Though i had minimal work experience, they likely sensed my overeager affinity for quiet of­fice spaces and hired me on the spot. 
in following my passion for photogra­phy, i began working with the archivist specializing in photographs, ms. hogan. after completing my first projects, ms. hogan removed four wooden cigar boxes from the endless rows of shelves and placed them on my desk. she explained they were left to the archives from Fr. Ted’s office, and while i felt unworthy of the assignment, i could not wait to see what was inside. 
hastily written on top of these boxes beside a “cuesta rey international” seal read, “17 days around the world.” i im­mediately thought of my father and how envious he would be. carefully opening each box, ms. hogan and i found rolls and rolls of film labeled in chronological order of Fr. hesbrugh’s journey. 
on the backs of each photograph, Fr. Ted wrote a caption of the scene often calling people by name or explaining the circumstances for each photograph. i imagine this meticulous practice was a pleasant and meditative process for Fr. hesburgh when returning from such incredible adventures. 
overwhelmed yet excited, i vicariously relived this pilgrimage around the world with Fr. Ted. From beijing to moscow, i sorted through the photographs, realizing the direction of his lens gravitating not toward capturing tourist sites as we typi­cally do today, but rather images illustrat­ing culture, native people and often the poor. my favorite discoveries came from examining which negatives lacked photo­graphs in the roll. since these were often group shots, i imagine they have since been disseminated throughout the world to his numerous travel companions. 
Through this seemingly trivial practice of organizing photographs, i recognized Fr. hesburgh challenging the idea of practicing virtue at a distance. i hope one day to be able to do as he did – pursue an adventure not as a passive observer but as a student of culture and seeking to touch lives of individuals around the world. 
Contact Caroline Genco at  cgenco1@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Yuchen Zou 
guest columnist 

notre dame’s “china policy,” which launches a pilot program to manufacture products in two chinese factories, has caused a campus-wide debate. as an undergraduate who doesn’t have much knowledge of labor laws, i don’t feel more qualified than any other student to comment on the policy itself. but as a chinese national, i want to speak up and share my thoughts. This article reflects my own opinions and doesn’t represent the position taken by any particular student body at notre dame. 
i don’t yet have a firm stance on the china policy. admittedly, laws that deny workers the freedom of association are fundamen­tally contradictory to catholic social teaching (csT). one of the key themes of csT is the dignity of work. workers have the right to form unions that protect their interests. in “rerum novarum,” rights and duties of capital and labor, pope leo Xiii explicitly points out, “The most important of all are workingmen’s unions, for these virtually include all the rest. … it were greatly to be desired that they should become more numerous and more effi­cient.” private societies such as workers’ unions are supported and cannot be prohibited by public authorities. 
according to the website of war on want, a london-based anti-poverty charity, “There are approximately 150 million in­ternal migrant workers in china who, because of their status, do not receive any state benefits or protection. They have to endure poor working conditions such as excessive and forced overtime, denial of social security rights and failure to provide employment contracts, as well as severe health risks.” personally, i have heard stories of chinese sweatshops where workers under high pressure committed suicide. i agree that to support a system that violates workers’ rights is highly problematic. 
however, when i ask people why they are against the china policy, most responses have nothing to do with csT. To be honest, most notre dame students i have talked to said they are against it simply because they are against it. The logic behind their answers, if i have interpreted it right, is: because i have been taught since kindergarten that chinese factories are evil, i don’t like them. because i don’t like them, i’m against the policy before actually knowing the most basic information of the factories notre dame chooses to cooperate with. 
This type of reasoning is not limited to the china policy. it is human nature to judge, making quick and loud conclusions based on preexisting assumptions without diving deeper. i find this extremely troubling. no one i talked to has made a specific argu­ment against the policy or pointed out what is actually wrong with it. is there a loophole in the due diligence process? which part of the decision-making procedure needs improvement? should we have worked with a different consulting agency in making the landscape assessment?  no one i talked to has read the full report attached in the email, and no one even remembers the names of the chinese factories we are working with. They think working with chinese factories is wrong simply because it is wrong. 
verité is the university’s key partner in the policy. according to the worker participation committee (wpc) report and verité’s website, it is a massachusetts-based non-profit with the mission of ensuring “people around the world work under safe, fair and legal conditions.” according to the report, assessment of the factories were conducted by verité, whose representatives visited the se­lected factories and collected online and on-site data that scored factories against 71 specific criteria. These criteria are listed, in english and chinese, on pages 31 to 37 in the report. 
let’s look at the two factories that passed the standards: huai’an yuan Tong headwear (asi) and wintax caps, shenzhen. both, ac­cording to bloomberg, are privately owned businesses nominated by existing notre dame licenses. i am not an expert, but accord­ing to the report, neither verité nor the chinese factories directly represent the chinese government. asi and wintax caps are two businesses, like thousands in the u.s., which meet rigorous stan­dards for integrity in treating workers. should their integrity be disvalued just because they are operating in the chinese market? in an era where people do not judge by race or nationality, why are we still judging businesses that way? 
“as a chinese citizen, my view and opinion of china as a histori­cal entity, a country and a political state have always fluctuated greatly throughout the years; there were times when i am defi­nitely not proud of its decisions or actions. however, i feel that a lot of the phobia/contempt/condescending pity that some people i’ve encountered may harbor are more directed at china’s adminis­tration than its other facets — history, culture, language, arts, sci­ences, technology, philosophy, religion … and more importantly, its people and their unique values shaped by a turbulent yet rich past. i would like to point out that china is so much more than a manifestation of a political or ideological system that one sup­ports or condemns.” This is a post on Facebook by my friend, and i cannot agree more. i think it is key to my understanding of this issue and a lot of other controversies related to china. 
This is only my own viewpoint, which, in many aspects, needs further refinement. however, i don’t think “it’s wrong because it’s wrong” is a better argument than mine. i am still struggling to take a definite position on the china policy and want to de­velop a clearer stance through engaging in more conversations. i genuinely hope that these conversations are those where people draw conclusions not based on preexisting biases, but on rational reasoning and a clear understanding of all the background infor­mation. 
Yuchen Zou is a freshman living in Farley Hall. She can be reached at yzou1@nd.edu The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
praise for saved theology classes 
as the student body was reminded in a nov. 30 email, notre dame is considering making changes to its core education requirements. in the discussion of these changes over the past several months, the most controversial decision on the table has been a change to or reduction in the university’s theol­ogy requirements. while there are certainly valid points to be made on either side, i think an issue that has not received enough attention is what that proposed change would have meant for the state of notre dame’s identity. 
notre dame is a holy cross school and as such, has always strived to exemplify blessed basil moreau’s words: “we shall always place education side by side with instruction; the mind will not be cultivated at the expense of the heart.” To ignore the idea that education of the heart (and by the same token, the soul) is equally important to that of the mind would be, i think, to miss the point of a holy cross education entirely. 
Thus, had notre dame eliminated or reduced the theology requirement as was proposed by some, notre dame would be turning its back on a crucial part of its very foundation. in this consideration, notre dame encountered a crisis of self. 
it’s interesting to note this identity crisis because many col­lege students go through the exact same thing. most arrive on campus with no idea who they are or who they will become. 
These questions, interestingly enough, are examined in the very requirement in question. what theology does is invite students to ask, “who am i?” and “who am i becoming?” in the light of god. students from any and every faith back­ground are able to ask and understand who god is and what that means in terms of who they will be and what they believe. These classes allow students to grow in relationship with god and each other as they navigate their college experience. The theology requirement, at its core, allows students to see a crisis of self as something beautiful and invites them to place their hand in the hand of god as they encounter it. 
as moreau once stated, “education is the art of helping young people to completeness.” The notre dame education is not fully complete without the theology requirement. and without a safe place to encounter the crucial questions of god and self, notre dame students will not be either. Therefore, i applaud the committee with their draft report recommenda­tion of maintaining the theology requirement. 
Rebecca Hammock 
junior mcglinn hall nov. 30 


Presidential candidates as football teams 
Louis Bertolotti 
mr. 2016 

Donald Trump — Clemson University 
seemingly unbeatable. no matter what happens, whether it be his stance that all muslims in the coun­try should be registered or his mocking of a physi­cally disabled reporter, he somehow always seems to slip away and stay on top. no one believed he would be topping the polls for this long, but it seems to be the real deal now. it will be interesting to see how he handles himself once he has to go head-to-head with the big guys. 
Hillary Clinton — University of Alabama 
a clinton’s at the top again? This seems to be the case every time the rankings come out. people are starting to get tired of the clinton brand and are kind of just rooting against it at this point. but, you have to admit she has been pretty impressive. despite a huge setback due to the scandal over her private email server and a close call in the benghazi hearings, she’s rallied a huge amount of support and seems to be the candidate to beat. she really just plays on a higher level sometimes. 
Ben Carson — University of Iowa 
who saw this coming? carson, an amazing neu­roscientist and decent public speaker, had no real record before this year but has seen an astonishing amount of support nonetheless. while his wins have not been too impressive, he’s still in the race when it matters most and has avoided any true losses. he may not have what it takes to go the whole way though. 
Marco Rubio — Oklahoma University 
The young, handsome senator from Florida seems 
poised to go places. Though he had a huge loss early on in his handling of immigration reform in the senate, he has been solid ever since and appears to be the real deal. momentum is certainly going in his direction. 
Ted Cruz — Michigan State University 
similar to rubio, cruz is well-positioned right now but may not make it the whole way. he can clearly play with the big boys and strongly appeals to a big segment of the republican party. let’s see if he can hop rubio. 
Bernie Sanders — University of North Carolina 
although it didn’t seem possible at first, bernie has been on a huge winning streak. as a democratic so­cialist, he’s not the most conventional candidate, but he’s here, and he might just be able to rally enough votes to get into the big game. Though he’s a long shot, you never know with him. 
Chris Christie — Stanford University 
christie’s name is always in contention. as a con­servative governor in a liberal state, he was able to get a lot done. Though he hasn’t always looked like the best candidate, he shines when it matters and is not out of the picture yet. he’s had a few impressive wins and may just be able to pull it off. but don’t hold your breath. 
Jeb Bush — University of Notre Dame 
oh Jeb, how we pain for you. with the support of his family’s strong, nationwide brand, his su­per pac’s huge endowment and his desire to be a middle-of-the-aisle republican who could bring in the hispanic vote, he had an incredible amount of potential. however, a string of injuries ultimately brought him down, despite a valiant effort. although he has almost no shot at making it to the final game, he is still a formidable candidate. 
Carly Fiorina — Naval Academy 
you gotta love carly. as the only female candidate in the gop race, she adds a nice dimension to the republican field and allows them to show how in­clusive their message can be. There was a time when it even seemed she was going somewhere, but after failing to keep her momentum, she has now all but dropped from being a contender. 
George Pataki, Lindsey Graham and Jim Gilmore 
— University of Houston 
yeah, i didn’t really know they were a thing either. 
Joe Biden — Louisiana State University 
when biden was considering entering the race, it seemed like it would be a disaster for opponent hillary clinton. he was able to rally a lot more ex­citement and had a much deeper record than the former First lady. but, it all fell apart, and now he’s not even in the race. and look where hillary is now. 
Martin O’Malley — University of Central Florida 
why does he even bother showing up anymore? it’s clear this is headed nowhere, and it’s somewhat em­barrassing at this point. he hasn’t been able to notch a win this entire year and it doesn’t seem like one is coming anytime soon. 
Not receiving votes — Rand Paul, Mike Huckabee, John Kasich and Rick Santorum 
Louis Bertolotti is a junior in the College of Arts & Letters. He is majoring in poltical science and history and is from the great state of New Jersey. He can be  contacted at lbertolo@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The golden door for refugees 
Ray Ramirez 
The crooked path 

set about shoulder height in the door frames of obser­vant Jewish homes, you will often find small rectangular cases of pewter, brass or even plastic. inside each case is a mezuzah, a piece of parchment on which specific prayers from the Torah are written. These are then rolled into a scroll, wrapped in paper or plastic and placed in the case. as one enters the room, he or she touches the case; the mezuzah is a mitzvah, a promise to honor god and a blessing on the house and those who enter it. 
new york city, in its role as the doorway to the united states, displays a revered symbol of the promise and blessings of liberty. shortly after the union victory in the civil war and the end of slavery in this country, the French law professor and politician Édouard rené de laboulaye proposed raising a monument to american independence in the form of a statue. The French would finance the statue, and the americans were to provide the site and build the pedestal. 
“The statue of liberty enlightening the world” was designed by the French sculptor Frederic bartholdi in collaboration with the engineer gustave eiffel, who was responsible for its frame. The statue is of the robed roman goddess libertas, who bears a torch and a tablet inscribed with the date of the declaration of independence, July 4, 1776. a broken chain lies at her feet. 
The traditional Jewish prayer of blessing by the door­way may have inspired the famed  poet emma lazarus. lazarus was a descendant of sephardic Jews who im­migrated to the united states from portugal around the time of the american revolution. born July 22, 1849, lazarus grew up in new york and newport, rhode island, and was educated by private tutors. lazarus met ralph waldo emerson, who became her friend and men­tor, and the two corresponded until emerson’s death in 1882. in 1883, lazarus donated her poem, “The new colossus,” to an auction raising funds for the construc­tion of the statue of liberty’s pedestal. in 1884, lazarus fell ill from hodgkin’s lymphoma. she died on nov. 17, 1887. 
as a quick aside, lazarus’ good friend, rose hawthorne lathrop, the daughter of the writer nathaniel hawthorne, was inspired by lazarus’ good works and her death from cancer to establish the dominican sisters of hawthorne. These nuns, who are part of the Third order of saint dominic, care for those with limited financial resources who are suffering from terminal cancers and provide some freedom from the burden of disease and the chains of poverty. 
shortly after lazarus’ death, the immigrant process­ing station at ellis island was opened in 1892 in the shadow of the statue of liberty. lady liberty greeted generations of immigrants fleeing poverty and political upheavals in ireland, italy, spain and dozens of other countries. lazarus’ “The new colossus” was given fresh life as an anthem to the united states’ commitment to freedom for all people of the world. in 1903, the sonnet was engraved on a bronze plaque and attached to the statue’s pedestal. 
lazarus’ poem, fixed to the statue that sits beside the doorway to this country, is short, but its message still resonates: 
“not like the brazen giant of greek fame, / with con­quering limbs astride from land to land; / here at our sea-washed, sunset gates shall stand / a mighty woman with a torch, whose flame / is the imprisoned lightning, and her name mother of exiles. 
“From her beacon-hand / glows world-wide welcome; her mild eyes command / The air-bridged harbor that twin cities frame. / ‘keep, ancient lands, your storied pomp!’ cries she / with silent lips. 
“‘give me your tired, your poor, / your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, / The wretched refuse of your teeming shore. / send these, the homeless, tempest-tost to me, / i lift my lamp beside the golden door!” 
we should recommit ourselves to this nation’s long­standing role as a beacon of liberty, embrace the offer of sanctuary recounted in lazarus’ poem and breathe new life into the promises we have made and the blessings we claim in the name of liberty. if we choose to reject that covenant, i suggest we strike the bronze plaque from the base of the statue and replace it with the words of another poet, dante alighieri, who emblazoned this caution beside another door: “lasciate ogne speranza, voi ch’intrate … ” This means, “abandon all hope, you who enter here … ” 
but enough from me — take it from the pope [The catholic herald, June 2014]: 
“pope offers prayers for refugees during general audience” 
pope Francis reminded the faithful that Jesus was a refugee. addressing mary as “mother of refugees,” pope Francis offered prayers for the millions of people in the world forced to flee their homelands, and he asked catholics to reach out to them with assistance and a real welcome. 
“remember, Jesus was a refugee; he and mary and Joseph had to go to egypt to save his life,” the pope said on wednesday at the end of his weekly general audience. “pray to mary who knows the pain of being a refugee.” 
Ray Ramirez is an attorney practicing, yet never perfecting, law in Texas while waiting patiently for a MacArthur Genius Grant. You may contact him at pa­trayram@sbcglobal.net 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 


Happy Birthday: keep everything in order. preparation and organization, as well as moderation and sticking to a budget will be critical in reaching your goals. stick to the facts or you will be blamed for being misleading. bring about positive change that will have an impact on yourself and others. update and expand your skills and qualifications. make romance a priority. your numbers are 7, 15, 21, 24, 33, 36, 40. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): invest more time in yourself. update your look and add more skills to your resume. set up interviews or attend a networking function. express your thoughts and bring about positive changes. romance will improve your personal life. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Friends or relatives will offer information or suggestions that will help you make an important decision about your work. send emails, make phone calls and engage in conversations that will allow you to present what you have to offer. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t take an unnecessary risk. The information you are given will be confusing or incomplete. ask questions and be moderate if asked to make a donation. it’s what you do, not what you say that will make a difference. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): you’ll have to balance your time between home, family and work responsibilities. be careful how you handle demanding people. if you take on too much in order to please others, you will end up exhausted. gauge your time carefully. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): step into the spotlight and take on the role of leader. your take-charge attitude will bring about a favorable change that will help you attract help from your peers. romance is on the rise, but overspending on entertainment is best avoided. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): problems at home will escalate. listen to the problems being voiced, but don’t buy into a plan that leaves you in a precarious position. overreacting or giving in to demands will result in more problems than benefits. don’t share personal secrets. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Take care of personal responsibilities and you will find it easier to deal with work-related matters. discuss your options, expectations and plans for the future. love is highlighted, and planning a romantic getaway is encouraged. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): learn from past experiences and make adjustments that will help empower you to make better choices. be creative in how you live. work on improving your neighborhood and community facilities. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): uncertainty, inconsistency and overextending yourself must all be avoided. Focus on saving and cutting your overhead. look for opportunities that will allow you to use your talents to bring in extra cash. a change in an important relationship will be beneficial. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): money matters look promising. steer clear of individuals who are unpredictable or inconsistent. Take pride in what you do and opt to work alone in order to avoid taking care of other people’s responsibilities and problems.  

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t let medical, financial or legal matters make you angry. do what needs to be done and keep moving. a chance to make professional progress is apparent if you are willing to take the necessary steps to promote what you have to offer. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): don’t be tempted to get involved in gossip or take action based on hearsay. nothing will be as it appears, and closer consideration must be made before you make a move. keeping your plans simple and moderate is favored. 

Birthday Baby: you are curious, unique and worldly. you are energetic and playful. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
BAHIT  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
TURMS  

CADEEF SIMOWD  
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

Answer here: 

(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: HUNCH STOMP BIGGER WINNERYesterday’s 
Answer: Everyone at the party thought the piñata was a — BIG HIT 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

To
 receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable to and mail to: The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 
address 
city     state Zip 


ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2015 | The observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Bowl-eligible ain’t what it used to be 

Ryan Klaus 
sports writer 
Following conference championship games this weekend, college football will culminate once again this winter by embarking on its annual series of bowl games. 
as has been the case sev­eral times in recent years, this year’s bowl slate will include an increase in games and, consequently, an expansion of the number of teams competing. To be exact, this bowl season will offer invitations to a mind-boggling 80 teams that will be playing in a record 40 bowl games. 
That’s just too many. 
of course, it is clear why the number of games con­tinues to increase — money 
— and i understand this is the reason why the system will likely only continue to grow no matter how ab­surd it becomes. likewise, i recognize any argument against expanding the bowl system based solely on the implied sanctity of exist­ing bowl games is equally ridiculous; nothing about a system that already includes bowls named after idaho potatoes and other bizarre sponsors is inviolable. 
nonetheless, there is no denying the absurdity of this year’s schedule, which, due to a combination of the record number of available slots and a lack of .500 Fbs teams, will include multiple teams boasting 5-7 records. 
i don’t know about the rest of the world, but i have no interest in watching postseason games featur­ing teams that haven’t even amassed enough victories to unequivocally call them­selves mediocre. and while it is always precarious to cite the sanctity of bowl games, it is incomprehen­sible as to how a 5-7 team can logically be deemed deserving of any type of postseason opportunity. 
an example of an undeni­ably undeserving team that will likely be included in this year’s bowl season is kansas state, who, whether or not they win their final game on saturday, is ex­pected to receive a bid de­spite only currently having five wins. in “earning” their spot in a bowl, the wildcats best win (barring a victory against west virginia on saturday) will have been a triple overtime victory at home over louisiana Tech of conference usa. The re­mainder of kansas state’s wins include Fcs foe south dakota, 3-9 university of Texas-san antonio and big 12 bottom-feeders iowa state (3-9) and kansas (0­12). owners of this pedestri­an set of wins, the wildcats will nevertheless likely be given the opportunity to raise a trophy at season’s end. similarly, many of the other teams that currently sit at 5-7 have accumulated the bulk of their unim­pressive win totals against teams that are, simply put, dreadful. 
That the protocol for se­lecting 5-7 teams after the rest of the slots are filled is based on academic progress ratings (apr) is perhaps the only reasonable part of the equation. still, it is very difficult to make a compel­ling argument in favor of including teams in any form of postseason play that have had limited success during their regular seasons. 
unfortunately, this ex­tremely comprehensible notion has been and will continue to be completely disregarded in favor of the monetary opportunities that enlarging the field of bowl games presents. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
hazell making changes to avoid former mistakes 
Associated Press 
wesT laFayeTTe, ind.— 
purdue’s  numbers  are  
alarming.  
coach  darrell hazell  

has won six games in three years. he has three wins against Fbs foes and two in big Ten play. empty seats have become the norm at ross-ade stadium, and the school known as the cradle of Quarterbacks has become a quarterback carrousel with six different starters since 2013. 
nobody knows better than hazell that things must change next season. 
“we will take a long look at things, everything from a to Z,” he said saturday after finishing another sea­son with another loss to ri­val indiana. “we will make the appropriate changes we need to make to be sure this program moves forward to where we all want it to be.” 
The reconstruction proj­ect has already begun. 
Just 24 hours after purdue completed a 2-10 season (1-7 big Ten), hazell said his of­fensive and defensive coor­dinators — John shoop and greg hudson — and defen­sive tackles coach rubin carter were out. 
hazell is not, to the dis­may of some critics who think they’ve already seen enough to pass judgment. but it’s going to take a lot more than a staff shake-up to appease an increasingly frustrated fan base that ex­pects more than its gotten out of this football program. 
since hazell’s arrival in 2013, the boilermakers have: 
— gone 6-30 overall, 5-15 at home, 2-22 in big Ten play and 0-13 in november. 
—
 Finished the last three seasons with losing skids of 10, six and four games. 

— 
allowed indiana to score a school-record 56 points in the 118-game se­ries in 2013 at bloomington and then gave up 54 points on saturday -- the hoosiers’ highest scoring total in west lafayette. 


if the boilermakers don’t reverse the trend next sea­son, indiana could tie a school record for consecu­tive wins in the series (four), something that hasn’t hap­pened since 1944-47. and while the hoosiers used their home turf to push three top 15 teams to the limit, purdue’s home fans watched their team go 2-5, get outscored by an average of 41-30 and allow the last four visiting teams to sur­pass 40 points. 
within 48 hours of the season finale, purdue’s athletic website had pulled down this season’s results and replaced them with a 2016 schedule. 
“They’ve got to stick with us,” hazell said when asked about his message to fans. “They need to see the prog­ress made by the young guys coming up through the ranks. we will get it flipped.” 
There are promising signs. 
on the road, the boilermakers made life tough on perennial big Ten powers michigan state and wisconsin. markell Jones set a school rushing record for freshmen with 875 yards and became the first boilermakers’ running back to run for 10 or more touchdowns in seven years. redshirt freshman david blough started seven games and one of the two wins came against nebraska. 
The hope is that blough and Jones emerge as the cornerstones hazell needs. 
“we have a long way to go, but i am looking for­ward to getting there,” said Jones, indiana’s mr. Football award winner in 2014. “in the offseason, i am going to be sure to do ev­erything i can do to be sure that happens. we are going to continue to fight and not continue to settle for this kind of season. i think we have a bright future.” 
NBA | 76ers 103, lakers 91 
76ers top Lakers, Bryant for first win of season 
Associated Press 
philadelphia — kobe bryant won over the fans — he just couldn’t beat the pre­viously winless philadelphia 76ers. 
with the spotlight on bryant during the final game of his career in his home­town, the sixers stole the show and defeated the los angeles lakers 103-91 on Tuesday night for their first victory of the season. 
The sixers had lost their first 18 games, and 28 overall dating to last season — the longest losing streak in the history of major professional sports in the united states. but they remained tied for the worst start in nba his­tory with the 2009-10 new Jersey nets, who also opened 0-18. 
it was the first win for the sixers since march 25 at denver. 
hours earlier, bryant felt the love in philadelphia as soon as he entered the arena. 
he took selfies with fans who might never see him play again, and his pres­ence injected a playoff at­mosphere into a city that has lost much of its interest in nba basketball. 
with a packed crowd standing and roaring in appreciation, bryant was introduced to an ovation worthy of a hometown hero, not the “hometown Zero” he was once labeled in philadelphia’s tabloids. 
bryant, who will end his 20-year career this season, opened the first leg of his farewell tour in his home­town and was feted with the kind of reverence and grati­tude normally reserved for a sixers great. 
he buried a step-back 3-pointer off the opening tip. 
he hit another 3 on the next possession. 
bryant made it 3 for 3 and had the philly crowd chant­ing “m-v-p!” as he turned back the clock to his cham­pionship form. he scored 20 points on 7-of-26 shooting and made four 3s. 
by the fourth quarter, the philly fans had turned their attention toward the home team, chanting “beat la!” when beleaguered rookie Jahlil okafor made a layup for a 94-80 lead. 
okafor, the no. 3 overall pick out of duke, has been attached to a string of off-court incidents that included reckless driving and a fight in boston. he has apologized for his recent decisions. sixers coach brett brown said okafor will likely soon be accompanied by team se­curity on public outings. 
bryant said he would sim­ply tell the 19-year-old rookie to stay focused on basketball. 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M Bball 
conTinued From page 12 
“i also like then that we have al­most a week before we play again where we can get some practice reps,” brey said. “we’ve gath­ered a lot of information starting Thanksgiving day, and now we’ve gotta kind of work on some things and adjust some things.” 
after topping 80 points in each of its three home contests to open the season, notre dame hit a high-water mark of just 73 points in three games in lake buena vista, Florida, over break. however, brey is more concerned with the defensive play his team has put forth — the irish conceded 68.7 points per game at the advocare invitational. 
“offensively, we’ve been pretty efficient,” brey said. “i’ve been disappointed in our defense. i thought we could be a little more consistent down there, and cer­tainly [sunday] we just could never get a key stop to get it to two possessions or to win a game. so i think that’s something we really have to talk about and address and hold guys accountable to. i think it’s key that we will have some reps to work on things after the illinois game.” 
brey pointed to junior guards demetrius Jackson and steve vasturia, who often pressure op­posing guards, as models for the rest of the irish squad to look to on the defensive end. 
“i think any time you have your captains and your leadership do­ing that, it’s a key,” brey said. “The one key that really sets a great tone is demetrius Jackson and steve vasturia work so hard defensively. They set a great tone. i think we’ve gotta get the rest of our group in that kind of frame of mind for more possessions.” 
in Florida last week, notre dame struggled from the foul line, shooting just 34-for-55 at the char­ity stripe, including an 8-for-17 performance in the two-point loss to monmouth on Thanksgiving. 
brey said he’s taking a cautious approach to remedying the prob­lem, however. 
“i think with free throws some times, you don’t want to overcoach it,” brey said. “it’s like talking about a guy’s golf swing over and over again. you know, one thing about our guys is when they haven’t shot it well from the foul line, they get in the gym on their own and do it instead of me overcoaching free throws.” 
wednesday’s contest marks notre dame’s third time in the acc-big Ten challenge since leav­ing the big east. The irish are 1-1 in two games, falling at iowa in 2013 before defeating michigan state in overtime last year at purcell pavilion. 
“i think it’s great. it’s an honor to be part of the acc-big Ten challenge,” brey said. “you feel some responsibility to carry the flag for the league.” 
The illini will re-open the renovated state Farm center for wednesday’s game, and brey said he’s looking forward to seeing how his team plays on the road against a blue-blood program. 
“illinois has a great basketball tradition, and we know with the opening of that building, the place will be rocking,” brey said. “This will be our first road atmosphere, so how do we react there? it would be a huge win for this nucleus to win on the road coming off a sunday disappointment against alabama.” 
with a long season ahead, brey said he doesn’t think wednesday’s game — or the next one against stony brook at purcell pavilion on Tuesday — is a “defining moment” of the irish season, but he said it is important to get wins with the strong slate notre dame is facing in december. 
“i don’t know if it’s a defining moment, but it’s a key moment,” brey said. “you’ve gotta remem­ber our season is so long, so many things happen, but the one thing about if you look at our strength of schedule, the teams that we are playing … we have some big chal­lenges up. i love that for our group. any win you get here for the most part before christmas is gonna be a quality win. 
“ … it would certainly grow our confidence here to have some suc­cess in this next stretch.” 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu 




paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2015 | The observer 





paid adverTisemenT 

W Bball 
conTinued From page 12 
meanwhile, looming large for the irish is the absence of sophomore forward and 2014 acc Freshman of the year brianna Turner, who will miss the game wednesday and could be sidelined longer due to a shoulder injury she suffered in practice last week. 
“we’re not as good as we’ve been the past five years with brianna out of the lineup. … you don’t lose the [pre­season] acc player of the year and not miss a beat,” mcgraw said. “i think that our guard play is very good, but we’re young, with two freshmen all-americans [marina mabrey and arike ogunbowale]. [Junior guard] lindsay [allen], of course, is one of the best point guards in the nation. 
“ … we’re going to score in different ways, we’re going to win in different ways, we’re going to have a lot more close games than we’ve had in the 
SMC Bball 
conTinued From page 12 
struggles, senior krista knapke posted her third straight dou­ble-double with 13 points and 10 rebounds, and macius also chipped in 13 points. diamond stressed the importance of the senior leaders’ performances. 
“[knapke] is such a threat in­side the paint,” diamond said. “even though she struggled with her free throws, her resil­ience each time she stepped up to the line and her strength un­der the boards was something that really rallied the team tonight. similarly, [macius] past, so i think a lot of it’s going to depend on how we shoot the ball each game.” 
notre dame’s frontcourt woes are exacerbated by the struggles of junior forward Taya reimer, who started almost every game last sea­son but is dealing with an achilles injury and just be­ginning to ease back into the rotation. 
“you’re going to be a little rusty when you’ve been out for three months and haven’t been able to really practice, so i think it was great having her back in the lineup, and that’s all i can say about that,” mcgraw said of reimer’s lim­ited return to game action last week. 
The game against ohio state certainly has implica­tions in terms of rankings, but for mcgraw, it has per­sonal significance as well. buckeyes head coach kevin mcguff, who just reached 300 wins with his team’s victory over Texas a&m, worked for her as an assistant coach for several years, including notre 
showed a determination that i really admired on the floor. her short shots were hot, and her speed on defense and quick hands made it hard for any de­fender to get by her.” 
diamond said the team will be working on their defensive attack as it prepares for two more away games this week. 
“There need to be a lot of adjustments in our defen­sive game looking forward,” diamond said. “we need to recognize the quickness that we have as a team and utilize this before getting into foul trouble early, which is what we have seen in the last few games. i think that most importantly 
Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmcobserver 

dame’s 2001 championship season. his wife letitia also played for mcgraw at notre dame from 1991-1995. 
“i think just with [mcguff] and letitia meeting here …. i was responsible for that whole marriage and the five kids, and so i just feel like a part of that bigger family,” mcgraw said. “it’s great to see him succeed. i knew he was going to. 
“ … i’m godmother to one of their kids. it’s a close re­lationship, and it’s a tough game to play, because you hate to play people you really care about, so it’ll be a little tough, but once the game starts, i’m sure we’ll both be competitors.” 
notre dame and ohio state will meet at purcell pavilion at 7 p.m. wednesday, the first of three top-25 clashes for the irish, who then travel to no. 1 connecticut on saturday and host no. 23 depaul next wednesday. 
Contact Renee Griffin at  rgriffi6@nd.edu 
though, we need to stop trying to match the tempo and over­all game of the teams we play and play our own game that we have practiced so hard to perfect. 
“i am excited for our game against benedictine because i know that our team and our staff are all aware of the changes we need to make to find success on that court on wednesday.” 
saint mary’s will travel to play benedictine on wednesday at 7 p.m. at dan and ada rice center. 
Contact Maureen Schweninger at mschweni@nd.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Shorthanded Irish set to welcome Buckeyes 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
no. 3 notre dame will face the biggest test of its 2015 sea­son so far when no. 10 ohio state visits purcell pavilion on wednesday for the big Ten/acc challenge, starting off a string of three games against top-25 teams. 
The irish (6-0) are com­ing off their closest game of the season, a 92-84 overtime victory over no. 24 ucla on saturday, which marked their only game against a ranked opponent thus far. The buckeyes (4-2), on the other hand, have already taken on the top two teams in the country in connecticut and south carolina, though both matchups ended in losses. 
“i think they feel like they can play with anyone,” irish head coach muffet mcgraw said. “it’s a great measuring stick to see where we are right now, because they are one of, if not the best team in the big Ten. … They gave south carolina a great game.” 
mcgraw said her main concern saturday is defend­ing buckeyes sophomore guard kelsey mitchell, who she called “the most exciting player in college basketball.” mitchell scored 42 points in ohio state’s win over then-no. 9 Texas a&m on saturday, earning her national player of the week honors. 
“we have to slow mitchell down,” mcgraw said. “we’re not gonna stop her. we’re not gonna hold her score­less. she’s going to get hers. she’s averaging like 25 or 26 [points per game], so we’d like to keep her to a little less than that, if we could. but she’s absolutely the key.” 
slowing down the rest of the fast-paced buckeye of­fense will also be crucial to notre dame’s game plan, mcgraw said. 
“They get the ball and within two to three seconds, they’re into their offense,” she said. “They really move the ball quickly. Transition offense is huge for them, they like to run, they score a lot of points. They’ve got some kids who can shoot the ball on the perimeter. so they have a re­ally good team.” 
see w bball PAGE 11 

SMC BASKETBALL | oliveT 61, smc 48 
belles fall in conference opener 
By MAUREEN SCHWENINGER 
sports writer 
saint mary’s fell 61-48 to olivet in its conference open­er on monday night at angela athletic Facility. 
sophomore forward gabby diamond said the belles (0-6, 0-1 miaa) came out with a high energy as they tried to put the team’s shaky start to the season behind them. 
“it has definitely been a strug­gle these last few games, and it would be understandable if our confidence was shaken from those,” diamond said. “we had learned from those past games. our team did a great job with our energy in starting the game and making our presence known in that gym.” 
senior guard maddie kohler’s long 3-pointer gave saint mary’s a slight edge, 14-12, af­ter the first quarter. The team followed with another 10 unan­swered points after the break, but the comets (3-3, 1-0) came back with a 17-4 run to close the half with a 29-28 lead. 
There were four lead chang­es as the teams went back and forth in the third quarter. The belles pulled ahead, 36-33, with a jump shot by senior guard sarah macius. olivet soon took control on the boards, however, and made saint mary’s pay with an 11-0 run. The belles surren­dered 26 points off turnovers, a deficit diamond said was too challenging to overcome. 
“it’s hard for any team to come back from such a point differ­ence,” diamond said. “[The turnover margin] coupled with a drastic change in our shoot­ing percentage compared to the first half made things even more difficult. i think that both of those took hard hits on our confidence throughout the sec­ond half, and it was very chal­lenging to get that back as the clock wound down.” 
The belles hit only six of their 26 field goal attempts after half­time and were unable to take the lead for the rest of the game. despite the team’s second half 
see smc bball PAGE 11  

KATHRYNE ROBINSON | The Observer 
Irish sophomore forward Brianna Turner makes a move in the post during Notre Dame’s 74-39 win over Toledo on Nov. 18 at Purcell Pavilion. Turner will miss Wednesday’s game due to a shoulder injury. 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
ND looks to bounce back in ACC-Big Ten Challenge 

By ALEX CARSON 
associate sports editor 
Just a few days after suffer­ing losses to monmouth and alabama at the advocare invitational in Florida last weekend, notre dame gets right back on the court wednesday, traveling to illinois as part of the acc-big Ten challenge. 
wednesday’s game gives the irish (4-2), who fell out of the top 25 monday, an immediate chance to bounce back against the Fighting illini (3-4), and irish head coach mike brey said he’s looking forward to having his team out on the court so quickly for another big game. 
“i like the fact that we play, and we play in a big-time at­mosphere on wednesday,” brey said. 
The game will wrap up a stretch of four games in seven days for notre dame, and brey said he’s looking forward to get­ting quality practice time in af-
KATHRYNE ROBINSON | The Observer ter wednesday’s contest. 
Irish junior guard Demetrius Jackson battles for a layup during Notre Dame’s 86-78 win over Milwaukee on Nov. 17. see m bball PAGE 10 





