The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 53 | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND community remembers Jake Scanlan 

Students share honors life of 
Memorial mass 
stories, memories 
student about Scanlan 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
associate news writer news editor 
“Jake loved and was loved. 
“he put a smile on every-while Jake loved, our faith 
one’s face the second he reminds us that god is love. 
walked into a room,” caroline despite our struggles that 
Trustey, Jake scanlan’s girl-god took a beloved mem­
friend, said. “whether it was ber of our community away 
the goofy outfits that he would too soon, we can’t help but 
wear, or the funny one-liners, see how god poured his 
or just the way he came in and love into Jake’s heart, and 
made you feel so loved and man, did it change lives,” Fr. 
welcome wherever you were. pete mccormick, director 
he just made people light up.” of campus ministry, said in 
“it seems like every person his homily at the memorial 
in our grade, every person mass to celebrate the life of 
in our school, has a memory junior Jake scanlan. RACHEL O’GRADY | The Observer of Jake. whether it’s from 
A candle display at the Grotto spells out “JAKE” in honor of Notre Dame junior Jake Scanlan, who died see mass PAGE 5 Wednesday morning. Students attended a Mass Thursday night to remember Scanlan. see scanlan PAGE 4 



Students robbed by assailants 
Observer Staff Report 
Two separate notre dame stu­dents were the victims of similar robberies Tuesday evening, ac­cording to an email Thursday from notre dame security police (ndsp) sergeant Tracy skibins. 
The email stated both robber­ies occurred off campus, one near 1200 n. eddy street and the other “in the 1000 block of n. notre dame ave.” 
in both incidents, a suspect ap­proached the victim and hit the victim in the face. 
"both victims had their cell phone taken," the email stated. “in one of the incidents the sus­pect asked the victim for the time before striking the victim in the face. in the other incident the sus­pect also exchanged words before assaulting the victim and stealing the phone.” 
according to the email, there were two suspects involved in each robbery. The email de­scribed the suspects in both cas­es as “young, 12-15 years of age, black male [and] 4’6”-5’ tall.” 
“one suspect had dreadlocks and the other suspect had short black hair,” the email stated. “one wore a red sweatshirt; the other one was wearing a gray sweat­shirt. The suspects fled on foot in both incidents.” 
The email also referred to a separate report of “theft by de­ception,” in which a suspect im­personating a member of the police department approaches students and requests money in return for overlooking minor violations. 
“a separate investigation has revealed that a suspect may be approaching people on the edges of campus claiming to be work­ing for a police department and threatening fines for violations like minor possession/consump­tion of alcohol,” the email stated. “The suspect then offers to over­look the violation if the victim will give the suspect a smaller amount of money.” 
The email asked students to contact ndsp if they have any information regarding the incidents. 
“if this has happened to you or someone you know, please con­tact ndsp at 574-631-5555,” the email stated. “your information may help us stop the suspect from doing this to others.” 


sexual assault reported 
Observer Staff Report 

notre dame security police (ndsp) is investigat­ing a report of sexual as­sault committed saturday, according to an email sent to students Thursday night. 
The assault reportedly occurred in a west Quad men’s residence hall, the email stated. This is the third sexual assault report ndsp has sent to students this school year. 
The email quoted “du lac: a guide to student life,” notre dame’s official policy book, and warned students of the risks of sexual assault as well as the standards of consent. 
“sexual assault can hap­pen to anyone,” the email said. “anyone initiating any kind of sexual contact with another person must seek consent and not engage in 
see assaulT PAGE 5 


NDVotes provides forum for student discourse 
By LUCAS MASIN-MOYER 
news writer 

Thursday night in geddes hall, ndvotes '16, a student task force aimed at increas­ing political engagement, hosted an open mic night. The goal of the forum, ac­cording to ndvotes mem­ber and event moderator nikki steiner, was to allow students to express their views on the upcoming 2016 election and the political process. 
see voTes PAGE 5 





Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                  Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green 
Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 

News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo                                      Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 

What are you most looking forward to about the last home football game? 

Jacqueline Cassidy 


Luigi Ribera 
grad student 

freshman 
off-campus 

alumni hall 
“shutting out wake Forest.” 
“Tailgating.” 

Patrick Tinsley 
junior 
alumni hall 

“storming the field and bringing the field post down.” 


Kelsey Lynch 
sophomore 
mcglinn hall 
“beating wake Forest and going 9-1.” 
Erin Lattimer 
junior 
howard hall 

“watching the seniors throw marshmallows.” 


Mathew Morico 
freshman alumni hall 
“winning.” 

Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

clare Kossler Zach Klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

matthew mcKenna manny de Jesus martha reilly victoria llorens 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
Janice chung matt mcmahon 
Photo Viewpoint 

Hot Apple Cider and Football vs. Wake Women’s Basketball “Migration to Workshop 
caitlyn Jordan Tabitha ricketts 
Donuts Forest vs. Bucknell Europe” Brownson Hall Fieldhouse Mall Notre Dame Stadium Purcell Pavilion Geddes Hall 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 1 p.m.-3 p.m. 3:30 pm 1 p.m. 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Learn how to craft 
Corrections 

Part of StaND Against Notre Dame takes on The Irish take on the Panel discussion on a compelling grant 
The observer regards itself as Hate Week. the Demon Deacons. Bison. the migration crisis. proposal. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Trumpets under the “Disabusing Diwali Celebration “The Courage of Men’s Basketball vs. 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Dome Disability” LaFortune Student Conviction” Milwaukee 
however, recognize that we will make 
Main Building Jordan Hall of Science Center Hesburgh Center Purcell Pavilion 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
4:10p.m. 11 a.m. 7 p.m.-10 p.m. 12 p.m.-1 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
A home game weekend Part of the Dooley Celebrate the Hindu Lecture on sustainable The Irish take on the 
we can correct our error. 

tradition. Society Lecture Series. New Year.  development abroad. Panthers. 


smc speaker highlights Students sport signs of dating violence mullets for 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 
in his final lecture after 18 years of speaking engagements, Tom santoro spoke to saint mary's students on Thursday about the warning signs of dat­ing violence and his personal experience with issue. 
santoro said his daugh­ter, lisa santoro, was killed by her ex-boyfriend, who had never previously shown signs of verbal, emotional or physi­cal abuse. however, after lisa’s murder, the santoro family found out he had been stalking lisa for months and had beaten someone the day they broke up 
— both signs that indicated he was an abuser. 
santoro showed a video about his daughter, which featured her delivering a prayer to her high school class for all victims of violence. 
“she wanted to pray for vio­lence in her day, for the end of it,” santoro said. “lisa’s not here to carry out her prayer and her dream. so if i reach one person in this room today, i did some­thing for lisa, but i also did something for all the victims of domestic and dating violence.” 
santoro said abuse almost always starts out with verbal abuse. 
“a little name-calling, making fun of you, putting you down in front of your friends, [that is] outright verbal abuse,” santoro said. “when they do that to you, and they do that over and over again, a person starts to believe what they’re being told.” 

santoro said victims of re­lationship violence go back to their abuser an average of seven 
“A girl should never have to worry about getting caught talking to another guy because she’s scared her boyfriend will get mad.” 
Tom Santoro 
founder 
“Dear Lisa” 

times. he said this is because victims block out the bad parts of their relationship and focus on the few good aspects. 
additionally, he said, many victims believe themselves to be in love, the result being that no matter how badly they are treat­ed, victims find it hard to let go of their abuser. santoro also said although women are on average more likely to be the victim of relationship violence, men can 
paid adverTisemenT 
also be affected by the issue. “when someone does some-

malaria awareness 
thing to hurt you, and they do this to you over and over again, there’s your red flag," he said. "There’s your warning, and that’s when you should step back.” 
The two most important parts of a relationship are respect and trust, santoro said. 
“Find a partner who is going to respect you and trust you," he said. "i know it takes time to build up respect and trust, but when you find it, you should be in a healthy — and even more importantly, you should be in a very safe — relationship. 
“you have to trust your part­ner. you cannot stop them if they want to go do something. a girl should never have to worry about getting caught talking to another guy because she’s scared her boyfriend will get mad.” 
santoro said the most impor­tant thing to do if a friend is in an abusive relationship is to be supportive and to remind that friend that it is not his or her fault. although victims of abuse may try to push away anyone who tries to help, santoro said, it is important not to give up on them. 
Contact Nicole Caratas at  ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 


By JP GSCHWIND 
news writer 
mullets are making a comeback, at least for the men of st. edward’s hall. 
mullets against malaria, an annual fundraiser for the dorm, officially launched on Thursday night when two barbers gave mullet hair­cuts to 33 residents of st. edward’s. 
This year’s event director, sophomore parker mathes, said the fundraiser allows the st. edward’s community to come together to support malaria prevention and in­clude the entire campus in gaining donations and pub­licizing the damage malaria inflicts throughout the de­veloping world. 
“we get mullets as a way to get people’s attention and raise awareness,” mathes said. 
according to the web­site of the world health organization (who), there were approximately 198 mil­lion cases of malaria world­wide in 2013, resulting in 584,000 deaths. 
mathes said the money raised by mullets against malaria goes directly to nothing but nets, united nations Foundation initia­tive that focuses on malaria prevention in sub-saharan africa. according to the orga­nization’s website, nothing but nets works with part­ners like uniceF, the united nations refugee agency, the who and others to buy mos­quito bed nets and supply them to african countries. 
This is only the second year of the fundraiser, mathes said, but it hopes to build on the success of last year’s campaign, which raised $3,493 through the funding site youcaring. The goal for the current cam­paign is $5,500 and dona­tions are being accepted through goFundme. 

in addition to the mullets, mathes said st. edward’s is raising awareness by sell­ing shirts for $15, which af­ter covering overhead costs, sends $3 per shirt to nothing but nets. 
“The shirts aren’t a huge money-maker, but they’re a great way of getting the word out there,” he said. 
mullets against malaria may not be a long-standing tradition, mathes said, but it has already generated a lot of enthusiasm in its first two years. 
“The off-campus seniors came up with this idea," he said. "They didn’t really like the current fundraising proj­ect and they were growing mullets out at the time, and so they wanted to find a way to link it together.” 
mathes said participation has grown from 15 students last year to 33 this year, re­flecting an effort to establish mullets against malaria as an event that st. edward’s will host for many years to come. 
in order to cultivate the ideal mullet, mathes said, students need to start pre­paring early, so over the summer st. edward’s presi­dent junior griffin hilly and vice president junior brandon ruggles sent out a video to all hall residents explaining the mission of mullets against malaria and encouraging freshmen in particular to start growing their hair out before the ac­tual campaign. 
Contact JP Gschwind at  jgschwin@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Scanlan 
conTinued From page 1 
freshman tutorial, or they lived down the hall from him in the dorm, everyone has these memories,” she said. 
scanlan died suddenly in his sleep wednesday morn­ing from what appear to be natural causes. a member of the junior class and resident of siegfried hall, he gradu­ated from gonzaga college high school in washington, 
d.c. in 2013 and was pursu­ing a degree in mechanical engineering. 
“he was the kind of kid that it didn’t matter if you knew him for two days or two years or if he met you last week. it didn’t matter. he’d approach you like you were an old friend of his,” Jackson Fox said. “ … i made a lot of new friends this semester because i was around him. being around him facilitates happiness and connection or friendship, almost.” 
Junior ryan bliss, who knew scanlan throughout high school as well as at notre dame, said scanlan was able to connect with people quickly. 
“it’s hard to describe,” he said. “you always felt next to him, no matter what, whether he met you 30 sec­onds ago, like you’d known him all his life. he’d always try to make you happy.” 
Junior pat mcmahon also went to high school with scanlan, before coming to notre dame, and said he re­
“He was the kind of kid that it didn’t matter if you knew him for two days or two years or if he met you last week. It didn’t matter. He’d approach you like you were an old friend of his.” 
Jackson Fox 
junior 
members meeting him the first day of their freshman year of high school. 
“i first met Jake when he was in my first period class, freshman year at gonzaga,” he said. “i didn’t know a lot of people going into high school, and he knew some kids that he had gone to mid­dle school with. he was so much himself, and so com­fortable in his own skin, that he just wanted to include everyone else. 

“he would, without know­ing me at all, just throw me into a conversation. he was so goofy and happy and ev­erything, that it made me feel so much more at ease in a group of people that i didn’t really know.” 
Fox, a junior, echoed that sentiment. 
“[scanlan] made people around him much more com­fortable being themselves,” Fox said. “it’s easy to not feel self-conscious or afraid of doing something that people are going to look down upon, because he didn’t [care]. he would just do his own thing. and that really translated to everyone he was around” 
“doing his own thing” worked its way into scanlan’s sense of humor. Junior brandon burdine said one memory stood out in particular. 
“when i think of Jake, i remember him at football games. it would be 20 de­grees out, and he’d be out there in his jorts, shirtless, yelling at people.” burdine said. 
many of his friends said scanlan constantly used his humor to the benefit of those around him. 
“he always found the good in something,” junior matt habrowski said. “he had the ability to turn a not-so­good situation into some­thing that could be funny or brighten someone else’s day. 
“it was always living out­side of himself, trying to make other people smile or laugh. and i think that’s why other people gravitate towards him, and why he af­fected so many people. … his impact on others was second 
“It was always living outside of himself, trying to make other people smile or laugh. And I think that’s why other people gravitate towards him, and why he affected so many people.” 
Matt Habrowski 
junior 
to none,” he said. “you don’t come across too many peo­ple like that.” 
Fox said that despite scanlan’s goofy sense of hu­mor, he was deeply commit­ted to helping his friends. 
“he was a goofy guy, but at the same time he was very loyal,” Fox said. “if you were a friend of his, he’d help you out. if it was serious, he could be serious. if you just wanted to joke around and be funny, that’s who he could be. ... it didn’t really matter what it was; he could be that. 

“ … it’s hard to have a bad day when you’re around Jake,” Fox said. “if you need­ed him to be something, he’d just do it. There was never any question. it didn’t matter what it was, if you needed his help, and he could help you in any way, then he would do it. it never needed to be asked, ever.” 
burdine said scanlan’s de­sire to make others laugh re­flected his selflessness and loyalty to his friends. 
“he got so much joy out of life, and he always wanted to make someone else’s day a little bit better in any way he could,” burdine said. “i think that’s a pretty rare quality to have, but he never seemed focused on himself or his own happiness. 
“ … he was a very genuine person, i think that’s what i admired most about him,” burdine said. “he didn’t re­ally care what other people thought about him, but ev­eryone always liked him.” 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




Votes 
conTinued From page 1 
“we wanted to hear what the students care about on campus and what they want­ed to see from candidates in the upcoming 2016 election,” steiner said. “we wanted to give them a voice and hear what they care about.” 
Freshman prathm Juneja opened the discussion by bringing up issues of vot­er apathy and lack of voter education. 
“it really concerns me that we have students who are un­aware and uninvolved,” he said. “students will automati­cally align themselves with a political party without know­ing anything about politics.” 
Task force co-chair sopho­more roge Karma echoed Juneja’s views and said vot­
“It really concerns me that we have students who are unaware and uninvolved.” 
Prathm Juneja 
freshman 
er participation is essen­tial to the political process. 
(Editor’s note: Roge Karma is a viewpoint columnist for The Observer.) 
“it is almost a responsibil­ity to be politically aware and politically involved,” he said. 
Karma said youth are not "inherently apathetic.” 
“when there is a candi­date that inspires people, the youth come out to vote,” he said. 
sophomore ariana Zlioba said when young people are involved, they can have an impact in the political process. 
“if you look back in his­tory, from the revolutions in the 1800s up until vietnam, the people leading discus­sions and the people asking the hardest questions were always young people.”  Zlioba said. “They were people who were idealistic and passion­ate enough to incite change when no one else wanted to.” 
Juneja said student apathy toward political participation is closely tied to the educa­tion system. 
“not once was i told how to vote,” Juneja said. “[nor was i told] about news sources, or about the views of the politi­cal parties.” 
sophomore cassi hayes said apathy stems from a larger disillusionment with the political process. 
“money and big corpora­tions and lobby groups seem to run so much of [our politi­cal process],” she said. “[one] of the reason young people aren’t fighting for a better system is because they feel they don’t have power.” 
Zlioba said politicians’ at­titudes towards compromise often make agreement across the aisle impossible. 
“The problem is that poli­ticians are associating their unwillingness to compromise on principles with unwilling­ness to compromise on is­sues,” she said. 
This polarization is not as prevalent in american homes as one might believe, fresh­man abby Ferguson said. 
“people are more moder­ate than they think they are,” Ferguson said. “politicians are becoming more polarized.” 
an explanation for this phenomenon was offered by hayes, who said politics doesn’t reward people for be­ing moderate. 
“This mentality encourages a system [that] doesn’t neces­sarily reflect the views of the american people,” she said. 
Contact Lucas Masin-Moyer at lmasinmo@nd.edu 
Mass 
conTinued From page 1 

scanlan, a resident of siegfried hall, died un­expectedly in his sleep wednesday morning from what appear to be natu­ral causes. scanlan’s fam­ily and friends, residents of siegfried hall, and stu­dents, faculty and staff from across campus attended the mass, which was celebrated by university president Fr. John Jenkins at the basilica of the sacred heart on Thursday evening. 
mccormick described the 20-year-old mechanical en­gineering major from north potomac, maryland, as a “man for others.” 
“Jake was deserving of the spotlight, being a great ath­lete, great academic, loyal friend, faithful brother, lov­ing son. Jake preferred to use his god-given talents to make others happy, liv­ing his life so authentically that he could not help but inspire others to do the very same,” he said. “in fact, it was pointed out that hav­ing an entire mass for Jake would be enough for him to turn in the exact opposite direction, so not wanting to draw attention to himself, so rather being invested in others.” 
mccormick said he led a procession from siegfried hall on wednesday evening to the grotto after attending a standing-room only mass in the siegfried chapel. 
“as we rounded the cor­ner into the grotto, coming down the steps, i realized that we were no longer just a group of mass-goers hav­ing left siegfried,” he said. “instead, we were joined by hundreds of people from around campus who had come together to pray for this young man. all stand­ing in silence, all stand­ing in honor and prayerful respect of their friend and their brother.” 
after everyone had lit a candle, Fr. John conley, rec­tor of siegfried, brought to­gether those gathered at the grotto, mccormick said. 
“in that moment, though, something happened that i will never forget, as i stood there, huddled in the cold, my hands buried in my pockets, looking down in prayerful reverence. i im­mediately felt a large arm over my right shoulder and then another one over my left shoulder,” he said. “and as i looked up, what i real­ized was that not only were we drawing closer to the front rail of the grotto, but we were doing so together, with arms outstretched … 
“and i thought to myself, how fitting that a young man who has committed himself to loving others, to giving of himself to others, to bringing others togeth­er, even in death, has the ability to, last night, bring so many together — and this night to bring so many people that we literally could not fit them all in the basilica. what a beautiful thing that is.” 
scanlan’s death leaves his family, friends and the notre dame community with “big, substantive ques­tions,” mccormick said. however, he said people of faith are ultimately chal­lenged to consider that a loving god would not leave scanlan at death. 
“That we understand just as god has blessed Jake with life … he will not leave him alone, abandoned,” he said. “and just as we support one another, as we continue to do now and into the fu­ture, god, too, calls Jake to 

paid adverTisemenT 
himself, and invites him on a new journey — a journey to a deeper and fuller un­derstanding of god, of life eternal. To a place prepared for us all, by Jesus, through his death and resurrection. … Jake’s life has not ended, it has merely changed.” 
Those whose lives have been touched by scanlan can best honor him by build­ing community, mccormick said. 
“in the minutes, and hours, days, weeks, and months and years ahead, all of us will be impacted by Jake and his death, in unexpected and sometimes confusing ways,” he said. “when those cases occur, instead of sinking into grief and despair, perhaps each of us might challenge our­selves to honor Jake’s life by reaching out to a friend, being intentional about helping others in need and, you know what, not always taking ourselves seriously. because as Jake’s life dem­onstrated, sometimes what this world needs most is a good laugh.” 
after the concluding rites of the mass, mccormick read a statement from the scanlan family. 
“on behalf of the family, we’d like to thank everyone for the prayers, love and support shown during this difficult time. we all love Jake and are much better persons for having known him. and we are now bet­ter equipped to complete our mission on god’s behalf to achieve lasting eternity in heaven. may we always cherish and remember Jake’s humble demeanor, his big smile and his witty sense of humor. may god bless.” 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 

Assault 
conTinued From page 1 
sexual contact unless con­sent is given. 
“on college campuses, perpetrators are more like­ly to assault an acquain­tance than a stranger. being aware of your own safety and watching out for your friends are important steps you can take to reduce the risk of sexual assault. 
“The perpetrator, not the survivor, is responsible for any instance of sexual as­sault. nothing a survivor does or does not do is an ex­cuse for sexual assault.” 


The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The world is your oyster 
Janice Chung 
graphic designer 

at what point do we stop dream­ing, and resign ourselves to lives of monotony and conformity? as chil­dren, we are all taught we can be whatever we want to be, we should follow our passions and if we do what we love, we will never work a day in our lives. This is the key to prosperity, happiness and success. 
as we grow older, these simple principles we once held close to our hearts and believed to be true become threatened by everything and everyone — even ourselves. every obstacle we encounter fuels our drive to reach our goals, yet si­multaneously increases our fear of failure and level of self doubt. our responsibilities accumulate, our definition of success changes and we become more fixated on money and beauty and all that is temporal. These worries begin to take priority over our childish dreams, and some of us decide that we would do better to pursue those passions later on — maybe after we secure a stable job, get married, buy a house, etc. 
This is by no means an easy way out — rather, it just feels safer and a bit more linear. The prospect of an unpredictable future is terrify­ing, and this conventional route can provide comfort to so many of us. we often succumb to the poison of comparison; everyone else looks like they have it figured out at this point, and we’re just floundering around and struggling to get through a day without running out of air. 
as my graduation looms around the corner, these feelings are be­coming more and more poignant. sometimes i wonder if i made the right choice in choosing my major. i think more of the difficulties i will face rather than the joy i will gain by pursuing my dreams. i think many of my peers are in the same posi­tion, and we all need to be reminded we can still choose to be happy and keep our dreams alive, despite our fears and societal pressures. 
“‘my heart is afraid that it will have to suffer,’ the boy told the al­chemist one night as they looked up at the moonless sky. 
‘Tell your heart that the fear of suffering is worse than the suffering itself. and that no heart has never suffered when it goes in search of its dreams.’” 
— paulo coelho, The alchemist 
Contact Janice Chang at          jchung2@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Jake 

last night, i cried for hours. i blamed myself for not picking up the phone and calling you For not texting you a corny joke For not saying a proper goodbye last night, i cried for hours. This morning, i called you on the phone for the first time in a while, just to hear your voice, just to hear you laugh. anything that would prove you are still here. Jake, please call me back. The silence is killing me and i’m not ready to let you go. 
John Hulede 
classmate and friend gonzaga college high school class of 2013 nov. 12 

how do we help each other? 
The panel consists of pressed suits and styled bobs. 
They talk of the necessity of relationship, of treat­ing people humanely rather than as moneybags, of the difficulties of creating a metric for social impact, among other topics that arise when you ask, how do we help each other? yet, these panelists don’t look like the usual crew of bleeding hearts with dirt-stained flannel and affirmative nodding in response to the term ‘so­cial justice.’ instead of spending their time in home­less shelters and service centers, they settle in their offices with brand-name coffee in sterile cups and an agenda focused on the bottom line. These panelists are a part of the irish impact social entrepreneurship conference and are the first to point out that a good business plan is always more useful than an individu­al’s good intentions. 
yet, they are also the first to bring up how impact investing changes the world for the better. They live by the theory that investing in choice businesses can transform the lives of the marginalized without for­saking the promise of profits. by including the mar­ginalized in a market that pervades all of our lives, impact investing focuses on pragmatic practices of inclusion rather than idealistic hopes of completely circumventing the capitalistic, materialistic charac­ter of the modern economy. These panelists play with big numbers, and consequently, touch the lives of an innumerable number of people, whether they are receiving paychecks from newly-created jobs or new products on the shelf of local stores that choice invest­ing promoted. 
of course, impact investing is not the same sort of slow love that arises from simply being with the mar­ginalized. it’s not passing afternoons playing King’s corners so that the person in front of you is distracted from the upcoming custody battle she will surely lose. 
it’s not letting others comfort you as you cry, so they can realize that as infantilized and patronized as they are, they still have this shine that could light up any­one’s heart. it’s not quite as physically demanding, mouth-drying or soul-wrenching. 
but it doesn’t mean impact investing is any less of an act of love. 
desire to help the world is a beautiful thing. The prominent answer to such a want is for one to do ser­vice, and it is a beautiful thing to have one’s heart touched and one’s soul filled with all one sees while doing service. and if you are not touched, that too is a beautiful thing. There are so many different ways of making the world better, from advocacy in legal courts to impact investing in business suits. The question remains: how do we help each other? only your own answer can suffice for yourself. 
if you are interested in exploring various avenues of changing the world for the better beyond service, con­sider these classes next spring: 
Through business: social entrepreneurship* with melissa paulsen Tr 11-12:15, 2-3:15 
Through advocacy: advocacy for the common good with mike hebbeler (non-traditional times) 
Through qualitative research: youth empowerment, literacy, and changing urban landscapes* with maria mcKenna and stuart greene m 3:30-4:45, w 3:30-6:30 
*preference given to students of certain colleges/de­partments of study, but after the registration is com­pleted, nothing but good can come from requesting a spot even if you are not in a certain college or minor. 
Sherry Zhong 
senior off-campus nov. 9 



The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Embracing the dual role of Catholic education 

EDITORIAL 

before fall break, saint mary’s belles for life club hosted the planned parenthood project, a national initiative by students for life of america, on campus. in response, Feminists united club constructed a display of 1,852 flags, each of which represented 10 planned parenthood services not re­lated to abortion or contraception. several students responded by creating a petition on change.org calling on college president carol ann mooney to fulfill three requests: to prohibit any display supporting planned parenthood or any in­stitution providing abortions, to prohibit faculty from distributing or encouraging distribution of pro-abortion paraphernalia and to release a formal, public statement reaffirming the college’s support for the pro-life mission of the catholic church. 
This garnered a response from vice president for student affairs Karen Johnson, who sent an email to students in which she said saint mary’s role as a catholic college comes with a responsibility to maintain consistency with catholic teachings. she clarified the college’s guidelines as applied to club events, which emphasize the difference between education versus advocacy and support. “sponsorship of a speaker, in and of itself, does not constitute advocacy or support of ideas expressed by the speaker,” Johnson said. 
a few days later, mooney released a statement to students that said the college plays dual roles in education — which, at the undergraduate level, traditionally involves free access to information 
— and in the formation of young people in the catholic tradition, which prohibits saint mary’s student groups from taking advocacy positions inconsistent with church teaching. 
saint mary’s, notre dame and catholic universi­ties around the country face this same issue often: how can we maintain our catholic identity and continue to support intellectual freedom and an open exchange of ideas? 
Too often, this question is posed in terms of finding a balance — a way to reconcile two other­wise incompatible ideas so neither side sacrifices too much. we contend, however, that intellectual 
Kyle Palmer 
mr. precedent 

events such as wednesday’s should give every­one a reason to pray. pray for Jake scanlan. pray for his parents. pray for loved ones who mourn for him. pray for guidance for ourselves. i didn’t know Jake scanlan. many of us didn’t. i wish i could speak to Jake’s life, to recount a funny story of good times past, but i can’t. i simply don’t pos­sess the knowledge to do so. what i can say is that Jake’s passing, like the passing of too many in the notre dame family over the past year, gives me pause to contemplate life and pray. when i do so, i almost always arrive at the same conclusion: let people know how much you appreciate them more often. be thankful for the simple things. For that, i can say, “Thank you, Jake.” 
life is incredibly short and surprisingly random. what is most difficult to deal with when discuss­ing premature deaths is how often they are unfair and random. when someone dies at an old age, we still mourn their passing, but we aren’t typically as freedom and open dialogue are essential aspects of the catholic identity of an educational institu­tion. saint mary’s and notre dame were built on the blended nature of these foundational concepts, that a true catholic education encompasses access to and discussion of all ideas. 
notre dame university president emeritus Fr. Ted hesburgh, in his autobiography “god, country, notre dame,” wrote about the role a catholic uni­versity or college should play in not just the educa­tion, but also the formation of its students. 
“The catholic university should be a place where all the great questions are asked, where an exciting conversation is continually in progress, where the mind constantly grows as the values and powers of intelligence and wisdom are cherished and exer­cised in full freedom,” he wrote. 
great questions should explore difficult topics. exciting conversations thrive with multiple view­points. a mind cannot grow without the exercise presented by a challenge, and hesburgh envisioned a catholic campus as one that actively promotes freedom and invites discussion of a wide range of ideas, no matter how controversial. 
The university’s mission statement undoubtedly supports this harmony of catholic education and intellectual freedom. 
“as a catholic university, one of its distinctive goals is to provide a forum where, through free inquiry and open discussion, the various lines of catholic thought may intersect with all the forms of knowledge found in the arts, sciences, profes­sions and every other area of human scholarship and creativity,” the statement reads. “ … what the university asks of all its scholars and students, however, is not a particular creedal affiliation, but a respect for the objectives of notre dame and a willingness to enter into the conversation that gives it life and character. Therefore, the university insists upon academic freedom that makes open discussion and inquiry possible.” 
This, then, is how notre dame answers that ques­tion of catholic identity and unfettered discus­sion: by affirming open and accessible debate as a primary goal of a catholic educational institution. The university encourages the exploration of a di­verse range of views framed within an environment 
Thanks, Jake 
shocked by their death as someone who’s young. it’s easier to justify elderly death; we might say, “it was just their time,” or “They lived a full life.” it’s impossible to ever reconcile young death. over the last calendar year, i’ve had a couple of close friends die prematurely; one was 20 years old and the other was 31. what is most odd is seeing the immediate void left by their passing. you miss your normal conversations, the regularity with which you used to see them. but as one moves through the mourning process, you come around to being thankful you knew them as long as you did. 
premature deaths teach us we should be thank­ful for everything we have and to live in the mo­ment. everyone you meet is someone for whom you should be thankful. every experience or opportu­nity you get is something for which you should be thankful. if you haven’t already called your family to let them know you love and appreciate them, put this paper down and pick up the phone. when you pass someone in the hall and they want to talk with you, don’t just brush them off, engage them in conversation. don’t pass up experiences with friends for the sake of keeping a routine; routines supportive of faith-based decision-making. it is precisely the contention of opinion available within such an open framework that strengthens us as stu­dents and as members of this catholic community. 
saint mary’s mission statement and statement of philosophy and purpose also include the same ded­ication to intersectional identity and free thought. 
“The college creates an open forum in which stu­dents freely and critically study the rich heritage of the catholic tradition, raising the questions neces­sary to develop a mature religious life. … engaging in all aspects of the college experience, students acquire the hallmarks of a liberally educated woman: keen self-knowledge, lively imagination, lifelong intellectual and cultural interests and the ability to make socially responsible choices about the future.” 
saint mary’s invites students to critically study the catholic tradition, a practice which involves examining both its merits and faults; this cannot be done without an understanding of opposing perspectives. similarly, it promotes “the ability to make socially responsible choices,” a trait impos­sible without a holistic understanding of all avail­able choices and beliefs — not just those endorsed by the catholic church. 
while the foundation for the union of catholic identity and intellectual freedom has been laid out in both schools’ mission statements, it has proven difficult to achieve in reality. 
by allowing the Feminist united club’s controver­sial demonstration to take place on campus, saint mary’s was a step closer to living out its mission statement, supporting the critical development of its students’ responsible decision-making skills. in the backlash from the student petition, we only hope the college does not compromise on two con­cepts that should be a single goal. 
The strength, knowledge and conviction of self resulting from free access to and discussion of all ideas at these catholic institutions benefits all of us, whether we identify as catholic or not. we en­courage saint mary’s and notre dame to realize the full potential of their catholic campuses and wel­come oppositional discourse as a means of becom­ing the institutions of true formation and growth they were intended to be. 
never created memories for anyone. when ex­changing the sign of peace in mass, embrace each other for just a moment longer. 
This Thanksgiving season, take some time to reflect on your life and those you’re thankful for. Take the time to call an old friend from high school, maybe even connect with an old elemen­tary school teacher. let bygones be bygones with that person you’ve been feuding with since high school and go have fun together. life is too short to hold grudges. let your friends know you’re there for them. hug your loved ones a little tighter. in short, be thankful. don’t let Jake’s passing just pass by as another page in your book at notre dame. allow Jake’s passing to compel you to be a better, more appreciative person. when you get a moment, now and every once in a while, maybe say a word of thanks for Jake, too. 
Kyle Palmer is a senior from Dillon Hall studying accountancy. He welcomes any challenges to his opinions and can be reached at kpalmer6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MATTHEW MUNHALL 
scene writer 

There is a great series of photos by Angelina Castillo documenting the “sad dads” chaperoning their daughters at a One Direction concert. The dads in ques­tion couldn’t look more uncomfortable being in a football stadium that has been thoroughly reclaimed by teenage girls. 
It wouldn’t be surprising, however, if these sad dads walked away pleasant­ly surprised by their daughters’ idols. With the strong support of their fervent fan base over the past five years, One Direction has been able to mature largely on its own terms, away from the market dictates of Top 40 radio. While the rest of pop was in its EDM phase, the British-Irish boy band was one of the few pop acts making music with power chords. Late-period One Direction has largely veered away from fizzy power pop and Mumford-esque folk-lite toward ‘70s and ‘80s-leaning dad rock. 
The group has become somewhat like the LCD Soundsystem of boy bands: hy­per self-aware in its presentation and explicit about its reference points. Like James Murphy’s much-missed band, too, One Direction is rather smartly going out while still on top. The group’s new album 
“Made in the A.M.” is its fifth in as many 
years — and likely their last, as the group is taking an “extended hiatus” beginning early next year. 
One Direction’s members have said the album’s title refers to its genesis in early-morning songwriting sessions, but fans have suggested “A.M.” stands for “After Malik” (it’s the band’s first release since Zayn Malik’s departure from the group in March of this year). It’s difficult not to feel Malik’s absence on this album, as he was always the group’s best, and most distinct, vocalist. Unfortunately, this intra-group tension doesn’t seem to have translated into much of the music. 
“Made in the A.M.” largely contin­ues down the classic-rock path of 2014’s “Four.” Arguably the group’s high-water mark, “Four” boasted a trove of deep cuts like the “Rumours”-era Fleetwood Mac pastiche “Fireproof” and the Tears for Fears-aping “Stockholm Syndrome.” This album, however, lacks the same verve, even as the group continues mining their parents’ record collections for inspiration. 

Lead single “Drag Me Down” is a glossier take on The Police’s “Message in a Bottle,” while bonus track “Walking in the Wind” is built around a clean guitar line ripped from Paul Simon’s “Graceland.” Both are pleasant enough, but lack the infectious urgency of the group’s best work. 
One Direction’s remaining members 
— Harry Styles, Louis Tomlinson, Liam Payne and Niall Horan — mostly sound tired after the non-stop cycle of touring 
and recording over the past five years. 
On “Perfect,” Styles responds to Taylor Swift’s “Style,” while basically borrow­ing the melody of that song’s chorus. “If you’re looking for someone to write your breakup songs about / Baby I’m perfect,” Styles sings, making it all too clear who he’s singing about. Yet even with Swift’s slinky ‘80s synth pop track as source ma­terial, the end product is bland and inof­fensive — practically a Maroon 5 b-side. The exhaustion is even more apparent on “End of the Day,” which Frankensteins together a verse and chorus from what 
sound likely two completely different 
songs. 

When One Direction lock into the exuberance that made their music so 
appealing in the first place though, the 
results can still be exhilarating. “Lovely Rita” re-write “Olivia” is a charming love song, while “What a Feeling” revisits the Fleetwood Mac soft-rock well for inspira­
tion to great effect. Closer “History” is an acoustic campfire singalong that serves a 
love-letter to the group’s fans and a sum­mation of its career arc. “We can live for­ever!” they shout in unison. Whether One Direction continues to exist after its hia­tus remains to be seen, but “Made in the A.M” makes clear just how well-needed that break is. 
Contact Matthew Munhall at               mmunhall@nd.edu 
“Made in the A.M.” 
One Direction 
Label: Columbia Tracks: “Olivia,” “What a Feeling” If you like: Fleetwood Mac, Paul Simon 


JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 



The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Manor aims to stay on top for second year 
By MAUREEN SCHWENINGER 
sports Writer 
Third-seed morrissey faces the possibility of some fierce payback from fourth-seeded Keenan when the two teams duke it out for their second consecutive title at notre dame stadium this sunday. 
Junior linebacker spencer scannell said this is a stage the manor are ready and prepared for. 
“To be able to play in the sta­dium not once, but twice, is something I’m definitely going to cherish,” scannell said. “but we’re going to play [Keenan] the same way we play every team every week. We’re not making it too big of a deal in preparing for how fired up they’re going to be.” 
Last year’s game was a low-scor­ing affair, as both teams fought through heavy rain and near-freezing temperatures. A second-quarter field goal put the manor up 3-0 for the only points of the day. 
sophomore quarterback and captain declan Zidar said the Knights’ drive for retribution is nothing morrissey hasn’t seen before. 
“It’s similar to [our semifinal], when stanford wanted some re­venge,” Zidar said. “We took it in practice like a normal week, and we’ll do the same thing again. It should be just like any other sunday.” 
“We know we have a target on our backs, and Keenan has us in the crosshairs,” senior receiver and safety cooper cohen said. “but we’re confident. We’re the best team out here, and that’s why we’re here two years in a row.” 
only recently did morrissey emerge as an interhall power­house as they did not make the playoffs the year before claiming the title last season. Zidar cred­ited senior erik rayno as the driv­ing force behind the team’s rise to fame. 
“morrissey’s mantra before [last year] was talent over preparation,” Zidar said. “erik took over his ju­nior year as a captain and instilled a discipline that was greatly need­ed. It’s been great for us. We’ve got a pretty young team this year that needed direction this year, and he provided that. clearly it worked out well.” 
After a serious shoulder injury late last season, the running back­turned-coach rayno has contin­ued to push the team beyond its physical athleticism. 

“It was pretty obvious that the dorm had a lot of guys with pretty good talent,” rayno said. “It was just a matter of getting everybody to focus on the goal of making it happen. once you form a relation­ship with those guys and earn their respect, they want to put things together and work toward winning a championship.” 
senior running back hunter White has spearheaded the manor offense, having eclipsed 100 yards rushing almost every game this season. White said mental tough­ness is key to his success. 
“It’s about going in with the ball and making sure that no matter what happens, you’re delivering,” White said. “You’re not getting hit; you’re bringing the power every time, all the way.” 
As a receiver, cohen is more than willing to sacrifice personal glory for the manor’s signature run game. he has a surprising wish for sunday. 
“I would love to see my name next to zero stats,” cohen said. “If I’m not getting a lot of passes that means we’re running the ball well, and that’s what we do best. never do I want zero stats, but for the team it’s a great thing.” 
The standout White is hardly phased by this being the final game of his career. he said he’s prepared to make it his strongest one yet. 
“I’ve faced this before. I know to go out there and leave it all on the field and not look at it being my last game,” White said. “I can wor­ry about that twenty years from now; right now, it’s the next game. This is what we expected. This is our goal. We’re back and ready to do this again.” 


Contact Maureen Schweninger at mschweni@nd.edu 
Keenan hungry for revenge in title contest 
know how they run their of-been expected, but senior co-defensive stars Tony rogari “We just have to be mentally 
By ALEX BENDER 

sports Writer fense and what they like to do captain seamus ronan said and Peter buseck. tough because we’re one of 
on defense, and we’re abso-winning it all will certainly “This year Aaron diGenova, the most physically domi-
When no. 4 Keenan takes lutely looking forward to hav-prove to be challenging and our quarterback, has really nant teams in the league. As on no. 3 morrissey in the in-ing another shot at them.” as such, the Knights know a evolved and matured at the long as we overcome the men­terhall football champion-Keenan posted a 3-1 regular great deal of preparation has position and been a really big tal battle, I think we’ll have a ship sunday, revenge will season record before defeat-to go into this game. part of making our team more good chance to get the win.” be the Knights’ first order of ing siegfried and dillon to “We respect morrissey a than just one-dimensional,” however, sullivan said no business. make it to the championship lot,” ronan said. “They’re Wiese said. matter the result of the cham-
The stage of notre dame game, something senior co-a very disciplined team, so “We’ve developed a lot of pionship game, he has been stadium is nothing new to captain Jon Wiese said he is we’ve got some defensive talent on the defensive side very fortunate to play along-these two teams, as this very proud of. schemes we’re going to try of the ball with guys such side his teammates this year. year’s championship will be a “We’ve had pretty much out like loading the box to as Tony rogari and Petey “I couldn’t be happier with rematch of last year’s, a game what we expected this sea-stop the running game. We buseck, and we’ve also had the way this team has pro­morrissey won 3-0 on a 45-son, which is a very stout want to force them to make a lot of strong performances gressed and the way we have yard field goal. defense, and our offense is the plays and take the game from our freshmen, including come together,” sullivan 
senior Keenan co-captain coming along much better to us, and we have ultimate [receiver] Lukas cepkauskas, said. “It’s always a special ex-
J.c. sullivan remembers that than we did last year,” Wiese confidence in our offense and a guy that has turned into a perience going out with this game well and said the tough said. “overall, we’ve been re-what it’s capable of. We’re legitimate offensive force,” group of guys. We’ve made loss last season adds a little ally happy, especially with really excited to bring our sullivan said. some bonds this season that extra motivation to get the the development of the fresh-passing game to morrissey Ultimately, junior captain just can’t be matched, and job done this time. men, and along with having a while trying to stop them on mikey Koller said Keenan is we’re really excited to get the 
“We’re looking forward to big core of our team return-defense.” confident heading into the opportunity to play in the getting another chance to go ing this year, we very much As far as what players to ex-game. stadium and have a shot to against those guys,” sullivan expected to be back at the pect big things from, Wiese “We feel that we’re a very win the championship.” said. “It was a great game last stadium this season.” and sullivan mentioned strong team, and at this point year, and we expect it to be a Getting back to the cham-senior quarterback Aaron it’s coming down to more of Contact Alex Bender at  great game this year. We now pionship game might have diGenova and sophomore a mental game,” Koller said. abender@nd.edu 

Marek Mazurek 

Daniel O’Boyle 
Interhall editor Interhall editor 

Well, here we are again. one season later and morrissey and Keenan are simply a cut above the rest in morrissey and Keenan are still the top dogs in men’s the men’s interhall league. interhall football. morrissey looks like the team to beat again this year,
    This time, however, the Knights have a few things running over opponents with its now-famous Wing-T going for them. First, the weather, which hindered offense and running back hunter White. the Knights’ offense last year, looks to be a nonfactor but the Knights’ defense is one of the best in the league, this time around. second, Keenan’s improved passing and they surely have a plan to deal with White and the game is the best in the league, and it boasts the most manor after last year’s 3-0 defeat. on offense, Keenan’s complete offense the manor will face this year. passing game was shut down by the manor and the rain 
but hunter White still plays for morrissey and unless last year, but expect better this time — the Knights have he switches teams in the middle of the game, I can’t added an electric freshman playmaker Lukas cepkauskas, pick against the defending champions. There will be a receiver as hard to cover as his name is to spell. more points than last year, but morrissey will make it It’ll be close, but expect cepkauskas and Keenan’s big-two in a row. play ability to be the difference. 
FINAL SCORE: Morrissey 10, Keenan 6 FINAL SCORE: Keenan 14, Morrissey 12 



Welsh Family looks for redemption 
By JOE EVERETT 
sports Writer 
no team has been better this season than top-ranked Welsh Family, and the last hurdle to completing the Whirlwinds’ mission comes courtesy of their matchup against no. 2 howard in the women’s interhall foot­ball championship. 
Welsh Family, wielding an impressive record of 7-1, has dominated their opponents throughout the season, with its lone loss coming against ryan. In fact, the Whirlwinds have reeled off four straight victories in which the mercy-rule was enforced, including playoff vic­tories against no. 8 Pangborn and no. 4 Farley. 
This stretch of dominance is not new to Welsh Family, which went a perfect 8-0 last season before being upset by Pangborn in the championship, 18-7. It’s a loss that still hurts for the Whirlwinds, and one that junior co-captain and quarterback rachel Wimsatt said inspired her to lead the Whirlwinds back to the championship this year. 
“We’ve set a standard in Welsh Fam: stadium or bust,” Wimsatt said. “I’m nervous and excited because this would be the first victory for Welsh Family in a while, so we hope to bring the championship back to the ‘Fam.’” 
The team has many deter­mined upperclassmen on its roster, and senior receiver catherine michels reflected on what playing in the champion­ship means for her during her final year. 
“It’s an honor, as a senior,” michels said. “We have a great group of girls, and we want to make the most of this opportunity”. 
michels, a favorite target of Wimsatt, is a key contribu­tor within a deep, experienced and talented receiving corps. Wimsatt said her relationship with the receivers has been a large reason for Welsh’s Family’s offensive success this season. 

“We’ve been together for so long, I know all their moves and route angles,” Wimsatt said. “They make my job easy be­cause they trust that I’ll get it to them, and I trust that they’ll catch it”. 
Wimsatt and her receivers look to continue that connec­tion into the championship game where they face a howard team that boasts some offen­sive firepower of it’s own. Welsh Family junior co-captain and cornerback sharon chiang said she looks forward to testing the Whirlwinds defense against the ducks, though. 
“[howard] beat Farley, so we know they’re good,” chaing said. “I trust our defense can stop them — we just need to make sure we play our game.” 
chiang has reason to be opti­mistic about her defense against the ducks. Aside from the game against ryan, the Whirlwinds have given up a grand total of 14 points in seven games. senior linebacker christina Payne said the chemistry on defense is one of the main reasons for its success. 
“It comes down to communi­cation and having trust in one another on the field,” Payne said. “We make adjustments when we need to and look to improve each time we’re out there.” 
Looking to redeem them­selves after their heartbreaking loss in the championship last season, good practices through­out the season have been a priority for the Whirlwinds. several members of the team noted the quality of the fresh­men on the team and the infu­sion of fun into practice by their new coaches, but chiang par­ticularly emphasized that prac­tice continually sharpens her team on both sides of the ball. 

“Practices are really good for us because we have players like Ariel [navotas] who are incred­ibly fast and hard to guard,” chiang said. “our offense goes up against the best defense in practice, and we feel our de­fense goes up against the best offense as well.” 
Welsh Family has talent, experience, dedication and the chance to bring home the championship sunday after­noon. The key will be translat­ing that into one more great team performance at notre dame stadium. 
Contact Joe Everett at jeveret4@nd.edu 
Howard seeks to restore glory to program 
By ANTHONY ZAPPIA 
sports Writer 
It has been a year to remember for 7-1 howard, as the ducks re­turn to notre dame stadium to play in the interhall flag football championship for the first time since 2011. 
since claiming back-to-back championships in 2010 and 2011 
— the two seasons before the cur­rent howard seniors arrived on campus — howard has made the playoffs only once, losing in the first round last season. 
The rebuilding process which followed the two championship seasons may not have led to much success at the time, but has paid dividends this season, senior howard linebacker sarah Philo said. 
“We had a big freshman group from our class who played, and because there were so many freshmen, that’s really helped this year because we’ve all been play­ing for a long time,” Philo said. 
Led by a core of returning play­ers and helped by an influx of talented freshman, co-captain and receiver maria Ianni said the ducks knew they had the potential to compete for a title this season. 
“We had a lot of returning tal­ent, and we ended up coming up with some good freshman talent,” Ianni said. “We came in with the goal of making it to the stadium.” 
Yet, earning a trip to the sta­dium did not always look prom­ising for howard. The ducks started slowly, losing their first game of the season to defending champion Pangborn. And even once howard began winning, the victories were not always convincing. 
senior co-captain and quarter­back stephanie Peterson said one of the most important moments for howard on its road to the championship was its win over Pasquerilla east, who had beaten howard on a controversial call last season. 
“We really appreciated our win against [Pasquerilla east],” Peterson said. “We lost last year to them with a very controversial call in the last six seconds. I think [beating Pasquerilla east] gave us a lot of confidence.” 
And beating Pasquerilla east gave howard yet another reason to celebrate, senior running back 

Marek Mazurek 
Interhall editor 

on paper, this game doesn’t look close. 
Welsh Family is out to avenge last year’s loss in the championship game and has appeared nearly un­stoppable as it bulled through its opponents in the regular season. It then did the same against a great Farley team in the semifinals. howard, on the other hand has a 7-1 record, yes, but it has scraped by in a number of games when it should have dominated. 
however, this game is not being played on paper. howard has solid leadership and a freshman class that will not roll over when it faces the Whirlwinds. Look for the ducks to rely heavily on dual-threat quarterback stephanie Peterson and an underrated defense to get the job done. 
FINAL SCORE:  Howard 23, Welsh Family 16 

Ashley henry said. 

“I mean who isn’t happy to beat malik Zaire?,” henry said. 
With its confidence high, howard ran the table in the reg­ular season, finishing 5-1.  The ducks went on to earn convincing wins in the first two rounds of the playoffs, defeating cavanaugh 13-0 in the first round and ryan, 18-6, in the second. Late in the season, Philo said the defense has become the anchor of the howard team. 
“our defense has been on fire recently,” Philo said. “We really clicked after the third game.” 
on the offensive side of the ball howard has found success this season through the use of a more creative scheme implemented under a new coaching staff. 
“The coaches entirely redid our offensive scheme … and it’s really helped because it’s more intuitive,” Philo said.  “our previ­ous scheme was very simple and it was hard to adjust if we saw the defense doing something, but [the new coaches] brought a lot of creativity to our plays.” 
With the possibility of reclaim­ing the title it has not held since 2011, Ianni said there is a lot of 
Daniel O’Boyle 
Interhall editor 


how Welsh Family and howard achieved their records this season couldn’t be any more different. howard went 5-1 and has done enough to win big games against Farley in the regular season and ryan in the postseason but scraped past lower-rated opponents.
       Welsh Family, also 5-1, has looked dominant, leading the league in both offense and defense and crushing playoff opponents. The Whirlwinds boast a dominant secondary led by sharon chiang and may have the best quarterback in the league in rachel Wimsatt: an unstoppable formula.
    The ducks offense is strong — Welsh Family can’t over­look ducks quarterback stephanie Peterson’s dual-threat abilities — but there’s little to suggest anyone can stop the Whirlwinds right now. 
FINAL SCORE: Welsh Family 27, Howard 8 
excitement from former howard players and coaches. 
“even our former coaches and some of our former players have reached out to us encourag­ing us,” Ianni said. “They’re go­ing to skype us before the game. It’s been awesome to have their support.” 
This year’s team is well aware of the opportunity it has to bring howard back to its former cham­pionship glory, Ianni said. 


“The stadium has always been our goal because we’ve seen the posters hanging in howard of previous teams; we’ve seen the trophies,” Ianni said. 
Though the goal of making it to the stadium has been accom­plished, this sunday howard will be looking to go even one step fur­ther to reclaim the championship. 
Contact Anthony Zappia at azappia@nd.edu 
JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 


The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Kelly McGarry 
scene writer 

Midnight gatherings, initiation rituals 
and a full-fledged pledge of allegiance 
make this fan base the ultimate cult following. “The Rocky Horror Picture 
Show” — part musical, part horror film 
and entirely outrageous — is the bible for this mysterious group of fans who treat 
their beloved film as much more than your typical genre flick. 
The way “The Rocky Horror Picture Show” plays out in theaters is unique compared to any other movie, and may be shocking to first-timers. While the film is shown on screen, a live cast dynami­cally acts out the scenes in front of the screen, but not without getting up close 
By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

The feeling of being watched is uni­versal, but that doesn’t make it any less eerie an experience. This phenomenon often occurs within us when we are at our most vulnerable or most uncomfort­able with our surroundings. changing in an empty house with windows, walk­ing down the street alone or in a crowd­ed bar after a drink or two — even in the most unfounded cases, the feeling can overwhelm your entire body. 
so, what does it mean to voluntarily put yourself in this position, for three days straight? not only that, but also to do so while subject yourself to prior recordings of yourself? To actor and self-proclaimed former-celebrity shia labeouf, this means art. 
beginning nov. 10, labeouf consecu­tively showed all of his movies in reverse chronological order at the angelika Film center in new york city. concurrently, labeouf streamed an online feed of himself sitting in the theatre watch­ing his films for three straight days. his 
and personal. This isn’t simply a live performance; “The Rocky Horror Picture Show” is 
defined by audience interaction. Messy 
props and rude banter, shouting back and forth with character lines and dancing to the time warp make for a rowdy view­ing experience. A few members of the audience even get a chance to do a per­formance of their own. I won’t give any spoilers for the “virgins” of the crowd (anyone who hasn’t seen “TRHPS”), only that they should be sure to grab a surviv­al kit. On Halloween weekend, A Rocky Horror cast even performed at our own Legends Nightclub to an audience littered with virgins, many of whom will end up carrying on the tradition. 
What’s remarkable about these tradi­tions is that there are no instructions 
#allmymovies event was open to the public, with labeouf inviting his fans to join him at the theatre or to watch him watch his movies online, both for free. 
The camera capturing labeouf at his seat stayed tight and focused on the ac­tor’s face for the entirety of the event. catching all of his reactions, from tears to laughs, it reminds us of what it feels like to watch a movie in the convention­al manner. labeouf takes his seat after intermissions between each film, stands up to let other audience members enter and exit his row and shares his chair’s armrest with the person seated next to him. we see him scratch his face and rub his eyes, having been staring at a movie screen for hours. #allmymovies can be seen as labeouf celebrating not his own movies — though it doesn’t hurt as a plug for everything that he has starred in since the start of his career — but as celebrating the act of going to a theatre and watching a movie in itself. 
with the myriad alternatives to see­ing a movie in theatres available to us, labeouf, already known for goofy, ab­surd stunts, reminds us of what used to 

given at the show, yet much of the audi­ence is acting in unison. It’s obvious that most of the audience is very familiar with the show, the mark of a cult following. Newbies pick up on the audience respons­es, and the tradition continues. 
It might appear that only an extreme­ly niche group would be fond of the ag­gressive, raunchy humor of “The Rocky Horror Picture Show,” but with shows that have been playing across the country for decades, the cult reaches father than you might think. This begs the question, what is it about this movie in particular that brings people together? 
The movie seems nonsensical, but the way it has built a community makes the message clearer. The music, the costumes and the outrageous characters all lead to­ward attention-grabbing ridiculousness. 
be the chief activity in cinematic enter­tainment. at the same time, he challeng­es himself and his audiences to think about the nature of his experiment. 
labeouf’s stunt blurs the line be­tween truth and performance. in tap­ing himself, can we know whether his reactions — or even more acutely, his little physical ticks — are genuine or the product of some type of act? however, being a believer in metamodernism, he might argue that it transcends both. instead of distinguish between actor and character, labeouf blurs the two into one cohesive being. after confront­ing people with a discomforting perfor­mance art piece called #iamsorry, in which he sat in a los angeles gallery for six days crying with a paper bag over his head that read “i am not famous any­more,” #allmymovies could not be a more wholesome representation of his ideology. 
The art piece also causes reflection on that human experience of feeling watched, something that labeouf in­teracts with as a celebrity recognized in public and as an actor in front of a 
Most notable is Doctor Frank-N-Furter, the sassy, extremely sexual transvestite from another planet, who builds his own sort of eye-candy monster, parodying the famous Mary Shelley story. 
The movie is a statement against con­ventionalism that reaches into absurdity, but it reflects a desire for acceptance of our own unconventional qualities, which undeniably brings people together. For the cult followers of “The Rocky Horror Picture Show,” it’s not just fun Friday night entertainment; this performance is a way of life. 
Contact Kelly McGarry at kmcgarry@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
camera. did he constantly feel the cam­era focused on him as a persistent pres­ence, thousands of internet browsers watching him from the safety of their computer? what about the very real judgment and accusations of pretention and self-absorption that could come from him genuinely responding to his own acting? 
as the screen flashed and dimmed on labeouf’s face throughout the stream of #allmymovies, you couldn’t help but connect with the sometimes chastised actor. he feels the same discomforts as anyone else, yawning, fixing his hoodie and shifting in his theatre chair. 
we assume his status affords him an obvious better quality of life, but as a result of his fame he faces a harder time trying to convey his own discomforts to an audience who doesn’t want to hear it. so, why not use his fame and pen­chant for artistic stunts to show us in­stead of simply, unsuccessfully trying to tell us. 
Contact Matt McMahon at                 mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

Happy Birthday: leave the past behind you. view your cup as half full and do your best to take advantage of every opportunity that comes your way. you stand to make substantial gains if you are steadfast in your pursuits. greater stability and the chance to raise your standard of living are within reach. all you have to do is take action. your numbers are 4, 11, 19, 26, 34, 37, 42. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): initiate what you want to see happen. if you don’t take action, you will end up having regrets. don’t leave your future in someone else’s hands. make the changes that will bring you the highest returns. romance is encouraged.  


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take control and make decisions that will help you advance. sign up for a course or check out the online job market. look for something a little different than what you have done in the past, and it will help expand your options. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): listen carefully and you will avoid a misunderstanding. emotions will surface and arguments will flare up if you aren’t willing to compromise. Try to avoid joint money ventures. overindulgence will turn into a costly affair. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t bend to someone’s whims. use your intelligence and your excellent memory to outmaneuver anyone trying to take over or sell you something you don’t need. don’t be upset if someone backs out of a partnership. it could be a blessing in disguise. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): get physical and enjoy a challenge that gets you moving. a change in routine or surroundings will help your frame of mind. The time you take to distance yourself from domestic problems will enable you to find a workable solution. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): check out what’s going on in your community. chatting with your neighbors or attending a meeting will be satisfying. express your feelings to your close friends and family members, and try to make a positive difference. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Take on a project that will help you improve your health and physical fitness. Knowledge you’ve picked up through past experience will help you secure your professional future. romance will lead to a closer bond with someone special. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): you’ll be open to suggestions and willing to try new things. events in your community will bring you in contact with people who can help you expand your interests. your popularity will grow if you participate. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): don’t pretend that you can do it all if you cannot. you’ll be held accountable if you aren’t honest about your assessments. Keep the peace by following through with the promises you make. overindulgence will hurt your image. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you’ll have plenty to offer if you take part in an open discussion. work-related events look promising and will help raise your profile among your peers. a fortunate turn of events will encourage you to try something different. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t let what others say bother you. do what works for you and follow your heart when it comes to work, money or personal matters. change will be fruitful if your motives are good. don’t be a follower. do what’s best for you.  


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): negotiate and sign deals. Take on new projects or turn an idea you have into a profitable venture. a partnership looks good if you can fairly delegate who does what. don’t let an emotional situation hold you back. 


Birthday Baby: you are industrious, thoughtful and practical. you are intelligent and precise. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 




The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

To
 receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable to and mail to: The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 
address 
city     state Zip 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Do punishments fit the crimes? 

Daniel O’Boyle 
sports writer 
i’m sure you already know the sequence of events sur­rounding ohio state quarter­back J.T. barrett in the past two weeks. They have been hard to ignore. 
barrett was arrested for drunk-driving oct. 31. urban meyer suspended barrett for the buckeyes’ clash with minnesota on saturday. cardale Jones, ohio state’s starter for the first seven weeks of the season, re­turned to the role of leading signal-caller and defeated the golden gophers, 28-14, in part thanks to his late 38-yard touchdown run to seal the game. 
something just isn’t right there; something seems unjust. 
nothing to do with how we punish drunk driving in gen­eral: oh gosh, no. driving un­der the influence is a horrific crime, and causes over 10,000 deaths a year, but — judging from social media’s reaction 
— apparently there’s some­thing worse going on here. 
isn’t the problem obvious? The lives barrett put in dan­ger are one thing, but how does it affect you or me — you know, just the average sports fan who wants the buckeyes to lose. 
suspending barrett for one game? i mean maybe one game could derail their season, but let’s not take any chances: this is just too important. 
and against who? minnesota? 4-5 minnesota? no, that’s all wrong. The most logical course of justice would be to wait a couple more weeks, then suspend him for michigan state or michigan. That would show him. 
well maybe not, but it would show all those un­bearable buckeye fans out there, and isn’t that more important? 
and that’s missing the big­gest problem of it all. The 6-foot-6, 250-pound problem: cardale Jones. 
it’s one thing to suspend a player when his backup is an unproven true freshman, but ohio state’s original starter? The guy who led the buckeyes to a big Ten title and the na­tional championship? The guy who’s won every game he’s ever started? The guy who pulled out the big play to clinch the minnesota game without barrett. and then there’s Joey bosa and ezekiel elliott, maybe they should be suspended, too, just in case. sure, maybe the guy who actually did something wrong gets punished, but what does it mean if ohio state still runs the table and finds itself in the playoff at the end of the season? won’t it all have been for nothing? 
isn’t that what our justice system was designed to do? help successful sports teams lose? 
or at least, you’d think so, judging by some of the reac­tion to barrett’s suspension. 
barrett’s not the first sports star to fall victim to this kind of “only when it suits my team” activism. Jameis winston comes to mind from just last season. did people really care about whether the investigation against winston following rape allegations was conducted correctly? how many of these same peo­ple are doing anything about all the other sexual assaults on college campuses across the country? instead, we see a serious subject (whether he was guilty or not, the subject remains an incredibly serious one) being turned into petty point-scoring and taunting, with oregon players referenc­ing the allegations in a chant after their rose bowl victory over Florida state. 
That’s what crimes by ath­letes have become: something we only care about by means of point-scoring against ri­vals. unless we have some­thing to show us just how awful these crimes are, like the recent photographs from greg hardy’s domestic abuse case or ray rice’s elevator video, sports fans only pre­tend to care. even rice only really found himself out of the league because he wasn’t a good running back any more; hardy is apparently too good a pass-rusher to face the same action. 
sure, there’s the whole “role model” argument. a high-profile athlete committing a crime has a greater impact than a regular citizen doing the same thing. but does sus­pending barrett for longer do much in that regard? Talking about suspensions just makes us think of drunk-driving as another potential kink in the playoff picture and reminds us that most people just don’t care enough. 
can’t we talk about ath­letes’ crimes (or criminal alle­gation) for what they are and not some sort of way to shut up a rival? 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

irish travel to Florida to face acc foes 
By DAISY COSTELLO 
sports writer 

seeking to avoid its 10th con­secutive conference loss, notre dame travels to the sunshine state this weekend to take on acc rivals no. 20 Florida state and miami. 
This will be the second time the irish (6-20, 1-13 acc) face the seminoles (19-6, 12-2 acc) in 2015, as they lost 3-0 at home on sept. 27. Florida state cur­rently sits in second place in the acc standings, while miami finds itself in fifth. 
The irish played the seminoles close in the first two sets of the match when the seminoles visited purcell pavilion in late september, with the irish losing 25-20 and 25-21 in the first two sets, respec­tively. however, in the third set the irish were unable to gain any offensive momentum like the seminoles, who capitalized with 12 kills on 16 attempts. 
sophomore outside hit­ter sydney Kuhn led the irish with team-highs in kills (eight) and digs (nine) against Florida state the first time around. sophomore setter maddie dilfer racked up 18 assists sept. 27 against the seminoles. 
“The message is always the same. we’re pretty redundant as coaches: you hope you’re tak­ing care of the ball better,” irish head coach Jim mclaughlin said. “our numbers are getting better, we’re getting better but we need to continue improv­ing. we can still work toward that end of being a team that plays with great regularity at a high level and the wins will come.” 
coming off two tough home losses to virginia Tech and pittsburgh, the irish will have to come up with an answer for the offensive efficiency of the Florida state and miami ros­ters. last time the irish faced Florida state, the seminoles collected 38 kills with only 15 errors. The irish, on the other hand, balanced 29 kills against nearly as many errors (24). 
miami has been playing some of its best volleyball of the season in the last few weeks, earning back-to-back wins against the seminoles and virginia. The hurricanes have also won five of their last six and 10 of their last 12 matches, only dropping road decisions to pittsburgh and north carolina. sophomore outside hitter olga strantzali was named this week’s acc player of the week for her performances against Florida state and virginia, as she put up 23 kills on a .514 hitting percentage, while also collecting seven service aces, as well. strantazali also was named to the preseason all-acc team. 
The hurricanes have a very potent offensive attack, led in large part by strantzali and se­nior outside hitter Taylor scott. in its last two matches alone, miami has put up 104 kills with just 23 errors, an efficiency that will challenge the irish defen­sive front. 
“can we be in the right place at the right time given the situ­ation? we’re starting to figure that out, and we control that,” mclaughlin said. “The girls are starting to understand that they are just situations that happen over and over and can we respond appropriately to those situations. we’re starting to get to spots a little faster and sooner than we’ve been, but we’ve missed assignments. one person out of position screws up the whole package. 
“all you can ask for is a great effort level, a level of intensity every day we train. and are we improving? yes, we have been getting better.” 
notre dame looks to take down Florida state and miami this weekend in the sunshine state. The irish play the seminoles on Friday night in Tallahassee, Florida, before traveling to coral gables to take on the hurricanes on sunday. 
Contact Daisy Costello at mcostel4@nd.edu 

NHL | capiTals 5, Flyers 2 
capitals best Flyers to avoid consecutive losses 
Associated Press 

philadelphia — Jason chimera had two goals and an assist to lead the washington capitals to a 5-2 victory over the slumping philadelphia Flyers on Thursday night. 
washington’s alex ovechkin remained one goal shy of be­coming the top russian-born goal scorer in nhl history. 
ovechkin, tied sergei Fedorov at 483 career goals, ap­peared to take the lead when his slap shot beat steve mason with 38 seconds left in the sec­ond period. however, the goal was disallowed after an offi­cials’ review determined that Justin williams was offside on the play. 
T.J. oshie, nicklas backstrom and williams all scored for washington, which won its third in four games while avoid­ing losing consecutive games for the first time this season. 
scott laughton and claude giroux had goals for philadelphia, which has lost four straight games at home and eight of its last nine overall. 
The capitals turned a one-goal deficit into a 4-2 lead with three goals in a 7 ½-minute span of the second period. 
chimera finished a deft pass from evgeny Kuznetsov with just over 10 minutes remaining in the period to tie the score at 2 with a power-play goal. 
williams used his skate to corral a rebound and then de­ked mason from close range to put washington up 3-2 with 
9:21 left in the period. 

and chimera finished the scoring barrage by netting his second of the game and fifth of the season with a deflection from the slot that ricocheted off the post and in. 
The Flyers responded to wednesday’s intense prac­tice that followed Tuesday’s 4-0 home loss to colorado in a strong way, taking a 1-0 lead 3:24 into the game on laughton’s third goal of the season. oshie tied it with 9:25 left in the first after Kuznetsov’s pretty feed from behind the net. 
giroux regained the lead for the Flyers with a power-play goal just 1:07 into the sec­ond period on a shot from the left boards that found its way past braden holtby, who was screened by wayne simmonds on the play. 
mason, philadelphia’s no. 1 goalie, returned to the lineup after backup michal neuvirth got the nod in the last four games. he made 27 saves. 
notes: washington won for just the second time in the last eight games against the Flyers and first in the last eight trips to philadelphia with ovechkin in the lineup. . philadelphia rw Jakub voracek continued his early season slump, mak­ing it 16 games without a goal. voracek had 81 points last sea­son, but he has just five assists this season. . The Flyers, who entered second-to-last in the league by allowing 34.3 shots per game, were outshot for the ninth straight game, 32-20. 


The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

W Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
30 but also a loss to acc bot­tom-dweller miami. irish head coach Theresa romagnolo said her squad needs to push itself to maintain the high level of play it is capable of throughout the tournament as a whole. 
“The challenge is that this is the ncaa tournament, and we are playing with the poten­tial that this is our last game,” romagnolo said. “[oakland] is a team that will fight, battle and scrap for everything. 
“That mentality is some­thing we need to bring to every game in this tournament [as well].” 
oakland, however, is an enigmatic first-round op­ponent for notre dame. The golden grizzlies haven’t dropped a match since a 2-1 loss to milwaukee on sept. 18. however, they also recorded a mere 1-4-4 record outside of horizon league play. 
regardless, romagnolo said she does not expect her team to overlook the golden grizzlies as its first-round op­ponent at home. 
“it’s a different strength of schedule compared to the acc, but they are a con­ference champion and de­serve the respect they’ve earned for winning those the games,” romagnolo said. “[we know] they’re a good team, just like every team in this tournament.” 


Tonight’s match represents the 23rd straight season the irish have played in the ncaa championships. The last time the irish made it as far as the college cup was their na­tional championship season in 2010. To get back to that stage, the irish need to con­tinue the sharp play from their last match and carry it for­ward during each and every game the rest of the season, romagnolo said. 

“our focus is on staying sharp after finishing strong against virginia Tech,” romagnolo said. “[offensively], we need to establish possession on the ball and continue to create op­portunities that we can finish. 
paid adverTisemenT 

“defensively, we need to re-paid adverTisemenT main strong as a unit and keep putting [our opponent] un­der pressure and not allowing them to feel comfortable out there.” 
The irish begin their post­season run tonight at 7 p.m., when they welcome the golden grizzlies to alumni stadium. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 





W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
of 2015 all-american Jewell loyd, who left notre dame at the end of last season for the wnba, but allen said the team can make up for the loss through collective effort. 
“i think we’re going to be a little more balanced,” allen said. “The defense won’t be able to clue in on one play­er like they did for Jewell. i think with the offense we have right now, and what the coaches will come up with, the scoring should be spread out more.” 
Turner looks set to be a key contributor for the irish again this year, after a suc­cessful freshman outing. This year, Turner said she has improved physically and expects it to show when the regular season begins. 

“i’m definitely just work­ing on playing hard the whole game,” Turner said. “last year, i would get tired and kind of take plays off, so this year i just hope to play hard the whole game and take less plays off. 

“i’m focusing on posting up stronger. i feel like i’m stronger this year so defi­nitely maintaining my posi­tion on the block.” 
The irish had a chance to tune up for the regular sea­son saturday when they de­feated wayne state, 101-52, at purcell pavilion. irish head coach muffet mcgraw said the game helped her un­derstand what her team still needs to work on. 
“we showed some defen­sive areas that we can work out, we showed some places that we were turning the ball over way too much, we showed how we could tight­en things up offensively,” mcgraw said after the vic­tory. “The press i think had some good moments, that’s as tight as we’ve looked with that press for a while, so i was happy with that, more so in the second half.” 
The offense had some close range misses against wayne state, but mcgraw said that doesn’t concern her and is not something she expects to cause any trouble on sunday. 
“i’m not too worried about misses,” mcgraw said. “we were working today on the ex­ecution. we took great shots. That’s what you can control. whether the ball goes in or out of the basket, we really don’t have total control over that. [sophomore forward brianna Turner] led the na­tion in field goal percentage last year — we’re going to make those shots.” 

Turner said the perfor­mance against wayne state showed a lot of potential for the irish which she hopes to see carried into into the reg­ular season. 
“we did well,” Turner said. “of course we missed a few easy buckets, but overall we did a good job. even the guards were driving a lot, and they got to the foul line. it was really a collective ef­fort inside.” 
The game will also be the first opportunity for two irish freshman guards 
— arike ogunbowale and marina mabrey — to prove themselves in the regu­lar season. a third fresh­man guard, ali patberg, was expected to contribute early for notre dame but will miss the entire 2015­16 season with a torn acl. however, junior forward Kristina nelson is set to play her first competitive game for the irish in over a year after missing all of last sea­son with a shoulder injury while reimer, who missed notre dame’s exhibition with wayne state, may be fit to play again sunday. 
The irish and bison will tip sunday at purcell pavilion at 1 p.m. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 




M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
to win the acc than a national championship.” 
notre dame completed a suc­cessful regular season, led by sophomore forward Jon gallagher with nine goals and senior mid­fielder evan panken, who is tied for second in the acc with eight assists. on the other end of the field, notre dame’s defense ranks fourth in the conference in goals against. 
but these accomplishments and wednesday’s win over the no. 1 team in the nation do not mean the irish are finished yet, clark said. 
“i said i didn’t need to remind them that the job is only two-thirds of the way done,” clark said. “we’ve got a team that’s gone into north carolina and they’ve gone into clemson and come out victors, so i think the first thing is to start preparing.” 
To prepare, clark said he wants to see the group’s chemistry grow and improve every game, espe­cially as they move further into the postseason. 
“can we go from every game, and that’s what we always say, can we take something from ev­ery game and take it into the next game?,” clark said. “we’ll see the video from [wednesday] night’s game and try to take a couple of things from it and take it to the next game. That’s what we’ve done, and we do it every week and every game. 
“The really good teams, they add a little bit on through the entire sea­son, and come the matches where it really matters in november and december, hopefully we’ve grown from where we were in august.” 
of course, the game falls on the players and coaches on the field, but clark said having a full crowd at alumni stadium would add another dimension to the game, especially during a championship game. 

“i would love ... to get a big crowd out at alumni stadium,” clark said. “we had over 5,000 people on wednesday night at wake Forest, and it was one of the best college soccer atmospheres that i have ever been part of as a coach. 
“could we get students to come out? could we get the community to come out? can we make this a special occasion for this group of seniors? The only thing this group of seniors haven’t won that they could’ve won is, well we won the league twice, the national cham­pionship and we won the big east when these seniors were freshman. 
“The only thing that they haven’t won that would be really relevant would be this tournament. This is an opportunity for them of course, but i think if we could get the sup­port from the students, it would be 

a terrific help.”  stadium at 1 p.m.  
notre dame looks to win its first  
acc  championship on sunday  Contact Manny De Jesus at  
when it hosts syracuse at alumni  mdejesus@nd.edu  

M Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
as a much-needed spark off of the bench last season. although he only averaged 
5.6 points per game, colson stepped up in big games, scor­ing 17 points against no. 2 duke in the acc semifinal in addition to double-digit performances in four other games. brey said he is happy with colson’s flexibility, but still trying to figure out what to do with his other players if colson is playing inside. 
“Then when you do that it puts a big logjam on your big guys,” brey said. “now your big guys are stacked on top of each other, and how do you get them minutes? how do you keep those engaged that maybe aren’t playing early in the year?” 
For brey and his irish team, this season also poses a chal­lenge in adapting to the new 30-second shot clock, down from 35-seconds a year ago. 
“Thirty-second clocks is not a 20-second clock is what i try to tell them,” brey said. “we almost got it up there a little quick. and to understand when you get into this half-court basketball mode that we do in practice, it’s a grind when we have to do it. i’ve got to have a good balance point of that because arguably our two best players [in junior guard demetrius Jackson and senior forward Zach auguste] thrive in transition.” 
Throughout the preseason, brey said he’d like his squad to be more adept at the half-court game. still, brey said he understands that his team is stronger in transition. 
“as much as you have to learn to grind, we have to continue to talk about getting stops or get­ting made field goals in quick, which we’ve emphasized from day one,” brey said. “… i think we felt between the 30-second clock and the personnel we have, let’s get it in and go, go, go down the floor so we’re not having to grind as much.” 

The game may have a fast-paced feel, as st. Francis is guard-heavy this year. The red Flash return their top two guards in junior malik harmon and senior greg brown. harmon finished sec­ond on the team in scoring last season averaging 9.7 points per game while dishing out a team-high 2.7 assists per con­test, while brown averaged 8.2 points last season, connecting on 50.5 percent of his shots. The irish, however, probably most remember senior for­ward ronnie drinnon (8.1 ppg, 7.8 rpg), who started for the red Flash the last time they played the irish. 
“Their four man is a kid who started here as a freshman and banged against Jack cooley — we were looking at that tape the other day,” brey said. 
although notre dame is heavily favored in the game, brey said he is anticipat­ing a battle between the two teams. although picked to finish eighth in the northeast conference, st. Francis has had some recent success. last season, the red Flash beat rutgers and duquesne on their way to finishing 16-16 over­all and 9-9 in the northeast conference — a finish good enough to put them in their first postseason game in 24 years. 
“Their program is feeling good about themselves,” brey said. “one of my themes today is expect a hard game and em­brace a hard game. 
“… i think that’s a great matchup [at the guard posi­tion], those two guys against our two guys.” 
notre dame’s 2015-2016 season will commence Friday when it welcomes st. Francis to purcell pavilion for a 7:30 
p.m. tip-off. 

Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 








remaining defensemen el­evated their play and the en­tire defensive front played a key role in the irish victory. 
“it’s a coordinated effort. we were playing with three defensemen there for a little bit, so we have to get great effort out of a couple pairs of defensemen,” Jackson said. 
“[gross] has savvy, he has poise, and he is deceptive at the blue line because he has the ability to pump and get a guy to move, and he has the innate ability to do that.” 
gross netted his second goal later in the first period at the 13:18 mark off assists from freshman left wing dylan malmquist and soph­omore center/right wing Jake evans. 
“i took a shot from a pass from [dylan] malmquist and followed my own rebound, and the puck was just laying in the crease, so i just tapped it in,” gross said. 
The third and final irish goal came from freshman center andrew oglevie at the 3:05 mark of the second period. evans tallied his second assist of the night on a backhand pass that led to the goal. it was oglevie’s first goal at notre dame. 
northeastern came storm­ing back almost immediately after oglevie’s second-peri­od goal, scoring two goals in less than one minute at 6:40 and 7:08 of the second pe­riod. The irish were able to hang on for the win thanks to the play of sophomore goaltender cal petersen down the stretch, Jackson said. petersen had 23 saves for the irish over the course of the game in order to seal the irish victory. 
“after you let up a goal, it’s a reset process, but the team did a really great job, espe­cially on the five-minute [penalty] kill [after ryan’s major penalty],” petersen said. “with a younger team, you’re looking for guys to play on their heels, but we were very resilient, and it re­ally showed in the way that we controlled the rest of the period.” 
notre dame returns to the ice tomorrow night look­ing to take the second game and sweep the series against northeastern. The puck drops at compton Family ice arena at 7:35 p.m. 
Contact Daisy Costello at mcostel4@nd.edu 

Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
sophomore defenseman Jordan gross with assists from senior center steven Fogarty and senior left wing sam herr. gross said his ability to take advantage of open spots on the ice and his teammates’ ability to find him with the puck helped him score the first irish goal of the night. 
“There was a big seam open, so i found it and mario [lucia] made a nice pass up to the blue line, i don’t even think the goalie saw that one,” gross said. 
Jackson said gross stepped up for the irish, who were down a defensemen after senior blueliner andy ryan received a game miscon­duct penalty for contact to the head. Jackson said he noticed that gross and the 
paid adverTisemenT 


HOCKEY | noTre dame 3, norTheasTern 2 
Notre Dame fends off Northeastern’s late rally 
By DAISY COSTELLO 
sports writer 
pucks were flying at compton Family ice arena on Thursday night as no. 18 notre dame took down northeastern, 3-2. 
For the second weekend in a row, the irish (5-2-2, 3-0-0 hockey east) got off to a quick start before expe­riencing a drop off, having to fend off the huskies (1-8­1, 0-4-1) en route to a hard fought win. irish head coach Jeff Jackson said the team’s play was streaky at times, giving up several big plays to the huskies before reassert­ing themselves. 
“we had a couple blunders there, two mistakes with the puck, and that’s the strength of [northeastern’s] team is that they can capitalize,” Jackson said. “we held on and responded.” 
The irish netted two goals in the first period alone, with the first coming from 
see hocKey PAGE 15 

MEN’S SOCCER 

ND to meet Orange in ACC title game 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
no. 9 notre dame and no. 13 syracuse collide in both teams’ first ever acc championship final appearance sunday after­noon at alumni stadium. 
both teams took similar routes to the championship game. ranked the seventh seed in the tournament, the orange (12­5-3, acc 3-4-1) defeated north carolina state on nov. 4 at home, 2-0, took down the no. 4 north carolina 4-3 in penalty kicks at chapel hill on sunday and capped off the trifecta wednesday by beating no. 2 clemson, 2-0, on the road. 
with two consecutive wins against top-five ranked teams, the orange now find themselves in south bend in search of their first acc title. 
“They were in the final four [of the ncaa tournament] last year,” irish head coach bobby clark said. “They lost to louisville in a very tight game last year, so they’re very good team. 
“any team that can knock off unc in penalty kicks and then go to clemson and win, it shows they’re scared of no one.” 

The fourth-seeded irish (11-3-5, acc 4-2-2) also had their own im­pressive run of victories to reach the final. notre dame finished 1-0 against no. 19 virginia on sunday, who ousted the irish last season in the third round of the ncaa tournament by the same score. The irish then brought down no. 1 wake Forest wednesday in a 1-0 thriller to earn their spot in the title game. 
although syracuse’s three-game winning streak over top-ranked opponents is impressive, clark said the rankings don’t mean much given the acc’s high level of competition. 
“The eighth seed in the acc last year won the national champion­ship. … every team in our league is very accomplished, so we weren’t shocked by [syracuse’s win over wake Forest],” clark said. 
“This will be, in many ways, harder than our two previous games. i think i’ve been quoted before in saying it’s almost harder 
see m soccer PAGE 14 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Brey confident ahead of opener 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
after making its first elite eight appearance in 36 years and losing senior lead­ers Jerian grant and pat connaughton to gradua­tion, notre dame will open its 2015-2016 regular sea­son Friday when it hosts st. Francis (pennsylvania). 
despite losing the 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

leadership and production of grant and connaughton — the pair were both captains and together contributed more than 37 percent of notre dame’s offense — the irish still have high preseason ex­pectations, ranked no. 19 in the ap poll and picked by acc media to finish fourth in the conference. 
none of the noise seems to affect irish head coach mike brey, who said he is busy fig­uring out lineup combina­tions and who will see the floor for notre dame, at least early on in the season. 
“we’re always looking at how do we help ourselves of­fensively sometimes, sub-stituting-wise where we get another shooter-scorer on the floor that then stretches the floor, spaces the floor?,” brey said wednesday during his national signing day press conference. “even though [sophomore forward] bonzie [colson] continues to make progress spacing it as a four man, i don’t want to lose sight of him playing inside the arc too, because he’s so good around the bucket.” 
colson has impressed in his one year on campus, serving 
see m bball PAGE 14 

allen, Turner lead team into new season 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
notre dame opens the 2015­2016 regular season at home against bucknell in what could be an opportunity to set the tone for another successful season. 
The bison posted an 18-12 re­cord last year, including a 10-8 mark in the patriot league, and will be in action against cleveland state on Friday be­fore they meet the irish on sunday. bucknell returns four of its five starters from last year, including junior forward claire deboer, who averaged 

11.3 points and 7.6 rebounds per game last season. 
For notre dame, the game will be the first competitive matchup since losing 63-53 to connecticut in the ncaa national championship in april. The irish return four of five starters from last year, in­cluding 2015 acc Freshman of the year brianna Turner and acc assist-leader lindsay allen. irish head coach muffet mcgraw said she looks for­ward to finally being able to begin the season again. 
“it’s so much fun,” mcgraw said at notre dame’s media day in october. “every year is a brand new team. we have different issues, so many peo­ple who can score in different ways. we’ve got a great post game, we’ve got terrific fresh­men. Trying to piece it togeth­er is really the most difficult thing for me. it’s like a giant puzzle.” 
allen said she thinks the team is capable of great things. 
“i think our potential is limitless,” allen said. “we’re young, we’re excited, we’re getting more experience on the perimeter and especially in the post, with [Turner] get­ting a year older and [junior forward] Taya [reimer] getting a year older and [sophomore forward] Kathryn [westbeld] getting a year older.” 
The irish will have to find a way to replace the production 
see w bball PAGE 13 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
irish host oakland 

By BEN PADANILAM 
sports writer 
no. 3 notre dame hosts oakland in the first round of the ncaa tournament tonight. 
The irish (13-4-1, 6-4-0 acc) learned they earned a no. 3 seed and home field advantage monday when the selection committee re­leased the 64-team bracket. Their opponent, the golden grizzlies (8-5-7, 7-1-3 horizon) earned their bid after a 1-0 overtime victory over wright state in the horizon league championship game saturday. 
despite failing to qualify for postseason play in the acc, the irish enter the tournament af­ter finishing the regular season ranked no. 11 nationally. 
The irish suffered from in­consistency though, as the team collected wins over current no. 1 seed virginia on sept. 24 and no. 4 seed virginia Tech on oct. 
see w soccer PAGE 12 




