The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 11 | monday, september 7, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Freshmen react to first game of the season 
Notre Dame’s newest students share their impressions of first home game, victory over Texas 
By ANDREA VALE 
news writer 
saturday marked the first home football game of the 2015 season, and though the entire campus was abuzz with the excitement of starting a new year, only a frac­tion of the spectators – 2,011, to be exact – were experiencing that particular thrill and anticipation of attending a notre dame home football game for the first time as a student. 
Freshman edna ofelia martinez said the game versus Texas was her first notre dame football game. 
“i think part of what made it such an incredible experience was getting to sit with all of my closest friends,” martinez said. “we had a blast cheering and jumping and whooping … all in all, i wouldn’t take back a thing about my first notre dame game.” 
many freshmen reactions to the 38-3 win over the Texas longhorns reflected a learning experience to the traditions and norms that come with being a member of the student section. 
“i wasn’t completely sure about the words to all of the chants, but it was fairly simple to pick up on,” martinez said, “The dance to the celtic chant is my favorite. with some of the other ones, it was a lit­tle hard to pick up on what people were saying, but i managed o.K. i now know most of the words to our Fight song and the alma mater. 
“The first touchdown, i didn’t go up. i was still confused as to what that all meant, but once 
see Freshmen paGe 3 

MICHAEL YU | The Observer 
Football fans from all over the country filled Notre Dame stadium Saturday night to watch the Irish take on Texas in the first home game of the 2015 season. The Irish defeated the Longhorns 38-3. 



Saint Mary’s events raise mental health awareness 
student lectures on sustainability 

By MARTHA REILLY 
news writer 

in an effort to increase men­tal health awareness and foster a sense of unity on campus, saint mary’s will host several events this week as part of its support a belle, love a belle (sablab) initiative. 
Junior mary Joy dingler, co-chair of the student government association’s social concerns committee, said she and her co-chair junior Jenna wozniak col­laborated to schedule both new events and continue successful ones. 
“Jenna and i worked together all summer planning this week,” dingler said. “The student panel and guest speaker are traditions for sablab, so we just had to orga­nize those. apart from that, Jenna and i just tried to think of events that would bring girls together.” 
dingler said she can personally attest to the transformative power of sablab, as she took part in years prior. 
“i remember participating in events my freshman year and lov­ing everything about it,” she said. “it brings girls together in a unique way and under a different type of circumstance.” 
according to dingler, students of all ages can benefit from this week as they bond with other belles and gain understanding of mental health issues. 
“i think it is something upper­classmen look forward to every year, but i think it is also important 
see sablab paGe 3 

By ALEX WINEGAR 
associate saint mary’s editor 

The Justice Friday series continued at saint mary’s on sept. 4, with a talk on sustainability by sopho­more Kristhel Torre. The discussion, titled “how smc students contribute to environmental problems and what we can do about it,” focused on minimizing trash output and practicing a sustainable lifestyle. 
Torre said the problem resulted from an excess amount of trash being pro­duced. in response, the consumers need to find al­ternative ways of disposal, she said. 
“The problem is we’re en­tirely producing way too much waste, very unnec­essary waste in the world from food waste, contain­ers, things that we don’t take into consideration that we can reuse or give away to someone else instead of just throwing it away in the trash,” Torre said. 
“i was looking through the trash cans around school and was looking at what was in it, if people were putting stuff in there that could be recycled or could have been used in a different way,” Torre said. “i saw a lot of cardboard and papers and water bot­tles that could have easily been put towards the recy­cling and not contributing towards the landfills.” 
Torre said the average american produces more than four pounds of waste per day. in a three-per­son household, 90 pounds of trash are produced per week, not including recycling. 
“i’m really passionate about this and saw this as a problem,” she said. “especially in the united states because we are pro­ducing all this stuff but we aren’t really consuming ev­erything. … we don’t take it into consideration how we could reuse it or find other ways to use it.” 
see JusTice paGe 4 


scene paGe 5 viewpoinT paGe 6 men’s soccer paGe 12 irish insider wiThin 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                 Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 

News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: mike malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 





QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite game day tradition? 


Kendall Kovalik 
junior 
walsh hall 
“drummer’s circle.” 

Hayden Bauer 
junior 
welsh Family hall 
“Touchdown push-ups.” 

Will Wolf 
junior 
Knott hall 
“The show that the band does at halftime.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



Eric Fernandez 
freshman 
dillon hall 

“Jumping into the reflecting pool.” 

Luis Garcia 
freshman st. edward’s hall 
“Tailgating.” 


Natalie Vos 
junior 
walsh hall 

“brunch with my roommates.” 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
haleigh ehmsen Zach Klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
selena ponio renee griffin alex winegar rachel o’grady 

Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
susan Zhu matt munhall 


Photo Viewpoint 

Labor Day MSPS Welcome Back Art Attack @ DPAC Panel Discussion and Graduate Student 
amy ackermann Tabitha ricketts 

Campus-wide Picnic DeBartalo Performing Awards Ceremony Mass All day North Quad Arts Center Hesburgh Center Basilica of the Sacred Administrative offices 4 p.m.-7 p.m. 4:30 p.m.-6:30 p.m. 12:30 p.m.-2 p.m. Heart 


Corrections 

closed, all classes in Photo booth, music, Multiple clubs will be Civil Rights today: 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 
The observer regards itself as session. prizes and free food. showcased. Challenges for Peace. Weekly event. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Intramural Film: “The Girl Can’t “My Value System” Postgrad Service Fair ND Women’s Soccer 
of journalism at all times. we do, 


Registration Help It” (1956) Mendoza College of Joyce Center vs. Indiana 
however, recognize that we will make 

Rolfs Sports Center DeBartolo Performing Business 4 p.m.-8 p.m. Alumni Stadium 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 

6 a.m.-11 p.m. Tuesday Arts Center 7:30 p.m.-9 p.m. More than 50 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 

Register online for 8 p.m.-9:40 p.m. Part of Berges Lecture organizations are The Irish take on the 
we can correct our error. 

intramural teams. Free for ND students. Series. registered to come. Hoosiers. 

ndsmcobserver.com | monday, september 7, 2015 | The observer 






Freshmen 
conTinued From page 1 
i saw everyone up in the air, i wanted to get in on the next one. so on 14-0, i went up. it was such an incredible feeling to be lifted and see all the green below me. and i went up for all the other touchdowns as well.” 
Freshman Joseph levano said the school spirit in the student sections was remarkable. 
“Just between the spirit that everyone had in the stadium and the way everyone got so into the cheers, even though i went in knowing nothing about the traditions, everyone there just instantly helped you pick up on it and bought you in,” levano said. 
Freshman alexa coubal said singing the alma mater with the football team was a unique experience, but the other chants and cheers were difficult to catch onto. 
“i had difficulty with some cheers and the dancing on bleachers was definitely a strug­gle for me, but it was still really fun. it definitely exceeded my expectations because people were constantly cheering and so hyped all the time,” coubal said. 
many said experiencing the game from the insider view­point of a community member distinguished the experience from simply fun to meaningful. 
Freshman david bran said tailgating was the best part of the gameday experience. 
“The tailgating blew my mind, 

sabLab 
conTinued From page 1 
for the new students on campus,” dingler said. “during the first few weeks of school, students are scared, nervous and homesick, and sablab brings them together during a tough time.” 
wozniak said she also en­courages all students to take ac­tive roles in sablab, because the health and wellness of saint mary’s students is a priority that must be regarded with the utmost seriousness — especially by those who do not suffer firsthand. 
“students who are not directly influenced by these issues are not always aware of them,” wozniak said. “sablab week shines a light on mental health issues and ac­knowledges that saint mary’s is a safe community that wants to provide an environment for its students to flourish in every way possible.” 
according to wozniak, students will gain new knowledge of the counseling services available to them, which will help them sup­port fellow belles. 
“it is important that students who are affected by mental health issues know they have resources available to them to help them succeed during their time here,” wozniak said. “alone, we are ca­pable of doing great things, but together we are invincible.” 
dingler said sablab incor­porates events for everyone, with activities ranging from a the game itself was fantastic and the atmosphere throughout the entire day was unbelievable,” bran said. “despite all i’ve heard about it before, it really did [sur­pass my expectations]. i’d heard about how great it is to be around so many irish fans and how in­tense it gets in the stadium, but nothing compares to how it ac­tually feels being there.” 
conor Kelleher, a freshman in dillon hall, said he particularly enjoyed the traditions in his dorm. 
“we went for a morning run and jumped in the lake and end­ed up on sportscenter, which was probably the pinnacle of my existence, in which i was shirt­less and yelling right in the cam­era lens.” 
Freshman John stankovich said he was most impressed by how unified the alumni, stu­dents and fans were at the game. 
“it was amazing to see how the extended notre dame fam­ily, as well as the notre dame family at the university itself comes together to support one common cause of a notre dame victory,” he said. 
stankovich also said singing the alma mater after the game was unforgettable. 
“at the end of the game when the university sings the alma mater, it was truly an amaz­ing moment and one that i’ll never forget as a freshman,” stankovich said. 
Contact Andrea Vale at  avale@nd.edu 
presentation by two women fea­tured in “The hunting ground,” a cnn documentary released this past spring that highlights the is­sues of sexual assault on college campuses. 
other events include a visit from the south bend humane society, which will bring four dogs and a rabbit to campus. dingler said she is especially looking forward to a student panel whose members will openly discuss mental health issues and the importance of a good support system. 
“we will hear about a variety of different issues from girls with dif­ferent experiences,” dingler said. “i think it will be a great opportu­nity for girls to be educated by stu­dents with experiences that they might be able to relate to on some level or another.” 
students should feel comfort­able and accepted at saint mary’s, and sablab is the perfect way to ensure that happens, dingler said. 
“i hope students walk away from each event knowing in their hearts that no matter who they are, they are the belles of saint mary’s, and by coming to this school they are part of a sisterhood that will never fal­ter,” dingler said. “i hope they become more knowledgeable about mental health and make connections that will only strengthen the support system here at saint mary’s.” 
Contact  Martha Reilly at  mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 



The observer | monday, september 7, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 



Justice 
conTinued From page 1 
Trash not only affects lakes and rivers but also an­imals, Torre said. she gave the example of the penguin lovelace from the movie “happy Feet” and how a plastic six-pack ring was fastened around his neck. 
“some people find that humorous, he is a cartoon, but once you take that into perspective, you see real life events where that is hap­pening all the time, where, for example, an animal is caught in a plastic bag,” Torre said. 
“For our trash to affect all these animals, not just our animals but our environ­ment … it just puts it into perspective,” she said. “all of this trash that we are putting out there, we could minimize that. we have to be a little more cautious about the stuff that we are using. … our trash is not just going in the landfills … it’s affecting more than we think.” 
Torre asked the audience why saint mary’s students don’t recycle when there are recycle bins on every floor of the dormitories. 
“people know cardboard can be recycled and water bottles can be recycled, why are they not doing that?,” Torre said. “we have recy­cle bins on every floor. is it because it’s far from your room?” 
Junior maranda pennington said a rea­son students don’t recycle might be that they don’t have to deal with the direct consequences. 
“when people don’t have to deal with the direct con­sequences right then, and they can live in their happy state and not realize what they are doing affects other people and the environment ... they don’t take an initia­tive or care,” pennington said. 
Torre defined sustain­ability as taking what is needed now without jeopar­dizing the potential for fu­ture generations. 
“landfills keep filling up and we keep manufacturing more and more,” Torre said. “let’s take an initiative … making sure we know where our trash is going.” 
The Justice Friday series takes place every Friday from 12-12:50 p.m. in the student center. 
Contact Alex Winegar at awineg01@saintmarys.edu 



The observer | monday, september 7, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

by MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 
i spent the majority of this summer at a hotel with limited cable and slower than molasses wi-Fi service. extended stay america hotels boast free internet connections, but limit their speeds so they can charge their out-of-options clientele $3.99 for a day’s worth of liv­able loading wait time. i’d argue the internet has become as much of a nec­essary utility as water and electricity and this business conduct is cruel and unusual, but that’s beside the point. 
as a result of the mind-numbingly slow internet, i was faced with a per­sonal moral dilemma of the modern age: pay for two months of quicker wi-Fi to keep up on pop culture and even catch up where i have fallen behind, or stick to my personal policy on “renting” wi-Fi and suffer without it. steadfast in my refusal to ever pay for internet ser­vice — whether at a hotel or airport or restaurant — i chose the latter. 
my original plan for my summer stay, in what i now know as an internet dys­topia, was to watch, listen to and write about all the stuff that came out in the time The observer and i were apart. i’d come back with exciting news and plenty of stories to contribute, espe­cially in a time which television critics are deeming “peak Tv,” and a year in which every artist or band that wants to stay relevant is releasing an album. instead, i was forced to take a break from “peak Tv” and new music releas­es and resort to finding the nearest epi­sode of “law & order” or “chopped,” the two shows i could rely on, as far as quality and probability, of being on one of the cable channels i did have ac­cess to at any given time. 
i staunchly believe there are two ways people watch television : The way you normally watch television, and then the way you watch television in a hotel. The second requires more patience — lacking a guide and home remote fa­miliarity — and settling on watching a lot more movies only partially through than the first. another trait of the sec­ond, at least in my experience, includes many more midday and late night re­runs or marathons of the shows in the “law & order” franchise. 
These shows, like other routine pro­cedural dramas, maintain charac­teristics that allow for what i’ll call “in-and-out” viewing: catching one random episode at a time, being able to get quick chores done in between commercials and staying engaged when paying attention, but not losing out when multitasking. both “law & order” and “chopped” are particularly deft at the form, one that is increas­ingly losing ground to the critical and mass appeal of serialized, or on-going narrative, programming. 
sure, i concocted a routine while at the mercy of infuriating wi-Fi in or­der to catch the netflix releases of the critical darling and downright brilliant “boJack horseman,” as well as the fun reunion “wet hot american summer: First day of camp,” but the routine re­quired me to step away from my laptop for hours at a time to allow for uninter­rupted loading. and once i started, i had to watch them all the way through in a weekend’s time or less, due to the continuing nature of these serialized shows. my limit ended up being two se­ries before i returned to rolling the dice with cable and the procedural shows that came with that decision. 
so, i come back from my summer, not with reviews and write-ups on the chance the rapper and lil b mixtape 

— i never was able to stream or down­load it — nor the inaugural season of “mr. robot” — as entertaining and sus­penseful as the episodes i managed to catch were, i caught them out of order and incompletely — but, rather, with a defense of the television procedural. 
every episode of “law & order” and “chopped” follows a similar, predict­able format. in the former, a crime is introduced, and then it’s a race against the show’s runtime to bring those re­sponsible to justice. in the latter, four chefs are introduced, and it’s a race against the kitchen clock to prepare dishes and survive the judges. when watching either, it is important to catch these introductions, but the exposition and repetition throughout an episode reduces the exclusion of audiences tuning in late. The shows also refrain from introducing many overarching storylines running across episodes, which alienate sporadic viewing. 
both shows have three narrative stages to any given episode: the three courses of competition in “chopped” and the set up, confrontation and resolution in “law & order.” become familiar enough with either show’s structure, and you as the viewer will be able to anticipate what will come next, a helpful tool for “in-and-out” viewing. This routine could be taken as a limiting factor to lesser shows, but the premise behind each series lends a healthy dose of suspense and an occa­sional, exciting foray into the upending of the usual. “chopped” may introduce a theme or an outdoor grill, and “law & order” may spend more or less time in the courtroom. 
another point of anticipation for familiar viewers is the mandatory com­mercial breaks. These can easily be avoided by a quick change of the chan­nel, yet these two shows’ suspense and a desire for closure often stopped me from channel surfing during breaks. in an age when there are a number of products and services which people pay extra for to avoid commercials al­together, there’s something to be said for shows that can so capture their au­diences that they will sit through ads for fear of missing any solitary, impor­tant detail. whereas resetting is com­monplace in procedural shows coming back from commercial, “law & order” and “chopped” both usually fit key in­gredients to their shows’ formulae in the opening seconds of their broad­casts’ returns. an “in-and-out” viewer, within two minutes of commercials, can check what’s on the stove, read their mail and return without missing anything. 
This description of these procedur­als may sound more scientific than appealing, with references to “struc­tural compositions” and “formulae,” but there very much is an art to this kind of storytelling. brevity is said to be the soul of wit; “law & order” and “chopped” both introduce charac­ters, build emotional investment and a measure of stakes and then generally tie things up, while fitting their stories into predominately conclusive 44-min­ute — hour-long including commer­cials — episodes. That both have reliably done so for more than 20 sea­sons each is a testament to the form and to the necessity of television that can be viewed “in-and-out.” 
Contact Matt McMahon at  mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 


The observer | monday, september 7, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
InsIde CoLumn 



go irish, not hungry 
Susan Zhu 
graphic designer 
one time i ate 1,360 calories in one sit­ting. when it’s absurdly late at night and my brain is too tired to realize the stupid­ity of eating 1,360 calories in one sitting, it can happen. i also rarely step down against a bet that involves food — because come on, food’s one of the best things in the universe. 
That’s how i found myself finishing off my blaze pizza at 1 a.m., with my feet bruised and beaten because i thought it would be a good idea to break in new heels, and feeling very satisfied with myself and my current situation. 
i was full, but i joked i could easily walk across the street and eat a Five guys burger afterwards. i wasn’t going to do it — i’m not an insane person. but alas, the stars had aligned that night for me to hear the fateful words: “i bet you can’t.” 
Ten minutes later, i was sitting in Five guys with a hamburger in my hands and a ridiculous amount of determination. There was a little voice in my head that hissed that for a small person, ingesting this amount of food in such a short amount of time would surely make me sick. There was another little voice in my head that was stubborn as hell and said i would be a lying wimp if i didn’t go through with the chal­lenge at hand. 
i did it. i took that last bite of burger and winced at the way it sat in my stomach, and although it would go down as the least en­joyable burger of my life, i did it. The next morning, i did indeed feel sick, but i also emerged victorious. 
don’t be like me and eat 1,360 calories in one sitting at 1:30 a.m., especially on nights when you also can’t walk with or without shoes on and are borderline delirious. on second thought, just don’t eat 1,360 calories in one sitting ever. Trust me. 
Food is a gift. it may be regarded as a right, but in practice, it is a privilege. one in six people in the united states face hunger. in 2013, 14.7 million children under the age of 18 were in poverty. i am lucky to have had the ability and the means to tell a story like this one, because i am blessed to not have to worry about food security. it can be easy to get caught up and forget about the millions struggling to put enough on the table to feed themselves and their families. 
i may have been sick, but i was also lucky. we are lucky to be at a beautiful place like notre dame, where we can eat 1,360 calo­ries in one sitting after a rough night out, but it is important to keep in mind that our campus is not indicative of the situation of the rest of the country. 
i may have used an unfortunate (but slightly humorous) story to bring to atten­tion the great need that still remains preva­lent — but i hope it did not take away from the seriousness of the situation. 
go irish, but don’t let others go hungry. 
Contact Susan Zhu at szhu4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



A Catholic Yik Yak 
Charlie Ducey 
english, channeled 

last week an app called 3d catholic went live for ios devices. Though the name might call to mind multi-di­mensional shapes and the red and blue shades of movie theater glasses, the app possesses a far more pastoral feel. it opens to a trio of unadorned tabs on the home screen, one for each of the three main catholic devo­tions: prayer, fasting and almsgiving. These are precisely what we need to promote, especially in the wake of the recent sexual assaults reported on campus. 
i actually attended a meeting for the app’s launch. There i met this simple tagline: it’s yik yak for catholics. 
so what exactly does this mean? well, on one level, the feature of the app that allows users to post anonymous prayer intentions that can be up-voted by other users resembles the general yik-yak interface. however, while yik yak tends to degenerate into insensitive remarks that border on cyberbullying, 3d catholic has enjoyed a wholly benevolent usage in its first week of existence. 
i would take this comparison further though. not only does 3d catholic function analogously to yik yak in the sense of offering up comments to smartphones in a five-mile radius, it also has a particularly social and cultural component. however, the substance of this 3d catholic culture lies valleys and vistas away from the culture of yik yak, Tinder and other smartphone apps. i think this difference is what makes 3d catholic a potential source of enormous good on this campus and elsewhere. allow me to explain. 
at the heart of catholic devotion rests the gospel message of love: serving the lord and serving others. 3d catholic channels this sacrificial love by promot­ing users to pray for each other’s needs, give up meat on Fridays (or any other day one chooses) and act charitably through works of mercy (the app conveniently lists vol­unteer opportunities in the area). 
These are things that many, perhaps even most, notre dame students partake in and do quite well. around 80 percent of notre dame students volunteer in some kind of service outreach, according to the center for social concerns. but when one has an app that issues remind­ers on a daily basis that inculcate one with the message of service and sacrificial love, these inherent drives to­ward goodness are nurtured and fortified. 
compare this to the vast majority of little square icons one finds on smartphones: entertainment apps, photos of attractive singles one can appraise with a swipe to the right or left, platforms for stimulating one’s senses and stroking one’s ego. These apps need not be condemned outright, but we ought to think about the behaviors that they nurture and fortify. is it love or use? self-sacrifice or self-centeredness? 
when we are bombarded with messages of how we are to serve ourselves, how we are to win over the next romantic partner, how we are to affirm our own worth through earning the affections of another, doesn’t sexual assault — the violent attempt to seize those wants for ourselves — follow close behind? 
These daily reminders matter, as the sensations that surround us day to day influence the people we will grow into over the course of our lives. if one has time to send a snapchat and check football scores, is it asking a whole lot to be reminded of the need to pray for and tend to the needs of others? 
what 3d catholic offers in its own pocket-sized way is an enduring reminder of god’s call for us to love others. This call constitutes its own culture of love. amidst the violations against love seen most explicitly in the recent spree of sexual assaults on our lady’s campus, not to mention the culture of sexual assault at large, it would behoove us to spend more time thinking about this cul­ture, a catholic culture. 
we do not necessarily need to radically change our lives, nor even give up other fun-generating apps. but we do need to allow god’s call into our lives in a more ap­parent way. 3d catholic is not quite yik yak for catholics, since catholics can use yik yak benevolently, too. it is a catholic yik yak, an app for building up the Kingdom one day at a time. 
Charlie Ducey is a senior studying the languages of G. 
K. Chesterton (English) and Edith Stein (German). Please contact him with questions, comments, complaints, appraisals, invitations, prognostications and prestidigitations at cducey@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Letters to the edItor 


Turf, additions, Jumbotrons? 
i grew up with rock’s house, and i’ve lived through one addition, which was done well, respecting the fact that the stadium with a needed addition. brian Kelly, Jack swarbrick and Fr. John Jenkins aren’t seeing the big picture in my opinion. college football capitalism has officially overtaken the beautiful simple tradition that is notre dame — something that never needed to adapt to the “change or die” attitude. 
we need people in charge who love this place for what it was and what it is, not for what they can do to leave their stamp. while this campus crossroads project is no doubt architecturally sound and attractive in its own right, this building design is not representative of notre dame or nd football. Turf fields and Jumbotrons are nothing more than ploys to save and make more money, respectively: plain and simple. 
we’re lowering our standards. The fact that notre dame would associate itself with such weak ideals is not only in direct opposition to catholic (and hesburgh) values but appalling to people who believe in leading by example and optimizing for the good of all. $75 for a college foot­ball game? despicable. at least we know what the money is going. until they start advertising on the Jumbotrons, which is, of course, an inevitability. Then i don’t know where all the money will go to — maybe another great idea. 
Joe Schwartz 
class of 2002 aug. 31 


Ungracious hosts 
when did notre dame students become ungracious hosts? 
notre dame has long been a place apart, including its welcoming of opposing teams’ football fans. That repu­tation was damaged sept. 5. at the end of the nd-Texas game, each team went to opposite corners of the stadium 
— notre dame’s players gathered in front of the student section, and Texas gathered in front of its band, where many of its fans were sitting. when the Texas band began to play its alma mater, “The eyes of Texas,” boos rained down from the nd student section. such a reaction would have been unworthy of the student body on any day, but it was especially so given the lopsided victory by the irish. That was a moment to be magnanimous, not churlish. 
Brian McKeon 
class of 1985 sept. 6 


 NOTRE DAME 38, TExAs 3 | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2015 | NDsMcObsERvER.cOM 


Hooked ’em 
No. 11 Notre Dame coasts to comfortable 38-3 victory over Texas in season opener 
Early results bode well, but ND has much further to go 


Greg Hadley 
Editor-in-chief 
It didn’t even take until halftime of Notre Dame’s 38-3 blowout of Texas on saturday for a “Zaire for Heisman” Twitter account to pop up. 
That account only had 10 followers by the end of the game, but given the brilliance of Malik Zaire’s performance against the Longhorns and the rabid passion of the Notre Dame fan base, that number will probably rise dramatically in the coming days. 
but let’s all take a deep breath, a step back and a mo­ment to consider what this win means: not a whole lot. 
Texas, while a prestigious program with lots of talent, is currently in the midst of a rebuild that has them at least a few years away from reach­ing the upper echelon of col­lege football. That the Irish would beat the Longhorns was widely expected. That they could not afford to lose was accepted. 
The thought that Notre Dame would rout Texas with such authority certainly wasn’t one many analysts had entering saturday, but it was not quite far-fetched. And now that it has actually happened, it’s understand­able that fans will want big things from this 2015 Irish squad. 
but watching Jaylon smith wreak havoc in the backfield, Zaire connect with Fuller twice for touchdowns and 
c.J. Prosise carve up the Texas defense, I couldn’t help but think of the last time Notre Dame blew out a mid­dling but historic program in a home night game early on in the season. 
When the Irish ended their series against Michigan with a bang last season, fans’ con­fidence was through the roof. It looked as though, with Everett Golson leading the way, Notre Dame was primed to challenge for the college 
see cAUTION PAGE 3 



By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports Writer 
In the first game of the new season, it was a day of firsts for the Irish. Malik Zaire started his first game at home, Josh Adams scored on his first career carry (and then again later in the game), and Justin Yoon kicked his first career field goal for No. 11 Notre Dame. 
If anyone was worried the ju­nior quarterback Zaire might struggle with nerves in his first start at Notre Dame stadium, their fears were quickly put to rest. With a passer rating of 250.9, 313 yards and 19 comple­tions on 22 attempts, the Zaire era at Notre Dame began with style. 
In fact, Zaire’s performance grabbed a place in the Notre Dame history. His 86.3 percent completion percentage was sec­ond all time in a single game in program history, behind only steve beuerlein when he faced colorado in 1984 and converted 10 of just 11 passes. 

His 16-yard touchdown pass to junior receiver Will Fuller put the Irish on the board with 6:29 remaining in the first quarter. A quick Texas three-and-out was then followed up by freshman running back Josh Adams’ 14­yard touchdown run a few min­utes later. 
see DOMINANcE PAGE 2 



PLAYER OF THE GAME 
MALIK ZAIRE 
IRISH JUNIOR QUARTERBACK 
Nerves were never an issue for Zaire in his first game as a starter in Notre Dame stadium, as he erased the memory of Everett Golson with three touchdowns and 313 yards on 19-for-22 passing, all without turning the ball over once. 



QUOTE OF THE GAME 
“We felt like the things that you normally see in an opener were not there.” 
Irish head coach brian Kelly credited his veterans for avoiding any early-season pitfalls against Texas. 
Youth and depth on both sides of ball power Irish to win 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports Writer 
Despite several key depar­tures this offseason, No. 11 Notre Dame flashed both its youth and depth saturday during its 38-3 rout over Texas. 
Defensive linemen sopho­more Jhonny Williams and freshman Kolin Hill both transferred this summer, and senior defensive tackle Jarron Jones went down with injury. On the offensive side, run­ning back Greg bryant left the University due to academic issues. 
In their place, several young Irish players stepped up alongside the 18 returning starters the Irish featured and more than held their own. 
Freshman running back Josh Adams took his first col­legiate handoff in the first quarter from junior quarter­back Malik Zaire and cata­pulted out of the backfield for a 14-yard touchdown. In the third quarter, Adams scored again on a 25-yard run, go­ing nearly untouched into the endzone. 
sophomore guard Quentin Nelson made his first career start and formed part of a line that allowed just a single sack and helped establish a domi­nant ground game that paved the way for Adams’s two touchdowns and 214 rushing yards. 
In addition to Nelson, junior right tackle Mike McGlinchey made his second collegiate start and first in the regu­lar season. senior lineman Ronnie stanley praised both newcomers, and said it was crucial to have depth that could fill in at a moment’s notice. 
“It’s huge,” he said. “specifically Quenton [Nelson], I tell him ‘Hey, when you face sheldon Day, you’re not going to face a better three-tech all year,’ and you kind of see his face and he gets excited and he’s ready to play.” 
senior running back c.J Prosise, who carried the ball 20 times for 98 yards, also raved about the offensive 
see DEPTH PAGE 3 








REPORT CARD 








QUARTERBACKS 

It was about as perfect a 2015 debut as Notre Dame’s start­er that Malik Zaire could hope for. He was ruthlessly effi­cent, completing 19 of 22 passes for three touchdowns and 313 yards. And two of his incompetions were the result of dropped passes. Deshone Kizer even got a little playing time by the end of the blowout, always a good thing for a young quarterback. 

RUNNING BACKS 

The loss of Tarean Folston can’t be held against this unit, which absorbed the loss surprising well, all things consid­ered. c.J. Prosise was solid in his first game as running back, and Josh Adams was a pleasant surprise, scoring twice, in­cluding a touchdown run on his first career carry. Whether he can continue that production is less clear. 

RECEIVERS 

Will Fuller picked up right where he left off last season, with seven receptions, 142 yards and two touchdowns. Fuller was already considered one of the best receivers in the nation entering the matchup. This merely confirms that. Two dropped passes, however, hurt this group. 

OFFENSIVE LINE 

One of the keys to Zaire’s outstanding performance and the solid game from the running backs, the offensive line put in a solid, mostly efficent effort to pave the way for 38 points. However, the unit did allow a sack, and even worse, picked up four falst start penalties, one of the few things brian Kelly criticized after the game. 

DEFENSIVE LINE 

The big question facing the defensive line was if Daniel cage and Jerry Tillery could fill in for the injured Jarron Jones. Tillery collected a sack, cage had three tackles and Texas only ran for 60 yards on the day. so far, so good. 

LINEBACKERS 

Jaylon smith was all over the field, making plays and showing why he is a likely top-10 pick in the next NFL draft. He led the Irish with seven tackles and added on a sack. Joe schmidt also looked strong in his return from injury, collecting six tackles, one for a loss. 

DEFENSIVE BACKS 

It’s a bit hard to judge the Irish secondary, as Texas seemed reluctant to throw downfield all that much. Tyrone swoopes had an abysmal outing, completing seven of his 22 attempts, but only two of those incompletions came from pass breakups. but Notre Dame did give up a 48-yard bomb to freshman John burt, which set up Texas’s only score of the night. 

SPECIAL TEAMS 

After last year’s woes in this area, things hardly got better saturday. Freshman Justin Yoon connected on his first ca­reer field goal but missed another, and there were at least two near-flubs on holds. In the return game, c.J. sanders was non-existent at best. He fumbled once and had -1 yards total. 

COACHING 

credit brian Kelly for preparing his team well for what could have been a challenging opener. The offensive play calling, whoever was behind it, was sharp, and the defense looked solid as well. but Texas also made Kelly look good by playing so poorly. 

OVERALL GPA: 3.48 (A-/B+) 
compared to openers past under brian Kelly, this one was a relative breeze for the Irish. Malik Zaire looked impressive and commanding, the receivers showed their depth, and the defense throttled the Longhorns. It was an easy test, but Notre Dame just about aced it. If the Irish are going to earn a spot in the college Football Playoff, they need to handle easy games like they did saturday. 

PLAY OF THE GAME 
MALIK ZAIRE CONNECTS WITH WILL FULLER FOR A 66-YARD TD 
As hard as it is to believe now, this was still a game early in the second half, as Texas kicked a field goal to close within 14 points with 8:36 left in the third quarter. Then the Longhorns secondary completely fell apart, allowing Zaire to hit Fuller in stride to put the Irish up by three scores. 
Dominance 
cONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 

The second half offered much of the same. In the third quarter, Zaire tossed a 66-yard touch­down pass to Fuller, his second of the game, which was followed up by a 25-yard Adams touchdown run, stretching the Irish lead to 31-3 before the start of the fourth quarter. 
Though Adams’ touchdowns were the only rushing scores for the Irish on the night, senior c.J. Prosise also offered a strong per­formance in his first game as a full-time running back. 
Prosise ended the day with 20 touches for 98 yards to lead the team. He was forced to take on a starring role after junior running back Tarean Folston sustained a right-knee injury in the first quarter that knocked him out of the game. Folston later came onto the field on crutches and will receive an MRI on sunday morning. 
“I feel great,” Prosise said. “I think my offensive line did an amazing job. They gave a great push all night. We could really do anything we wanted to in the run game. I think that was a big rea­son for our win.” 
Fuller tied Adams for the most scores in the game and put up one of the best performances of his career, with seven receptions for 142 yards. 
“It starts with [the performanc­es of Prosise and Adams] and it starts with our [offensive] line,” Fuller said. “Our O-line has been doing a great job all camp. All [the running backs] gotta do is hit the holes and it opens up a lot for us. We’re doing what we’re taught to do, we practice every day. [Texas plays] a cover two, we practiced cover two every day. I just got a clean release on them, and I’m happy Malik threw it my way.” 
Zaire rounded out the game’s scoring with a six-yard touch­down pass to senior receiver chris brown early in the fourth quarter, stretching the Irish lead to 35 points and the final score of 38-3. 
Afterwards, however, Zaire de­flected questions about leading the team to victory. 
“I really give credit to our offensive line,” Zaire said. “They gave me some great protection. The receivers did a good job catching the ball for me, the run­ning backs did a good job open­ing the run game so we were allowed to pass, just the whole team collectively did a great job today.” 

In the closing minutes of the contest, head coach brian Kelly gave most of his starting line­up some rest, including Zaire, Prosise and Fuller. sophomore quarterback Deshone Kizer played the final two series of the game for the Irish as they wrapped up their first win of the season. 
behind the dominance of the Notre Dame offense, the Irish defense had an impressive game in its own right, limiting the Longhorns to fewer than 200 to­tal yards of offense. 
Texas entered the matchup with junior Tyrone swoopes as its starting quarterback, but with plans to have freshman Jerrod Heard take snaps as well. However, Heard completed just one pass for 10 yards and did not play past the first drive of the sec­ond quarter. 
swoopes was ineffective on his own, as the Longhorns mus­tered 163 yards of total offense. including seven completions on 22 attempts for 93 yards from swoopes, and only 63 yards on the ground. The defensive attack included seven tackles for loss, including one sack each from se­nior defensive linemen sheldon Day and Romeo Okwara, junior linebacker Jaylon smith and freshman defensive lineman Jerry Tillery. 
The one defensive lapse of the night for Notre Dame resulted in an 48-yard pass from swoopes to freshman receiver John burt midway through the third quar­ter. The play accounted for nearly a third of Texas’ total offense throughout the game. The Irish defense held on to stop the Texas offense once more, but the pass did lead to a 41-yard field goal from senior kicker Nick Rose, the Longhorns’ only points of the game. 
“Wedidn’t wantto start offwith the mentality that it was just the opener,” smith said. “We wanted to start off mid-season, with a mid-season mentality as far as execution and things like that. We showed great confidence. And you always gotta clean up some stuff, but we’re headed in the right direction.” 
After the game, second-year Texas head coach charlie strong, who served as a defensive line coach at Notre Dame under both Lou Holtz and bob Davie from 1995 to 1998, gave credit to the Irish while also calling out his own squad. 
“It’s always a shock when you go get embarrassed,” strong said. “You would have figured that we would have came out and played much better than we did. And you can’t take anything away from Notre Dame. but you can still look at it at the end of the day at 38-3, and I think we are a better football team than that.” 
The size of the blowout, com­bined with Folston’s injury gave the Irish the opportunity to test their depth early in the season. Notre Dame officially had nine different players rush the ball throughout the game, the bulk of those being split between Prosise and Adams, as well as freshman running back Dexter Williams, who came on near the end of the game. 
“I think any top-notch football program has to be able to call on some of these freshmen players that have the mental and physi­cal, and I underline the mental, as well as the physical ability to come in and compete right away, because it creates competition within your promotion that rises all ships,” Kelly said, “And that means the upperclassmen as well.” 
Kelly also said that while he was pleased overall with his team’s performance, there were still problems that need to be addressed. specifically, he cited the four false start penalties ac­cumulated by the offensive line, something which Zaire later took credit for. 
The Irish will take to the road next to face virginia next saturday in charlottesville, virginia. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 


NDsMcObsERvER.cOM | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2015 | THE ObsERvER 


MICHAEL YU | The Observer 

Irish junior defensive lineman Isaac Rochell, left, and senior defensive lineman Romeo Okwara celebrate after a play during Notre Dame’s 38-3 victory over Texas on Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. 

Depth 
cONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
line’s dominance. 
“I think my offensive line did an amazing job,” Prosise said. “They gave a great push all night. We could really do anything we wanted to in the run game. I think that was a big reason for our win.” 
Freshman defensive line­man Jerry Tillery pummeled Texas quarterback Jerrod Heard in the second quar­ter for his first career sack, which forced a third-and­long situation. 
“We have some young guys that we think are still capa­ble of playing for us that are down on the depth chart a lit­tle bit,” Kelly said. “They kind of have that look like, ‘Well, I may never get out of this position that I’m in.’ I told our coaches: It’s important that you go to these guys on Monday and let them know, they are probably going to get an opportunity to play this year. And to continue to work with them and continue 


Caution 
cONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
Football Playoff (cFP). 
Remember how that turned out? 
Now, to be fair, there are significant differences be­tween this year’s squad and last season’s. Zaire is not Golson, and the defense brings back a shocking amount of veteran tal­ent that could rival that of 2012’s unit. 
but it’s one game. Furthermore, it was a game Notre Dame was supposed to win. The Irish certainly let it be known that they were not to be trifled with saturday, but it would have been all but impossible for them to prove they are unstoppable. 
Almost the entire first to build their confidence that when we call on you, be ready, because we think we have some depth.” 

Adams came into the game early in the first quarter to take over for junior Tarean Folston, who injured his right knee and missed the rest of the game. Although Adams carried the ball just five times, the Warrington, Pennsylvania native gained 52 yards to go with his scores. 
“I knew he was going to be a great running back,” stanley said. “I didn’t know he was going to perform like he did today. I’m very happy for him and very pleased with the way he performed. He is always there working and doing his job.” 
Kelly also said he thought highly of Adams since spring practice because of his foot­ball IQ. 
“He was able to pick up all the protections early on,” Kelly said. “And any time when a freshman can come in and pick up all the protec­tions early on, it’s been my feeling that he’s ready to play, 
month of the season is like that. virginia on the road is not exactly game­of-the-century mate­rial, and the same goes for Massachusetts at home. Even the first real test of the season, Georgia Tech, comes inside the comfort of Notre Dame stadium. These are must-not-lose situations for brian Kelly. 
Of course, in order to have a great season and make it to the cFP, the Irish will have to take care of busi­ness all the same. but no one is going to remember how badly they beat Texas at the beginning of the season. 
Malik Zaire knows this. After the game, he was rath­er subdued for a guy who had just put himself among Notre Dame’s greatest ever single-game performers. Instead, he focused on the provided he’s got the skill and also what kind of skill he has. … He’s got elite speed. He’s got great size. Got good ball skills. and obviously he’s a kid that we believe in.” 
Notre Dame gained 527 to­tal yards on offense to the Longhorns’ 163. In addition to the younger players on the team, the offense also relied on veterans to spread the field. 
seven different receivers caught passes from Zaire, and that number could have been nine had freshman tight end Alize Jones and sopho­more tight end Tyler Luatua not dropped passes. There were also seven different ball carriers, in addition to Zaire, who had at least one rushing attempt 
“It’s the best depth we’ve had,” Kelly said. “I’d rather not call on it continuously, but every football team is go­ing to have to deal with some injuries, and we know we are going to have some after this game, as well.” 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 
mistakes: four false start penalties, poor communica­tion and the like. It’s a good mindset for a quarterback who will have to invent challenges for himself for the next few weeks. 
Maybe Zaire will win the Heisman. Maybe Notre Dame will make the cFP and we’ll all look back at this game as the start of a magical run. At the very least, it is a step in the right direction, a positive first impression. 
but for now, fans should temper their excitement and hold off on “following” @ Zaire4Heisman. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

SCORING SUMMARY 
1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  TOTAL  
14  3  14  7  38  
0  0  3  0  3  






NOTRE DAME 7, TEXAS 0 
Will Fuller 16-yard pass from Malik Zaire (Yoon kick) 

6:29 remaining 
Drive: Seven plays, 55 yards, 3:28 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 14, TEXAS 0 
Josh Adams 14-yard run (Yoon kick) 

1:02 remaining 
Drive: Nine plays, 95 yards, 3:50 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 17, TEXAS 0 
Justin Yoon 38-yard field goal 

7:53remaining 
Drive: Four plays, Nine yards, 1:22 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 17, TEXAS 3 
Nick Rose 41-yard field goal 

8:36remaining 
Drive: Five plays, 49 yards, 1:23 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 24, TEXAS 3 
Will Fuller 66-yard pass from Malik Zaire (Yoon kick) 

5:50remaining 
Drive: Five plays, 90 yards, 2:46 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 31, TEXAS 3 
Josh Adams 25-yard run (Yoon kick) 

2:00remaining 
Drive: Five plays, 56 yards, 2:18 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 40, NORTHWESTERN 29 
Will Fuller 11-yard pass from Golson (conversion failed) 

10:34remaining 
Drive: Three plays, 13 yards, 0:49 elapsed 
STATISTICS 
RUSHING YARDS 
214 60 

PASSING YARDS 
313 


PASSING 
Zaire Kizer 
RUSHING 
Prosise Adams Williams Folston Zaire Kizer 
RECEIVING 
Fuller Brown Carlisle Robinson Hunter Smythe Prosise 
TACKLES 
Smith Shumate Schmidt Russell Redfield Okwara Farley 
19-22-313 0-1-0 
20-98 5-49 7-24 3-19 9-16 2-10 
7-142 3-38 3-55 2-35 2-31 1-6 1-6 
7 4 6 3 3 3 3 
103 
Swoopes 7-22-93 Heard 1-1-10 
Gray 8-40 Swoopes 10-17 Foreman, D. 3-5 Johnson 2-4 Warren III 3-4 Foreman, A. 1-2 
Johnson 6-45 Burt 1-48 Beck 1-10 
Jinkens 10 Jefferson 9 Haines 7 Hughes 7 Hall 7 Thomas 5 Freeman 4 


THE ObsERvER | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2015 | NDsMcObsERvER.cOM 


MICHAEL YU | The Observer 

Irish junior receiver Will Fuller trots into the end zone untouched to score a 16-yard touchdown on a pass from junior quarterback Malik Zaire in the first quarter of Notre Dame’s 38-3 win over Texas on Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. Fuller ended the game with a team-high seven catches for 142 yards. He scored again on a 66-yard pass from Zaire. 
Junior quarterback Malik Zaire made his Notre Dame Stadium 
debut one to remember, tossing three touchdowns to go with 313 yards and a 86.3 percent completion rate that ranks second in 
LASSOING THE 
program history for a single game. Freshman running back Josh Adams came in for the injured Tarean Folston and scored a touch-
LONGHORNS 
down on his first collegiate carry, then scored again on a 25-yard run. 





The observer | monday, september 7, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
give mental healthcare reform a chance 
Jordan Ryan 
words of wisdome 

president obama and many americans alike believe gun control is one of the biggest hurdles facing our nation. gun control policies awaken what may be some of the most influential lobby­ing forces on capitol hill: The nra is one of the most powerful political machines in our nation’s history, and gun control activists have equally significant spending power and stamina. as a nation, we have struggled to implement effec­tive reforms like weapon bans and background checks, and as a result gun violence continues to plague our nation. given today’s political reali­ties, we must pursue policies that are capable of passing. we may have finally found an answer to gun violence that can become reality. 
recently, experts and politicians have begun to champion a new answer to at least part of our country’s gun violence problem: better access to and quality of mental healthcare. They argue it will decrease gun deaths by treating mental triggers that cause gun violence. past measures we have taken failed to attack the root of the problem. 
gun control advocates argue the label of “mental illness” is merely a distraction. on the surface, they are partially right. mental illness accounts for very few acts of violence in the u.s., approximately four percent a year, according to the american Journal of psychiatry. however, background checks and weapon bans have done little to curb the largest cause of firearm death in the u.s.: suicide. uc davis reports suicides make up 64 percent of annual firearm deaths, a statistic that sadly rises each year. according to dr. philip J. cook of duke university, back­ground checks do not decrease suicide rates. many depressed individuals who take their own lives do not exhibit easily detected signs of a mental disorder. These people weren’t criminals. They passed background checks with ease. They were average people with a single handgun who needed help from a system that couldn’t deliver. mental illness is not a distraction when it ac­counts for two-thirds of gun deaths in our nation. 
Furthermore, if you look deeper, you’ll dis­cover a seriously alarming correlation. a study performed by mother Jones reports roughly 60 percent of those who have carried out a mass shooting in the u.s. since 1970 showed symptoms of extreme mental illness like paranoia, delusions and depression before committing their crimes. Though correlation does not equal causation, there is a strong connection between untreated mental illness and atrocious acts of violence. 
unfortunately, the rate of these incidents is on the rise. The Fbi recently released a study of mass shootings between 2000 and 2013. From 2000 to 2007, there were an average of 6.4 mass shoot­ings per year, while from 2008 to 2013, that num­ber rose to 16.4 incidents per year. most of the weapons used were obtained legally. as more and more of these events are occurring and more and more innocent civilians are victimized, we need to take a different course of action. background checks didn’t stop them. weapon bans didn’t stop them. proper treatment for their illnesses may have. 
in a time of political polarization, we need to focus on reform that will most likely help the greatest number of people. For example, take a piece of legislation entitled ‘The helping Families in mental health crisis act of 2015.’ authored and introduced by rep. Tim murphy (r-pennsylvania), this bipartisan supported bill aims to refine treatment processes, better train psychologists and increase overall access to psy­chiatric care that does not include incarcerating mentally ill individuals. not only does this leg­islation have greater purposes than simply pre­venting gun violence, it also inherently targets the core cause of the violent events — mental ill­ness. policies such as those proposed by murphy may be able to stop individuals from taking their own lives and treat those suffering who have the potential to hurt others. This legislative solution would also provide a much needed restructuring of our struggling mental health system. 
gun violence should not be equated with men­tal illness. however, mental illness at times may lead those suffering to harm themselves and others. americans need and deserve quality mental healthcare. let’s reorder our priorities and pursue a solution that has hope of creating a lasting impact. mental healthcare reform must refocus from what’s in one’s hand to what’s in one’s mind. by removing guns from the center stage and therefore removing the soapbox for gun activist groups, there may be hope to see action in washington. so, let’s give mental health care a shot. 
Jordan Ryan, sophomore resident of Lyons Hall, studies Political Science and Peace Studies along with minors in Constitutional Studies and Business Economics. She can be reached at jryan15@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Nine justices walk into a bar 
John VanBerkum 
guest columnist 

Everything is directly quoted from the Obergefell 
v. Hobbes opinion or dissents, with some wording changed for the sake of brevity and coherency. 
“The centrality of marriage to the human con­dition makes it unsurprising that the institution has existed for millennia and across civilizations,” Kennedy begins. “cicero wrote, ‘The first bond of society is marriage; next, children; and then the family.’” 
“For all those millennia, across all those civiliza­tions, ‘marriage’ referred to only one relationship: the union of a man and a woman,” roberts clari­fies. “marriage did not come about as a result of a political movement, religious doctrine or any other moving force of world history — and certainly not as a result of a prehistoric decision to exclude gays and lesbians. cicero actually wrote, ‘For since the reproductive instinct is by nature’s gift the com­mon possession of living creatures, the first bond of union is that between husband and wife; the next, that between parents and children; then we find one home.’” 
“one basic argument is that states formalize and promote marriage, unlike other fulfilling human relationships, in order to encourage potentially procreative conduct to take place within a lasting unit that has long been thought to provide the best atmosphere for raising children,” alito contributes. “Kennedy, your argument is that the fundamental purpose of marriage is to promote the well-being of those who choose to marry,” he continues, “which enables you to argue that same-sex mar­riage serves the states’ objectives in the same way as opposite-sex marriage. This understanding, which focuses almost entirely on the happiness of persons who choose to marry, is shared by many people today but is not the traditional one. For millennia, marriage was inextricably linked to the one thing that only an opposite-sex couple can do: procreate.” 
“but, the history of marriage is one of both con­tinuity and change,” Kennedy responds. “That in­stitution has evolved over time. as women gained legal, political and property rights, for example, the law of coverture was abandoned. This and other developments over the past centuries were not mere superficial changes. rather, they worked deep transformations in its structure, affect­ing aspects of marriage long viewed by many as essential.” 
roberts counters, “They did not, however, work any transformation in the core structure of mar­riage as the union between a man and a woman. if you had asked a person on the street how mar­riage was defined, no one would ever have said, ‘marriage is the union of a man and a woman, where the woman is subject to coverture.’” 
Trying again, Kennedy says, “The nature of in­justice is that we may not always see it in our own times. The generations that wrote and ratified the bill of rights and the Fourteenth amendment did not presume to know the extent of freedom in all of its dimensions … ” 
scalia interrupts, “one would think you should continue: ‘ … and therefore they left the creation of additional liberties to the people, through the never-ending process of legislation.’ but no. what logically follows, in your judge-empowering esti­mation, is … ” 
“ … and so they entrusted to future generations a charter protecting the right of all persons to enjoy liberty as we learn its meaning,” Kennedy said. 
“The ‘we,’” scalia clarifies, “is the nine of us.” 
“when new insight reveals discord between the constitution’s central protections and a re­ceived legal stricture, a claim to liberty must be addressed,” Kennedy emphasizes. “The court has long held the right to marry is protected by the constitution.” 
roberts makes a distinction. “These cases do not hold, of course, that anyone who wants to get mar­ried has a constitutional right to do so. They in­stead require a state to justify barriers to marriage as that institution has always been understood. we held that racial restrictions on the right to marry lacked a compelling justification but did not purport to change the core definition of marriage as the union of a man and a woman. removing racial barriers to marriage did not change what a marriage was any more than integrating schools changed what a school was.” 
Frustrated, scalia admonishes, “Kennedy, you are entirely comfortable concluding that every state violated the constitution for all of the 135 years between the Fourteenth amendment’s ratifi­cation and massachusetts’ permitting of same-sex marriages in 2003. you are certain that the people ratified the Fourteenth amendment to bestow on you the power to remove questions from the demo­cratic process when that is called for by your ‘rea­soned judgment.’ you know that limiting marriage to one man and one woman is contrary to reason; you know that an institution as old as government itself and accepted by every nation in history until 15 years ago cannot possibly be supported by any­thing other than ignorance or bigotry.” 
lacking further arguments, Kennedy and his four friends leave the bar. 
John VanBerkum is a senior in the College of Arts & Letters. He can be contacted at jvanberk@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

sports authorIty 

stop The wave, watch the game 

Alex Carson 
associate sports editor 
alright friends, we need to talk. 
not about this weekend’s slate of college football action or the baseball pennant race. nah, i want to talk about something that happens off the field, some­thing the fans do rather than the players. 
The wave. Just stop it. 
now, once upon a time, i was an average kid. whenever i’d go to a minor-league baseball game or high school football game, i always wanted the crowd to do the wave. i thought it was cool and kind of funny, and there was nothing else gathering my atten­tion on the playing field. 
once, along with a few friends at a game, i even started a wave that circled around indianapolis’ victory Field. it was awesome. 
but i’m not 10 years old any more. 
let’s take a trip back in time, one through the oft-debated origins of The wave in the late 1970s and early 1980s. oakland athletics fans claim they “in­vented it” in 1981, while others claim it happened at their sta­dium earlier on. later that year, it was seen at a football game at the university of washington 
— yes, the huskies used to actu­ally be good at that sport — and a couple years later, the cheer became popular at michigan and detroit Tigers games. 
That catches us up to where i want to be and where, for per­haps the first time ever, i’m go­ing to cite a so-called “michigan man” in something i’ve written. 
a letter to the editor of The new york Times stated three reasons for why the cheer caught on at michigan stadium: “it gave the fans something to do when the team was leading its oppo­nent by 40 points, it was thrill­ing and exciting to see 105,000 people in the stands moving and cheering, and bo schembechler asked us not to do it.” 
now, generally speaking, i’m all for things that would’ve made the former michigan coach up­set. so we’ll move past that point and say i agree with sports fans from the 1980s. 
Then there’s the supposed thrill and excitement that come with The wave. while, yes, as a child, i thought the cheer was neat to watch, it’s almost cer­tainly watched too often in this world to carry the same sense of excitement. instead of finding something new — and better — to do, we’ve simply run the same thing over and over again for more than 30 years. That’s lazy, and it gets a little boring. 
but tracing back to the first point gives us the most impor­tant part of that letter. 
you see, it was a thing for the fans to do once the game got boring — “leading its opponent by 40 points,” the author says. 
as sports fans, we often pay good money to go to games and be entertained — and when the event is past entertaining, i can wholeheartedly get behind a reason to suddenly start supply­ing the desired effect. 
but what’s killed The wave and made it insufferable is when fans try to start it at the wrong time. 
if you go to a baseball game and it’s the third inning, it’s maybe not the best time for The wave. if you’re bored after an hour of baseball, why are you at the park in the first place? 
or let’s say it’s a football game. maybe one under the lights when the home team’s up three scores in the third quarter. everyone’s pretty hyped up and still into the game. There are important plays left to happen if your team’s going to close out the win in a comfortable fash­ion. you cannot be bored yet as a sports fan. 
but by starting up The wave, you disrespect the players on the field — you know, the ones you paid to see — deciding it’s time for you to entertain yourselves. 
on its own, in the abstract, The wave is a fine thing. sure, it’s a relic of what people thought was cool 30 years ago, but can be kind of neat if it’s done right. 
in the fourth quarter, when it’s a five-score lead and the second-string defense is in? That’s your time for The wave. 
but people can’t be trusted with the great responsibility of conducting it right. 
so we just have to shut it down, at all costs. Kill it. before it grows any bigger. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


nd voLLeybaLL | seTon hall 3, nd 0; Temple 3, nd 1; nd 3, hoFsTra 2 
ND defeats Hofstra 3-2 to close out tournament 
By DAISY COSTELLO 
sports writer 

coming off their first win of 2015, the irish traveled to new Jersey this weekend to participate in the seton hall classic. 
notre dame (2-4, 0-0 acc) started off the weekend Friday night against host seton hall, dropping the match 3-0 (25­12, 25-17, 25-22). 
during the pirates’ first win against the irish in program history, notre dame strug­gled to get any offense going, as the irish racked up just 20 kills on the night against the 53 kills accumulated by seton hall. 
sophomore outside hitter sydney Kuhn led the irish in points against the pirates with eight. after her, junior middle blocker Katie higgins and sophomore outside hit­ter sam Fry accounted for six and a half points each on the night. defensively, freshman libero ryann deJarld tallied 11 digs on the night. 
Fry said the team is still working on figuring out how to play together, especially considering the amount of youth on the roster. 
“we’re working really hard in practice, but it’s taking a little longer to show our skills in the game and getting used to playing together,” Fry said. “we have to keep our energy level high to get into game mode.” 
on saturday morning, the irish dropped their second match of the weekend, this time to Temple, 3-1 (25-22, 18-25, 25-15, 25-13). deJarld, who earned all-tournament honors for her performance, shined against the owls, as she added another 11 digs to her weekend total. 
later that night, the irish collected their second win of the season in a tough five-set match, beating hofstra 3-2 (26-24, 24-26, 25-20, 25-14, 15­13). Fry collected more kills against the pride than the entire irish offense managed against seton hall, record­ing 21 kills on her own in the match. Fry also added three service aces and five digs in the irish victory. 
Fry said the team’s mental­ity helped the irish get their second win on saturday and will benefit the team going forward. 
“we all have great talent, so it’s just about keeping our minds in the game and our thoughts together,” Fry said. 
This weekend marked just the second tourney the irish have played under new head coach Jim mclaughlin. There has been a bit of a learn­ing curve this year given the team’s youth and struggles in 2014, Fry said, but neverthe­less, she said the players have positive impressions of their new coaching staff. 

“The coaching has been consistent [between last weekend and this weekend]. in wins and losses they’re staying supportive of us,” Fry said. “There’s a lot of trust both ways.” 
The irish have a few days to rest and regroup before their home opener this week­end at the golden dome invitational. Their first match of that tournament will be Friday at 7 p.m. in purcell pavilion against mississippi state. 
Contact Daisy Costello at mcostel4@nd.edu 

mLb | dodgers 5, padres 1 
dodgers win 5-1 thanks to padres’ defensive errors 
Associated Press 

san diego — a.J. ellis had an rbi single and the dodgers capitalized on some sloppy padres defense as los angeles beat san diego 5-1 on sunday. 
ellis put los angeles ahead 2-1 with a sharp single to left in the sixth. 
with the bases loaded in the seventh, padres reliever nick vincent had a two-out, three-base throwing error after fielding andre ethier’s dribbler up the first base line. vincent tossed it over first baseman wil myers’ head, al­lowing three runs to score. 
The dodgers have won 11 of their last 13 and are a season-high 20 games above .500. 
The padres have lost three straight and five of six. 
brett anderson (9-8) pitched 5 2-3 innings, surren­dering one run on four hits and four walks. he struck out four before leaving with a cramp in his left calf. 
andrew cashner (5-14) worked six innings, allow­ing two runs on five hits. he walked four with five strike outs in losing for the 12th time in his last 16 decisions. 
The padres appeared poised to tie the game in the sixth with runners on the corners and two outs. 
pinch-hitter melvin upton, Jr., faced reliever J.p. howell and hit a hard grounder to third base, where it rico­cheted off corey seager to Jimmy rollins. rollins threw upton out at first base. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

ndsmcobserver.com | monday, september 7, 2015 | The observer 

W soccer 
conTinued From page 12 
position in extra time and fired off five shots compared to none by the broncos, but still could not break the stalemate. 
The irish rebounded sunday afternoon in east lansing. gilbertson continued her hot start tallying her 4th goal of the season, while freshman forward natalie Jacobs creat­ed some breathing room with her second goal of the season. 
romagnolo’s team was once again productive on offense, totaling 23 shots with eight on goal, and held michigan state (3-1-1) to a single shot. 
gilbertson found the back of the goal in the 32nd minute with a strategically placed shot to the left of the keeper. The goal was another exam­ple of gilbertson’s exception­al play, said romagnolo. 
“she is taking on players at the right time and this leads to higher percentage shots, but she still has the abil­ity to hit the wonder shot,” romagnolo said. “she can score in so many different ways.” 
The insurance came in the 54th minute on a cross from junior midfielder sandra yu to Jacobs. From 8 yards out, the freshman buried the ball in the bottom left corner. 
The second-year coach said she determined to keep her team focused despite the ear­ly success. 
“we don’t look at any­one as a lesser opponent,” romagnolo said. “we’re still developing, and the goal is to continue to improve regard­less of who we play.” 
The irish look to continue their strong start as they host in-state foe indiana (3-1-1) on Friday. The game will be held at alumni stadium and is slated to begin at 7 p.m. 
Contact Dominic Bush at dbush@nd.edu 





m soccer 
conTinued From page 12 
player, shipp was recognized as the most outstanding defensive player, and junior chris hubbard earned most outstanding goalkeeper hon­ors for his two shutouts. 
in sunday’s contest, shipp put the irish on the board in the 20th minute off a drop pass on the run from senior midfielder evan panken. From there, the irish never looked back, outshooting  the blazers, 28-6. 
“To be honest we weren’t doing anything special [of­fensively],” Klekota said. “we were just playing as simple as we could and making runs off of the ball. 
“we work on it all the time in training and today it just start­ed to click.” 
and it certainly clicked in the second half, when the irish scored their other three goals. gallagher took charge in the 67th minute with an unas­sisted goal, and Klekota add­ed on to it with another goal soon after in the 73rd minute. gallagher book-ended the half with his second goal in the 84th minute off an assist from sophomore midfielder blake Townes. 
leading up to sunday’s match, the irish also shut out no. 24 south Florida (usF), 2-0, Friday night. 
“i thought [Friday’s game] was a very good performance,” irish head coach bobby clark said. “a little slow at the start, they had a couple chances early on in the game, and i thought we took over the game quite nicely. 
“The second half was very, very good.” 
gallagher contributed an­other goal in that game, as did junior defender brandon aubrey. 
notre dame outshot usF (2­2-0) 15-11, while usF led the chippy match in penalties with 15 fouls and five yellow cards. 
The irish took the scoring ini­tiative in the 10th minute with gallagher’s goal. off a pass ahead to himself, gallagher hit the low left corner of the net to get past bulls junior goalkeep­er spasoje stefanovic. 
Though the irish made it to the net first, usF controlled the majority of the offensive pace in the first half. in the 18th minute, usF junior for­ward nazeem bartman drib­bled past the irish defense and fired at junior goalkeeper chris hubbard. hubbard got a piece of the ball and pushed it just past the left post. 
The second half opened with bulls sophomore defender gabriel pfeffer and junior mid­fielder lindo mfeka receiving yellow cards within the first six minutes. irish senior midfield­er patrick hodan tried to turn things around in the 51st min­ute with a run down the right side, but his shot missed high. 

he had another run seven minutes later, and a handball in the box by usF handed the irish a penalty kick. aubrey took the kick and found the left corner of the goal to take the 2-0 lead. 
“it was a great game, very similar to an acc game,” clark said. “very athletic team we were against, full marks to them. They never game up. even with a 2-0 run in the last 10 minutes, they pushed.” 
as the irish approach their first acc matchup against no. 9 clemson on sept. 12, the mike berticelli memorial Tournament gave the irish the opportunity to test their lineup against two unique types of teams and playing styles. 
“i felt both teams offered different challenges,” Klekota said. “uab was more of a grind-it-out team who looked to use their size to their advan­tage, while usF had some great individual players who had the freedom to push forward. 
“both teams were physical, so once we matched their phys­icality, we were able to start 
paid adverTisemenT 


playing the way we wanted. 
“i’m just happy we are getting better with each game,” Klekota said. “all we can ask for is to get a little better each training ses­sion and game. 
“we are going into our biggest game of the season so far, so we have to keep working each day in order to get to where we want to be come december.” 
The irish take on no. 9 clemson in their first acc con­test of the season sept. 12 at alumni stadium at 7 p.m. 
Contact Kit Loughran  kloughr1@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | monday, september 7, 2015 | The observer 

CrossWord | will shorTZ 


sudoku | The mepham group 

horosCope | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: Think before you react. don’t jump to conclusions or make assumptions. Focus on yourself and how you can make improvements that will ensure your happiness and well-being. strive for perfection as well as living within your means. don’t allow emotions to take over or hinder your ability to get things done. your numbers are 5, 13, 23, 26, 32, 38, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): stay grounded, even if someone tries to upset you emotionally. Focus on your personal needs and doing things that you find exciting. love is on the rise, and avoiding feelings of jealousy will keep an important relationship running smoothly. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): get things out in the open if you are having a problem with someone. Knowing where you stand and what you can expect will help you make better choices. a day trip will bring you clarity and open up your options. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t follow someone without questioning what’s in it for you. make positive changes to the way you live and who you hang with and it will be easier to break the habits and routines that cost you financially and emotionally. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): move things around to suit your needs. get out in your community and see if there is something you can do to bring about positive changes. don’t let someone’s negativity get you down. remember, actions speak louder than words. make a difference. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you’ll inspire the people you talk to today. your expressive and engaging way of presenting your ideas and plans will draw someone special to your side. an opportunity must not be overlooked. romance is highlighted. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): you’ll be able to see the big picture, but that doesn’t mean you should neglect the fine details that require a little more attention. ask questions and challenge anyone who you feel may be offering false information. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): your involvement in matters that concern you will give you a platform to use your skills in order to make a difference. romance is encouraged and will help improve your personal life. a change of scenery will make your life better. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): don’t trust anyone with your money, your possessions or your ideas. Try to develop a project by yourself or with someone you know you can trust. a change to your routine will make your life better. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): put your time and effort into self-improvements, not into trying to change others. not everyone will be overjoyed with the changes you make, but that will make it easier for you to weed out who you want in your circle and who you don’t. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Focus on the people in your life who mean the most to you. make a difference to someone who has something to offer in return. sharing will bring you satisfaction and open up options that you never considered in the past. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Tell the people you love exactly how you feel, and you will get an interesting response that will warm your heart. love is on the rise, and children and family affairs will lead to greater unity and prosperity. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): look out for your own interests or someone will take advantage of you. make changes to your home that will give you greater freedom to follow creative pursuits. an opportunity to make money from home looks promising. 

Birthday Baby: You are outgoing, entertaining and farsighted. You are unique and compassionate. 
JumbLe | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 




make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | monday, september 7, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FootbaLL 

Folston sidelined for season with torn ACL 
By MARY GREEN 
assistant managing editor 
Junior running back Tarean Folston is out for the season with a torn right acl sustained in notre dame’s 38-3 victory over Texas on saturday, head coach brian Kelly announced sunday. 
Folston headed to the locker room after a play in the first quarter and reappeared on the sidelines later in the game in street clothes and on crutches. he had collected 19 yards on three carries prior to the injury and entered the season as the only irish player with significant game experience at running back. 
“we’re certainly disappointed with Tarean,” Kelly said. “he’s worked so hard to get where he is, but that’s the nature, and there’s nothing you can do about it, and that’s why you try to develop the depth of your program.” 
Kelly said the junior will have surgery on his knee within the next 10 days, to be performed by team orthopedic surgeon brian ratigan. 
with Folston now on the side­lines, the irish will turn to a three-back rotation with senior 
c.J. prosise and freshmen Josh adams and dexter williams, Kelly said. he added that senior running back Josh anderson will come in to help with pass protection. 
“we feel good about c.J., Josh and dexter, and we’re not com­plaining,” Kelly said. “you know, we just move on, and those are the three guys we’ll get ready, and we believe they’ll do the job just fine for us.” 
The converted receiver prosise picked up 98 yards on 11 carries in his first game as a running back saturday, while adams made a splash in his collegiate debut with 49 yards on five car­ries, two of which went for touch­downs. Kelly had previously said williams would need more time to develop before he saw playing time, but with Folston’s injury, the head coach said sunday that his progress would be accel­erated this season to fit in the rotation. 
Kelly also announced sunday that graduate student safety avery sebastian will be out four to six weeks with a foot fracture. sebastian entered the game saturday as a reserve but did not make any tackles before leaving with the injury. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 

men’s soCCer | nd 2, usF 0; nd  4, uab 0 
Two shutouts earn Irish sixth Berticelli title 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
The irish shut out uab to win their sixth berticelli memorial tournament title sunday at alumni stadium. 
no. 5 notre dame (3-0-1) defeated the blazers, 4-0, in a dynamic offensive bat­tle in the final match of the mike berticelli memorial Tournament. sophomore for­ward Jon gallagher led the irish attack with two goals, while senior defender michael shipp added his first career score and and senior mid­fielder connor Klekota put in an insurance goal to push the irish to four goals. 
notre dame’s victory marks the sixth time the irish have won the tournament during its 13-year history, as well as the 500th win in notre dame’s 39-year program history. 
The irish also dominated the tourney individually. gallagher was named most outstanding offensive 
see m soccer paGe 10 


nd Women’s soCCer | nd 2, wesT. mich. 2; nd 2, mich. sT. 0 
road trip ends in mixed results 
By DOMINIC BUSH 
sports writer 
a two-game road trip to michigan this weekend ended with mixed results for the no. 6 irish, as they tied western michigan 2-2 in double over­time and defeated michigan state 2-0. 
play began Friday after­noon as the broncos (3-1-1), representing the mac, hosted the irish (5-0-1). 
notre dame dominated the shot total, besting western michigan 21-3, and also held the advantage in shots on goal 6-2. 
irish senior forward anna maria gilbertson scored her team-leading third goal of the season and sophomore for­ward meghan doyle notched her first career goal. 
but it was not enough to come away victorious, as broncos sophomore forward emma Kahn made the most of her scoring opportuni­ties, converting on both of her shots on goal to keep the game a draw. 
irish head coach Theresa romagnolo said her team did not perform at its best. 
“we lacked urgency in the back,” romagnolo said of the irish defense. “we were lulled into a false sense of security and we allowed them to get back in the game.” 
The irish shooting barrage began in the 15th minute with a near miss off the crossbar from the foot of gilbertson. however, in the 41st minute, the california native made good on her second shot. 
Kahn answered with an un­assisted goal of her own in the 63rd minute. 
Three minutes later, doyle maneuvered around a de­fender and beat the goalie. The goal appeared to be the game-winner due to the sti­fling irish defense, but with 10 minutes left in regula­tion, Kahn tapped in a pass from junior forward olivia vollmers. 
as they did in the first 90 minutes, the irish controlled 
see w soccer paGe 9 





