ThE INdEPENdENT TO uNCOVEr NEWSPAPEr SErVINg ThE TruTh NOTrE dAME ANd ANd rEPOrT SAINT MAry’S IT ACCurATELy 

VOLuME 48, ISSuE 105 | FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2015 | NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM 
Notre Dame community remembers Lisa Yang 
Friends, family reflect on Yang’s life and friendship 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
News Editor 
“Lisa is one of the most compas­sionate people I’ve ever met. She always cared about other people’s feelings and never wanted to bur­den anyone. She was always will­ing to listen and offer consolation to those going through a tough time. 
“Lisa loved to laugh and make jokes with people and was all around a good person to be around.” 
Senior Joseph Celeste chose those words to describe his girl­friend of two years, Lisa yang, who died March 3. 
Others who knew her described her as a girl with a nearly ever-pres­ent smile and as “a friend to all.” 
Whenthe universityannounced her death late in the evening of 
see LISA PAGE 4 




Panel explores St. Teresa’s relevance to young Catholics 
By MARTHA REILLY 
News Writer 
Four speakers gathered Thursday night at Saint Mary’s to discuss St. Teresa of Ávila’s rel­evance to young Catholics as part of a spring lecture series in honor of the 500th anniversary of her birth. 
Teresa’s selflessness and love for others were common themes in each speaker’s presentation, but Julia Feder, a postdoctoral fellow in Notre dame’s theology depart­ment, focused especially on false humility, which she said can pro­duce fear and a lack of confidence in believers. 
“There are many opportunities to misinterpret humility,” Feder said. “False humility can produce fear and overzealous penitential practices. True humility will lead one to accept god’s blessings and courageously take up love of one’s neighbor.” 
Additionally, Feder emphasized the importance of honoring god through prayer., which can lead to greater understanding of oneself. 
“Prayer is for those seeking 
see TErESA PAGE 3 


Council to select Hall of the Year 

By MATTHEW McKENNA 
News Writer 
hall of the year presentations, which give hall presidents and vice presidents the chance to summarize the activities and condition of their dorm, begin next week. These presentations make up more than half the criteria for the hall of the year selection. 
Senior Michael Wajda, co-chair of hall Presidents Council, said 65 percent of hall of the year deliberations are based on next week’s presentations, in which hall presidents recap their dorm’s activities over the last year with respect to three categories: heart, mind and body. 
“Over the course of the next week, all of the dorms are going to be giving their presentations, and they’ll be graded on the mind, heart and body categories, but they will also be graded on how they have worked to grow as a community holistically,” he said. “We’ll judge how they’ve worked to include all members of the community, and what sort of sustained unique impact they’ve had this year.” 
Wajda said 5 percent of the de­liberations is based on the dorm’s signature event, which is hosted by the dorm and open to all of campus. The remaining 30 per­cent is based on monthly rockne presentations. 
“These presentations are snap­shots that the presidents provide each month, just a listing of what they’ve done which includes events and a couple of pictures,” Wadja said. 
“We really look for four things in the rockne presentations,” he said. “We look for how they’ve advanced the mental aspect of dorm life, which can be anything from cultural events, academic events and sustainability events. We also look at how they advance the body of the dorm, so that in­cludes inter-hall athletics and so­cial events. 
“Finally, we look at how they advance the heart of dorm com­munity that include the service and liturgical aspects,” he said. “There’s a reflection and goals aspect of the presentation where 
see hALL PAGE 3 


PEMCo puts on “The Wedding Singer” 
fiancée leaves him at the altar. he music to ‘80s hairstyles, it really is able to pool their talents and create Theatre], but where else would you 
By MEGAN VALLEY 

News Writer falls in love with Julia, a waitress, the full experience,” she said. “And something truly special,” she said. find the lead actors of a production who is already engaged, and he has I don’t think people understand “Leadership is always changing, be a civil engineer and a theology 
Pasquerilla East Musical to pull off the “performance of a de-exactly how funny this show is — bringing a new energy to each pro-major?” she said. Company (PEMCo) will perform cade” in order to win the girl of his we’re talking out-loud, possibly duction and giving opportunities Moran said she loves the variety its spring musical,“The Wedding dreams. rolling-on-the-floor laughter.” for students to try different roles.” of the cast and crew. Singer,” at Washington hall this Sophomore Maggie Moran, an PEMCo is run entirely by stu-Senior Shannon Kirk, the musi-“The group is a mix of all majors, weekend. actor in the show, said Notre dame dents, which Moran said is the best cal’s producer, said PEMCo is spe-talents and types of experience,” 
“The Wedding Singer” follows audiences have a lot to look for-part about working with the group. cial because students from all fields she said. “As a non-FTT major, I feel robbie hart, New Jersey’s favorite ward to with the upcoming run of “What begins as one student’s contribute. incredibly lucky to work with this wedding singer, as he intention-the musical. vision is brought to life by a collec-“Of course, some members of the ally ruins weddings after his own “From neon sets to catching tion of driven individuals who are team study [Film, Television and see MuSICAL PAGE 4 

NEWS PAGE 3 VIEWPOINT PAGE 7 SCENE PAGE 8 MEN’S BASKETBALL PAGE 16 WOMEN’S BASKETBALL PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, Notre dame, IN 46556 024 South dining hall, Notre dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                    Jack rooney  Alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: Mary green Asst. Managing Editor: Wei Lin Asst. Managing Editor: Lesley Stevenson 
News Editor: Margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: Erin McAuliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh Ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach Llorens Graphics Editor: Erin rice Multimedia Editor: Brian Lach Online Editor: Michael yu Advertising Manager: Elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine Park Controller: Cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu wlin@nd.edu, lsteven1@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 
dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant 
Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 

Post Office Information The Observer (uSPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South dining hall Notre dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices POSTMASTEr Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. Box 779 024 South dining hall Notre dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
“Friday is the International Day of Happiness. What makes you happy?” 

Pat Feeney 

Sophie Brahos 
freshman 
freshman 
Zahm house 
Breen-Phillips hall 
“Free speech.” 
“Pitbull’s fireball.” 
Tera Joyce 

Joe Kuhns 
senior 
sophomore 
Cavanaugh hall 
Zahm house 
“My section.” 
“My dad.” 
Brian Pulawski 

Alex Alcantara 
freshman 
sophomore 
Zahm house 
Alumni hall 
“When my dad buys Feve.” 
“The Parisi family.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Emily McConville Manny de Jesus Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: Madison Jaros renee griffin Clare Kossler Christine Mayuga 
Graphics Scene 
Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 

Erin rice Miko Malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 
Men’s Tennis Women’s Lacrosse Softball “Can Liberty be Last Lecture Series 

Michael yu Mary Kate Luft 
Eck Tennis Pavillion Arlotta Stadium Melissa Cook Stadium Conserved?” Washington Hall 
3:30 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. 12 p.m. - 2 p.m. 12 p.m. - 2 p.m. Geddes Hall 7 p.m. - 8 p.m. The Irish take on The Irish take on Ohio The Irish take on 3:30 p.m. - 4:45 p.m. Lecture by Mike 
Corrections 
Virginia. State. Georgia Tech. Lecture by Mark Blitz. Seelinger. 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and 
Graduate Student Saturday Vigil Mass “Selma” Last Lecture Series Memorial Mass for 

strives for the highest standards 
Mass Basilica of the Sacred DeBartolo Performing Washington Hall Lisa Yang 

of journalism at all times. We do, 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart Arts Center 7 p.m. - 8 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred 

however, recognize that we will make 
Heart 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. 3:30 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. Lecture by Maria Heart 

mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Worship service. Film about the 1965 McKenna. 9 p.m. - 10 p.m. 

please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Worship service. Civil Rights March. Fr. John Jenkins will 
we can correct our error. 
preside. 


NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM | FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2015 | ThE OBSErVEr 


Writer examines faults of elite educational system 
By J.P. GSCHWIND 
News Writer 
Speaking to a maximum-ca­pacity crowd in deBartolo hall on Thursday evening, former Ivy League professor William deresiewicz challenged the status quo of American higher education and the effect it has on students. 
his lecture, “The Failures of the Elite Education System,” was based on his essay, “The disadvantages of an Elite Education” and his book, “Excellent Sheep,” which examines negative trends he had seen in his career in academia. 
“When people say, ‘Where should I send my kid?’ First of all, don’t send your kid. Let your kid decide,” deresiewicz said. 
deresiewicz said towards the end of his 10 years as a faculty member at yale, he wrote an article titled “The disadvantages of an Elite Education,” which went viral online. 
“Students would write to me say­ing, ‘Thank you for putting what they were thinking into words,’” deresiewicz said. 
deresiewicz said the elite edu­cation system has led to a culture of empty ambition where students 
Hall 
CONTINuEd FrOM PAgE 1 
we ask them to see where they want to go from here in the next month.” 
Kathleen Clark, hall Presidents Council co-chair, said it is im­possible to judge each dorm in a vacuum. 
“Each of the 29 halls is hall of the year in some way,” she said. “So re­ally what we’re looking for is to see that each residence hall has been the best possible version of itself.” 
PAId AdVErTISEMENT 

struggle to get to the top but fail to understand why they are try­ing so hard. Accompanying this, deresiewicz said, is a counterintui­tive strain of anti-intellectualism. Students are too busy studying and jumping through hoops to fo­cus and think about what they are studying, he said. 
“I tapped into a hunger that so many students are feeling not just at selective colleges, but across many colleges,” deresiewicz said. 
According to deresiewicz, these effects go beyond simple dissatis­faction with college life. 
“What I didn’t realize was just how much psychic distress, how much mental illness, to be brutally frank about it, this system is caus­ing,” deresiewicz said. 
deresiewicz said it is still im­portant to craft a positive vision of college education. Citing colum­nist david Brooks, deresiewicz said education can be divided into three purposes: vocational, cogni­tive and moral. he said colleges currently focus too much on the vocational and, to a lesser extent, the cognitive. Instead, they should focus on the moral purpose: the cultivation of an ability to make 
Michael Wajda said the hall of the year selection is made by a group of nine judges, which in­cludes  several hall Presidents Council, two members of the ju­dicial council and two student senators. 
“The judges represent a really di­verse group of people,” he said. “We have a good mix of all the quads, all the grades and both genders. It’s a really fun mix of people and we’ve really enjoyed working together.” 
Wajda said the senators do not have to judge their own dorms. 
Clark, who was also on hall Presidents Council last year, said Notre dame residential life holds a special place in her heart. She said the most rewarding aspect of her position as co-chair is seeing the hard work the presidents and vice presidents put in to improve stu­dent life. 
“It has made me cherish my Notre dame education even more because the quality of residential life here is so special,” she said. 
Wajda said there are several 

PAId AdVErTISEMENT 

choices and self-reflect. 
deresiewicz said he sees this purpose from a secular perspective but believes it can coexist with and complement a religious mission, es­pecially at a school like Notre dame. 
“This is a system that forces you to choose between fulfillment and success,” he said. 
deresiewicz said university President Emeritus Fr. Theodore hesburgh and university of California regent Clark Kerr pro­vide excellent examples of how college administrators should act. however, he said the paradigm of public intellectual college leader is dead, replaced by the model of business managers who treat schools like corporations and stu­dents like customers. 
“The classroom and the dorm room ought to be two ends of the same experience,” he said. “The first puts ideas into your head, the sec­ond makes them part of your soul.” 
deresiewicz said college educa­tion should help answer the ques­tion, “What is the good life?” and how to live it. 
Contact J.P.  Gschwind at  jgschwin@nd.edu 
concrete prizes for winning hall of the year, including a plaque for the winning dorms, a dome dance and a monetary prize. Two dome dances are given out, one to the overall hall of the year and one to either the Women’s hall of the year or the Men’s hall of the year — whichever is the opposite sex of the overall winner. 
Clark said the selection process is difficult because every dorm is worthy of hall of the year. 
“We recognize there are 29 out­standing communities on campus that are lead by 29 outstanding presidents, vice presidents and communities,” Clark said. 
“I think what is valuable in hav­ing hall of the year awards is that it continues to affirm the impor­tance of residence life here at Notre dame,” she said. “It is worth cele­brating a good, strong community. That’s one of the things that makes Notre dame different. you hear constantly that people come here for the residential structure, and we have a role in perpetuating that importance and strengthening our communities into families.” 
Wajda said Notre dame residen­tial life is unique in that students of all years are living and learning together. 
“you’re a senior living next to freshman and across from sophomores, and you’re all called highlanders or Vermin, or Lions or The Finest,” he said. “It’s a sys­tem that most other colleges don’t have, and having hall of the year lets us say that Notre dame resi­dential life is something special, something unique and something meaningful.” 
Contact Matthew McKenna at mmcken12@nd.edu 
Club to host luau 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
News Writer 
The annual hawaii Club Luau 
— a traditional celebration of hawaii’s native culture, which was first hosted at Notre dame in 1981 — will take place Saturday from 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. in the Stepan Center. 
hawaii Club of Notre dame co-president and sophomore Kisa Matlin said the luau provides stu­dents with a “tropical getaway” from the harsh South Bend win­ter as well as an opportunity to connect to hawaiian culture. 
“We have about 35 or so stu­dents here from hawaii,” she said. “We’re a very tight knit com­munity, so doing this luau every year is a way for us to just connect to our culture back home and to also share it with the Notre dame community here.” 
In previous years, around 300 people attended the event, which Matlin said ties in various as­pects of hawaiian culture. 
The luau will feature a hula show, musical entertainment and a hawaiian dinner, which will include a buffet table with a number of native foods, she said. There will also be a free photo booth, temporary tattoos and a country store where attendees can buy trinkets from hawaii. 
“We have kalua pig, which is the hawaiian analog to pulled pork,” she said. “We have fresh 
Teresa 
CONTINuEd FrOM PAgE 1 
purification,” Feder said. “It is the door to the healing works of god. The journey toward union with god and prayer is also a journey toward knowledge of the self.” 
Maria Surat, a master of divin­ity student at Notre dame, dis­cussed Teresa’s desire for people to follow in the example of the Carmelites and meditate each day. 
“Teresa taught that prayer is nothing but a conversation be­tween friends,” Surat said. “She tells us to seek god with deter­mination and to never give up in prayer. Prayer is not thinking much but loving much.” 
Surat said Teresa’s follow­ers should consider god a close friend. 
“Teresa teaches us to seek god’s face in the person of Christ and to cultivate intimate friendship with him,” Surat said. “We are called to friendship with god so that we might encourage others to seek him.” 
Surat related her own life to Teresa’s life 500 years ago and said Teresa faced challenges much like her own. 
“In contemporary society, we are faced with many challenges to the gospel,” Surat said. “Teresa encourages us to be strong friends of god. She too was living in a time of painful division of the Church.” 
Katie Bugyis, a Ph.d. candidate pineapple with li hing [mui] pow­der. We have lomi-lomi salmon, which is diced salmon with on­ions, tomatoes and … seasoning and haupia, which is like coconut pudding for dessert.” 
Although Notre dame Food Services will prepare some of the food, Matlin said club members will also make some of the dishes themselves. 
As for the hula show, Matlin said the dancing is something most hawaiians are familiar with, having grown up on the islands. 
“hawaiian culture education is integrated into our schooling in general,” she said. “[hula danc­ing] is something we’re all familiar with, if not particularly skilled at.” 
While Matlin said she and other members of the club often miss home while they are away at school, the luau gives every­one the opportunity to come together. 
“It’s something that we can do together as a club to bring a little piece of home to South Bend,” she said. “And it’s also a way for us to share our culture, which is unique, with the rest of the Notre dame community.” 
Tickets are $10 with a student Id and available for purchase at the LaFortune Student Center box office or at the door. 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at  chutyra@nd.edu 
in Medieval Studies at Notre dame, said Teresa’s experiences connect with those of her mod-ern-day followers. 
“Teresa had to overcome op­position,” she said. “ ... She quickly learned from the many difficul­ties that plagued her foundations and developed strategies for cir­cumventing any obstacles.” 
Bugyis said Teresa witnessed the establishment of 17 Carmelite houses for nuns in Spain, where she enforced her own principles. 
“Teresa was convinced that preferential treatment would de­stroy monastic communities.” Bugyis said. “She insisted, ‘all must be friends, all must be loved, all must be held dear, all must be helped.’” 
Saint Mary’s sophomore Kaleigh Ellis shared photos of her time in Ávila, where she walked in Teresa’s footsteps. 
“Ávila has a real devotion to Teresa,” Ellis said. “It puts history in perspective when you can walk around areas where people like St. Teresa walked around.” 
Although her 500th birthday will be celebrated March 28, Teresa’s legacy is ongoing, Surat said. 
“Teresa is a woman who has truly experienced god in her life, and she speaks to us from that experience,” Surat said. “We are encouraged to make Teresa’s dy­ing words our own: ‘I want to see god. I am a daughter of the church.’” 
Contact Martha Reilly at  mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 


ThE OBSErVEr | FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2015 | NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM 

she had met at the school. tape on the door. She was just fun.” battle with clinical depression. 
Musical 

Lisa “I remember when she got her “Lisa suffered from depression 
CONTINuEd FrOM PAgE 1 

CONTINuEd FrOM PAgE 1 first internship; it was in sopho-‘Everyone’s friend’ for a number of years, starting in more year,” yoo said. “It’s kind of reyes said yang offered friend-high school,” Celeste said. “her March 3, dozens of those friends hard as a sophomore to land an in-ship to all those who knew her, but depression was a self-enforcing 
group of people who have a flocked to the grotto to remember ternship, and she had such a good reyes personally appreciated her cycle; she couldn’t see that she was 
diversity of gifts and interests, her and to illuminate the space, one … she was getting paid really optimism and support. smart, talented, beautiful and very 
but share a passion for theater spelling out her name in candles. well, and as a fellow sophomore “I remember during interviews successful.” 
and a desire to grow and learn looking at someone this successful the fall of our junior year, Lisa and gary yang said although his 

from one another.” ‘A hardworking individual’ I just thought, ‘Well, you’re going I both wanted to do banking, and daughter struggled with depres-
Senior Caitlin Schlehuber All who knew her said yang places.’ … She had so much going we didn’t get anything we wanted sion, she often hid her suffering. 
directs the musical, with soph­was an accomplished student. for her.” in the fall,” reyes said. “We were “She cared about her parents 
omore Sonia urquidi as the mu-A finance major in the Mendoza freaking out because we thought and sister very much; she didn’t 
sic director and senior Maggie College of Business with a job ‘Always smiling’ we were out of luck. But Lisa was want them to be worried about her 
Miller as the choreographer. lined up after graduation, she was Several of yang’s friends recalled always very positive. I was abroad, depression,” he said in an email. 
Senior Chris Siemann plays “naturally very good at many of her memorable smile and laugh. and she would text me when I had gary yang said he hoped Lisa’s 
robbie and sophomore Victoria the things she did,” senior Amanda “She was always smiling. I’m interviews to encourage me and death would allow the community 
Pereira plays Julia. Kotey said. sure you saw pictures of her smile, say ‘you can do this.’” to move forward a better under-
Auditions were held at the Kotey remembered studying it was super bright, and it just lights But yang’s kindness and friend-standing of the disease and how to 
beginning of the semester, and with yang  late into the night. up the entire room,” yoo said. ship extended beyond the profes-get support. 
rehearsals were held for several “I would say that Lisa was such reyes, who lived in Mcglinn sional sphere, senior Margarita “The greatest sorrow and sad-
hours each week. Moran said a genuine and hardworking in-and studied finance with yang, Arcenas said. Arcenas said she ness of her family is that they came 
the time the cast and crew in­dividual,” Kotey said in an email. described yang as a young woman specifically recalls a night out with to know her struggling and suffer-
vested in the production will be “Often times when I had to pull dedicated to her schoolwork who yang and other girls from Mcglinn. ing alone only after her death,” he 
well worth the effort. all-nighters in our section lounge was generally  happy and playful. “The last event I remember go-said. 
“The time and talent that has of Mcglinn, I would almost always “The way I describe Lisa is that ing to with her was a concert in “We hope that her death might 
gone into bringing this musical see Lisa there, too.” she was always such a happy per-Legends at the end of our sopho-be an opportunity for others to un­
to the stage has truly paid off, yang loved her studies and her son,” reyes said. “She was always more year,” Arcenas said in an derstand that students suffering 
and I can’t wait to join this cast extracurricular activities — nu-very light. email. “It was pretty empty and from depression should not suffer 
and crew in showcasing it,” she merous business-related clubs and “Even when she was stressed, the Mcglinn girls from 2A, includ-alone, but instead reach out to oth­
said. the debate Team — loved to cook she would laugh about things. She ing Lisa, took over the entire dance ers for support and help.” 
“The Wedding Singer” and travel and dreamed of mov-had a very distinctive laugh, when floor. I wish she could have found The university Counseling 
will be performed Friday in ing to New york, Celeste and senior she felt awkward or something was the same happiness she had that Center is offering special walk-
Washington hall at 7:30 p.m. Nikki reyes said. funny.” night.” in hours for students affected by 
and Saturday at 4 p.m. Tickets Mcglinn hall senior Boyoung “She was very light-hearted and yang’s death today from noon to 
are $7 for students and $10 for yoo said she met yang walking to almost like a free spirit,” reyes said. ‘An opportunity for others 1 p.m. and next Wednesday from 
non-students and are on sale at domerfest during freshman ori-“during the Asian American re-to understand ... ’ 5 p.m. to 6 p.m., in addition to its 9 
the LaFortune Box Office and at entation, and the two remained treat she stayed up all night to pull The St. Joseph County Coroner’s a.m. to 5 p.m. weekday hours. 
the door. friends throughout their time at this elaborate prank on some of the Office ruled yang’s death a suicide, Notre dame. She said she viewed guys … something with a vacuum after what Celeste and Lisa’s father Contact Margaret Hynds at 
Contact Megan Valley at  yang as one of the smartest people and the boys sleeping and duct gary yang described as a lengthy mhynds@nd.edu 
mvalley@nd.edu 
PAId AdVErTISEMENT 


PAId AdVErTISEMENT 



INSIDE COLUMN 

Embolden thy hearts 
Austin Taliaferro 
Viewpoint Copy Editor 

While standing in line to pay my re­spects to Fr. Theodore hesburgh the other night, a thought came to my mind of how one measures a life. The phrase ‘good life’ gets thrown around in speech when referring to those who have passed quite often. But how do you measure a ‘good life’? 
I pondered this as I looked around at the hundreds of people who had come to honor Fr. Ted and the answer that came to me was life is measured by the relationships you form with the people you meet in life. Listening to the countless stories about his life there was always a single consistency among them — his willingness and courage to meet and form a relationship with those around him. Be it with civil rights lead­ers, presidents, foreign dignitaries, the homeless, the students of Notre dame, he never balked from trying to meet and show brotherhood to his fellow man and woman. There are countless stories of him approaching people he didn’t know around campus and starting conversa­tions that, whether he realized it or not, had an impact on their lives. 
This way of living is often ill advised in today’s world as we are swarmed with media of the atrocities going on in the world by evil men, and it can make our heart timid to the idea of trying to be in communion with those around us. With how connected the entire world is through the Internet, it is laughable how disconnected personally from each other we are now. I once sat on a train to Chicago for three hours across from a man who was a little more disheveled than I was, and we didn’t speak once, even though we were so close to each other and the only people in the car. I think of what Fr. Ted would have done, and I know he would have started a con­versation with the man. It’s these missed opportunities that stop us from possibly having a life changing moment or re­ceiving a friend that we may never have the opportunity to befriend again. For all I know, I could have been the person that man needed on that day to help him with something he was going through in life, but because of my wariness, I may never know. 
Next time a situation arises where someone is put in front of you and there is the possibility of creating a friend­ship, put down your phone, stop sending a yak, embolden your heart and think of what Fr. Ted would have done. With the amount of outpouring of emotion that tens of thousands of people have partaken in over him in the last week, I think Fr. Ted’s life can be used as a true example of what a ‘good life’ really is. 
Contact Austin Taliaferro at ataliafe@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
It’s 1979 in America 

Nicole O’Toole 
guest Columnist 
This year I took the SMC republicans to the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) where we heard from many conservatives who were all on the 2015 CPAC Straw Poll in which we participated. The top five winners were rand Paul, Scott Walker, Ted Cruz, Ben Carson, and Jeb Bush. 
Paul was a hit with the large number of young people at CPAC. he said, “We do a great job defending the Second Amendment, but we have to defend the whole Bill of rights … we should have speedy trials.” he went on to talk about Kalief Browder who was accused of a crime and spent three years in jail without a trial. Many young people identify well with Paul’s libertarian beliefs. I truly believe that the millennial generation of republicans are much more Libertarian. 
I attended a panel on the legalization of marijuana with New Mexico governor gary Johnson and Commissioner Anne Marie Buerkle. Johnson remarked, “having a debate right now over whether or not to legalize marijuana is like having a debate over whether the sun is going to come up tomorrow.” Similarly, I believe gay marriage is going to be legalized in all 50 states sooner or later. heavily opposed politicians are wasting their time and energy trying to fight it. 
A majority of millennial conservatives have more mod­erate views on many social issues and are major advo­cates for states’ rights. Although semi-Libertarian Paul agrees with much of this sentiment of the millennial view, I do not think he has a strong shot in 2016 because of his somewhat vague plans of action. 
Sarah Palin explained her opinions on how the u.S. should action in the Middle East saying, “they say you can’t kill your way out of war? Tell that to the Nazis … Oh wait, you can’t, they’re dead – we killed them.” Although Palin received a roaring applause for this comment and I enjoyed it as well, I do not believe she is the best fit for 2016. She is many things we need in a 2016 nominee: she is not afraid of the media and admits to her own personal flaws, however, I don’t think she would be taken seriously enough. 
Although he placed poorly in the Straw Poll, I believe Chris Christie has a lot of the passion and excitement that will be needed in 2016. But, he claimed he was uncon­cerned about his decline in the polls. I appreciated when he said, “What we should be concerned about is what I 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
heard when I traveled to 37 states last year: they want opportunities for great careers for themselves and their children.” Should the drama of “Bridgegate” dwindle, I do think that Christie has the pizzazz we need in 2016. 
Carson, Carly Fiorina and Bobby Jindal were all very impressive speakers but I think their newness on the po­litical scene may prohibit 2016 bids. I would love to see any of them as vice presidential candidates. 
My top choices for a 2016 bid are Walker and Bush. Bush has the experience of a governor, diversity in that his wife is an immigrant and of course the Bush name, all of which would greatly aid a campaign. his two biggest areas of concern are immigration and education. I appre­ciate his ideas on immigration. he eluded to the fact that it isn’t feasible to deport 11 million people and that im­migrants need to be given a path “where they work, don’t receive government benefits, don’t break the law, learn English and make a contribution to our society.” These views have the potential to entice many immigrants to the republican Party. 
I found myself constantly rising to my feet in applause for Walker. My favorite line of his was, “We have a presi­dent who measures success by how many people are de­pendent on the government. There’s a reason we celebrate July 4 and not April 15, because in America we celebrate our independence from the government and not our de­pendence on it.” he had strong views and actual plans to improve things. he has dedicated himself to working for the middle class and would be a candidate that appeals to many voters. 
Electability will likely overpower stance on issues in 2016. Almost every speaker I heard from has the same ba­sic goal: limit the power of the federal government, lower taxes and create jobs or economic growth. It is exciting knowing that it is anyone’s election to win and I am eager­ly awaiting to be impressed by the potential candidates. 
It is 1979 in America; Obama is looking like former President Jimmy Carter with his ineffective management style and failures in the Middle East. Next year is our 1980. Next year we have the ability to elect our genera­tion’s ronald reagan. don’t you want to be a part of that? register to vote and find out what you believe in. Fight for our 1980. 
Nicole O’Toole is a senior political science major and president of the SMC College Republicans. She can be reached at notool01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


ThE OBSErVEr | FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2015 | NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM 

A Hesburgh personal postscript 
Gary Caruso 
Capitol Comments 

With the passing of university President Emeritus, Fr. Theodore M. hesburgh, numerous accolades have thus far been lavished upon his memory. None are so telling of his iconic stature as this evening’s simul­cast throughout the greater campus “Michiana” area. Other than news reporting, it is the first time that all six South Bend regional television stations will simul­taneously air a tribute of the same individual. The 30-minute video airing at 7:30 p.m. will honor an ex­traordinarily consistent life on earth that shined the light of heaven upon all. 
I count myself fortunate to have personally known and worked with hesburgh. My Notre dame student tenure began about two-thirds into his presidency, during his strong, steady, well established leadership pace. hesburgh’s 35-year campus legacy can be eas­ily calculated by a few consistent numbers: upon his retirement, the overall operating budget and research budgets hovered near a 20 percent rise, the endow­ment rose by 40 percent and the number of faculty more than doubled while the student enrollment nearly doubled. 
upon entering Notre dame, I knew little about hesburgh except for his nomination by President Nixon (who then fired him) as the newly named chairman of the Civil rights Commission. I had also heard of his 15-minute protest rule — guidelines that guaranteed against impeding students from com­mon, ordinary activities on campus. In 1969 prior to my acceptance, hesburgh expelled what became known as the “Notre dame 10,” students who blocked access to campus job recruitments by the Central Intelligence Agency and dow Chemical Company, the manufacturer of napalm, dropped at the time on vil­lages in Vietnam. Once on campus, I also learned of hesburgh’s open-door policy that allowed any student to visit him when his lights shown through his third floor office after sundown. 
Not only did the Notre dame 10 take advantage of that open-door policy prior to their protests, but I also visited hesburgh late one night during my first semes­ter of freshman year. The computer had scheduled me for 8 a.m. courses each day of the week — the two most difficult being calculus and german. Struggling to pass both at midterm after the course-dropping deadline had passed, I frantically sought ways to miti­gate my dilemma. In my mind, only “Ted the head,” as we students affectionately called him at the time, could help me. 
After the security guard at the door called hesburgh, I climbed three flights and knocked on his office door. I had practiced my spiel long enough to convince myself that I could pass muster even in court. But when the door flung open quickly and the burning full chandelier radiated a rush of light behind hesburgh’s head, I froze as he extended his hand and asked boldly in a fully loud projection, “how do you like Notre dame?” 
“Ah, oh, great,” I weakly mumbled during a tongue-tied moment before we chatted briefly at the door. he never invited me into the office, but he told me that if I could convince one of his assistants, then it was OK with him on the means to solve my predicament. he even referred me to a woman who was from my hometown of Canonsburg, Pennsylvania. I departed thinking that the odds were in my favor despite the rigid course dropping guidelines. It was my firsthand interaction with this internationally known quintes­sential diplomat whose analytical and organizational strengths were such an asset to Notre dame. 
unfortunately, the best — and only option available 
— was to change german instructors. Fortunately, I passed both courses, and when I next saw him during my sophomore year student government participation, I reminded hesburgh that he saved me. Our bond grew closer when I chaired our Junior Parents’ Weekend that featured hesburgh as our speaker. he, in turn, reminded me that he had “sal­vaged” my “hopeless future.” Later that year when his lights glowed from the third floor one early morn­ing after midnight, I phoned him upon my return to Lyons hall from campaigning for student body presi­dent. he frankly scolded me during our conversation, which I still obtain on a cassette recording with my college papers, that he thought some of my campaign positions were ridiculous. 
Although hesburgh mastered the art of diplomacy, his personality lacked as much interpersonal empa­thy as other priests on campus who specialized in ministering to more fragile student personalities. yet hesburgh embodied the ultimate characteristic of a steady operational leader whose charisma endeared him to other leaders including every president since dwight Eisenhower in 1952. hesburgh was both a spiritual and academic purist who marched for civil rights when it was unpopular and defended confer­ring a Notre dame degree upon President Obama even with policy differences between the White house and the university. 
I last spoke to Fr. hesburgh at reunion weekend two years ago. While he appeared physically frail and nearly blind, he whispered to me that he saved my college career. For that remembrance I thank him eternally and pray for his eternal happy rewards. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. Contact him at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Take advantage of the Career Center 
No matter what course of study you choose in the College of Arts and Letters, you will acquire skills that are powerful assets in any profession: the ability to think critically and creatively, to analyze complex information, to identify and solve problems, to write well and to speak persuasively. 
And no matter what your major or professional goals, the Career Center’s dedicated team of experts is ready to connect you with the right opportuni­ties, from networking and mentoring programs to internships to full-time jobs in almost every industry imaginable. 
Our track record is excellent. Within six months of commencement, 97 percent of 2013 Arts and Letters graduates had begun full-time employment (46 per­cent), enrolled in graduate and professional schools (31 percent), joined prestigious service programs (19 percent), entered the military (1 percent), or report­ed other plans (1 percent). 
While we are proud of those numbers, we are most proud that our alumni find lifetime success pursuing unique career paths that are truly reflective of the Notre dame mission to be a force for good in society. 
And the Career Center is here to help from the very first day you arrive on campus — even if you don’t yet know what path you want to pursue. 
The Career Center Engagement Team works with first- and second-year students to discover each per­son’s unique mix of values, interests, personality and skills (VIPs). That insight, paired with the knowledge you learn in the classroom, can spark ideas for ex­periential career endeavors, from internships and career treks to study abroad and service-learning programs. 
The Exploration Team’s career coaches work pri­marily with juniors and seniors, preparing you for job and graduate program searches, helping you discover where your VIPs are needed in the world and devising a plan to get there. Coaches on the Exploration Team have industry expertise to help you navigate the recruiting practices unique to your specific areas of interest. 
The Employer relations Team devotes its energies to providing opportunities for students to connect with employers across all industries, including job and internship postings on gO IrISh, on-campus interviews and for some industries, our various on-campus and off-campus career fairs. Arts and Letters students were specifically being sought by 75 of the 135 for profit, nonprofit and service organiza­tions at the 2015 winter career fair. 
To help students break into industries with dif­ferent recruiting practices, the College of Arts and Letters and the Career Center offer a variety of programs, including mentoring opportunities and career treks. The spring break film and television trek to Los Angeles, for example, allows students to meet more than 50 professionals and alumni in the entertainment industry while visiting sets and mak­ing pitches to agents. Other treks focus on graphic design, industrial design, art museums, auction houses, nonprofit, public relations, theater, sports, biotechnology or pharmaceutical career paths. 
The Career Center also has several grant programs, including the Arts and Letters Summer Internship Program, to help support you in your internships in any industry around the world. We award more than $350,000 in internship grants each year and the April 15 application deadline is fast approaching. 
Whatever your professional goals, the Career Center has resources to help you achieve them. All you have to do is ask. 
Hilary Flanagan 
director Notre dame Career Center 
John McGreevy 
I.A. O’Shaughnessy dean 
College of Arts and Letters March 18 



By MARC DRAKE 
Scene Writer 

Oh Mamma’s on The Avenue, a cheese store and deli located in the market dis­trict of South Bend, exists somewhere be­tween the past and the present. Equipped with all the features of a typical restau­rant, the establishment still exudes a cer­tain kind of old-world charm: pictures of previous farmers line the walls, patrons that shuffle in are greeted by their first name, cannolis are generously handed out while customers wait in line. The tra­dition of dairy farming is an established one for owner Joe Klinedinst, with three generations of dairy farmers serving St. Joseph County. “I raised dairy goats my whole life. I’m from an Italian-german family — of Italian descent — and that picture right there is circa 1929, and that would be my great uncle in Mishawaka,” explains Klinedinst. The third generation of dairy farmers in the area, Klinedinst and his wife Jody have continued to main­tain the family business. “It’s a family operation, it’s myself and my wife, Jody, and then we have three children, Sophia, Joseph and Francis, and then we have one MARC DRAKE | The Observer 
on the way,” explains Klinedinst. “The [children] are in 4h, the 4h goat club. They get up and help milk and do chores both before and after school.” 
despite the coziness and name, an ef­fort to capture the “Italian, European flair” of the establishment, Oh Mamma’s is anything but antiquated. While speaking to Klinedinst, I learn how Oh Mamma’s is very up-to-date on the latest techniques in cheese making and dairy farming. “We are working on putting in Indiana’s first underground cheese cave,” explains Klinedinst. I quickly inquire as to what exactly a cheese cave is, perhaps showing my rudimentary knowledge of how exactly cheese is created. “It’s under­ground, six foot [sic] of Earth on top, 12 x 40, and we’ll age cheeses in there, all dif­ferent types. Cow, goat, mixed species.” 
To the uninitiated, milk is milk. We buy it from the store, whole, two percent, one percent or skim. For Klinedinst, however, the selection of dairy is much more nu­anced than that, and patrons should ex­pect some differences when they taste his farm fresh goat cheese. “goat’s milk is naturally homogenized, which means the cream doesn’t rise to the top. you get a jug of cow’s milk from the store, and the cream doesn’t rise to the top, so it’s easier for you to digest. goat’s milk just comes out that way, it’s naturally like that,” explains Klinedinst. “More people in the world actually drink goat’s milk and not cow’s milk, and when you com­pare the milks, [goat’s milk] is a little richer and higher in butter fat, but if it’s handled properly shouldn’t taste any dif­ferent. As far as the cheeses go, goat’s milk cheese can just be a little more tangy or tart, they can be really rich.” deciding to taste the cheese for myself, I sample the Farmhouse Feta, one of the over 300 cheeses offered along with cured meats, olives and a variety of other products. Marinated in an olive oil and olive brine, this cheese had me reconsidering my previously expressed distaste for feta. Between the delicious sandwiches, can­nolis and olive salads, it’s easy to spend an afternoon at Oh Mamma’s eating and preemptively deciding what to purchase during a future visit. 
Klinedinst also taught me a thing or two about the cheesemaking process, and what makes his product unique from other cheeses. his family has always been committed to dairy goats, but now it seems the rest of the world is catching up. 
“I actually just read an article in agri­business in the u.S., in Indiana agribusi­ness and goat’s milk and goat species and their products are one of the largest growing farm segments in the country,” he said. 
The Oh Mamma’s storefront located at 1212 Beyer Ave, South Bend, IN is just one of many locations that cheese-lovers can find Klinedinst’s products. Selling out of the South Bend Farmer’s Market on Saturdays, a 45-goat farm in Walkerton, IN, open-air markets in New Buffalo and several South Bend establishments such as South Bend Brew Werks and LaSalle grille, patrons all across St. Joseph’s County have the opportunity to sample the cheese. With cheese baskets and ca­tering for Easter, graduation parties and weddings, Oh Mamma’s is preparing for a busy season. After tasting the delicious and expansive selection of deli products offered, patrons may find themselves coming back time and time again. 
Contact Marc Drake at                    mdrake@nd.edu 
ThE OBSErVEr | FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2015 | NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM 


By ADAM RAMOS 
Scene Writer 

Without a doubt, Magic Man’s “Paris” is a hit. With an infectious piano hook and frenetic chorus you can’t help but bob your head to, “Paris” is my go-to when I need a pick-me-up. yet upon see­ing Magic Man live earlier this week at the Old National Centre, I questioned whether “Paris” alone could carry an entire live set and unfortunately, I may have been justified in my worries. With only one full-length album, Magic Man certainly struggled with monotony throughout the night. however, with a few strong points, the indie-pop group promises genuine potential. 
Boston-based Magic Man have found a comfortable mix of synth pop and modern rock throughout their 2014 full length album, “Before the Waves.” With powerful vocals from front man Alex Caplow coupled with soaring and airy synths, Magic Man is a powerful new 
By TOMMY ANDERSON 
Scene Writer 

having rather high expectations walk­ing into “Chappie,” I was disappointed with Neill Blomkamp’s work. Over the past several years, South African direc­tor Blomkamp has emerged as a prom­ising young director, most notably with 2009’s social segregation commentary and horror film “district 9.” More recently Blomkamp wrote, produced and directed 2013’s dystopian “Elysium,” which sadly seemed less Blomkamp and far more forced into hollywood’s science fiction formula. I had hoped Blomkamp might have fed off of earlier inspiration and crawled back to his inventive originality given his newfound American following and financial investment, but unfortu­nately “Chappie” marks the second notch in a declining career. 
The film follows an obsessive com­puter programmer, who works for a large voice in the indie pop sphere. hailed as “12 Tracks of Alt Joy” by gQ, “Before the Waves” is a fun album, and while it may lack some substance, it is certainly a strong starting point from a relatively new group. 
I met Magic Man in Indianapolis on the ninth stop of their first major head­lining tour, which brought me to the Old National Centre, a monstrous or­nate edifice with an interesting history. Standing as the largest shrine temple in North America, the Old National Centre, if nothing else, was an intriguing spot for a performance — even despite the aging interior. Magic Man brought along with them two indie newcom­ers, The Vinyl records and great good Fine Ok. While The Vinyl records was a bit easy to forget, I was impressed with great good Fine Ok. ggFO brought a refreshing take on synth pop, reminis­cent of ‘80’s funk, keytar solo and all. I look forward to watching ggFO ma­ture: after all, we could all use a little 
robotics corporation, after he creates a robot that starts to replace the police in Johannesburg, South Africa. The pro­grammer feels creatively abandoned by his boss after she denies an update that he developed that gives the robots a con­sciousness, so he takes a robot labeled for destruction and inserts this program. Thus an impressionable robot named Chappie is born, who can learn like a hu­man and make jokes. Sounds cool, doesn’t it? With so much quickly built up potential, there seemed little reason to expect dis­appointment. however, after Chappie is kidnapped the next hour and a half seems little more than a contractually made mu­sic video for South Africa’s rave-rap ground die Antwoord. I appreciate Blomkamp’s attempt to mesh first time actors like the members of die Antwoord (Ninja and yolandi Visser) and well established actors such as hugh Jackman, but this combina­tion was very one-sided on the part of die Antwoord and prevented the story from more funk in our lives, or at least I al­ways can. 
Then Magic Man took the stage in a rush of lights, pounding beats and swirling synths. While the energy was invigorating, man can’t live on energy alone, and as my lame dance moves began to dwindle, my mind drifted to one song: “Paris.” While artistry was sharp throughout the whole show, there just was not enough substance in Magic Man’s set to keep me involved. Pretty soon, much of the set congealed into one long pop ballad accentuated with all the “whoos” and “oohs” I could handle. 
yet the optimist in me left the Old National Centre with a smile. Sure, Magic Man was a bit dull in their fun, energetic blend of indie pop, but when they were good, they were good. A clear high note was the first encore perfor­mance, a cover of Jimmy Eat World’s “The Middle.” Magic Man’s signature high-energy performances fit perfectly 
being taken seriously. 
I was surely entertained but disappoint­ed with the film until the final 10 minutes, where Blomkamp drops an existential, thought-provoking social commentary about the separation of body and soul. Without spoiling too much, I can say I was willing to sit in the theater for another hour to see this play out, but to my dismay the credits soon rolled. 
Blomkamp does a fantastic job mak­ing his films visually alluring. The robots contain very little CgI, which is very evi­dent with his beautiful matte black robots that move very realistically and display all their moving parts, much like a clear watch. 
Typical of Blomkamp’s work, the set­ting is the underbelly of a near future society which is dirty, depressing and a place where every man is for himself. unsuccessfully, Blomkamp tried to make three amoral criminals into sympa­thetic characters, which backfired when with early 2000 alternative rock hit, and guitarist Sam Vanderhoop Lee’s guitar solo was fun for all. Finally, as my mind began to think of the two and a half hour drive back to campus and my 8:20 class in the morning, Magic Man brought out “Paris.” despite everything, I couldn’t help but smile and the energy in the au­dience was palpable. 
A nationwide tour might be exactly the maturation process Magic Man needs in order to elevate from one-hit­wonders to a contending voice in a genre seeing more and more commercial success. I would also encourage Notre dame students not to forget how close we really are to the city of Indianapolis. discovering a new city is always fun, and with only a short easy drive away, maybe Indianapolis can prove to be just as fun as “Paris” is! Sorry I’ll leave the jokes to the professionals next time. 
Contact Adam Ramos at                                         aramos@nd.edu 
Chappie sank down to their level. From there Chappie leaves our circle of sympa­thies and becomes a criminal, and it does not help that Chappie spends most of the movie concerned about his own survival rather than using his programmed hu­manity for something positive. The way Chappie is placed under the wings and raised by Ninja and Visser seems to parody the importance of positively influencing their children, but again the story is very unclear. It seems as though too many im­portant discussions start, but then get lost when explosions and riots start destroying Johannesburg; mixed messages abound. 
I still recommend seeing the film, if not for the entertainment then just for the fi­nal 10 minutes. But be prepared to put up with an hour and a half of head throbbing music and characters with outlandish haircuts. 
Contact Tommy Anderson at               tander18@nd.edu 
ERIN RICE | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Fans dive into March Madness 
Tyler Wojciak 
Sports Writer 
It’s that time of year again. 
The time of year when near­ly everyone you know claims to have a significant interest in three weekends of college basketball, even if they have not watched a single regular season game. 
The time of year when ev­eryone appoints themselves “experts” when it comes to their ability to pick the win­ners of college basketball games. 
The time of year when all of your school or work-related responsibilities take a back seat to sitting on the couch or at your desk to watch basketball. 
you already know what I’m talking about: March Madness. 
March Madness is one of the most exciting times of the year for a sports fan. The constant excitement and unpredictability that comes with nearly every game of the tournament leaves you on the edge of your seat throughout. But before you start binge-watching college basketball this weekend, be sure to re­member these do’s and don’ts. 
dO: Fill out a bracket. yes, I know that there are some people that say it is more en­joyable to watch the games without a bracket because most people’s brackets turn out to be drastically wrong. But I would argue that filling out a bracket makes the games more enjoyable. unless you are a diehard basketball fan, you probably won’t have that much of an interest in, say, the No. 8 seed vs. No. 9 seed matchup. But if you fill out a bracket, you will find yourself suddenly pulling hard for a team that you have never had an interest in before. you can still enjoy the games and get excited over the buzzer beat­ers, and when your bracket becomes destroyed, just ac­cept defeat and move on. you won’t regret trying, especially if you are in a bracket pool with your buddies. 
dON’T: Now that you’ve de­cided to fill out your bracket, do not say that your bracket is “busted” just because of one game during the first weekend of the tournament. The only way that this is absolutely true is if the team you predicted to win the championship gets knocked out in the first week­end. In this case, yes, your bracket is done. If one of your final four teams gets knocked out early, your bracket cer­tainly won’t be in good shape, but it’s not dead. Just because a team you had in the sweet 16 or even the elite eight gets knocked out early, there are still plenty of other games for you to win. In nearly every winning bracket, you must ac­curately predict the national champion and the runner-up. you could get away with not picking the champion, how­ever, by predicting three out of the four Final Four teams or by picking all four correctly. Either way, do not throw out your bracket after the first weekend just because of a few bad losses. 
dO: Watch the games. Nearly all sports fans would agree the NCAA men’s bas­ketball tournament is the best tournament in sports, so you do not want to miss out on the action even if you aren’t that big of a fan. There is no other tournament that involves more parity and more upsets than the NCAA tournament. The single-elimination style of the tournament brings a do-or-die feel to every game, and even the most unlikely of upsets can become possible with a lucky bounce here or there, or if one team gets hot at the right time. Outside of just the upsets, the level of play of the teams makes the games that much more excit­ing. With their season on the line, the players give every­thing they have during these tournament games and you can never count a team out. 
dON’T: This is vital. do not, under any circumstance, laugh at another person’s picks. This will come back to haunt you and you will look like an idiot when their pre­dictions become true. There is something about March Madness that leaves even the smartest basketball fans per­plexed, not knowing how they could be so wrong or how they didn’t see something coming. The aforementioned parity of the NCAA tournament allows for even the most nonsensical sports fans to be winners. And whether it’s basic karma or just the consistent luck of the draw, whenever you mock an­other person because of their picks, it will almost always come back to bite you. 
There you have it. you now have the knowledge to experi­ence the most enjoyable view­ing experience of this year’s NCAA men’s basketball tour­nament, and I wish you all the best of luck this year with your brackets. 
Contact Tyler Wojciak at twojciak@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
ND SOFTBALL 
ND takes on Georgia Tech 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre dame will square off against georgia Tech in a three-game series this weekend, starting with a doubleheader Saturday at Melissa Cook Stadium in the first conference home games of the season for the Irish. 
The Irish (16-11, 1-5 ACC) are coming off a vic­tory in their home opener against Cleveland State on Wednesday, with the Irish bats powering the team to an 8-4 win. Notre dame fin­ished the game with 11 hits, including five extra-base hits. The victory pushed the team’s record to 14-2 when the Irish outhit their opponents. 
The Irish now welcome the yellow Jackets (11-16, 4-5 ACC), who are coming off a 14-0 loss in five innings to No. 8 georgia on Wednesday. 
Notre dame heads into the game on an offensive hot streak. The Irish have scored a combined 20 runs over their last two games. Sophomore outfielder Karley Wester leads the team with a .427 batting average, while senior third baseman Katey haus is batting .400 and leads the team with seven home runs. haus also has 20 rBIs, trailing only ju­nior first baseman Micaela Arizmendi, who has 23. 
The Irish have also ben­efited from a recent string of strong performances by sophomore pitcher rachel Nasland. Nasland pitched five strong innings in Wednesday’s win, allowing just three runs and strik­ing out nine just one start after her no-hitter against Florida State this past week­end. She leads the team with eight wins and a 2.69 ErA. Junior pitcher Allie rhodes, who pitched the last two in­nings in Wednesday’s win, has also had a strong season and is second on the team in wins (6) and ErA (3.89). 
The yellow Jackets’ bats have struggled as of late, having scored just four runs combined over their last two games. They are led by senior outfielder Katie Johnsky and junior catcher Courtney Ziese. Johnsky leads the team with a .418 batting average and .627 slugging percentage, and she is second on the team in rBIs with 21. Ziese leads the yellow Jackets with six home runs and 23 rBIs while also slugging .597. 
On the mound, georgia Tech senior Kylie Kleinschmidt is coming off a performance in which she gave up six runs, four earned, in just two innings of work. She leads the team with 15 games started and an ErA of 3.62, but her re­cord currently sits at 3-10. 
The Irish will return to the diamond against georgia Tech on Saturday. First pitch is scheduled for 1 p.m. at Melissa Cook Stadium in Notre dame’s conference home opener, followed by a second game at 3 p.m. The series will conclude with a game on Sunday at noon. 
FENCING 
Irish start slow at NCAAs 
By CHRISTINE MAYUGA 
Sports Writer 
Notre dame men’s team stands in eighth place with 41 team points after the first day of competition with three more left to go at the NCAA champi­onships on Thursday. 
“I’m really proud of their effort,” Irish head coach gia Kvaratskhelia said. “It was a rough start to begin with, and we left a lot of points on the table. There are four days of competition, and we are really confident that we will make progress and still be in position for the medals.” 
Coming off victories on the men’s and women’s sides at the ACC championships last month and the maximum 12 qualifiers at the NCAA Midwest regional, Notre dame went into the NCAA competition with high expectations. 
2011 NCAA champion senior foilist Ariel deSmet and fresh­man foilist Virgile Collineau posted 5-2 and 4-3 records, respectively, in the first round. desmet went on to top Pennsylvania freshman John 

FOR RENT 
COMMENCEMENT WEEKEND RENTAL - Great location - next to campus and Eddy Street Commons ­walk to everything. Email nd-house@ sbcglobal.net 
Vaiani (5-4), St. John’s fresh­man Andras Nemeth (5-2) and junior Michele Caporizzi (5-1) and Penn State senior david gomez-Tanamachi (5-1), fin­ishing with a 10-5 record. 
“Ariel deSmet was very con­sistent the entire day and had a good showing. he stands two spots away from the top four,” Kvaratskhelia said. 
Collineau managed a 8-7 record, collecting victories against Princeton fresh­man Thomas dudey (5-3), Pennsylvania senior Jason Chang (5-3), Vaiani (5-0), Ohio State freshmen Maximilian Chastanet (5-4) and Stanislav Sudilovsky (5-1) and St. John’s Nemeth (5-3). 
In the epee competition, junior garrett Mcgrath and freshman Nicholas hanahan finished the first round with 3-4 records. Mcgrath topped Sacred heart senior Khristopher White (5-2) and Stanford sophomore Ben riviere (5-3) in the second round to make his record 5-6. hanahan had a tougher time and finished the day at 24th. 
Freshmen sabreists Jonah Shainberg and Jonathan Fitzgerald finished their first rounds with 4-3 marks. Shainberg moved forward in the second round by defeating Columbia senior William Spear (5-1) and Princeton freshman Edward Chin (5-3), ending the day at 13th. Fitzgerald, the ACC Men’s Sabreist of the year, fin­ished with a 6-9 record, stand­ing in 18th place. 
“The freshmen sabreists had a good showing. Three of our six starters are freshmen so one of [our biggest obstacles] is def­initely not being experienced in the competition. We are the youngest team at the champi­onship, but we are strong and resilient,” Kvaratskhelia said. “We are really happy with the efforts and attitudes of our ath­letes. Tomorrow, we are going to making adjustments to hope­fully be in a better position.” 
The Irish will continue to fight for the championship on day two when rounds four and five of men’s competition will take place, starting at 9 
a.m. in the French Field house in Columbus, Ohio, and live streaming on ESPN3. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
WANTED TRIPLE DOMER NEEDS NANNY- early June to early August as our live-in nanny. Email: info@greymattersintl. com  
-SUMMER ONLY, P/T, or F/T: ND family needs an energetic, outdoor-loving, reliable gal to travel to beautiful Jackson Hole WY from end of May/  Roses are red, violets are blue, the classifieds are over, so this poem will be too.  



NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM | FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2015 | ThE OBSErVEr 


ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Notre Dame travels to Florida for ACC showdown 
By BEN PADANILAM 
Sports Writer 
Notre dame will be go­ing on the road once more this weekend, this time to take on Florida State in Tallahassee, Florida, on Friday and georgia Tech in Atlanta on Sunday. 
The Irish (9-5, 4-2 ACC) recently traveled to Florida for a non-conference match against East Carolina be­fore coming home for two conference matches over the weekend. Notre dame now returns to the Sunshine State for an ACC matchup with the Seminoles (8-5, 2-3 ACC). 
given that all but one of their remaining matches will be against ACC oppo­nents, Irish head coach Jay Louderback said he believes that each match will be dif­ficult from here on out. 
“All these ACC matches are important, especially the ones we have on the road because all of the ones we play on the road are good,” Louderback said. “We need to get to where we go into some of these away ACC matches and steal a couple of them. This is just the start of it.” 
however, Louderback said the biggest concern for the team at the moment is tran­sitioning to outdoor tennis. 
“The biggest challenge for us, and it’s a thing we’ll run into from here on out, is go­ing from indoor to outdoor,” Louderback said. “It’s good because I think we are defi­nitely better outdoors, it’s just we’re getting our kids used to going in and out and making the big switch every year.” 
Following their matchup in Tallahassee, Florida, on Friday, the Irish will then travel to Atlanta on Sunday to take on the yellow Jackets (5-6, 2-3 ACC). 
Although both Florida State and georgia Tech are outside the ITA top 50, Louderback does not want his team underestimating their opponents. In fact, he believes that both teams are much stronger than their rankings indicate. 
“Both georgia Tech and Florida State are very, very good,” Louderback said. “The rankings right now are insane. We went to the computer a lot earlier than we normally do with the 
PAId AdVErTISEMENT 
rankings, and I think it really has messed the rankings up. Florida State and georgia Tech are both ranked very low, but there’s no question that they both should be in the top 30. That’s the thing that’s crazy right now. Both teams will be very good, especially with us on the road.” 
In order to come away with two road victories this weekend, Louderback said he thinks the Irish will need to come away with the dou­bles point in order to set the tone for the singles matches that follow. 
”I think the key for us is the doubles, and both teams have very, very good doubles,” Louderback said. “Florida State might be even stronger in singles than in doubles, but both are good in singles and doubles.” 
The Irish will return to the courts Friday at 3 p.m. when they take on the Seminoles at Scott Speicher Tennis Center in Tallahassee, Florida, before a Sunday matchup against the yellow Jackets at noon in Atlanta. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at         bpadanil@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Irish, Buckeyes face off at home 
Observer Staff Report 
For the fifth time in seven games, No. 19 Notre dame will take on a fellow ranked opponent Saturday when it hosts No. 9 Ohio State at Arlotta Stadium. 
The Irish (4-4, 1-2 ACC) are com­ing off a 15-8 win over Virginia Tech last Saturday that saw the Irish get back on track after a trio of successive losses. Sophomore attack Cortney Fortunato scored eight goals in the win — as many as the hokies — to help her team to its first conference win of the season after losses at No. 2 duke and No. 4 Boston College. 
The Buckeyes (8-1, 0-0 Big Ten) have won four straight since a Feb. 28 loss to Stanford and are led in the goal-scoring department by senior attack Katie Chase, who has tallied 27 goals on the season. Ohio State senior attack Jackie Cifarelli leads the team in points, though, with 12 goals and 25 assists. Senior goaltender Tori deScenza anchors the Buckeyes’ back line with 68 saves in nine games, while Ohio State has the nation’s third-highest scoring of­fense in the country, averaging 
16.33 goals per game. 
Notre dame and Ohio State have a quartet of opponents in common so far this season; both teams triumphed over Cincinnati, detroit and Virginia Tech and fell at the hands of Stanford. 
Fortunato leads the Irish into Saturday’s contest with 23 goals and seven assists on the season. She is followed atop the Notre dame scoring charts by junior rachel Sexton, who has 14 goals, and sophomore midfielder Casey Pearsall, who has seven goals and eight assists on the year. 
One advantage the Irish have over their opponents is their high conversion rate from free-posi­tion opportunities. Notre dame has scored 30 goals on 54 free-position shots so far this season, while the Buckeyes are just 15-for­38 in such situations on the year. 
Tomorrow’s game is the start of a two-game non-conference stretch for the Irish — a trip to Marquette on Wednesday is next on the cards — before they return to ACC play for three more con­ference games. 
The Irish are unbeaten against unranked opponents and win­less against ranked opponents so far this season, something that will have to change if Irish head coach Christine halfpenny’s team is to emerge victorious this weekend. 
Senior defender Barbara Sullivan has returned to the Irish squad this year and paces the team in both draw controls (33) and ground balls (16). Sophomore goaltender Liz O’Sullivan leads the Irish in net, bringing a .340 save percentage into Saturday’s contest. 
The Irish and Buckeyes will face off in a top-20 contest Saturday at Arlotta Stadium, with the open­ing draw coming at noon. 
MEN’S TENNIS 
Ninth-ranked Cavs visit ND 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre dame will play its fourth consecutive home tennis match of the week Friday when No. 9 Virginia visits Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
The Irish (8-6, 1-2 ACC) have won two out of their three contests on the current home stand, which will continue Sunday with a double­header against georgia Tech and IPFW. 
however, outside of the recent homestand, the Irish are cur­rently in the midst of a rough stretch. Those two recent wins have been the only ones in their last seven matches. Notre dame fell to No. 24 Texas Tech, 4-3, on Tuesday. The result of the match came down to the singles match-up between Texas Tech fresh­man Connor Curry and Notre dame junior Nicolas Montoya. ultimately, Curry defeated Montoya in three sets, 2-6, 6-1, 6-3. The loss to the red raiders (15-4) was only the second home loss for the Irish on the season and their first since Jan. 25 defeat to Columbia. 
After the loss to Texas Tech, the match on Friday will be a re­turn to conference play for Notre dame. Notre dame has won one of its three ACC contests so far. After losing to No. 16 Virginia Tech and Louisville consecutive­ly on the road, the Irish picked up a 7-0 victory over Boston College at home last Sunday. 
The Cavaliers (10-3, 3-0 ACC) come into Friday’s contest with an unbeaten conference re­cord that includes victories over Clemson, North Carolina State and No. 12 Wake Forest, two of which came on the road. 
One of the key matchups to watch Friday is the No. 1 singles spot, which will pit Irish junior Quentin Monaghan, ranked No. 22 in the country, against Virginia junior ryan Shane, who is ranked third nationally. 
The Irish and Cavaliers are set to play at 3:30 p.m. Friday at Eck Tennis Pavilion. 


PAId AdVErTISEMENT NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM | FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2015 | ThE OBSErVEr 




minutes of the game, denver with 3.8 goals per game. 
going to be able to play the
M Lacrosse Baseball

did not get a sniff. Ohio State On the other side of the short game, steal some bases 
CONTINuEd FrOM PAgE 16 CONTINuEd FrOM PAgE 16 

was really patient and se-ball, junior defenseman 
unless we do a good job of lective with what they were Matt Landis was named ACC 
shutting it down. They’re a Led by senior midfielder doing offensively. So that of-defensive player of the week. 
Michigan in their home high-quality, ACC, national-Jesse King, who has com-fensive skill and confidence Notre dame’s defense held 
opener Wednesday, in which level, elite program.” piled 21 goals and 14 assists, that their guys play with the Cavaliers to a season-
Notre dame crossed the Though Notre dame the Buckeyes recently sur-definitely helps with the de-low nine goals. 
plate eight times, four in the stands eighth in the ACC in prised No. 6 denver with a fensive side of the ball.” “Team success is defi­
first inning alone. hits allowed per game (8.55), 13-11 upset in Columbus. Last week, Notre dame nitely more important than 
They were helped out by the team has shown profi-Notre dame’s sole loss on was challenged by two top-personal success, but seeing 
the performances of two ciency in getting out run-the year came against the 10 opponents, winning two guys get something like 
players who have seen vastly ners before they swipe a bag Pioneers, 11-10 in overtime. against Virginia and los-that out of like 350 guys that 
improved results at the plate or cross the plate. The Irish The two teams share anoth-ing to denver. In its first play lacrosse in the ACC [was 
this season from 2014. lead the nation with 30 dou­er common opponent this ACC contest against the great],” Trolley said. “Landis 
Sophomore catcher ryan ble plays this season and re-season: dartmouth. Both Cavaliers, Notre dame held is a junior so we know what 
Lidge recorded two hits corded two against Central Notre dame and Ohio State them scoreless for more he’s capable of and what he’s 
and a team-high three rBIs Michigan on Wednesday. defeated the green Wave, than 22 minutes while scor-been doing for us, but Mikey 
against the Chippewas and “We’re going to give up 20-5 and 15-5 respectively. ing the first seven goals of Wynne, it’s pretty cool for 
enters the Louisville series some hits because, unfor-Ohio State also ranks as the contest en route to an him to get it as a freshman. 
with a .317 batting average tunately for us, not every one of the best defensive 11-9 win. The Irish’s offen-he’s been tearing it up for 
— a boost from last year’s ball that gets put into play teams in the country. The sive and defensive prowess us. he scored like six goals 
.264. finds a glove, so I think our squad allows 7.22 goals per in the game would eventu-in his first game, so he’s 
“I think with ryan, he’s kids are used to pitching game, good for fourth in the ally help earn two of their been putting it in the back 
a kid that we felt all along like that, and our defense is nation. Notre dame is sixth players ACC honors that of the net for us from the 
throughout the recruiting used to playing that way,” in the NCAA in scoring, av-week. start.” 
process and even last year Aoki said. “And we always eraging 14.4 goals per game. Freshman attack Mikey The Irish will look to con-
that he just needed to con-feel like we’re just one pitch “I think their offense defi-Wynne earned ACC offensive tinue their recent offensive 
tinue to develop, that the away from being able to be nitely contributes to how player of the week. Against output against Ohio State’s 
talent was there, and now I out of an inning by spinning good they are defensively,” Virginia, Wynne scored five defense as the two will 
think it began to show itself a double play or just making Irish junior midfielder Kyle goals to add to his team-face off for the 40th time 
last summer,” Aoki said. a good play.” Trolley said. “We’ve been leading 19 tallies. he is also Saturday at Arlotta Stadium 
Perhaps even more im-Aoki said he will most watching film on them all second on the team in total at 4 p.m. 
proved in his hitting is junior likely send the usual week-week, and when they took points and first in percent­
shortshop Lane richards, end-series trio of senior the lead against denver age of shots converted while Contact Manny De Jesus at 
who batted .254 last sea-right-hander Scott Kerrigan, last week in the last nine ranking third in the nation mdejesus@nd.edu 
son. richards tallied two freshman right-hander hits and drove in two runs Brandon Bielak and junior on Wednesday, adding to his right-hander Nick McCarty team-leading 15 rBIs and to the mound to start against lifting his average to .329. the Cardinals. 


“I think that he’s just been “We’ve done well with far more committed to get-those guys. hopefully one of ting his swing off and just these weekends, we get all being aggressive,” Aoki said three of them going, but I’ve of richards. “… he’s a talent-been really pleased with the ed kid, and he’s a hard-work-way that they’ve thrown,” he ing kid. he’s a phenomenal said. “ … I feel good about kid, so I’m glad to see him our three guys that are start-
PAId AdVErTISEMENT 
have some success.” ing, and we’ll certainly stick 
Louisville comes into the with that for the foreseeable series as one of the best future.” teams in the ACC on the base The Irish and the Cardinals paths. The Cardinals aren’t will start their three-game afraid to show some speed series Friday at 6:05 p.m. when they get on base — they at Frank Eck Stadium with lead the conference in stolen the first pitch for Saturday’s bases (31) and attempted matchup at 2:05 p.m. and steals (45) and stand second Sunday’s finale at 1:05 p.m. in steals per game (1.55). 
“They’re going to be ath-Contaact Mary Green at letic,” Aoki said. “They’re mgreen8@nd.edu 





ThE OBSErVEr | FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2015 | NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM 

M Bball 
CONTINuEd FrOM PAgE 16 
3-point line, much less fire a shot, as Irish junior forward Zach Auguste forced a steal just inside the arc. 
“Just had to lock in, do whatever it takes to win and get the stop,” Auguste said of his mindset on the final possession. 
And Notre dame survived. And advanced. 
“This group, more than any group I’ve had at Notre dame, can guard to win games,” said Brey, who is in his 15th season in South Bend. 
The Irish forced 16 Northeastern turnovers and converted them into 17 points. 
“We’ve been known for offense,” senior guard/forward and captain Pat Connaughton said. “We have guys that can score. But our de­fense is gonna help us win games and win championships, to be quite honest.” 
Notre dame will face the winner of No. 6 seed Butler and No. 11 seed Texas on Saturday in Pittsburgh in the round of 32. The Irish haven’t advanced to the Sweet 16 since 2003. 
Mired in a low-scoring and slow-paced first half, Notre dame greased the hinges of its high-ef­ficiency offense and took control at the outset of the second half. Auguste, senior guard Jerian grant and sophomore guard demetrius Jackson keyed the offensive fluid­ity and built a double-digit lead. 
Brey kept Auguste in after the big man picked up his third foul just 14 seconds into the second half. Auguste responded with 25 points on 10-of-14 shooting. 
“I thought he was really smart and still was a defensive presence for us,” Brey said. “But we needed him to score.” 
Notre dame lifted its lead to 11 with 6:24 remaining. Northeastern junior guard david Walker stole a grant pass and drove the other way but couldn’t finish — missing twice. Two huskies belly-flopped on top one another, diving for the loose ball, which Jackson scooped up. The sophomore buzzed 
W Bball 
CONTINuEd FrOM PAgE 16 
on offense.” 
Loyd said the grizzlies’ guards in particular stood out on film. Montana redshirt senior guard Kellie rubel (14.0 points per game) and junior guard McCalle Feller (11.0) were the No. 1 and No. 3 leading scorers for the grizzlies, respectively. 
“They’re really crafty,” Loyd said of Montana’s guards. “They shoot 3s, they move the ball real­ly well, they set good screens, so we definitely have to make sure we communicate well enough.” 
Sophomore forward Kayleigh Valley was the No. 2 leading scor­er for the grizzlies at 11.5 points per game. 
For the Irish, Loyd led the way with an ACC-best 20.5 points per game. Freshman forward Brianna Turner averaged 13.8 

downcourt, dazzling with his drib­ble before weaving a no-look feed to Auguste for a two-handed slam. 
“That’s top 10 SportsCenter, top five,” Brey said. 
Notre dame couldn’t create much breathing room in a slow-paced first half. The Irish led 31­27 after the opening 20 minutes, which were played within an eight-point window, even though Notre dame shot 55 percent from the floor and Northeastern committed eight turnovers. 
“That was gonna be a hard game,” Brey said. “They’re almost burning the clock a little bit. … That’s a real test mentally on your group.” 
Auguste tallied his first two fouls in a 51-second span in the first five minutes of the first half, and he spent the next 11-plus minutes on the bench. 
With Auguste out, grant went to work, pouring in nine points after a slow start to the stanza; he didn’t record his first points until 11 min­utes had elapsed. grant connected on pull-up jumpers and his patent­ed step-back two from just inside the 3-point stripe. The senior, who before the game was named one of four finalists for the Naismith Trophy, given to the nation’s top player, finished with 17 points and five assists. 
“he is the ultimate playmak­er,” Brey said. “I’m proud of him 
points per game, and sopho­more forward Taya reimer post 
10.1. Turner and reimer were also Notre dame’s rebounding leaders. 
“I definitely see us on an up­ward trajectory,” Mcgraw said. “I think the underclassmen, in par­ticular our post players, have re­ally, really come on strong since probably mid-January. I think that’s been our strength. The three in the post — Taya reimer, Brianna Turner and [freshman forward] Kathryn Westbeld — re­ally have been the difference in why we ended so strong.” 
The Irish enter the tournament coming off a regular-season ACC title and an ACC tournament championship. 
“I think the ACC is the best league in women’s basketball,” Mcgraw said. “It really prepares us for the NCAA tournament. We’re going to see things that we’ve seen throughout the year because he didn’t get off to a very good start. he threw a couple into their band, one into our band.” 
After stumbling to their first los­ing season since 1998-1999 and not reaching the NCAA tournament last year, the Irish returned to the dance and finally got out of the first round. In 2012 and 2013, Notre dame lost as No. 7 seeds to Xavier and Iowa State, respectively. In 2011, the No. 2 seed Irish lost in the round of 32 to Florida State. 
Brey said he “made them be happy” after the win, focusing on the positive result rather than the near loss. Brey added he’s drawing as many comparisons as he can to last weekend’s ACC tournament, in which Notre dame defeated Miami (Fla.) by seven in its first game before toppling duke and North Carolina en route to the con­ference title. 
“Our first game in greensboro was a hard game, and then we got in gear,” Brey said. “And I want us to think like that. The first one’s the hardest in this thing. We just did that in greensboro and then got in a heckuva gear the next two nights.” 
Notre dame faces No. 6 seed Butler on Saturday in Pittsburgh at CONSOL Energy Center following the Bulldogs’ win over Texas. 
Contact Mike Monaco at                       jmonaco@nd.edu 
with different teams. I think playing in that [ACC] tourna­ment atmosphere really prepares us for this tournament as well.” 
Notre dame won the tourna­ment March 8 with a 71-58 vic­tory over No. 7 Florida State, a performance Mcgraw hopes her team will build on. 
“I think we’re playing really well right now,” Mcgraw said. “We came off our best game of the year against Florida State in the tournament, and that’s what I want to see. I want to see sharp execution, not a lot of turnovers. I want to see us playing great de­fense, rebounding, really all the fundamentals.” 
The Irish and grizzlies tip off at Purcell Pavilion at 7:30 
p.m. Friday. The game will be broadcast on ESPN2 and ESPN3-WatchESPN. 
Contact Samanthat Zuba at      szuba@nd.edu 
Offense 
CONTINuEd FrOM PAgE 16 
Irish guards were pictur­esque. Sophomore guard demetrius Jackson fin­ished with a career-high eight assists and senior guard Jerian grant chipped in another five. Between the two, they registered an assist on nine of Auguste’s 10 field goals. 
“I give a lot of credit to my teammates and my brothers,” Auguste said. “I got great passers, great dis­tributors. … They find me easy buckets.” 
“When you have Zach rolling, that’s why he had the night,” Brey said. “I give our team credit to know let’s keep doing this. … I thought Jerian and [Jackson] and [sophomore guard] Steve [Vasturia] re­ally hit him on rolling situ­ations all the time.” 
One of Jackson’s helpers in particular stood out. 
With Notre dame lead­ing 58-49 with just over seven minutes remaining in the game, a mad scram­ble for the ball followed a couple of missed shots by the huskies. The loose ball bounced to Jackson, who spun around a defender, threw the ball around be­hind his back to cross-up another and finished by splitting two huskies with a no-look bounce pass that hit Auguste in stride for a thunderous dunk. 
“The ball was kind of loose, and I picked it up and just kind of do some of the things I do, and Zach did a great job of finishing strong,” Jackson said of the play. 
The connection between the guards and Auguste has reached a high level of com­fort, Jackson said. 
“Zach’s a big target — easy target for me at [6­foot-10] — so I’m just able to throw it up to him and know he’s going to catch the ball,” Jackson said. “We’ve been working together for so long, even going back to last year after practice he’s working on screen-and-roll and I’m throwing him the ball and stuff like that.” 
The Irish finished with 19 assists on 27 field goals. Vasturia chipped in a cou­ple of helpers while Auguste tallied his own pair late in the second half. 
In addition to well-co­ordinated ball movement, grant also came up with a pair of steals to seal the game down the stretch. 
With the Irish up 65-61 with 1:24 remaining and momentum on the side of the huskies, grant stripped redshirt junior guard/for­ward Quincy Ford just over half-court and sprinted away for a dunk to push the lead to six. Then as time wound down and Northeastern with a chance to tie or take the lead, grant finished off an Irish defen­sive stand by stripping Ford again. grant knocked the ball to Auguste who was fouled and sunk two free-throws to ice the game. 
“Just to make a play,” grant said of what he was thinking on the final pos­session. “you really don’t want them to get a shot up at all. I’ve watched the NCAA tournament and cra­zy things happen. So I just wanted to make a play and try and get the ball. 
“ … I think we defended the way we needed to and we ended up getting the w in.” 
“We felt if a shot got off [on the final husky posses­sion], the shot was probably going to go in, just with the way the momentum was shifting and the way that they were playing and the great offensive team they are,” senior guard/forward Pat Connaughton said. 
“Jerian grant is the ulti­mate, key, live in the mo­ment guy,” Brey said. “ … he made two big steals to kind of let us escape.” 
The Irish now advance to the tournament’s third round, where they are await­ed by sixth-seeded Butler. The Bulldogs (23-10) beat 11-seed Texas, 56-48. The teams will meet Saturday at CONSOL Energy Center in Pittsburgh — the time is still to be determined. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at                  zklonsin@nd.edu 
PAId AdVErTISEMENT NdSMCOBSErVEr.COM | FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 2015 | ThE OBSErVEr 




CROSSWORD | WILL ShOrTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | ChrISTOPhEr BruCKEr 
SUDOKU | ThE MEPhAM grOuP 


DOME NUTS | ALEXANdrIA WELLMAN 

HOROSCOPE | EugENIA LAST 
Happy Birthday: A steady and progressive approach to whatever you want to see unfold will not let you down. you can make your dreams come true and bask in the glory that comes with success. Let your mind wander. Believe in yourself and what you know in your heart you can accomplish. This is your year to put your talent to the test. your numbers are 9, 14, 20, 28, 32, 36, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t give up -- get moving. Put your energy to good use and start something you’ve wanted to do for some time. It’s up to you to make things happen. Embrace change and try something new. Love is on the rise. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): An empathetic approach to a cause will lead you to influential people. don’t feel you have to make a substantial donation to impress someone. Offering hands-on help will be sufficient and give you a chance to network with prospective partners. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): doing things you enjoy with people who share your interests and outlook will give you a boost. Try not to let work-related matters get to you. A colleague will use deception to make you look bad. don’t share personal information. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): get back to a creative project you left unfinished. you’ll have the imagination and originality to finish what you started with a creative twist. The satisfaction you get from your accomplishment will put you in a celebratory mood. Make plans for two. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Face a challenge with discipline and the willingness to do whatever it takes to come out on top. your ability to adapt to change and turn a lemon into lemonade will give you the edge and bring you respect among your peers. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A poor investment or spending to impress someone will add to your stress. Emotional matters will crop up when dealing with both personal and professional partners. don’t hide facts. you are best to deal with situations honestly and conservatively. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Listen to someone who is questioning your plans. don’t make an impulsive move if you want to keep the peace. Ease your way into what you would like to see happen. Offer your assistance to a cause you believe in. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Network and promote what you’ve been working on. Focus on expressing your views and offering insight to those who share your views. Plan to put a little romance into play. Make positive changes to the way you live.      

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Opposition is likely to surface if you are evasive or ignore emotional situations that need to be dealt with. A change at home should help you cut corners and improve a situation that has legal or financial implications. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): use your skills, education and business sense to get ahead. A new approach to an old idea will capture attention. A partnership may be offered, but before you accept, consider moving forward on your own. Love is highlighted. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Make changes that can help raise your income or improve your current professional status. A partnership will enhance your ability to take care of the details and will give you a chance to rejuvenate. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):  Problems getting along with someone in an influential position will surface. Listen carefully to an experienced colleague. using charm and compliments will help you bypass a setback in your plans. Make an effort to improve yourself instead of trying to change others. 

Birthday Baby: you are captivating, intense and eager to please. you are mystical. 
JUMBLE | dAVId hOyT ANd JEFF KNurEK 




Make checks payable to and mail to: The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
Address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
City State Zip MEN’S BASKETBALL | Nd  69, NOrThEASTErN 65 


Survive and advance 

Auguste scores game-high 25 points to help prevent upset at the hands of Northeastern 
By MIKE MONACO 
Senior Sports Writer 
PITTSBurgh — Just as Notre dame appeared to find its rhythm after a sluggish first half, Northeastern surged. 
And for a few tense minutes at CONSOL Energy Center in Pittsburgh on Thursday afternoon, things looked all too familiar for Notre dame, which hadn’t won an NCAA tournament game since 2011. 
But the No. 3 seed Irish snuck away with a 69-65 victory over No. 14 seed Northeastern in the open­ing round of the Midwest region. 
“We had really key defensive possessions to escape with a win,” Irish head coach Mike Brey said. “We thought our ball pressure could affect them, and that saved us, obviously.” 
A 12-point Irish lead with six minutes remaining evaporated into a two-point edge and required a massive defensive effort in the game’s waning seconds. And with its season on the line, Notre dame got the stop it needed. 
For 20 seconds, Northeastern es­sentially failed to move past its 
see M BBALL PAGE 14 

By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
Sports Editor 
PITTSBurgh — There aren’t any pictures on a stats sheet, which was probably good for No. 3 seed Notre dame during its 69-65 victory Thursday over 14th-seeded Northeastern. 
The Irish (30-5, 14-4 ACC) ground out a victory, their first in an NCAA tournament since 2011, despite a strong challenge from the huskies (23-12, 12-6 CAA). 
“I told them in the lock­er room, we weren’t going to beat them by 15,” Irish head coach Mike Brey said. “ … It’s a lot like our first game in greensboro, [North Carolina,] the Miami game.” 
however, despite rais­ing the blood pressure of Irish fans everywhere, Notre dame got key plays deserv­ing of being framed on the wall. 
As smooth as most of Zach Auguste’s 25 points were, the passes delivered to the ju­nior forward by the 
see OFFENSE PAGE 14 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish prepare to face Buckeyes 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
Sports Writer 
After splitting a pair of games against No. 6 denver and No. 8 Virginia last week on the road, No. 3 Notre dame will return home to host No. 15 Ohio State on Saturday at Arlotta Stadium. 
The Irish (4-1, 1-0 ACC) have a long history playing against the Buckeyes (7-2, 0-0 Big 10), going as far back 
BASEBALL 

as the 1981 season when Notre dame became a var­sity program. Saturday will be the 40th time the Irish will play the Buckeyes, with the Irish leading the series 30-9. 
Notre dame has won 12 straight meetings against Ohio State, includ­ing last season’s 13-7 win in Columbus, Ohio. The last time these two teams matched up, junior attack Matt Kavanagh tied the single-game school record for goals in a game with seven scores. In that con­test, the Irish were score­less in the first quarter before erupting for five straight goals in the second quarter. Notre dame fea­tures a very similar squad this season, but sitting at 7-2, Ohio State enters the game riding a three-game win streak. 
see M LACrOSSE PAGE 13 

Baseball clashes with Cards 
By MARY GREEN 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Notre dame will meet a familiar foe in No. 16 Louisville on Friday to start its first weekend series of the season at Frank Eck Stadium. 
The Cardinals (15-6, 5-1 ACC) and the Irish (15-4, 3-3) last met back in March 2013, Notre dame’s fi­nal season in the Big East, when the Louisville earned the three-game sweep. 

After a year in separate conferences, the teams meet this year as members of the ACC, and Irish bat­ters will match up with one of the league’s stingiest squads on the mound. 
Cardinal pitchers pace the conference in opponent batting average (.215), hits allowed per game (7.15) and strikeouts per game (10.1). 
“They’re going to pitch; they’re going to have some guys with some power arms,” Irish head coach Mik Aoki said. “They’ve got guys that are swing-and­miss — they’re much more of a prolific strikeout-cre­ating team than we are.” 
however, the Irish come into the matchup after a big victory over Central 
see BASEBALL PAGE 13 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
ND hosts Montana in first round 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
Senior Sports Writer 
Friday’s game against Montana at Purcell Pavilion marks 20 straight NCAA tournament appearances for the No. 2 Irish, and it’s still something special. 
“So many people wish they could be in our shoes and just have a chance at the tournament,” Irish junior guard Jewell Loyd said at a press conference Thursday. 
Both programs won their conference tournaments to receive automatic bids to the NCAA tournament, and both have strong histories of reaching the tournament. 
This is the 22nd all-time tournament bid for the No. 1-seeded Irish (31-2, 15-1 ACC). The No. 16-seeded grizzlies (24-8, 14-4 Big Sky) have made the tournament 21 times, with a 6-20 record in those appearances. 
Both teams also are helmed by long-tenured and suc­cessful coaches. grizzlies head coach robin Selvig is in his 37th year coaching Montana, and Irish head coach Muffet Mcgraw is in her 28th season with Notre dame. Mcgraw has over 700 wins, and Selvig is the sixth winningest active division I women’s basketball coach with over 800 victories. 
“he’s a phenomenal coach,” Mcgraw said. “I don’t think there’s probably another first-round matchup that the coaches can com­bine for about 1,500 wins, and he’s got a lot more than I do. he is so well-known and so well-respected in the coaching community, just does a great job every single year.” 
The grizzlies players are veterans as well. Only one of the five Montana starters is an underclassman. 
“Montana’s really expe­rienced, and they’re a very disciplined team,” sopho­more guard Lindsay Allen said. “They move around on offense, and they set really good screens 
see W BBALL PAGE 14 




