The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 106 | MONDAY, MARCH 23, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
GRC to host Women’s Week 2015 
Group partners with Shades of Ebony, Notre Dames to celebrate coeducation 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
This week, the gender relations center (grc) part­nered with shades of ebony, a club that recognizes the university’s african-american women, to celebrate the third annual women’s week. The theme is “weaving the stories of notre dame’s history.” 
Junior chizo ekechukwu, vice president of shades of ebony, said the annual event started as a celebration of the 40th anni­versary of coeducation at notre dame. 
“This is one of my favorite shades [of ebony] events because we really get to show campus the beauty and talent of women at this university,” she said. “with the passing of Fr. hesburgh, we really want to give tribute to him and show our appreciation for his great accomplishments for women.” 

secretary and marketing di­rector for shades of ebony, ju­nior rachel wallace also said hesburgh’s death will influence the events. 
“with the passing of Fr. hesburgh, it seems fitting that this week’s events are dedicated to him, as his impact on women 
see women PAGE 4 



students highlight rebuilding Together 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 
in the latest installment of saint mary’s Justice Fridays, two students from the office for civic and social engagement (ocse), markie harrison and maggie carswell, presented “rebuilding Together: community in action,” a program aiding in the rehabilitation of low-income, el­derly and disabled homeowners in the south bend area. 
The osce serves as liaison between the college and stu­dents for volunteer opportu­nities and works to promote justice and compassion through these opportunities, harrison said. 
carswell brought to attention the college’s mission statement, which states, “the college is an academic community where women develop their talents and prepare to make a differ­ence in the world.” she said the mission of the osce is to fulfill this by having various volunteer programs for students to join, including rebuilding Together. 
“every year, we will send some saint mary’s students into the city of south bend to help reha­bilitate some homes,” carswell said. 
carswell said volunteers clear out and rebuild low-income homes to help stabilize and revi­talize neighborhoods at no cost to the owners. 
harrison said the st. Joseph’s county chapter of rebuilding Together sets aside a day for volunteers to clear out and re­build houses every spring. This includes any repairs the house may need and making the house livable so the homeowners have a healthy and safe place to live. 
harrison said she remem­bered how rewarding it was to work on a veteran’s house for last year’s rebuilding Together day. 
“i think we spent about six hours that day helping,” harrison said. “he was so 
see JusTice PAGE 5 



Haiti program attracts students 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news writer 
more than 850 students in saut-d’eau, haiti, participated in a preliminary test to assess the progress of notre dame’s haiti program’s mission to eliminate lymphatic filariasis (lF) from the island. only one child in the community was infected with the parasite that causes lF, in­dicating the effectiveness of the program’s course of action. 
The mission of the notre dame haiti program is to eliminate lF from haiti by 2020, according to earl carter, managing director of the haiti program and assistant dean in the college of science. lF, also known as elephantia­sis, is a disease that attacks an individual’s lymph system and causes parts of the body to be­come extremely swollen and deformed. 
lead researcher and founder of the haiti program Fr. Thomas streit said the results of the pre­liminary tests signify the success of the program’s efforts. 
see haiTi PAGE 5 


Saint Mary’s welcomes siblings to campus 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 
Four hundred saint mary’s siblings took to campus for the annual little sibs weekend on march 20-22. younger siblings traveled across the world through various themed crafts and activities while enjoying a weekend hosted by the residence hall association with their older sisters. 
co-chairs emma english and sara Knable said the theme for this year’s weekend was “all around the world,” and the events planned for every station were related in some way to different coun­tries in the word. 
The weekend began with a welcome party, in which siblings had snacks and took pictures for their week­end passport, followed by “ice skating in ireland” at compton Family ice arena, english said. The major­ity of events were saturday and ranged from an “indian henna hangout” to “chinese craft creations” and watch­ing movies during “soaring in spain.” 
see sibs PAGE 5 



news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 9 men’s basKeTball PAGE 16 women’s basKeTball PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                    Jack rooney                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin Asst. Managing Editor: lesley stevenson 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: brian lach Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu wlin4@nd.edu, lsteven1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


When you think of Fr. Ted’s legacy, what is the first word that comes to mind? 

Tony Molinaro 
Freshman Keough hall 
“Timeless.” 

Ross Laedtke 
Freshman 
Keough hall 
“one-of-a-kind.” 

Robby Lucian 
Freshman Keough hall 
“amazing.” 



Marissa Campilii 
Freshman pasquerilla east hall 
“spiritual.” 


Lucia Sanchez 
sophomore pasquerilla east hall 
“compassionate.” 

Bonnie Du 

sophomore pasquerilla east hall 
“groundbreaking.” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
rebecca o’neil alex carson Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

haleigh ehmsen marek mazurek clare Kossler matthew mcKenna gabriela malespin 
Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
Graphics Jimmy Kemper sara shoemake 
Viewpoint 

“Can Liberty be Last Lecture Series “Purchasing for Art Battle LGBT retreat 
Photo Tabitha ricketts Jodi lo Conserved?” Washington Hall positive impact” LaFortune Student Off campus Geddes Hall 7 p.m.- 8 p.m. McKenna Hall Center All day 
3:30p.m.- 4:45 p.m. Lecture by Mike 8 a.m.-12 p.m All day PRISM ND student-Corrections Lecture by Mark Blitz Seelinger Sustainability expo Student Competition organized retreat 
editor’s note: an earlier version of this article misquoted mary mcaleese as Last Lecture Series Memorial Mass for “Two Priests and a “The BIble, Narrative Lunchtime Labor saying she would not favor an irish Washington Hall Lisa Yang Nun walk Into a Bar” and Modernity” RAPS 
nationalist approach if there was a 7 p.m.- 8 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Legends of Notre McKenna Hall Geddes Hall referendum on the future of northern Lecture by Maria Heart Dame All Day 12 p.m. ireland. in fact, she was responding to 
McKenna 9 p.m.- 10 p.m. 7 p.m.- 8 p.m. Interdisciplinary Research, Advocacy, 
the idea of an independent northern 
Father John Jenkins Panel Discussion Conference and Policy series 
ireland. The observer regrets this error. 
will precide 


ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, MARCH 23, 2015 | The observer 

Saint Mary’s TOMS club interviews founder 
By STEPHANIE SNYDER 
news writer 
members of the Toms club at saint mary’s skyped with Toms shoes founder blake mycoskie during his Ted talk Thursday. 
The Toms company, through its “one for one” model, do­nates a pair of shoes to the poor in third-world countries every time someone buys a pair of its shoes. when someone purchas­es Toms eyewear, a part of the profit goes to help restore sight to those who are poor. a new addition to the one for one or­ganization is Toms tote bags. every time one is sold, a new bag, along with a safe home birth kit, is given to a pregnant mother in need of one. 
“For a long time, Toms just provided shoes,” mycoskie said. “we now have factories in haiti and Kenya. we try to continu­ally stretch the boundary of our company to create jobs.” 
martin burt, the founder and ceo of Fundacion paraguaya (Fp), which receives and dis­tributes donated shoes, also skyped in with mycoskie and the saint mary’s club. 
“we are using Toms not as charity but as self-help,” he said. “it is self-help and self-reliance that gets people out of poverty.” 
burt, who founded Fp in 1985, works to provide educa­tion in entrepreneurship and microcredit to students in paraguay. at the moment, he is creating schools specifically for rural youth who are chronically unemployed, as well as devel­oping the “poverty stoplight,” which uses technology to help poor families understand their economic position and work to improve it. 
“our bottom line is impact, not poverty,” he said. “we try to design ways to diminish poverty.” 
Toms club president nora clougherty said it was reward­ing to speak to both mycoskie and burt, whose foundation, as a Toms giving partner, directly uses the shoes. 
“we were not only able to witness how the shoes are be­ing put to use, but we also got to talk to someone who was directly impacting Toms,” she said. 
in response to a question from the saint mary’s club, mycoskie said the biggest chal­lenge was just making the shoes while keeping one question in mind. 
“how do you preserve a cul­ture of giving as you scale a big business?” he said. 
mycoskie said another major obstacle was keeping in mind the purpose of Toms creation. 
“The challenge was in keep­ing the whole organization ex­cited and focused on why we do what we do,” mycoskie said. 
“more important is the mindset that we’re changing.” 
burt said a partial obstacle to eliminating poverty is that people sometimes forget that poverty exists. 
“it’s not that the poor are in­visible — we do not see,” burt said. “we can transform the world and end poverty in one generation just with the Toms shoe example, but it is impos­sible for people to see the solu­tions that are right under our nose.” 
burt said Toms is a good model because it can be ap­plied beyond just shoes. 
“This is about social innovation, taking what works in one industry and applying it to another industry,” he said. 


clougherty said the conver­sation inspired the club to con­tinue to spread its message. 
“my goal is to one day see everyone on campus wearing Toms so that we can see the change a simple purchase can have,” she said. 
another club member, delaney hunt, said talking to mycoskie helped her to con­sider the service aspect of business. 
“Talking to somebody that has that reputation and is so well-known makes it more real,” she said. “it makes me believe in their mission even more — it makes it more per­sonal. The business model itself is interesting in that you could apply it to anything. it gives me ideas on what you can do with a normal business major.” 
club member Tori wilbraham said mycoskie’s talk was par­ticularly impactful as she pre­pares to graduate. 
“he inspired me to follow my passions rather than pursue a career for money,” wilbraham said. 
Contact Stephanie Snyder at ssnyder02@saintmarys.edu 

union representatives explain casino boycott 
during the most recent labor representative from the this boycott because we don’t a las vegas-based company.
By GABRIELA MALESPIN 

news writer cafe discussion sponsored by chicago-based uniTe here want them to lose — because [ameristar] is their only union the higgins labor program — local 1 chapter and employee then, we lose as well," wilson property out of 15 casinos.” 
representatives of uniTe a series of monthly discours-at bluechip casino, and stuart said. “we are not just going to both mora and wilson said here, the labor union rep-es dedicated to educating mora, a uniTe here staff let this happen to ameristar pinnacle entertainment has resenting ameristar casino the notre dame community member and university alum-or any other casino in our demonstrated resistance to-employees, described their about labor issues. nus, described the current union.” wards unions in the past. campaign against the casino dominique wilson, a boycott against ameristar. wilson said while wilson said many of pinnacle The casino's employees are ameristar's union initiated entertainment’s employees asking for consumers to boy-the boycott, other casinos are not union workers and, cott the gambling venue as such as majestic star and at one point, the company they campaign to keep their bluechip stand in solidarity. fired several employees for health insurance as it is. wilson said the result of the expressing a desire to form a 
according to a uniTe here negotiations with ameristar union. 
press release, ameristar em-will set the stage for negotia-wilson said the next steps 
ployees would like the con-tions with other casinos. for uniTe here union em-
sumer boycott to continue “The way they negotiate ev-ployees include a pledge cam-
until the casino agrees to erything that one company paign and several boycott 
maintain the employees’ cur-does, the other usually fol-Fridays, as well as a larger 
rent healthcare plan. lows suit,” wilson said. “if social action event april 25. 
ameristar, a casino owned ameristar can come in and wilson said she hoped the 
by las vegas-based company take away health insurance community and consumer 
pinnacle entertainment, pro-and wages from [...] ameristar support would result in the 
posed a healthcare plan that workers, when we sit down boycott's success. 
could charge employees up to in a few months to talk to “when these casinos came, 
$4,000 per year in payroll de-majestic or bluechip, they are they promised to get people 
ductions — an amount that, going to do the same thing. off of welfare, and now they’re 
for several workers, accounts “They’re going to say basically trying to take it 
for almost a quarter of their ‘ameristar isn’t paying insur-[health insurance] back and 
annual wages. ance. They’re not paying good put people on assistance from 
wilson said ameristar’s re-wages, so why should we?’” the government and nobody fusal to maintain their em-mora said the campaign wants that,” wilson said. “we ployees’ health insurance for health insurance with just want to go to work every has drastic implications and pinnacle entertainment’s ca-day like we’ve been doing and creates a significant finan-sinos is hardly a new issue. get our insurance and get paid cial burden for many of its “There’s been a fight in for what we’re worth and take employees. each of these casinos over the care of our families.” 
“[bluechip and majestic last four years to keep that 

star employees are] all going health insurance,” mora said. Contact Gabriela Malespin at 
to back [the union workers] in "pinnacle entertainment is gmalespi@nd.edu 



The observer | MONDAY, MARCH 23, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Notre Dame revives club water ski team 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news writer 
over the past two years, notre dame’s water ski team had trans­formed into an active community for both new and experienced wa­ter skiers at the university. 
Jack mcmahon, senior and current president of the team, said water ski competitions con­sist of three events: slalom, trick and jump. skiers receive scores for their performances and earn points for their team. 
“a lot of the teams we compete against have been in existence for decades,” mcmahon said. “we came onto the scene really big this year. we just barely missed advancing to the regional cham­pionships against teams who have been doing this for a really long time.” 
mcmahon said competitive wa­terskiing first came to notre dame in 2008. evan carlson, the club’s founder and a member of the class of 2010, led a small group of stu­dents to a few tournaments. 
“after [carlson] graduated, the club essentially died,” mcmahon said. “it was on the chopping block with recsports. last year, it was just about to be completely wiped off the map when dave brown, as­sistant director of club sports, re­alized it was actually becoming an active team again.” 
mcmahon said senior greg moyers, president of the water ski Team from fall of 2013 to fall of 2014, played a large part in the revival of the sport at notre dame. 
Women 
conTinued From page 1 
at notre dame was, and still is, unparalleled,” wallace said. 
events begin monday night in geddes hall with an alumni panel to celebrate the forma­tion of the grc a decade ago. The panel will start at 7 p.m. and a reception will follow. 
The club notre dames will partner with the grc and shades of ebony on Tuesday night  for their weekly “Talk it out Tuesday” at 6 p.m. in the dooley room of laFortune. discussion will focus on wom­en in the media. 
The main event of the week will be the third annual celebration of women dinner, which will be in the mcKenna hall dining room at 6:30 p.m. The program will be dedicated to hesburgh and will feature three panelists. This event is rsvp only. 
in the coleman-morse lounge at 8 p.m. Thursday, student groups on campus will collaborate to showcase and celebrate the stories of women’s lives in “cafemme.” desserts and coffee will be served and attendees are en­couraged to bring toiletries to donate to st. margaret’s house. 
shades of ebony president, junior ray’von Jones said she 
“last year, we went to two tournaments and basically just regained face with recsports,” moyers said. “we’ve partnered with different community service organizations and done various fundraisers. overall, we just want­ed to demonstrate that we’re ac­tive and that there’s a strong core of interest.” 
mcmahon said the water ski team does not have a rigid prac­tice schedule because water con­ditions are dependent upon the weather. in the fall and spring months, the team skis on silver lake, located about a half hour away from campus in rolling prairie, indiana. 
“our coach, Jill smith, is from a small town called new carlisle, indiana, and just happens to be one of the best female trick ski­ers in the world,” moyers said. “This year, she placed second in the women’s over-35 world championship. she’s played a large role in the development of our team.” 
moyers said the team ideally participates in three tournaments in the fall. 
“This year, the team had 21 active competitive members,” moyers said. “men and women compete separately but are scored as one team. if you want to win any tournaments, you need both guys and girls that can score points.” 
mcmahon said the scores from the 2014 great lakes conference championships are a testament to how far the notre dame water ski team has come. 
is looking forward to cafemme most out of the week’s events. 
“This event is a perfor­mance-based coffeehouse in which various acts will be performing pieces about wom­en,” she said. “This is a great chance for various stories re­lated to women to be told. we wanted to make sure that we made a space for this to take place.” 
according to the women’s week 2015 website, toiletries will be collected in designated residence halls until Friday or can be dropped off at the grc to benefit st. margaret’s house. 
For Friday’s service project, local high school girls will come to campus to decorate toiletry boxes for st. margaret’s house with the supplies col­lected throughout the week. They will also make bracelets for cancer patients, accord­ing to the women’s week 2015 website. 
To close out the week, dillon hall will host a “rejoice!” mass at 8 p.m., according to the women’s week 2015 web­site. The mass will feature the voices of Faith gospel choir. 
more information about the events can be found at the event’s website, sites.google. com/a/nd.edu/womens-week 
Contact Megan Valley at mvalley@nd.edu 

“The notre dame men’s team of the water ski team traveled to the future of the water ski team. finished eighth out of 15 teams,” louisiana over spring break to “next year, we want to get to re­mcmahon said. “notre dame train under world-class coaches at gionals,” mcmahon said. “That’s finished 10th overall. sophomore benet’s ski school. our no. 1 goal. i’m hoping to set captain garrett schmelling and “serious teams have been tak-some personal bests. i also want senior greg moyers finished 14th ing this spring break trip for years,” to try to get a lot of freshmen in-and 15th, respectively, out of over moyers said. “hopefully, it gave us volved. if i could get up on skis for 100 men’s ‘a’ skiers. sophomore a good kick so that we’re a really the first time as a senior, they can, emmie schultz finished 12th out competitive team next year.” too.” of 54 in the women’s slalom ski mcmahon, who will remain on event.” the team next year as a graduate Contact Katie Galioto at  
mcmahon said he didn’t have student, said he is excited about kgalioto@nd.edu any experience water-skiing be-
paid adverTisemenT 
fore joining notre dame’s team. 
“i’ve known greg since we were freshmen, but i had no idea what this sport was all about,” mcmahon said. “i didn’t actually water ski until the fall of this year because the weather has been so atrocious. i went to tournaments last year as a hype man. i had so much fun even just watching ski­ing that i jumped on board. and then this year, i landed a jump within two weeks of starting to ski, which is just so surreal.” 
moyers said his favorite part about being a member of the wa­ter ski team is getting a chance to compete for his school in the sport that he loves. 
“To be able represent notre dame at water-skiing tourna­ments is something i didn’t think was going to be possible when i initially came here,” moyers said. “That feeling of wearing my notre dame jersey while doing some­thing i’m so passionate about is a really cool thing that i’m lucky to have.” 
moyers said eight members 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, MARCH 23, 2015 | The observer 





Haiti 
conTinued From page 1 
“recent data shows that the model works well,” streit said. “we and our partners have succeeded, even where there are lots of mountains making it hard to distribute drugs every­where and lots of superstition about the disease.” 
carter said more than 44 per­cent of saut-d’eau’s population was infected with the lF para­site when it was first surveyed 14 years ago. now, after nine years of treatment, prelimi­nary tests showed an infection rate of 0.1 percent, demon­strating the disease has almost completely disappeared from saut-d’eau. 
according to the haiti program’s website, lF is one of 13 neglected tropical diseases and affects 1.2 million people worldwide. Tiny threadworms attack the lymphatic system and prevent them from fight­ing infections, resulting in pain, scarring and swelling in the limbs, breasts or genitals. 
streit said the medical and social effects of lF in haiti are devastating. 
“people can’t work,” streit said. “women with the dis­ease are shunned by potential husbands. in addition to the episodes of fever, burns and swelling, they become the ‘town monster,’ so they don’t want to go out.” 
streit said just as poverty causes disease, disease leads to more poverty. 
“[lF] is the single infec­tious disease most closely tied to poverty,” streit said. “The people that get it are disabled and can’t work. Their fami­lies suffer lost opportunities because they have to care for the sick one. with the terrible smell that makes this disease worse than leprosy in terms of being disabled, if the fam­ily has a business, custom­ers and clients will avoid the house or business out of fear of contagion.” 
carter said the haiti program consists of three pillars used fight lF in haiti: mass drug administration (mda), the production and distribution of co-fortified salt and treatment of those already infected with lF. 
“The mda is a series of an­nual cycles,” carter said. “The world health organization’s standard is that you have a site, normally manned by about three people, who distribute the correct amount of pills to patients based upon their size and age a couple times a year. sites are located throughout the community.” 
“most of haiti is currently in its fourth annual mda cycle,” carter added. “in saut-d’eau, the drug has been adminis­tered nine times. The fifth cy­cle for most communities will finish in spring of 2016, and then we should be able to start surveying and hopefully find that we’ve only got a few areas to focus on.” 
carter said the haiti program uses co-fortified salt to provide an alternative source of drugs to combat lF and to address a group of diseases called iodine deficiency disorders, or idd. 
“The equivalent of one of those little bags of salt has roughly the amount of dec, the drug that kills the parasite, that would be taken as an an­nual dosage for a family of five,” carter said. “haitians use a lot of salt in cooking. This really may be a way of provid­ing a higher level of insurance against the parasite than you get through the traditional means of distributing pills to folks.” 
streit said the haiti program’s next step involves assessing the prevalence of lF 
“[LF] is the single infectious disease most closely tied to poverty.” 
Fr. Thomas Streit 
founder and lead researcher 
Haiti Program 
in haiti and identifying areas that are free of the disease. 
“i think this new data espe­cially indicates that what we’ve labored long and hard for is fi­nally starting to bear tremen­dous fruit,” carter said. “we’re seeing that there can be a solu­tion in a country where many anecdotally have said we’d nev­er be able to accomplish this. 
if you could do this in haiti, there’s probably a chance you could do this anywhere.” 
streit said his goal for the haiti program is to finish the job started back in 1999. 
“That entails lots of hard work, the money to support the work and lots of prayers and goodwill, especially from the haitian people, who de­serve to have a better quality of life through these efforts,” streit said. “The better qual­ity of life will help the country move ahead and economically be more a part of the global community.” 
carter said the haiti program embodies the service aspect of the university’s mission. 
“This has been one of the more rewarding things that i’ve ever been associated with,” carter said. “To see a universi­ty operationalize its beliefs on service in a very challenging environment and to see such good results, in the social and scientific fields, has been an in­credible experience.” 
Contact Katie Galioto at kgalioto@nd.edu 
Justice 
conTinued From page 1 
grateful. he was so enjoyable to be around, and you could really see the change and the impact we made in just a few hours. it was a really amazing opportunity.” 
carswell said the volunteer­ing opportunity allowed her and other saint mary’s stu­dents to assist members of their community with different needs. 
“we helped out a very el­derly lady who was a hoarder,” carswell said. “her situation was very difficult. The electric­ity had been turned off; she could barely move around her house. she bathed in the cold sink water. it wasn’t a healthy situation.” 
carswell said just one day of giving made a remarkable dif­ference in the hoarder’s life. 
“we helped her clean out her home,” carswell said. “it was amazing to see how within a day how much her home had cleared out. she was able to finally sit on her couch or move around the house without tripping on things.” 
carswell said she was partic­ularly moved by the response of one woman, lynn Joyce dolson, after volunteers came to work at her house. 
“i helped her paint her house and scrape wallpaper down,” carswell said. “i remember her saying, ‘i’m going to sleep in my house tonight so i can wake up and see my house.’ she was re­ally grateful.” 
carswell said the day’s impact was immeasurable for many re­cipients of help during the day of rebuilding Together. 
“i remember reading one story about one of the homeowners,” carswell said. “The husband had to go to work for the day so they worked on his house. when he came back from work, he actually drove by his house because he didn’t recognize it. That’s how much of a transfor­mation we can make.” 

carswell said this year’s rebuilding Together plans to fix-up 19 homes, including fixing 16 roofs and replacing seven fur­naces. it will take place april 11. 
Contact Nicole Caratas at ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 
weekend history, the glow

Sibs 
party. conTinued From page 1 
“The big event for this year 

is the glow party,” Knable Knable said the all-day ac-said. “There’s glow sticks and tivity session ended with the different relay races, black largest event in little sibs lights and a dJ. it’s a giant 
paid adverTisemenT 

party.” 
english said although the theme and events of little sibs weekend vary year to year, the spirit of the weekend remains the same. english said the whole point of the weekend is give students and siblings the opportunity to do activities while spending quality time bonding with one another. 
“i’m excited to see everyone all together. i love seeing that sibling bond,” Knable said. “i think it’s important to have your siblings here to show them where you live, where you are when you’re not at home." 
english said the strength of family ties inspired this year’s little sibs weekend t-shirt. 
“it goes with the quote on the back of the shirts, ‘side by side or miles apart, sib­lings like us stay close to the heart,’” english said. “no mat­ter where you are, your sib­lings are close to your heart.” 
english said the ties are evi­dent in the distances siblings traveled to spend time with their sisters, ranging from coast to coast. 
“we have girls coming in from california and virginia,” english said. “This is a huge weekend.” 
english said this weekend will promote sibling bonding because, “if you’re home over break, you’re maybe keep­ing to yourself, relaxing. but when your sibling is here, it’s exciting. you want to show them everything on campus. 


“saint mary’s girls always want to share our love of saint mary’s.” 
Knable said this year’s events worked to strength­en familial bonds and fos­ter community on the saint mary’s campus between students. 
“This year, we made a lot of events that aren’t just you and your sibling,” Knable said. “it’s collaborating and be­ing with other saint mary’s students and their siblings. at the glow party, there’s re­lay races, so you would make teams with other girls and their siblings. 
“we’re one family here, so everybody else’s families are combining.” 
Contact Nicole Caratas at ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, MARCH 23, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

This is my year 
Margaret Hynds 
news editor 

it goes without saying that i never had much of a basketball career. at (almost) 5-foot-1, i’m never even go­ing to touch the net unless i’m either on a ladder or the shoulders of some­one tall enough to actually play com­petitive basketball. 
of course, like the dutiful catholic school kid i was, i trudged through six years of cyo basketball; my ca­reer peaked early, when in third grade, i stole the ball and, clearly confused, decided to sit on it instead of go for the open shot. yes, i literally sat on a basketball in the middle of a play. 
anyway, i think that’s probably the reason i’ve always been fascinated by people who are really good at the sport, and in turn, why i absolutely love march madness. 
no, really, i do; it’s my favorite sporting event of the entire year. i love the stress and the last-minute comebacks and the upsets and the somewhat ridiculous fast pace that it tends to take upon itself. 
unfortunately, that enthusiasm doesn’t quite translate into an ability to accurately pick who’s going to win; that skill seems to have evaded me. 
last year proved a particularly horrendous year for brackets and my pride. 
having come in last in my family pool, i faced ridicule for weeks from my three sisters and doting parents, who made me make them food as punishment for my sporty ineptitude. 
i even managed to lose to the fam­ily dog, who has a brain the size of a shriveled-up clementine. how the dog managed to predict the outcome of basketball games with any hint of accuracy deals in animal psychology far beyond what i learned in bios 10117. 
as it turned out last year, the only pool i didn’t come dead last in was The observer’s group … 
… though to be fair, the only people i beat had turned in empty brackets. 
but i didn’t lose. so i’ve decided that if i’m going to hit it big this year, it’s going to be this group. with these people. so far, so good. well, so far, okay. i’m currently tied with seven others for a solid 18th place. but i have faith in this bracket, and i have faith in my teams, and i think we’re going to pull through. i’ll be sure to keep you updated. 
observer staff, i give you fair warn­ing. i’m coming for you, and at the risk of sounding vaguely dramatic, i’m hungry for victory. 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Our peers in the shadows 
we know that comprehensive immigration reform and deferred action for childhood arrivals (daca) is a hot topic, but do we even know what it is or what it would do? The reality is there are many among us whose lives depend on us. They are hidden behind the shadows of this debate. 
in 2013, the senate passed a bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform bill in hopes to build a stronger future for our country within our economy and community. The bill was then sent to the house, where it was not successful. The house speaker and leaders even refused to vote on the bill. This trig­gered president obama to create an immigration executive action. This action would provide citizen­ship and relief from deportation for families who have been in the united states for more than five years. it requires them to undergo a background check and pay taxes. 
This caught congress’ attention; they replied with a vote to repeal the president’s executive action. 
why does this affect you? it may not yet, but there are students who are passionate about the immigra­tion reform because it protects daca status. 
Those with daca status are individuals who have lived in the united states continuously since January 2010. if they meet certain qualifications, they may apply for temporary deferment for two or three years. This means individuals have temporary legal status in the united states, a social security number and relief from deportation. 
daca status helps qualified individuals receive education and economic opportunities. you might not realize, but many young adults have daca sta­tus throughout our college communities (holy cross college, saint mary’s college and university of notre dame). 

how can we help protect immigration reform or daca status? we see u.s. representative Jackie walorski as a key asset to continue this conversa­tion throughout the house. she voted to repeal obama’s executive action, but there were 26 other 
u.s. republican representatives who did not vote to repeal the president’s actions due to protect­ing those with daca status. our goal is to encour­age congresswoman walorski to communicate with these other representatives to understand better why they voted against the repeal as the conversation continues. 
although she agrees the immigration system is a “step-by-step” process, there has not been consistent progress overall. 
we must take a stand to help fix the broken immi­gration system. in the past, the u.s. government has put large amounts of money into the border, but it has not made a huge impact. The system still needs to be fixed. This can happen if we change our focus from hardening the borders to helping those people who are already here. 
it seems that the house, senate and the president cannot come to an agreement on how to repair our broken immigration system. we can only assume they are not hearing the people’s voice. 
as young voters, we must fight to keep the conversa­tion of immigration reform going by educating and en­gaging those throughout our community. we must ask congresswoman walorski to shine light on this issue and brighten the lives of our undocumented peers. 
Joelle Poettgen 
junior holy cross college march 19 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



The observer | MONDAY, MARCH 23, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
mind the age gap 
Paige Affinito 
recipes for getting by 

back when the snapchat app allowed us to view the infamous “top three friends,” i’d scroll through other people’s lists periodically, confirming that i was indeed two of my roommates’ top snap-mates. in doing this, i began to notice the same name popped up in quite a few top friends list. “Jessiebessy9” is not some girl in my dorm, i’ve never had a class with her, and actually, she doesn’t even go to notre dame. no, Jessiebessy9 is the username of my 10-year-old sister who has taken it upon herself to befriend the 20- and 21-year-old college students she has met through her older siblings. 
Jessie’s the caboose in our family of six kids, and i’m the oldest. we are both fortunate in that we dodged the dreaded middle child position; nevertheless, both our spots in this lineup come with pros and cons. i’ve always been a bit envious of girls with much older sibs (especially older sis­ters). growing up, these were the girls who didn’t go through stages of raccoon eyeliner; they knew the names of pg-13 movies before even turning 12! as first-born, i bore the brunt of parental supervi­sion. i wasn’t allowed to ride my bike to 7-eleven for a slushie, while now, my younger sisters get to ripstik all the way to the city panera. Through in­dividual trial and error, i turned out okay, and i’m happy to have paved the way for the younger kids. i like to think that i am the reason they now know that at a certain point, themed lunch boxes aren’t “cool,” and you have to brown bag it. 
despite being born a decade apart, Jessica and i have developed a unique friendship. she’s been able to get a taste of college life, so much so that she’s now notorious for wandering the hallways of breen-phillips during her campus visits. it’s no rare sight to see Jess’ skinny legs dangling from a lofted dorm room bed as she laughs with friends of mine and emily’s (our sister who is also a current resident of bp). i have been spoiled with a front-row seat as i watch her experience the best moments of youth. and, as a second-semester junior on the brink of entering the real world, i have found that having a sister this young is an unexpected benefit of being the oldest. i get a secondhand look into the life of an 11-year-old. 
Jessie, emily and i all share a room, which has served as a working template of boy-band history. The same wall that displayed a Tiger beat poster of the Jonas brothers now holds an image of one direction. despite the differences in age, our con­versations never grow old. when we are all togeth­er, we exchange stories of fifth-grade play dates and college weekends before falling asleep. Jess vents about middle-school math as we assure her college accounting isn’t a walk in the park, either. There is buzz of both The bachelor and latest disney channel shows. 

Through Jessica, i’ve been fortunate enough to get the inside scoop on the latest middle school lingo — most notably the word “pre-pre.” one morning, i caught a glimpse of Jessica’s ipod touch (yep, times have changed) and discovered she had 146 unread imessages … all from one kid. after pointing this out to her, she scrolled through the series of “heys” and consecutive emoticon faces he had sent over the past week, even with her lack of response. Jess explained to me that this boy was her “pre-pre,” the definition fifth graders created to describe the person they like while acknowledging the fact that they’re a bit too young to date (think “pre-boyfriend,” but even another step away). she then proceeded to respond to these 146 texts with a single word: sorry. The boy responded nearly seconds after, disregarding the fact that she had ignored him for the past seven days, asking if she wanted to play minecraft. 
Jessica thinks maybe someday they’ll be “pre,” but doesn’t know for sure. maybe it’s selfish of me, but i really hope it never gets to that point. 
what’s the rush? 

Paige Affinito is a junior accounting and English major. This is her first semester as a Viewpoint columnist and she has found humor is actually much easier to capture in 140 characters than 700 words. She can be reached at paffinit@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Theology requirement: a former dean’s view 
Editor’s Note: This letter first appeared online in AMERICA: The National Catholic Review. It is reprinted here with permission from AMERICA Executive Editor Maurice Timothy Reidy. 
i write on the issue of the theology requirement at the university of notre dame, which is currently under discussion as part of the school’s 10-year cur­riculum review. i share these thoughts in response to the administration’s call for input, but i also see this topic as relevant to all catholic universities. 
when notre dame recruited me to the deanship of the business school, it was a very difficult decision. i would be leaving a community that granted all my degrees, funded six of seven years of my study, pro­moted me through the ranks and welcomed me into the central administration with an intent to prepare me for leadership of large land-grant universities. There was only one reason to leave: to act on the mission of a catholic business school, where god would be an integral part of how our students would approach their business careers. 
after much foot-dragging, the decision came at one weekday mass when i gained this unexplainable clarity that we must “leave home” and journey forth to serve god. 
at the mendoza college of business, i led with two priorities. The first was to strive for excellence in what we do. it is the promise i made to Fr. Ted hesburgh when he imparted the first of two pieces of advice: “mediocrity is not the way we serve the blessed mother.” i also felt that if we were to witness to the catholic way of succeeding, we would need the credibility that excellence confers. The other priority was formation work: engaging our students to remember that whatever work they undertake, they do so as the people of god, made by him, loved by him, gifted by him and called into service to bring his abundance to all. 
at commencement each year, when i shook the hands of more than a thousand business graduates, i never worried about whether they would succeed professionally but whether they would know deeply the importance of faith, continue to work on it, let it be their compass and strength and come back to it when they stray. achieving the top ranking in undergraduate business education was not fueled by the desire to join some elite academic club but to keep faith with the mission of the university and the students, parents, colleagues, donors, alumni who cherish and made sacrifices to sustain this mission. i signed my correspondence, “yours in notre dame,” to remind myself of the privilege and responsibil­ity of an institution that bears the blessed mother’s name and continues her work to make god real in this world. 
but our students cannot serve well what they do not love; they cannot love deeply what they do not know. This is the basis behind our earliest cat­echism lesson that the purpose for a christian is to “know god, love god and serve god.” This sequence is not accidental. while god cannot be contained by human imagination, he seeks to be known. Theology is a discipline whose constitutive focus is the revelation of god through scriptures, or the “word of god” as the lector and priest intone after the mass readings; and through the christian tradi­tion whereby god engages men and women of faith to develop a living body of teachings or doctrines, inspired by the holy spirit, to help us live as his people, to make his word our flesh. 
st. pope John paul ii taught in “ex corde ecclesiae” that god, along with man and nature, must be a part of the catholic university’s search for the whole truth. god is “the way, the Truth and the life.” Thus the distinguishing commitment of a catholic university in its search for truth is the study of theology. Through investments in resources and emphasis in the curriculum, the university’s mission is to provide the intellectual foundation for students to understand, appreciate and interpret the revelation of god. This is the robust ground­ing needed for an adult faith, one that progresses beyond grade school catechism, to accompany and inform the catholic students’ intellectual growth in their professions, for the composition of meaning, purpose, commitment and vocation. Theology re­quirements are analogous to the keystone that holds the academic architectural archway together, not an offering amidst a buffet of dizzying choices to be assembled for the appetite of the day. 

a book that has profound effect on my life choices is “a people adrift,” by peter steinfels. in it, he iden­tifies the crisis in the church as the passing of the torch to lay people who are not properly catechized. studies have shown that even students on catholic campuses cannot name all seven sacraments and that mass attendance does not exceed the general average. professor christian smith of notre dame offered a profile of christian youth, who sees god vaguely in the role of a “divine butler,” a kindly uncle of sorts with a ready ear and occasional gener­ous benefactions. but god is not part of their lives and the concepts of sin and grace, the cross and resurrection, mercy and repentance, incarnation and transcendence have no bearing on their under­standing of god. it is a relative of the form of new spirituality described in “eat pray love.” 
it’s tempting to blame our secular culture for these problems, but we must cast the light closer to home. we have to assess the quality of our cat­echesis when catholics, particularly those who go through catholic universities, can find god in almost everything but not in scriptures and the sac­raments. To form leaders of faith, to be the places where the church does her thinking, to fight against the caricature of god proposed by our secular cul­ture, catholic universities must offer more than “Theology lite.” 
in all the efforts to define learning goals for a catholic university, how about “to know god” as a starter? 
Carolyn Woo 

director of catholic relief services march 10 


Alexandra Lowery 
scene writer 

while most of us were only toddlers at the time of its release, “The wedding singer” and its toothache-worthy sweetness have endured with lasting popularity over the last decade and a half, the story evolving from feature film to broadway musical to pemco production held at washington hall this weekend. 
The densely choreographed, energetic musical re­telling of the 1998 movie that launched adam sandler as heartthrob as well as goofball relies heavily on the comedic aptitude of its stars and their ability to create characters that do justice to their original counterparts while noting their screen-to-stage differences. 
pasquerilla east musical company staged a musical romance that pretty much no one can hate. with a tal­ented cast, memorable comedic moments and beloved source material, most viewers who bought a ticket left with smiles on their faces and “grow old with you” stuck in their heads. 
set in 1985 — a fact that unfortunately led to a few insignificant anachronisms of the costume and prop persuasion — the plot follows robbie hart, portrayed by senior chris siemann, a “wedding singer” and hopeless romantic who’s in love with love until his evil fiancée leaves him at the altar. The musician’s “hart”-break leads him on a hilarious string of self-inflicted mishaps and blunders, one of which includes falling for the very beautiful and very engaged Julia sullivan. 
a production like this falls apart without a star capable of sandler-level comedy who remains believable as the eventual heroic lead. siemann did not disappoint, por­traying robbie as a ludicrously unhinged songwriter who was just as capable of great love and kindness. with great comedic timing, willingness to commit to physi­cal humor and melodic voice, siemann had the audi­ence laughing most of his time on-stage and swooning the rest. 
supported by equally talented castmates, siemann played opposite victoria pereira, an angelic soprano to robbie’s rock tenor. pereira radiated pure optimism and sweetness, with the main couple’s chemistry palpable and enjoyable on stage. maggie moran was a standout as holly, Julia’s uninhibited cousin, who was in the spot­light for arguably the show’s most unforgettable moment when moran pulled a lever that released a cascade of wa­ter onto the actress á la Jennifer beals in “Flashdance.” 
Kathleen clark slayed in the small-but-vital role of rosie, robbie’s eccentric grandmother, who turns out is a really dope rapper. Quint mediate and Jacob schrimpf made perfect comedic reliefs as robbie’s bandmates/ best friends, sammy and george, while Tommy Favorite and shannon Kirk did a great job of making us hate them as the show’s resident villains, glen guglia and linda, respectively. 

each musical part was beautifully performed, despite the fact that many of the songs apart from the two that were already present in the original movie were some­what forgettable. The score, while enjoyable by pop standards, lacked originality and excitement for the au­dience. however, director caitlin schlehuber and cho­reographer maggie miller livened up the production by making nearly every song that wasn’t a ballad extremely dance-heavy. The numbers were well executed and did their job even when they felt a little clunky, something i blame on the large cast attempting the moves on the small stage at washington. 
overall, pemco staged a production that was enter­taining and faithful to its cinematic counterpart with­out attempting to duplicate it. sandler and barrymore would be proud, guys. 
Contact Alexandra Lowery at alowery1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the The Observer. 

SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer; photos courtesy of Ketty Andreasen 
The observer | MONDAY, MARCH 23, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Caelin Miltko 
scene writer 

There seems to be a bit of a trope among movies set during senior year of high school where the main character is working on his/her college essays from the beginning to the end of the movie. at the beginning, they attempt to type something, but it quickly becomes clear that they don’t feel they have enough experience to write a good essay. by the end, they’ve undergone some monumental life change that helps them write a killer essay to get them into their dream school. 
now this trope isn’t necessarily new. movies set in the final year of high school have long made use of the stress of college applications to provide tension and used the college essay to provide an easy and believable mode for self-reflection. realistically, it even works. who doesn’t remember wracking their brains for some suitably monumental experience to write about? 
“The spectacular now” begins and ends with this very trope. The very first scene has the protagonist, sutter (miles Teller), attempting to write a college es­say. he’s drinking while doing so and soon gives up. The end of the movie returns to this same situation, but sutter’s experiences with aimee (shailene woodley) have impacted him enough to give him the perfect 
Jimmy Kemper 
scene writer 

This past weekend, the debartolo performing arts center screened “selma,” one of the best picture nomi­nees at the recent oscars and now one of my favorite films of 2014. 
“selma” had me hooked from its opening sequence. The biopic begins in 1964 with martin luther King Jr. (david oyelowo) in a hotel room, preparing to receive the nobel peace prize and talking with his wife, coretta (carmen ejogo). The entire scene focuses on whether King should wear an ascot or not because he’s afraid of how he would perceived by his friends back home. coretta can’t help but be amused, and we encounter one of the few light moments that exist in this intimate relationship that struggles with the difficulties of King’s position as a civil rights leader. 
after a brief look at King’s nobel acceptance speech, the film quickly shifts to a couple of young black girls dressed in their sunday best, walking down the stairs of a church and discussing the best way to straighten their hair. in an instant, a tremendous explosion over­whelms the screen, which we witness in slow motion as one of the girls’ beautiful, patent leather heel flies across, set to a wonderful musical score. we are left with the lifeless body of one of the girls, still in her sunday writing material. 
between these two scenes, sutter undergoes a num­ber of substantial changes. aimee appears to be the catalyst for these changes, as she encourages him to speak to his mother and track down his father and eventually motivates him to actually try to leave his hometown after graduation. Teller is admirable in the role, charming, funny and a little bit pathetic — the perfect embodiment of the class clown whom everyone is sure will never make it anywhere. 
woodley is good, though on the surface, the role ap­pears to be simply a less complicated hazel from “The Fault in our stars.” she’s an excellent fit, playing the smart, nice girl who secretly deals with issues that are far larger than she ought to have. unlike “The Fault in our stars,” woodley’s character is not the center of the plot, and therefore, her storyline is not as developed as it might be. 
The largest problem for “The spectacular now” is that it attempts to cover too many plot points in a short amount of time. based on the novel of the same name by Tim Tharp, this issue makes sense. There is too much plot as can be properly covered in the short amount of time allowed by the film, and as such, it often seems certain major issues almost appear out of nowhere. 
still, the relationship between aimee and sutter is compelling. neither character exists solely for the 
best, lying among the rubble of the church. between this tragic event and King’s acceptance speech, director ava duvernay immediately shows the audience that the film, and the civil rights movement, for that matter, are about restoring human dignity to all americans. 
after this powerful opening, “selma” then continues to follow the narrative of King and other civil rights lead­ers as they work toward ensuring voting rights for black americans through a series of peaceful marches from selma, alabama, to the state’s capital, montgomery. 
rather than just creating a propaganda piece of King for the modern american, “selma” really dives into the character of King, creating a complete portrait of the man during this struggle that fully embraces both his strengths and his flaws. much like steven spielberg’s “lincoln,” “selma” focuses on the back-room politics and struggles rather than the speeches we’re all too fa­miliar with. in addition to creating a fresh look at King, viewers are exposed to his personal struggles, his mar­riage struggles and his conflict with other civil rights leaders. at one point, coretta encounters wiretaps from the Fbi that prove her husband is cheating on her. he initially lies to her about it but is forced to admit to his betrayal. scenes like this emphasize that, although martin luther King Jr. was a great and inspirational civ­il rights leader, he was a human just like the rest of us, with his own failures and complications. 
This movie also shines in its unflinching approach to other’s benefit. rather, it quickly becomes clear that each has an important lesson to learn from the other. sutter resolutely lives in the now, refusing to seriously consider the future. aimee relies on her dreams of the future, choosing to use them to cope with the issues she faces in her now. 

proving herself the diligent student she’s made out to be, aimee manages to adjust to sutter’s mindset more quickly than he does to her. still, she doesn’t let go of her dreams for the future, and by the time we see sutter attempting to write his college essay at the end of the movie, this difference has caused a rather seri­ous rift between the two. but like all good rom-coms, sutter eventually finds a way through his personal roadblocks. 
as a movie interpretation of a ya novel, “The spectacular now” is perhaps not quite as good as “The Fault in our stars” or “The perks of being a wallflower.” That said, if you’re looking for something that will not leave you in tears like “The Fault in our stars” is wont to do, “The spectacular now” is perfect for a lazy saturday night. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
the brutality and violence that characterized the civil rights era. From the church bombing in the opening sequence forward, “selma” emphasizes that the path to the voting rights act of 1965 was paved with the blood of brave americans, both black and white. in one of the darkest scenes in an already very dark movie, white su­premacists beat unitarian universalist pastor James reeb to death in the streets of selma. in another, selma police brutalize black protesters as they march through the street at night and kill civil rights leader Jimmie lee Jackson in front of his family at the restaurant they hide in. Throughout all these violent scenes, though, duvernay chose to keep the violence as bloodless as possible, keeping the focus off the gore, which actually enhances the impact that every single punch has be­hind it. 
in a year in which police brutality and racial tensions dominated news headlines, films like “selma” serve as important reminders of the progress we’ve made as a nation toward ensuring the human dignity of all our citizens while simultaneously providing a point of com­parison for the wrongs that we still need to stand up and confront, as martin luther King Jr. once did. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Urschel stands apart from peers 

Aaron Sant-Miller 
sports writer 
not lost in the whirlwind of free agency, former nFl line­backer chris borland’s decision to retire at 24 has made waves. in short, an incredibly talented athlete made the decision to step down for his own physical well­being now and in the future. 
some portray the decision as the tip of a glacier, the van­guard of a changing landscape in professional sports. herein, many laud the young man for his courageous decision to leave the sport he loves, as our very own Zach Klonsinski did last Thursday. 
with every narrative, there is a counter narrative. Though borland’s decision to leave the game of football is marked by fortitude, so is John urschel’s de­cision to keep playing the game of football. 
urschel might be the smartest player in the national Football league right now. last spring, the baltimore ravens drafted the offensive lineman in the 5th round of the 2014 draft. Though he was not an instant starter behind a talented front five, urschel started three games down the stretch and played at a very high level. 
back to his brains. urshel en­tered the nFl after completing both a bachelor’s degree and a master’s degree in mathematics from penn state. in both cases, he graduated with a 4.0. 
urschel’s story was more so lost in the whirlwind of free agency and the madness of march. last week, urschel’s article, “a cascadic multigrid algorithm for computing the Fiedler vector” was published in the Journal of computational mathematics. 
The risks of the nFl are high, few would disagree, but even fewer have anted up as much as urschel. so, why is he out there smashing an exceptional brain against other human beings? 
“i play because i love the game,” urschel wrote in an essay in The players’ Tribune. “i love hitting people. There’s a rush you get when you go out on the field, lay everything on the line and physically dominate the player across from you. This is a feeling i’m (for lack of a better word) ad­dicted to, and i’m hard-pressed to find anywhere else.” 
no, urschel strapping on his pads does not require the same kind of courage that borland requires when he unstraps his. nonetheless, if the discus­sion stands atop brain risk and deteriorating brain function, few football players are risking more for what they love. There is something powerful in the story of a man who loves something that much. There is something unique in that passion. There is something inspiring in that desire, something that tells me urschel has certain intangibles that cannot be coached. 
while the storyline of borland’s decision runs its course, the narrative of balanc­ing academics and college ath­letics runs side-by-side. i hope urschel can be an inspiration for decision-makers going forward. more importantly, i hope he can be a motivation for young ath­letes out there. 
being a talented athlete does not preclude an individual from academic success. Though urschel is an exceptional case, student athletes are competing in the classroom and on the field across the nation. my dream is that no athlete is forced to decide between the two. my dream is that athletes can embrace both dreams simultaneously, though the challenges of doing so should not be minimized and acknowledged. 
while borland can stand as a powerful image of health risks and football, i hope urshel can stand as an equally powerful image of intelligence, academic drive, and football. 
simultaneously, every young person should be told to embrace what they love and chase their dreams. Though the pragmatism and research behind borland’s decision is admirable, valuable, and eye opening, the passion, desire, and courage behind urschel’s decision is inspiring in its own right. 
in short, urschel embodies a different kind of courage: a will­ingness to put oneself on the line for what one loves. concurrently, this same narrative of courage embodies a positive interaction of academia and athletics, one that can be an inspiring model for student athletes at all levels going forward. 
Follow the man, the academic, the professional athlete: @mathmeetsFball 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


WOMEN’S SWIMMING | ncaa championships 

Reaney rounds out career 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
senior emma reaney earned three all-american honors, while senior allison casareto achieved an honorable men­tion all-american selection as notre dame finished 21st overall at the ncaa championships in greensboro, north carolina, over the weekend. 
reaney — the most decorated swimmer or diver in notre dame history — finished third in the 100-yard breaststroke and fourth in both the 200-yard individual medley and the 200-yard breast­stroke, bringing her total number of all-american nods to eight; she was also an honorable-mention selection on five occasions. 
casareto earned her honorable mention selection with a ninth-place finish in the 1-meter dive, winning the consolation finals with a score of 325.20. 
reaney said she had been able to handle the nerves of what was her fourth ncaa meet and enjoy herself. 
“it just felt like any other meet,” reaney said. “That felt good for me because when i just relax and have fun, i tend to swim better. 
“it's always fun to be able to goof off with not only teammates but with friends i have from all the other schools around the country. after so many years, we all know each other and sup­port each other, and the meet is much more enjoyable when you get behind everyone else compet­ing and want them to succeed as well.” 
reaney earned her best-ever finish in the individual medley, which she said was the perfor­mance she was most proud of. 
“i am so happy with my 200 im,” reaney said. “i've never placed that high at ncaas, and it was an event that was consid­ered my best one until college, so to end that collegiate event on a high note kind of showed that it has come full-circle in my four years here.” 
in a photo finish, reaney was determined to have touched the wall third in the 100-yard breaststroke, 0.21 seconds away from first position. reaney said although she was disappointed, she enjoyed taking part in such a competitive race. 
“my 100 breaststroke was just fun,”  reaney said. “i really learned to absolutely love that event this year, and i know i could have and probably should have won that one, so that stings a little. 
“i was so fired up at night and just had a blast swimming that event. The morning swim didn't go quite as planned, so i am pretty happy with how i turned it around in finals.” 
although she failed to defend her national title in the 200-yard breaststroke, reaney still man­aged another all-american scroll in the event. she said she regrets failing to earn back-to-back na­tional titles in her favorite event, but she was still proud of her achievement. 
“The 200 breast is a bit of a sore subject, i guess,” reaney said. “i am disappointed that i wasn’t able to defend my national cham­pionship, but being able to say that i ended my collegiate career with an all-american swim isn’t too shabby either. 
“i will always love that event, and swimming it for the last time in an nd cap was very bittersweet.” 
casareto finished 18th in the 3-meter dive, while senior courtney whyte capped off her notre dame career with a 34th­place finish in the 200-yard but­terfly and 46th-place finishes in both the 100-yard butterfly and the 100-yard backstroke. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
FENCING | ncaa championships 

irish finish third at ncaas 
Observer Sports Staff 
notre dame won two indi­vidual championships and fin­ished third in the team standings at the ncaa championships in columbus, ohio, last week. 
after the men’s competi­tion wrapped up, the irish sat in eighth place with 68 points thanks to a strong performance from fifth-year senior foilist ariel desmet. desmet — who came in as the fourth-seeded entrant in the event — reached the semifinals before losing 15-8 to the eventual national cham­pion, stanford junior alexander massialas. desmet’s efforts led him to the bronze medal. 
Fresham virgile collineau, the other foilist for the irish in columbus, posted a 13-10 record on the weekend, finishing in 11th place. 
Freshman sabreist Jonah shainburg also had a strong per­formance for the irish; he also went 13-10, but finished 12th in the class to lead the irish in the sabre. Teammate and fellow freshman Jonathan Fitzgerald 

WANTED 
FOOSBALL: Looking for 
finished 20th after a 7-16 showing. 
Junior garrett mcgrath used a 6-2 final day performance to fin­ish 13th in the epee, while fresh­man nicholas hanahan rode an 8-15 tournament to finish 22nd. 
it was the women’s competi­tion where the irish made up ground, jumping from eighth to third on the final day behind individual championships from junior foilist lee Kiefer and fresh­man sabreuse Francesca russo. 
For Kiefer, it was her third consecutive national title in the event, but it did not come as eas­ily as the prior two. after a 15-7 semifinal win over st. John’s senior marta hausman, Keifer had to grind in the champion­ship, winning by a slim 15-13 margin against columbia junior margaret lu. The final was tied at 11, 12 and 13 touches before Kiefer snagged the last two touches of the bout to win the crown. 
with the win, Kiefer becomes just the sixth collegiate fencer to add national titles as a freshman, sophomore and junior and the third woman in the prestigious club. 
irish senior madison Zeiss also had a strong performance in the foil, posting a 16-7 record to finish in fifth place. Zeiss — who was runner-up to Kiefer last year — finished her career with a second-team all-american per­formance and will stay with the program as an assistant coach next year. 
russo snuck into the semi­finals as the fourth seed in the sabre and converted on her op­portunity, upsetting the first and second seeds in the class to earn the national title in her freshman year. she defeated the defend­ing national champion, harvard sophomore adrienne Jarocki, in the semifinal before cruising to victory over penn state fresh­man Karen chang in the final. russo utilized a quick succession of parry-riposte combinations to establish an early lead and never looked back, winning the contest and the crown 15-5. 
senior epee ashley severson finished ninth in her final com­petition with the irish while se­nior nicole ameli posted a 12-11 record to finish 13th. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
high level players for foos. “ You don’t understand! I coulda had 574-257-4441 leave msg class. I coulda been a contender. I “Captain’s Log, Stardate 9529.1: could’ve been somebody” instead 
paid adverTisemenT 




ND SOFTBALL | nd 6, gaTech 1; nd 13, gT 0; nd 5, gT 0 
Irish sweep Georgia Tech 
By BENJAMIN PADANILAM 
sports writer 
on the heels of back-to-back wins over no. 10 Florida state and cleveland state, notre dame swept its three-game series against georgia Tech at melissa cook stadium this past weekend to push their winning streak to five games. 
The irish (19-11, 4-5 acc) took both games of a doubleheader saturday, 6-1 and 13-0, over the yellow Jackets (11-19, 4-8 acc) before sealing the sweep with a 5-0 win sunday to cap the first home conference series of the year. 
notre dame opened the first game of saturday’s double­header with sophomore rachel nasland on the mound, who continued her recent trend of strong performances with a complete game, allowing just one run and striking out six to lead the team in the 6-1 victory. sophomore left fielder Karley wester praised nasland and the rest of the pitching staff for their recent performances. 
“our pitchers have been working really hard to keep the ball in the park and it’s made the difference,” wester said. “They’ve been doing really well.” 
senior second baseman and co-captain Jenna simon had three hits and three runs, while wester added two hits and an rbi to help lead the team offensively. 
in the second game of the doubleheader, the irish bats powered the team to a 13-0, five-inning victory. notre dame had 13 hits, including two-run home runs by senior third base­man Katey haus and junior first baseman micaela arizmendi. haus led the team with three rbis, while arizmendi, wester, and senior center fielder emilee Koerner each added two rbis in the win. wester believes the lineup is beginning to round into form over the last few games. 
“our lineup right now is look­ing like we were last year and we were the best hitting team in the nation, so it feels good,” wester said. 
The irish also received a strong performance on the mound in the 13-0 win saturday evening. Junior allie rhodes pitched three shutout innings to earn the win, pushing her record on the year to 7-4, before freshman Katie beriont closed out the game for the irish, pitch­ing two innings and allowing just one hit. 
on sunday, nasland took the mound again for the irish and pitched her second com­plete game of the weekend. This time, she pitched a one-hit shutout and struck out 10 yellow Jackets in the 5-0 victory. The performance pushed her record to 10-6 and lowered her era to 2.42. nasland credits her four-game winning streak to the offense and their early run support. 
“i think we’re putting a lot of confidence in each other, and we’re coming out strong in the beginning, which it carries over throughout the entire game,” nasland said. “i think that’s re­ally big, coming out strong from the start, and coming out strong when we get ahead with runs. it’s really important on the de­fensive side to make sure that we keep them off base to keep that momentum for the rest of the game.” 
despite leaving nine run­ners on base, the irish were able to score a run in five of the six innings they took the plate to give nasland the run support she needed as the irish took ad­vantage of a poor fielding game from their opponents; georgia Tech committed five errors in the series finale. 
The series sweep pushes notre dame’s winning streak to five games, including four straight acc wins. both nasland and wester believe the current momentum will play a significant role going forward for the team. 
“i think it’s great momentum for us,” nasland said. “we’re getting over this hump and now we’re gonna just continue going up from here. i think it it gives our team a lot of confidence go­ing into next weekend as well.” 
“it was kind of a bummer to play two of the top teams in the acc [to start conference play], but now [after] sweeping the series with georgia Tech, we’re just going to keep rolling and get a big momentum shift go­ing into the acc tournament,” wester said. 
notre dame will return to the field wednesday, when they take on ipFw at melissa cook stadium at 5 p.m. 
Contact Benjamin Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 


BASEBALL | louisville 6, nd 4; ul 2, nd 0; ul 3, nd 0 

Louisville handles ND 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
senior sports writer 
innings were plentiful, but runs were difficult to come by this weekend for notre dame, which lost all three games to no. 16 louisville in its first conference series at Frank eck stadium this season. 
notre dame (15-7, 3-6 acc) played 36 innings in three games, as the irish went 18 innings before falling 6-4 to the cardinals (18­6, 8-1) on saturday. notre dame failed to score in its other two se­ries matchups, a 2-0 loss Friday night and a 3-0 defeat sunday afternoon. 
“louisville has one of the better pitching staffs in the country, and i thought we acquitted ourselves fine,” irish head coach mik aoki said. 
irish batters had plenty of ex­posure to louisville’s pitching in saturday’s marathon game; the second-longest by innings and time in Frank eck stadium his­tory. notre dame held a 3-2 lead entering the seventh inning, courtesy of a two-run double by junior left fielder ricky sanchez in the fourth inning and a long home run by senior right fielder robert youngdahl in the sixth in­ning. louisville responded in the top of the seventh inning when sophomore left fielder nick solak drove in senior shortstop sutton whiting, who had reached on a triple to deep center field. 
The game’s next run wouldn’t come until the 14th inning, when solak reached on a triple and dashed home on a wild pitch. Trailing for the first time in the game, the irish tied it up in the bottom half of the 14th on a sin­gle from junior shortstop lane richards. 

The two teams traded score­less innings until the top of the 18th, when louisville senior right fielder corey ray led off the in­ning with a home run that just cleared the right field fence. The cardinals added one more run for insurance and shut down the irish in the bottom half of the in­ning, ending the nearly five-hour contest. 
aoki, who coached in both a 25-inning game at boston college and 19-inning game when the irish played south Florida on may 3, 2012, said he was impressed with the consistent intensity of saturday’s game. 
“i’m proud of the way our kids competed,” he said. “i thought we played at a really high level. certainly, louisville played at a really high level and pitched at a really high level, but i don’t think that was anything over and be­yond what we expected. 
“our guys have done well and for whatever we went, [18] in­nings, we pretty much matched them pitch-for-pitch.” 
notre dame used 13 posi­tion players and five pitchers in saturday’s game, and three of the irish pitchers threw for four or more innings. 
notre dame only needed to use one pitcher Friday night, as senior right-hander scott Kerrigan went the distance in a complete game. Kerrigan surrendered seven hits and two runs, both of which came on a single up the middle by louisville senior center fielder mike white in the second inning, and struck out six. 
“i thought he came back and competed great,” aoki said of Kerrigan. “… a little bit of bad luck [in the second inning], it certainly wasn’t a ball that was scalded up the middle, kid got a clean base hit, but [Kerrigan] did a great job.” 
notre dame batters reached base in seven innings, but the irish didn’t advance a runner past second against cardinals junior right-hander Kyle Funkhouser, a first-team acba all-american last season. 
The irish had similar struggles sunday against louisville sopho­more left-hander Josh rogers, who allowed six hits and no runs while striking out six in 7 and 1/3 innings. irish junior right-hander nick mccarty went seven innings and allowed three runs, the first two of which came on ground outs and a third that came on a single to center field by louisville freshman second baseman devin hairston. 
“we certainly left a couple of runs out there on the board [saturday], maybe a couple [sunday], but to a certain ex­tent, that’s the nature of base­ball, too,” aoki said. “you get into that excuse-making mindset of ‘we should have done this, or we could have done that.’ 
“i think that sort of takes away a little bit from what the other team was able to do too. louisville pitched well, they did a good job, and that’s kind of what it is.” 
notre dame will return to ac­tion Tuesday night when the irish travel to chicago to face illinois-chicago. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
HOCKEY 

Hinostroza signs pro deal 
By ALEX CARSON 
associate spors editor 
notre dame sophomore cen­ter vince hinostroza agreed to terms with the nhl’s chicago blackhawks on a three-year con­tract saturday, terminating his college eligibility. 
hinostroza — who tallied 78 points in 74 career games with the irish — was a sixth-round draft pick in the 2012 nhl entry draft. 
The bartlett, illinois, native led notre dame with 44 points this season and was named to the all-hockey east First Team alongside teammate senior defenseman robbie russo. 
irish head coach Jeff Jackson said he was upset to learn hinostroza was leaving after his sophomore season as it jeopar­dizes his ability to graduate. 
“it’s a year too early, in my opinion,” Jackson said. “you cer­tainly like to see every player be in a position to earn their diplo­ma from the university of notre dame, and this will probably make that an impossibility leav­ing this early. That’s my biggest disappointment.” 

despite the disappointment, Jackson indicated that the move was far from a blind-side hit to his program. 
“i had been given some insights from the blackhawks mid-season that it was a possibility of this happening,” he said. 

and while a sophomore sign­ing a professional contract does not happen as often, Jackson said college programs are becoming more and more used to players leaving early. 
“in college hockey, we’ve gotten used to the fact that nhl teams are probably gonna sign kids af­ter their junior year more consis­tently because they only have a certain window in which to offer them a contract,” Jackson said. 
he indicated that the blackhawks’ loss of the rights to Kevin hayes — a former boston college standout who signed with the new york rangers after the blackhawks’ rights to him expired over the summer — might have had an impact on the hinostroza signing. 
“with the blackhawks getting burned with Kevin hayes last summer, i’m sure that magnified the issue,” Jackson said. 
contextualizing the move within the confines of his pro­gram, Jackson said losing hinostroza would be a hit but that he thinks his program should still be well-off moving forward. 
“it’s a loss. anytime you lose one of your top scorers and best players, it’s always a loss,” Jackson said. “… we’ve got good players coming in next year along with returning guys so this is going to probably create a situation where we bring in one other player that we might not have brought in had vinnie been here. … i’m sure we’ll be fine.” 
“i’m happy for vinnie. it’s an opportunity for him to pursue his dreams. … but it’s unfortunate that it has to happen at this point in time.” 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson@nd.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, MARCH 23, 2015 | The observer 

ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE | nd 13, ohio sTaTe 5 
Fortunato leads Irish en route to commanding win 
By ALEX CARSON 
associate spors editor 
donning its new green jer­seys for the first time, no. 18 notre dame used a second-half spurt to power past no. 15 ohio state in a 13-5 win saturday at arlotta stadium. 
despite outshooting the buckeyes (8-2, 0-0 big Ten) by a 17-8 margin in the first half, the irish (5-4, 1-2 acc) held just a 3-2 lead at the halftime interval. 
but in the first five and a half minutes of the second half, notre dame made that dominance show, scoring four quick-fire goals to pull away for its first win of the season over a ranked opponent. 
Just 17 seconds into the sec­ond half, sophomore attack cortney Fortunato scored her second goal of the game to stretch the irish advantage to two goals. sophomore mid­fielder casey pearsall won the half’s opening draw and fed Fortunato, who did the rest to get the irish on the board early in the second half. 
“They’re in there and they’re like, ‘let’s come out fast, let’s play our fast brand and win the draw and score the first goal,’” irish head coach christine halfpenny said. “and they did it.” 
pearsall scored herself just 70 seconds later to take the notre dame lead to 5-2 before junior midfielder brie custis sprung senior midfielder caitlin gargan free on the break to tally notre dame’s third goal of the half just 3:26 into the second stanza. 
and two minutes later, it was pearsall scoring again 
— this time on an assist from Fortunato — to cap off the blitz, leaving the irish ahead 7-2 just 5:25 into the second half. 
“[putting the game away early in the half] just kind of happened,” Fortunato said. “but we came out a little bit frustrated that we were only up one and started finishing our shots.” 

if the game was not already out of reach after that spurt, Fortunato — notre dame’s leading scorer — ensured it was a few minutes later, scor­ing from a free-position shot with 19:51 to play and from a custis assist with 17:15 left to solidify the irish advantage at 9-2. 
despite controlling play from the onset, it took notre dame over six minutes of pos­session to get on the score­board in the first half when junior midfielder stephanie Toy finally broke the deadlock 
6:33 in on notre dame’s sixth shot of the game. 
The buckeyes answered at the other end a couple minutes later when senior attack Jackie cifarelli tied the game but it was a stalemate that only last­ed as long as seven seconds. 
senior defender barbara sullivan won the draw and fed sophomore attack grace muller, who found Fortunato all alone behind the buckeyes defense. notre dame’s lead­ing scorer would not squan­der the opportunity, beating buckeyes senior goaltender Tori descenza to give the irish a lead they would not relinquish. 
descenza kept notre dame at bay throughout the first half 
— the irish had 12 goal-bound shots in the first half but descenza kept nine of them out — but halfpenny said the low conversion rate in the first half did not phase her team. 
“when we’re getting great looks [but not scoring], we’re now getting a little bit older and more mature saying, ‘we’re good, we’re good, just keep going,’” halfpenny said. 
“… it doesn’t frustrate us if we’re not getting the looks.” 
as the game drew to a close, junior attack rachel sexton recorded a hat trick, scor­ing thrice in the final four minutes to stay on the heels of Fortunato at the top of the irish goalscoring charts; sexton’s hat trick took her to 15 goals on the season, just four back of Fortunato. 
but for Fortunato — who has scored 12 of her 19 goals in the last two games — the differ­ence for the irish comes when they play a more team-orient­ed game. 
“we’re doing a really good job of working together which we weren’t doing a good job of in the beginning of the year,” Fortunato said. “we’re getting used to playing together and building chemistry.” 
despite the prolific day for the irish attack, halfpenny praised her team’s defense as playing a big role in the win. 
“our swarming defense re­ally launched our attack,” halfpenny said. “… we’re thrilled with that defense right now.” 
Fortunato said controlling the play was a point of empha­sis for the irish on saturday. 
“our game plan right now is just to control the posses­sions,” Fortunato said. “The longer we have the ball, the other team doesn’t.” 
after scoring in the first half, irish attack heidi annaheim did not play in the second half; the sophomore was hit in the head at the end of the first half and halfpenny held her out the rest of the way as a precau­tionary measure. 
notre dame returns to ac­tion wednesday when it visits marquette; the first draw is scheduled for 4 p.m. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson@nd.edu 


EMILY McCONVILLE | The Observer 

Sophomore attack Cortney Fortunato passes during Notre Dame’s 11-10 loss to Stanford on March 29 at Arlotta Stadium. Fortunato tallied four times in the Irish win over Ohio State on Saturday. 
MEN’S LACROSSE | nd 9, ohio sTaTe 0 
Notre Dame shuts out Buckeyes 
By GREG HADLEY 
editor-in-chief 
under normal circumstanc­es, switching goalies with five minutes left in a blowout win would hardly matter for no. 3 notre dame and its fans. 
but when irish head coach Kevin corrigan subbed se­nior conor Kelly in for sopho­more shane doss with 4:25 left against no. 15 ohio state this saturday, murmurs broke out among the 2,109 in attendance at arlotta stadium. 
The irish (5-1, 1-0 acc) were up 9-0 at the time, chasing just the second shutout in program history. doss had made 11 saves on the day, successfully defending 22 shots and killing off four man-up opportunities for the buckeyes (7-3, 0-0 big Ten). Kelly had not seen the field in over 175 minutes, and the buckeyes once again had a man advantage. corrigan said he felt bad putting Kelly in for such a high-pressure situation but never considered not mak­ing the switch. 
“i apologized to [Kelly],” corrigan said. “i said, ‘i hate to put anyone in on a man-down [situation]. it’s just not fair.’ but we had wanted to get him in, and it was the only break we had to do it, so i apologized to him, and i put him in there.” 
Kelly stayed cool under pres­sure, collected two saves and secured the 9-o shutout for the irish, their first since 1984. with the win, notre dame joined a small group of teams that have prevented their op­ponents from scoring for a full 60 minutes. since 2007, there had been just five shutouts (not including saturday’s game) in all of division i college la­crosse. none of those wins came over a ranked opponent. 
For all the superlatives, how­ever, corrigan kept the win in perspective. 
“i’m not naïve,” corrigan said. “[The buckeyes] were a little tired. They had a mid­week game in baltimore after a tough game a week ago, and then they come back … and they got to play us here. so that’s a tough week for them. our guys just did a great job of not giving them anything. it kind of gives them the energy to stay in a game like that.” 
For the first half of play, it looked as though the game would be a defensive battle throughout. ohio state en­tered the matchup with the fourth-ranked defense in the country, and redshirt sopho­more goalie Tom carey suc­cessfully limited notre dame’s sixth-ranked offense to just three scores through 30 min­utes of play. however, the irish began to pull away within the first few minutes of the second half, with senior midfielder nick ossello scoring twice unassisted in a span of 90 seconds. 
“we were smart on offense. we didn’t have a lot of bad pos­sessions,” corrigan said. “That helps the defense. you’re not spending the whole game on the defensive end of the field but because your offense is not only scoring some goals but really doing a good job with possession. … anytime one side of the ball has a big day, there’s a piece of [credit] that goes to the other side of the field as well.” 
The irish entered the game with the nation’s worst man-down defense, stopping oppo­nents just 30.8 percent of the time. Five times in the second half, the buckeyes had a man advantage, but each time, they were stonewalled by the irish defense. 
“i kept thinking they’re go­ing to have get one at some point if they keep getting these man-ups,” doss said. “but our man-down defense did a phe­nomenal job, and they didn’t have anything to easy on their man-ups. The defense helped me make saves that i’m able to make.” 
doss’ save percentage bumped up from 55.7 percent to 61.1, good for fourth in the country. 
The team’s goals-allowed average dropped from 9 to 7.5 per game, shooting the irish from 22nd in the country to seventh. 
The irish backline of soph­omore defenseman garrett epple and juniors matt landis and edwin glazener enjoyed its best game of the season, limiting the buckeyes to fewer shots on goal (13) than turn­overs (22). seventeen different players collected ground balls, including seven from epple, who entered the matchup av­eraging 2.8 per contest. 
The irish defense started the game 27th in the ncaa in caused turnovers per game with seven. after the game, it bumped its average up to 8.17 caused turnovers, good for seventh in the nation. 
“we just stuck to the game-plan of playing fundamental team defense,” epple said. “Just a lot of communication is something we harped on all week with coach, and we just came out there and outplayed them. we were all over ground balls, too, which is a big part of the game.” 
The irish have the week off before they face no. 1 syracuse next saturday at home. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, MARCH 23, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

call against grant drew the ire of 

Monaco 
yet there was an additional emo-two years of eligibility left. he is the irish bench, for example — 
M Basketball 
tional tug for brey on saturday such a winner.” 
conTinued From page 16 conTinued From page 16 

night. his mother, betty brey, bulldogs junior forward “There were some guys who 
they moved on to the next play. 

passed away saturday morning roosevelt Jones led all scorers the right corner in overtime. he were frustrated about the mistakes 
made,” connaughton said of the from a heart attack at the age of with 23 points, and sophomore buried the triple. we had made,” connaughton said. 
lead up to his swat. “but i said 84. forward andrew chrabascz “not tonight,” he said, jogging “but i said to them, ‘look, that’s 
to them, ‘hey, that’s dead and “someone asked me, ‘did you chipped in another 20 for butler, back on defense. dead and gone.’ … The beautiful 
gone. There’s nothing we can ever think about not coaching which led by as much as six mid-no, not saturday. notre dame thing about it is, we have complete 
do about the mistakes we made. the game?’ absolutely not,” brey way through the second half. didn’t cave in the second half. control over the outcome of this 
The beautiful thing about it is, said. “my brother said, ‘dad’s The irish used an 8-0 run in connaughton coupled his 3-point-game.” 
we have complete control over great. we’ve him over at the a span of 2:31 to seize control er with a blocked shot at the end and control it, they did. grant 
the outcome of this game. house; everything’s good. you again, 49-47. The teams traded of regulation to ensure overtime. and connaughton combined for 
“To be able to get that stop on get your ass up there and beat the lead back and forth until a grant did his part with a crucial 23 points, below their season aver-
the defensive end to send us into butler. we’re all watching.’” 3-pointer from dunham drew drive to the basket to lift notre ages and just three points more 
overtime and end up sending us “The strength that he had to the bulldogs even at 55 with 2:58 dame ahead by five with 18 sec-than the 20 poured in by vasturia. 
to the sweet 16 is something that have had to go through it with-left in the second half, the final onds remaining. Their impact, though, spreads 
i’m very proud of these guys for.” out mentioning it, without act-score of regulation. The irish “we’ve been in games like this beyond the box score. 
with the irish leading, 65-62, ing like it, he hadn’t skipped a took the first lead in overtime all season,” grant said. “so we re-“Their leadership has definitely 
grant knifed his way through beat,” connaughton said. “i just on a pair of vasturia free throws ally stay even-keeled, and it really carried us throughout the whole 
the bulldog defense and laid the hope he knows this team is here and never trailed again. shows.” season,” sophomore forward 
ball in off the glass to give notre for him. he’s been here for Jerian after the game, the irish were Their leadership does too. austin Torres said. “we’ve been 
dame the five-point lead with 18 and myself countless times in notably calm and composed af­connaughton cited the derek riding them the whole time. we’re 
seconds remaining in overtime. our past, and i hope he knows ter clinching a spot in the sweet Jeter-inspired mantra of his father, really excited for them because 
“i feel like, on this team, i’m that’s something we’ll cherish.” 16 despite the heart-pounding len, after the game. they didn’t have to come back this 
the guy that can make those The irish pulled out to an early victory. “winners win.” year. They decided to, and we’re 
plays,” grant said of wanting the 22-12 lead with 7:47 remaining “i am really excited,” sopho­asked about the play of his se-really excited for next week.” 
ball in his hands late. “we have in the first half, but the bulldogs more guard demetrius Jackson nior captain, brey didn’t hesitate. 
a bunch of playmakers on this went on a 15-5 run to draw said after a reporter said he “Killer. Killer,” he said. “what a Contact Mike Monaco at 
team, but down the stretch, i feel the game even at 27. behind didn’t look the part. “it’s just winner. what a winner.” jmonaco@nd.edu 
like i really want the ball, and a 3-pointer from sophomore hard for me to process it all. i’ve “we weren’t ready to go home The views expressed in this 
the guys tell me to go get it, and guard steve vasturia, notre never done this before, so just to tonight,” connaughton added. column are those of the author 
when that happens, it gives you a dame returned to the locker be here, to play with this team, even when calls and bounces and not necessarily those of The 
lot of confidence to make a play.” room up two, 31-29. vasturia to win with this team and just went against the irish — a blocking Observer. 
The irish have been led by finished with a team-high 20 be able to continue to play is very huge plays from their seniors points. special for us. all season, so it came as no sur-“it’s a great feeling. we’re “ … we just know how good prise to the team that they made playing really well right now,” this team is and how far we can clutch plays with the season on vasturia said. “we made big go.” the line, brey said. plays down the stretch, and The irish will travel to 
“Jerian and pat have set a great we’ve been that all year, getting cleveland next week for a contest tone with keeping us hungry,” big defensive stops, hitting shots. against seventh-seeded wichita brey said. so it’s a great feeling.” state. The game will tip at 7:15 
The game was particularly “For [vasturia] to guard just p.m. Thursday, and the winner poignant for irish head coach about everybody we ask and will earn a spot in the elite eight. mike brey, who has faced criti-then get 20, he is so underrated cism for his teams’ lack of suc-and so unsung in our program,” Contact Zach Klonsinski at cess in the ncaa tournament. brey said. “i’m so thrilled he has zklonsin@nd.edu 
W Basketball 
game, it wasn’t many of them ends of the floor. i thought she dropping. The ones that did had a great performance.” 
conTinued From page 16 

counted for us. The ones that mabrey’s 3-pointers ener­get going, and we eventually got 
Mabrey 
it settled down, but that was after didn’t just kept motivating us gized the irish turnaround, and 

conTinued From page 16 
she had already hit three or four.” 

double-double with 14 points to keep wanting to shoot; if we depaul never regained the lead. mabrey attributed her success 
and 11 rebounds. drove, try to kick it out and just “we missed some serious as-dame seemed flustered at the de-to the dominance of the post play­
depaul pressured notre keep shooting.” signments there at the begin­fensive pressure the ninth-seeded ers, who had a considerable size 
dame early, forcing four irish reimer pulled notre dame to ning of the second half, and that blue demons applied, and the advantage over depaul’s players. 
turnovers in the first four min-within three, 13-10, with a turn-cost us dearly,” depaul head irish allowed depaul to score 14 notre dame out-rebounded the 
utes and 10 total in the first half. around jumper at 13:33 in the coach doug bruno said. “we points in the paint in the first half. blue demons by 19 and finished 
The blue demons converted first half, but the blue demons let [mabrey] get going, and we it wasn’t until halfway through with 38 points in the paint com-
those turnovers into 13 of their expanded their lead to 18-10. eventually got it settled down, the first when the irish began to pared to depaul’s 24. 
first-half points. with the irish trailing 24-19 but that was after she had al­begin their comeback. “i think [depaul] left me open 
“i think in the beginning, and 7:50 remaining in the first ready hit three or four.” “in the beginning we were a lit-a little bit,” mabrey said. “we had 
we were a little frustrated with half, reimer drained another loyd sank two free throws tle frustrated with their pressure, such great post players and such 
their pressure, and i thought jumper during a 12-0 run for to push the irish edge to 29-24, and i thought we settled down a great guards that they’re so fo­
we settled down a little bit and notre dame. and notre dame followed with little bit [later on] and really started cused on them. i’m just spotting up 
really started to get some back mabrey tied the game 24-24 defensive pressure at the other to get some back doors and started wherever they’re going and find-
doors and started to get our of-with a 3-pointer, then gave the end to force a hrynko turnover. to get our offense rolling more,” ing my place in open space. my 
fense flowing more,” mabrey irish a 27-24 lead with another The irish eventually headed to mabrey said. teammates found me really well, 
said. 3-pointer 49 seconds later, this the locker room with a 37-31 The momentum from mabrey’s so i owe it all to them, honestly.” 
depaul led from the 17:35 one from a couple steps behind edge after loyd made two more deep buckets brought the fans in notre dame recorded 19 assists 
mark of the first half until the the arc. it was notre dame’s free throws with two seconds purcell to life and signaled an end overall, and while mabrey was the 
half’s sixth minute. first lead since the game’s first left. to notre dame’s rough start. team’s highest scorer, five irish 
blue demons junior guard/ two minutes. loyd recorded 10 points, “michaela is such a great shoot-players reached the double-digits 
forward megan podkowa “michaela’s such a great about half her season average er,” sophomore forward Taya in points. The distribution was a 
drove depaul’s attack. she tied shooter,” reimer said. “… when points per game. reimer said. “when she’s hitting stark contrast from when depaul 
mabrey for the game-high in she’s hitting shots, we all just “i think on a night when both shots, we all just get energy off of and notre dame faced off in 
points at 19 and also matched get energy off of that, and we stars of each team were unchar­that and we play off of that. it gets december. in that game, the irish 
Turner for the game-high in re-play off of that, and it gets us acteristically off, it was great us into it, and we’re all trying to squeaked out a one-point win in 
bounds with 11. into it. we’re all trying to look to see how the rest of the team look for her all the time. it brings overtime and junior guard Jewell 
depaul shot 41.4 percent for her all the time because picked us up,” mcgraw said. the defense out when they have to loyd scored 41 points. 
from the floor in the first half, that just brings the defense out notre dame plays its sweet 16 guard her, so it’s always exciting “we really share the ball well… 
but made only 31.7 percent of when they have to guard her.” matchup at either 7 or 9:30 p.m. when she’s having an on night.” they’re just so unselfish,” mcgraw 
its field goals in the second. mabrey led the irish in the Friday at chesapeake energy depaul head coach doug bruno said. “we got the inside going, 
blue demons guard brittany first half with 11 points. arena in oklahoma city. The agreed that letting mabrey get hot and that gave us the outside, and i 
hrynko said the off shooting “i thought michaela mabrey irish will play either oklahoma played a major role in his team’s think they were happy to work the 
was the biggest difference from had an unbelievable stretch or no. 14 stanford, who play defeat. ball whatever way was working at 
the previous matchup between where she hit some [3-point-monday night at 6:30 p.m. for a “we missed some serious as-the time.” 
the two teams. ers], got a couple defensive re-spot in the sweet 16. signments there at the beginning 
“in the first game, i would say bounds, which surprised all of of the second half, and that cost Contact Renee Griffin at  
the majority of our shots were us,” mcgraw said smiling, “and Contact Samantha Zuba at us dearly,” bruno said. “we let her rgriffi6@nd.edu 
falling,” hyrnko said. “This did a really good job at both szuba@nd.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, MARCH 23, 2015 | The observer 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

ACROSS 27 Iroquoian people 57 Buyable, in a1 Allies who are 30 Means to wayalso rivals enlightenment 58 “Excuse me?” 10 Parking permit, 31 Gets down 60 She outwitted sometimes quickly Sherlock 15 It may be shown 33 ___ Diggory, 61 Major museumto a superior rival of Harry expense16 Send out of 
Potter 
62 Ancient
state? 35 Spinner’s spot 

manuscript17 Ephemeral 38 When repeated, 
63 No longer on
decorative a Las Vegas 
speaking terms
structure 

casino 18 Major key that 39 Five-termuses all five DOWN
Mexican

black keys on a 1 Four-cornered
president

piano chips
40 Gymnastics

19 Fails utterly staple 2 Make an 20 “Out of Sync” abjuration
41 Home of Sault
autobiographer, 
3 Leveled

Ste. Marie: Abbr. 
2007 
4 Gets to first
42 Dash

22 “I’ll be right withyou” 44 Modern storage base 
5 Clear

24 First female 47 Talking car on skater to land a “Knight Rider” 6 Cuatro 
semanas,
triple/triple jump 49 Patch Media 
roughly
combination in owner 

competition 50 Show some 7 Not domestic: 25 Like some major respect? Abbr. verbs: Abbr. 53 Some 
8 Desserts not for the calorie­26 Like certain magicians’ gear 

conscious

versions of the 56 Something seen 
9 Taken care of 

Bible: Abbr. after hours? 10 “___ Dinah” ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE (1958 hit) 

11 Like some private eyes 12 Burrito flavoring 13 British sci-fi author Reynolds 14 “It’s showtime” 21 Big gigs 23 Cheek 
28 What a stuck-out tongue may mean 
29 Works on shifts, say 31 French horn 
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  14  
15  16  
17  18  
19  20  21  
22  23  24  25  
26  27  28  29  30  
31  32  33  34  
35  36  37  38  
39  40  
41  42  43  44  45  46  
47  48  49  50  51  52  
53  54  55  56  
57  58  59  
60  61  
62  63  

Puzzle by Joon Pahk 
32 Plot devices? 40 Family of Paris 51 Legend, for one 
34 Make the 43 One bringing 52 Iconic Broadwayhighlights? a speaker role for Cobb 35 2011 Wimbledon onstage, maybe 54 “A Clockwork champion Orange”
44 Case outcome 36 California’s ___ protagonist
45 “And step on it!”
Serra Peak 
55 Interstate hwy. 37 Fastened tightly, 46 Got better ___ with “down” 48 Sax great, to 59 Start of many38 Refusal of Paris fans church names 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 



DOME NUTS | alexandria wellman 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: stand up and be counted. your presence will make a difference if you show determination and courage. it’s what you do personally that will bring the highest returns. donations or going over budget will be your downfall and must be kept on target to avoid cutting into the gains you make if you are stringent, dedicated and persistent. your numbers are 5, 12, 23, 31, 36, 42, 45. 
Birthday Baby: you are fast-paced, curious and adventuresome. you are outgoing and generous. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): sort out your priorities. look at the pros and cons of your current work situation. make a list of suggestions and goals, and prepare to make some changes that will help you improve your position. don’t get angry, get moving. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Join forces with someone you feel can give you the edge you need to get things done. experience will count for a lot when dealing with legal, financial or medical issues. an alliance you form will give you greater insight. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): be a participant, but don’t promise anything you cannot deliver. discipline, hard work and sticking to what you do best will impress someone with clout. entertain at home and it will have an impact on someone you want to impress. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): get down to business and make an effort to put some finesse and swagger back into your personality. it’s okay to be a little different, especially if you are trying to attract someone as creative as you. love is highlighted. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): protect your health and important relationships. problems will sprout if you let your emotions take over. you can initiate change, but make sure you have the approval required before you begin. a change of scenery will do you good. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take time for pampering. Time spent updating your image or learning new skills will not be a waste. The improvements will make a difference to the way people treat you. don’t give in to unrealistic demands. 



LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): unexpected changes can occur when dealing with relationships. Keep an open mind, but don’t be too quick to give in to someone in order to keep the peace. listen and respond with solutions that you feel comfortable with. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): you’ll have to balance what you want to do with what you promised to do. if you begin early and are inventive in the way you go about your business, you will be able to satisfy everyone, including yourself. 



SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): concentrate on home, family and making positive changes that will improve your lifestyle or ease your overhead. Financial deals look good, but do your research before you agree to a plan that probably has flaws or is being presented too optimistically. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): sit tight and watch what transpires around you. you don’t have to make promises or take on responsibilities in order to impress. you’ll do far better if you are the one who questions anything that may lead to loss or failure. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): express your desires and look for ways to turn something you want to do into a reality. a partnership looks promising, but putting the proper paperwork in place should be done before you proceed. spell out responsibilities and expectations clearly. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): don’t believe everything you hear, and make sure you are precise when you discuss your plans. solid preparation and presentation will make the difference between success and failure. stay on track. romance is highlighted. 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
NIYWD  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
ARVOF  

DISARU GEIGLG  
 


A: 




(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: HAVOC EXCEL ADRIFT POCKETSaturday’s 
Answer: Winning the pie-eating contest was this for him — A PIECE OF CAKE 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer  
p.o. box 779  
notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year  
enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 

city      state Zip 

The observer | MONDAY, MARCH 23, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
HOW SWEET IT IS 

Irish reach program’s first Sweet 16 since 2003 
in scoring this season, received the in-
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 

sports editor bounds pass and threw up a shot from 
the corner, but connaughton seemingly 

piTTsburgh — Forty minutes was rose out of nowhere to swat the ball into not enough saturday night and sunday the stands to end regulation. morning, but when the dust settled, the “we had made a few mistakes up to irish had clinched a slot in the sweet that point, and there were some guys who 16 for the first time since 2003, defeat-were frustrated by the mistakes we ing butler in overtime, 67-64, at consol energy center in pittsburgh. see m basKeTball PAGE 14 
“This is great that we’ve got­ten back to this territory, and we’d like to go further,” irish head coach mike brey said. “i think it’s really powerful for our program. when you put togeth­er an acc championship and with a sweet 16 run, extremely powerful.” 
senior guard/forward pat connaughton came up with a huge block at the end of regu­lation, and fellow senior guard Jerian grant sealed the game on a drive as the shot clock ex­pired to help the third-seeded irish (31-5, 14-4 acc) escape a challenge from the sixth-seeded bulldogs (23-11, 12-6 big east). 
Junior forward Zach auguste was called for a double dribble with two seconds remaining and the score tied at 55, giving butler the ball on its offensive side of the court with a chance to win the game. 
bulldogs junior guard Kellen durham, who lead the team 
Connaughton, Grant lead ND to second weekend 

Mike Monaco 
senior sports writer 
he told steve vasturia to stay ready. 
he told Zach auguste to let it go. 
he told himself not tonight. 
down six points midway through the second half of saturday’s round of 32 matchup with no. 6 seed butler and with his shot not falling, irish senior pat connaughton picked up no. 3 seed notre dame with his words. 
Jerian grant, notre dame’s other senior leader, told sopho­more guard demetrius Jackson to stay level-headed, to calm down. 

Together, connaughton and grant took notre dame where it hasn’t been since 2003. The irish (31-5, have been bounced early from ncaa 14-4 acc) advanced to the sweet 16 in tournament play. notre dame had lost to the midwest region with a 67-64 win over lower-seeded opponents in 2013, 2012, 2011 the bulldogs on saturday night at consol and 2010. energy center in pittsburgh. vasturia missed a wide-open jumper 
“They do such a great job of leading with the shot clock winding down and us,” Jackson said. “They keep us all calm. notre dame still trailing in the second maybe if they weren’t out there we would half. connaughton told him the ball would almost have a meltdown.” swing around to him again. 
notre dame avoided just that saturday “be ready to shoot,” he told the and, in the process, sidestepped the same sophomore. fate of so many recent irish squads that auguste hauled in a defensive rebound 


By SAMANTHA ZUBA senior sports writer  acc) and blue demons (27-8, 15-3 big east) met, notre dame won an overtime  
thriller, 94-93, on dec. 10 at mcgrath­ 
no. 2 notre dame stayed out of over­ phillips arena in chicago. irish junior  
time this go around against depaul.  forward Jewell loyd scored 41 points in  
The no. 1-seeded irish defeated the no.  that victory.  
9-seeded blue demons, 79-67, on sunday  sunday’s game didn’t stay so close as  
night at purcell pavilion. The win sends  after a tight first half, notre dame broke  
notre dame to the sweet 16.  the game open.  
The last time the irish (33-2, 15-1  The irish built a 57-44 lead in the sec­ 
ond half when junior guard  
michaela mabrey snagged a  
defensive rebound and found  
a wide-open Taya reimer with  
a long half-court pass that the  
sophomore forward converted  
into a layup.  
reimer tallied a double-dou­ 
ble, 14 points and 10 rebounds.  
“Taya reimer, what a game,”  
irish head coach muffet mcgraw  
said. “i thought an all-american  
performance from Taya tonight.”  
notre dame widened its ad­ 
vantage to 68-49 with an 11-5  
run; reimer scored a jumpshot  
from the elbow to make the  
score 63-49, sophomore guard  
lindsay allen followed with a  
steal that led to a foul and fresh­ 
man forward briana Turner hit  
two free throws.  
Two straight layups by Turner  
pushed the irish to a 77-55 ad­ 
vantage with 4:02 left to play.  
Turner recorded a  
see w basKeTball PAGE 14  
Mabrey’s sharp  
shooting spurs  
Irish win  
By RENEE GRIFFIN  
sports writer  
with 5:43 remaining in the  
first half, junior guard michaela  
mabrey sank a three-point shot  
to pull the irish into a 24-24 tie  
with depaul. notre dame had  
been trailing all game, but a  
minute later, mabrey hit another  
three to give the irish a lead they  
never surrendered.  
mabrey finished with a team- 
high 19 points, going 6-of-10 over­ 
all but most importantly 5-of-7  
outside the three-point arc. she  
also had three rebounds and two  
steals in the 79-67 victory.  
“i thought michaela mabrey  
had an unbelievable stretch  
where she hit some threes and  
KEVIN SABITUS and WEI LIN | The  Observer got a couple defensive rebounds,  
which surprised all of us,” irish  
and charged up court, only to turn it  head coach muffet mcgraw said. “she  
over in the final seconds of regulation  did a really good job on both ends of the  
with a double dribble. ever emotional,  floor and had a great performance.”  
auguste clutched his hands on his head.  mabrey’s point total was just one  
connaughton pulled his teammates aside  point less than her career high. The  
during and after the successive timeout.  game also was the 30th time in her col­ 
“Zach, there is nothing we can do to  lege career that she managed to score in  
bring that back,” he told the junior.  the double-digits.  
and after missing his first five 3-point  at one point early on, the irish were  
tries, the ball rotated to connaughton in  behind by eight. Top-seeded notre  
see monaco PAGE 14  see mabrey PAGE 14  

Notre Dame overcomes early deficit to pull away 



