The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 77 | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Debate examines meaning of marriage 
Scholars explore dynamic between traditional definition, expanded interpretation of marriage 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
associate news editor 
on Tuesday, the debate “what is marriage?” ex­amined the definition and meaning of marriage and looked at both sides of the same-sex marriage debate. 
The Tocqueville program for inquiry into religion and american public life and the dean’s Fellows of the college of arts and letters co-spon­sored the event, which fea­tured John corvino and sherif girgis, two recognized scholars on either side of the debate. political science professor patrick deneen moderated. 
The event comes on the heels of a recent supreme court decision to review a case challenging state bans on same-sex marriage. 
deneen introduced girgis, a current phd candidate in philosophy at princeton university and law student at yale law school, as “on the side of defense of the more traditional definition of marriage between a man and a woman,” and corvino, chair of the philosophy de­partment at wayne state university, as “seeking an argument on the behalf of the expansion of that defi­nition to include same-sex couples.” 
in his opening statements, girgis said the audience at 
see marriage PAGE 3 

EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 
John Corvino (left) and Sherif Girgis discuss the implications of widening the interpretation of marriage in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library on Tuesday. 


activist promotes stalking awareness 


ESPN challenges NDSP’s status as private agency 

By KIERA JOHNSEN 
news writer 
saint mary’s belles against violence office (bavo) hosted debbie riddle, who spoke Tuesday evening to promote awareness of stalk­ing. riddle’s sister peggy klinke was stalked by an ex-boyfriend, patrick kennedy, who murdered klinke in 2003. her murder led to a congressional briefing and declaration of national stalking awareness month celebrated every January. 
riddle said the highest rates of stalking occurs be­tween the ages of 18-24. 
“when we surveyed col­lege-age women during a nine-month period, which is one year on a college 
see sTalking PAGE 5 


By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
editor-in-chief 

espn inc.’s lawsuit against the university hinges on notre dame security police’s (ndsp) status as either a public or a private agency, according to documents filed in st. Joseph superior court on Jan. 15. 
The sports media giant’s law­suit claims ndsp’s refusal to release campus police records violates indiana’s access to public records act (apra), which allows public access to records of public agencies. espn reporter paula lavigne requested police incident re­ports and logs related to stu­dent athletes in september and november 2014 but was turned down both times. 
as evidence to support its claim, espn included two recent written opinions by indiana public access counselor luke britt, who de­parted from the statements of several of his predecessors to write that his office “considers [ndsp] a public law enforce­ment agency for future public access requests.” 
The question of whether pri­vate university police forces should be considered public 
see espn PAGE 4 


Panel discusses use of torture 
By MATTHEW McKENNA 
news writer 

notre dame’s center for civil and human rights hosted a discussion panel Tuesday titled, “Tortured nation: morality, security, and Torture,” examining the moral and legal impli­cations of a recent report on detention and interroga­tion of terror suspects from the united states 
see TorTure PAGE 4 

SARAH OLSON | The Observer 

Thomas Durkin, Paolo Carozza and Jean Porter (from left to right) debate the benefits of torture as an intelligence method. 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesiey stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

What is something ridiculous you own but refuse to throw out? 


Brendan Thielsen 
junior 
knott hall 

“my set of pokemon cards from when i was younger.” 
Paul Handal 
sophomore 
duncan hall 
“broken video games.” 
Katie Martin 
junior 
cavanaugh hall 
“old running shoes.” 

Amber Thomas 
junior 
cavanaugh hall 
“my favorite stuffed bunny from when i was three.” 
Connor Fitzgerald 
senior 
alumni hall 
“gym shorts from grammar school.” 
Meghan Kosman 
senior 
walsh hall 
“my old ice skating leotard from when i was six.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

rebecca o’neil greg hadley Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: kayla mullen renee griffin andrea vale brian plamondon 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
erin rice maddie daly 
Photo Viewpoint 

Basketball Game Winter Career and Graduate Student Vigil Mass Basketball Game 
wei lin austin Taliaferro 
Joyce Center Internship Fair Mass Basilica of the Sacred Joyce Center 
7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Joyce Center Basilica of the Sacred Heart 1 p.m. - 3 p.m. Men’s basketball takes 4 p.m. - 8 p.m. Heart 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. Women’s basketball 
Corrections 

on Duke. Learn about new 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Worship service. takes on Wake Forest. 
The observer regards itself as opportunities. Worship service. a professional publication and 
Grotto Trip Fischoff’s Winter Mass in Spanish 
strives for the highest standards 
Bond Hall Student Film Festival Tennis Match Gala Dillon Hall Chapel 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
10 p.m. - 11 p.m. DeBartolo Performing Eck Tennis Pavillion Morris Inn 1:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. 
however, recognize that we will make 
Prayer intentions. Arts Center 5:30 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. 6:30 p.m. - 9 p.m. Worship service. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Men’s tennis plays Italian food and music, 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Films by Northwestern. a silent auction, and 
we can correct our error. 

undergraduates. live painting. 

ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2015 | The observer 

Marriage 
conTinued From page 1 
notre dame was different than many he had faced be­fore, particularly when de­bating corvino. 
“This is also the first time i’m at a place where things might be a little more evenly divided in the audience, if not a little bit slanted to­wards me, so i’m going to do what many of you might re­gard as tying both hands be­hind my back,” girgis said. “i am not going to argue for revisionist view of mar­riage, that marriage should include same-sex relation­ships, actually has deep contradiction at its core,” girgis said. “... it actually ultimately undermines the very thing it’s trying to do, which is to describe the principle difference be­tween marriage and other kinds of companionship.” 


corvino said marriage as an institution has tradition­al origins, but it has at times had a more flexible defini­tion and practice. perceived distinctions between “mar­riage and other kinds of companionship” are subjec­compelling?” corvino said. “... i think it boils down to some very simple premises, including the idea that rela­tionships are good for peo­ple, that marriage is good for relationships, and that some of our fellow citizens happen to be gay.” 
echoing that theme, corvino said in his clos­ing statements that the benefits of marriage tran­
scend  the  boundary  be­ 
tween  homosexuality  and  
heterosexuality.  

“relationships are good for people; they help peo­ple grow,” corvino said. 

NDtv holds open auditions for ‘The Irish Bachelor’ 
By MADISON JAROS 
news writer 
This spring, a group of women will compete for one notre dame man’s heart on ndtv’s The irish bachelor. 
ndtv station manager caitlin crommett said the idea for the irish bachelor me from the show and ask me about it while i was in class, at work or out with my friends. although most peo­ple’s comments to me about the show were positive, i did not enjoy that kind of expo­sure and the negative com­ments on social media and The observer were hurtful 

was prompted by the suc-to deal with. i don’t think i 
cess of last year’s irish would choose to do it again.” 
bachelorette — a dating This year, the show plans 
show modeled after abc’s to make a few changes, in-
The bachelorette. cluding a longer produc­
“[we thought] it might be tion time and more focus 
fun to bring in people that on documenting the dating 

“marriage as a public com­mitment and as a personal union is good for relation­ships. and that this is true for those of us who do not, or cannot, engage in the sort of sex that includes coitus.” 
girgis and corvino also appeared on vantage point, the college of arts and letters npr radio pro­gram on Tuesday night, in a segment entitled “why get married?” with notre dame professor of sociology richard williams. 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 

tive, corvino said. 
“marriage is a social in­

stitution recognizing com­
mitted adult unions, which 
are  presumptively sexual 
and exclusive … and which 
typically involve sharing 
morality. i’m not going to argue from tradition — the way that things always have been, and it’s the way they have to be. and i’m not go­ing to argue from religion although i’m a catholic, and i think that religious arguments are perfectly reasonable.” 
girgis said grounds for his argument against the ex­pansion of the definition of marriage may be found in a fundamental flaw within the argument for such an expansion. 
“i’m going to argue that what i’m going to call the domestic life, mutual care and concern, and the beget­ting caring for children,” corvino said. “i say ‘pre­sumptively’ and ‘typically’ in there because we can look throughout history and find exceptions that we would still recognize as marriage. we may not think they’re ideal, we may not think they make for good marriage policy, but they are still marriage.” 

corvino said the expan­sion of the definition of mar­riage encourages inclusivity within american society. 
“why do people find the idea of same-sex marriage 
paid adverTisemenT 


aren’t in ndtv to be in ndtv, and we had extreme popu­larity – we weren’t expecting this many people to turn out for everything,” crommett said. 
crommett said the station received numerous requests for an irish bachelor. 
“we of course said we couldn’t have two irish bachelorettes in a row, so we thought we’d move on to The bachelor,” crommett said. 

claire rembecki, who will work production for The bachelor, said the show’s predecessor, The irish bachelorette, prompted dis­cussion on the dating expe­rience at notre dame. This year, the show plans to delve deeper into issues posed last season, she said. 
“[dating at notre dame is] such a weird phenomenon,” rembecki said. “we kind of want to put that on camera, not because we want to make people fall in love – obvious­ly, if that happens it’s great, we don’t have that high of expectations. ... we kind of want to put [the contestants] in front of a camera and see what it’s like – when you first talk to the guy you find at­tractive, when you first go on a date, when you’re weighing whether to date them or not 
— it’s fun to watch.” 
rembecki said last year’s show also drew some nega­tive responses on campus. 
This backlash, along with the popularity of the show, made the role of The irish bachelorette difficult, last year’s bachelorette kirsten Fernandez said. 
“The bachelorette ended up being much bigger than i originally thought it was go­ing to be,” Fernandez said. “i did not expect that so many people would recognize experience at notre dame, rembecki said. dates the contestants go on will also be primarily off campus, she said. 
“We kind of want to put [the contestants] in front of a camera and see what it’s like — when you first talk to the guy you find attractive, when you first go on a date, when you’re weighing whether to date them or not — it’s fun to watch.” 
Claire Rembecki 
junior 
“we’re looking at getting more out into the south bend community, so doing dates in south bend, maybe even in neighboring cities,” rembecki said. “To get us away from the show we had last year, but also more in touch with the community because there’s so much of an issue with being in the notre dame bubble, so we wanted to use the show, which is kind of a social ex­periment in itself, to break out of that.” 
crommett said The irish bachelor is hosting open au­ditions this year. auditions for the show’s hosts, the bachelor and the contestants will be open to students in the sorin room of laFortune on Thursday from 5 to 7 p.m. and Friday from 3 to 5 p.m. 
Contact Madison Jaros at mjaros@nd.edu 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

greece elects new prime minister 
Associated Press 
aThens, greece — greece’s new left-wing prime minis­ter, alexis Tsipras, picked an outspoken bailout critic as his new finance minister Tuesday, signaling his resolve to take a tough line with eurozone lend­ers in an effort to write off a massive chunk of rescue debt. 
economist yanis varoufakis, 53 — who has described the bailout as “fiscal waterboard­ing” — took up the position amid a rating agency warning of a worsening financial situ­ation that sent the country’s stock market sharply lower. 
The governing syriza par­ty on Tuesday announced a cabinet that includes officials from its coalition ally, the anti-bailout and right-wing independent greeks. 
moody’s ratings agency de­scribed syriza’s election win sunday as “credit negative,” arguing it would prolong risks to financing, economic growth and bank liquidity. The agency said it expected the govern­ment’s “policy uncertainty” to slash 2015 growth to 1 percent from the 2.9 percent predicted in the state budget. 
The main stock index in athens fell on the news, slid­ing 5.4 percent before recover­ing some losses to close down 
3.7 percent amid losses across europe. 
Tsipras won a landmark general election victory after campaigning on a pledge to renegotiate the bailout deal and seek forgiveness of more than half the debt — a message that resonated with voters who have suffered through harsh austerity measures that have included pension and salary cuts. 
“we are determined to im­plement our program with courage and determination and not take one step back,” said senior syriza official dimitris stratoulis, who was appointed deputy minister for state welfare. 
Theodoris dritsas, incoming deputy minister for marine af­fairs, said the new government would halt plans to privatize more of the country’s main port of piraeus — despite of­ficial interest from six bidders for a two-thirds stake. 
“public ownership of the port will remain. The privatization ... stops here,” dritsas said. 
The new cabinet was sworn in Tuesday. 
ESPN 
conTinued From page 1 
law enforcement agencies or not has come across the state’s public access counselors’ desks many times. in its defini­tion of “public agency,” apra includes “any law enforcement agency, which means an agency or a department of any level of government that engages in the investigation, apprehension, arrest or prosecution of alleged criminal offenders.” it lists a variety of examples, includ­ing state police departments, excise police and conservation officers, but does not mention university police forces. 
notre dame’s lawyers high­lighted this detail in a writ­ten response sent to britt in october which was filed with the lawsuit, stating “the general assembly was quite careful to specify the law en­forcement agencies that would be subject to apra — those of government and those of politi­cal subdivisions. private cam­pus police departments were not included.” 
a 2011 written opinion by for­mer public access counselor andrew kossack agreed with the university, explaining that the key difference between public and private agencies lies in the institution from which the police authority is derived. 
indiana law grants educa­tional institutions the power to appoint police officers, pre­scribe the duties of its officers, direct their conduct, prescribe uniforms and operate emergen­cy vehicles, and kossack wrote it is crucial that these powers were granted “not to ndsp, but to ‘the governing board of an educational institution.’” 
“consequently, ndsp does not exercise state powers on its own; ndsp exercises only those powers granted it by the university’s governing body,” kossack wrote in his decision. “consequently, if the ndsp is a public agency by virtue of the fact that it exercises the execu­tive or other powers of the state, the entire university would be subject to the apra along with ndsp. 

“i do not believe the general assembly granted police pow­ers to private universities with the intent that doing so would subject the entire institution to the apra.” 
kossack’s 2011 opinion lined up with the decisions of two of his predecessors who also de­termined that private univer­sity police departments are not public agencies. a 2009 opinion involved valparaiso university, and a 2003 opinion involved Taylor university. 
britt’s oct. 31 opinion differs from his predecessors’ state­ments on this matter. while previous counselors based their opinions on the university’s total authority over the police force, britt’s statement notes that “the authority for private universities to create police de­partments is not inherent. it is granted by the state of indiana through the general assembly. … a private entity is deemed a state actor when the state del­egates a traditionally public function to the entity itself.” 
britt cites ndsp’s description on its own website as evidence that the department “holds itself out to be an actor of the state of indiana,” and reiterates that “police powers come from the state — they do not spring forth organically.” 
“This may be inconsistent with previous public access counselors’ opinions, but i do not believe that it is inconsistent with the spirit of the [apra],” britt wrote. “The ultimate test is from where their power is de­rived. The police force is estab­lished by the governing body of a private institution, but their powers are not inherent nor are they derived from notre dame university.” 
under this reasoning, britt notified ndsp in october that his office considered it a public agency. lavigne filed another document request in november and was denied again; after her second complaint to britt’s office, his January response held that “if the notre dame security police department has documentation regarding any suspected crimes, accidents or complaints involving the indi­viduals named in [lavigne’s] request and has not released that particular documentation, then they have violated the access to public records act.” 
as an appointee of indiana gov. michael pence, britt’s opinion is not compulsory and doesn’t carry the force of law. The superior court’s decision will. 
in the october response to britt’s opinion, notre dame lawyers argued that because the general assembly could have defined “public agencies” more broadly to include all law enforcement departments, in­cluding university police forces, there shouldn’t be a reversal in opinion without a correspond­ing change in the law. 
notre dame lawyers cited precedent beyond indiana as well, where courts found po­lice departments at mercer university, harvard university and elon university were not public agencies. The lawyers’ letter to britt also listed impli­cations of ndsp’s status as a private agency beyond apra 
— for example, under the Fair labor standards act, univer­sity police “are not considered a ‘public agency’ engaged in ‘law enforcement activities’ for the purposes of determining whether its officers must work more than 40 hours … to quali­fy for overtime pay.” 
“state police or other public safety officers also receive cer­tain federal benefits that un­fortunately are not available to the university’s police officers,” the letter stated. “For instance, public safety officers are eli­gible for federal death benefits. … The police officers of private universities are not eligible, giv­en that they are not working for a ‘public agency’ under federal law — the very same concept that we must consider under apra.” 
other differences mentioned include the law enforcement officers’ safety act’s exclusion of the university’s campus po­lice from being permitted to carry concealed firearms, the income tax university police officers must pay on personal and commuting miles of take-home vehicles received from the university that governmen­tal and public police officers do not have to pay and federal assistance with body armor, which is available to state or governmental police but not the university police. 
“accordingly, there are fun­damental differences between governmental law enforcement and private campus police de­partments,” the letter stated. “broadening apra beyond its plain terms and beyond prior [office of public access counselor] advisory opinions to include anyone who wears a badge would risk treating many private institutions, not just private universities like the university of notre dame, as ‘public agencies.’” 
espn’s lawsuit asks the court to “order the police department to release the re­quested information for in­spection and copying, order the police department to pay espn the statutory civil penalty, as well as reasonable attorney’s fees, court costs and other rea­sonable expenses of litigation and for all other just and proper relief.” 
no hearing date has yet been set. 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at  ajakubo1@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2015 | The observer 


Torture 
conTinued From page 1 
senate select committee on intelligence. 
director of the center for civil and human rights and panel moderator daniel philpott said a university committed thoroughly to social justice must con­front and discuss the ques­tion of torture given the committee’s report. 
last month, the united states senate select committee on intelligence released a report that de­tails the central intelligence agency’s (cia) secret in­terrogations of terrorism suspects immediately after sept. 11, 2001. The report revealed the methods em­ployed in the cia’s interro­gation program, including waterboarding, slamming prisoners against walls, sleep deprivation and con­finement in cramped space. Further, the report suggest­ed that these methods were not necessary because they did not yield information necessary to foil terrorist plots, philpott said. 
director of the kellogg institute for international studies paolo carozza said the committee’s report ex­poses massive institutional and moral failure in the united states. 
“Torture is about destroy­ing the human person,” carozza said. “it is a direct, intentional attack on the very elements of the human personality — on human identity and on the human capacity for truth. it is a way of taking human beings and destroying their person-hood to such an extent that they can no longer be a part of the human community. That’s why torture has been condemned for 200 years, and that’s why today it’s a problem.” 
Thomas durkin, attor­ney and co-director of loyola university chicago’s national security and civil rights program, said he is most concerned by those seeking legal justifications for torture and the potential incorporation of torture into policy. 
“one thing i’m absolutely certain of is that it is a mis­take to make exceptions to the law and try to shoe­horn something into the law that doesn’t belong in the law,” durkin said. “The more i look into these ac­tions, and the more i become radicalized by my defense work at guantanamo, i wit­ness a continuous state of exception.” 
notre dame professor of theological ethics Jean porter said the only effective way to reverse this policy is to take strong, public steps. 
“i  think  the  Justice  
department  should  move  
immediately  to  prosecute  

those involved,” porter said. “i think that victims should be transferred to open court and tried if at all possible and be paid reparations. 
“i think we have an obliga­tion of justice to the victims of torture. i happen to be old-fashioned enough to be­lieve in retributive justice. we may never be able undo the psychic damage that we have done to these men, but we may, in some way through the legal system, be able to publicly affirm our belief in humanity.” 
michael desch, chair of the department of political science and co-director of the notre dame international security program, said public moral revulsion to torture sug­gests it may be unhelpful to achieve the nation’s long­term strategic goals. 

“you need to distinguish between the tactical effec­tiveness of torture, whether it’s ever useful to get infor­mation that people other­wise wouldn’t give you, or is it useful for terrorizing peo­ple into doing what you want them to do,” desch said. “i think that all the evidence points to its effectiveness on the tactical level. 
“Then there’s the question of its effectiveness on the strategic level or the policy level. here, i think the ar­guments of critics of are far more compelling. even if torture is often beneficial on the tactical level, the con­nection between that and achieving strategic or policy goals is often less clear. “ 
in order to reduce the egregious effects of torture, desch said it is important to consider how often the cia uses torture. 
“would we never use en­hanced interrogation on someone we suspected of having knowledge of a tick­ing time bomb? would we never use it for a hostage sit­uation in which the timely location of hostages was es­sential? i’m not sure i could safely say i would never do it,” desch said. “if we’re honest with ourselves, and it was our son or daughter’s life at stake, i think we’d have a hard time saying we’d never use extreme methods.” 
kelly Jordan, dean of students at holy cross college and a former commander in the u.s. army, said the united states should respond to the infor­mation in the report by hav­ing its leaders work to repair the damage and pledge it will never happen again. 
“surrender to the allure of torture and justification of its use is indicative of the triumph of a culture of narcissism over a culture of honor,” Jordan said. “The trauma of these things on character, requiring some­one to conduct or support morally questionable acts, destroys the capacity with­in an individual for social trust, and i would argue, within our nation itself.” 
Contact Matthew McKenna at  mmcken12@nd.edu 
“so when you apply those and labeling them as stalk-
Stalking 
numbers to the saint mary’s ing victims.” 
conTinued From page 1 
population of just over 1,500 riddle said through her 

students, at a rate of 13 per-three-year-long relation-campus, 13 percent of wom-cent you would have 197 ship with kennedy, her en surveyed reported be-stalking cases. That’s put-sister suffered emotional ing stalked,” riddle said. ting 200 women in this room abuse. 
paid adverTisemenT 


“The behavior is cyclical,” she said. “women that are in an abusive relationship sort of learn to know the ebb and flow of this behavior; it is pretty predicable, but sometimes they don’t know what is going to set them off. 
“This is what peggy lived with. patrick was very good at removing peggy from her social circle.” 
riddle said the most criti­cal time for women in abu­sive relationships is when they decide to leave. she said soon after peggy left patrick, he began to stalk her sister. 
“basically [victims] are asking, what is my punish­ment going to be when we walk away from this? what will he do to me?’” riddle said. “… she called me and she said ‘you are never go­ing to believe this, you know what he is doing to me? he’s stalking me.’ … what he started with was 55-155 text messages, phone calls every single day. This went on for days; she wouldn’t answer her phone, she wouldn’t re­spond to text messaging. he began to follow her in his truck, sit outside her work, outside her gym.” 
riddle said stalking in­cludes noncriminal behav­iors such as texting, phone calling, leaving music on someone’s voicemail and more -- anything that in­stills fear in a victim. 
“The behavior will tend to escalate overtime; it won’t stay consistent,” she said. “it might start out in text messaging and end up in murder.” 
riddle said her sister’s habits as she was stalked il­lustrate the profound psy­chological toll stalking may take on its victims. 
“no eating, no sleeping, hyper-vigilant, certainly wouldn’t stand in front of any windows, wouldn’t stand in front of a door, wouldn’t answer the door, wouldn’t answer the phone,” riddle said. “she was very edgy. it seemed like every­thing scared her. she was afraid of everything. it was so painful to look at her and really not be able to do a thing for her.” 
riddle said even after re­ceiving death threats from patrick, the police depart­ment was reluctant to deal with the case. riddle shared details about her sister’s fi­nal moments spent trapped in her bedroom with her friend rachel, in a violent confrontation with patrick. 
“peggy knew this was the end, and i think what peggy felt was, ‘Thank god this is over. Thank god it’s done,’” she said. 
riddle said telling her sister’s story helps her own healing process. 
“i started putting things together, people are com­ing in and out of the house and i sort of became the spokesperson of our fami­ly,” riddle said. “every time i told the story, it made my heart heal more and more. i can make the world a safer place for women like you.” 
Contact Kiera Johnsen at kjohns02@saintmarys.edu 

The better angels of our nature 

INSIDE COLUMN 

growing up 
Sara Shoemake 
graphics 

in about 15 days, i will celebrate my 22nd birthday, and my birthday only reminds me of a difficult truth i must face. 
each birthday comes and goes, and i’m still waiting to shift from teen to adult. sure, at 16, the open road is yours for the taking once you get your driver’s license. you’re even officially considered an adult on your 18th birthday and are opened up to a plethora of adult-only activities like voting and buying lottery tickets and cigarettes. 
i exhibit mild symptoms of adulthood in my daily life. my roommates and i have spent more than a few evenings staying in to play card games and make jigsaw puzzles. There was talk of turning our laundry room into our personal completed puzzle gallery. i get excited at the prospect of a costco membership because of how much i’ll save on gas. i keep a bag of those werther’s caramel candies that only retire­ment homes have in my glove compart­ment. i’ve uttered the dreaded soccer mom motto, “i’d like to speak to a manager,” while shopping at best buy. 
despite all of this, i don’t consider myself a grown-up. i am a perma-teen, boy band fan. 
it started with the classics like The backstreet boys and n’sync. Fast forward a few years and i’m in the nosebleeds of a Jonas brothers concert. Freshman year, i lied to my roommate claiming i was at the library when i was actually driving to chicago to see one direction alone. Three years ago, i took up four computers in the laFun computer lab to buy tickets to their up all night tour. i walked out of a 150-per­son macroeconomics class because their “live while we’re young” music video leaked. 
a few weeks ago, i deliriously bought $17 of korean pop music from iTunes and dis­covered eXo, a boy band with 12 members. They’re the korean one direction, but there are more of them to love, and i usu­ally have no idea what they’re saying. They also perform highly synchronized dance routines and wear eyeliner. i’d spent so much time watching their 12-episode real­ity show that i actually got a little panicky because i felt like i hadn’t devoted enough time to one direction. i’d basically been a two-timing lowlife who needed to spend more time with the group i’ve already com­mitted too and not the hot guy who winked at me across the bar and somehow landed in my iTunes library and took over my recently played artists on spotify. 
maybe this is the year. i’ll wake up on Feb. 13 and be completely over boy bands, understand how the stock market works and stop using my parents’ netflix account. or maybe i’ll be cursing through the com­puter at a teen girl who can. 
Contact Sara Shoemake at Sara.E.Shoemake.1@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Billy McMahon 
blue collar blues 

notre dame is union made, and notre dame has labor problems. administrators have fought campus unioniza­tion, workers have limited bargaining power and the uni­versity’s capital investments have little moral oversight. and yet, notre dame is union made. This contradiction is key to the proposed changes to our university’s licensing policy. we have many precedents to choose from, so let us be guid­ed by the better angels of our nature. 
There has been controversy surrounding the campus crossroads project, which has brought sprawling construc­tion to our university. but for all the arguments, none have suggested that the construction would be poorly done — that the workers would be poorly trained, the bricks poorly laid and the roofs poorly raised. union workers erect our buildings in the vast majority of cases. in a union town like south bend, why would we trust the very body of our university to the tools of the underpaid, the overworked and the rightless? 
more than any other thing, notre dame football car­ries the standard of our university in the public eye. at every home game, the nation sees roaring crowds decked in The shirt. This symbol is union made, in a factory in the dominican republic where the workers have won wages three times the national average thanks to their militant labor union. we can wear it proudly. 
we stand on this solid ground as we look to the china policy. at the moment, the university refuses to manufac­ture its licensed products in countries that refuse to allow workers the right to form independent labor unions. china is the focus of this policy, as it is a global manufacturing hub where unions exist but are not independent of the state. The office of executive vice president John affleck-graves has proposed a change to this policy to instead assess manu­facturers on a case-by-case basis in a pilot program. after speaking personally with mr. affleck-graves, i am assured of his good will in hoping this change allows the university to engage with the chinese government in making improve­ments to workers’ rights. 
The china policy is certainly ineffective, however. it recognizes only state power in repressing workers’ rights. private coercion is no less harmful in busting unions, and it happens from south bend to singapore. in 2013, a factory in bangladesh collapsed — killing 1,129 workers. Technical legal rights meant little as corporate power kept workers from winning decent and safe conditions. This disaster threw the issue into stark relief, but daily struggles against abusive bosses in all corners of the world speak to the scope of this problem. more than national laws define individual manufacturers. in this light, i welcome the administration’s reassessment of its licensing policy. 
however, vague “case-by-case” assessment is insufficient. mr. affleck-graves assured me that there would be a set of decent standards applied to manufacturers everywhere, and this is cause for praise. but we must go further. individual assessments without hard standards are ripe for abuse, ei­ther next year or next decade. we can never rely solely on the good will of current administrators, as others will occupy those positions someday. 
we stand on solid ground — union made ground — when making these changes. on Tuesday, they make the decision. i call on all to write to the administration with this single de­mand: keep notre dame union made. add to the new policy that university licensing must seek out unionized factories for manufacture. if current agreements prevent this, imple­ment it when new contract terms are up. The online “union made apparel directory” lists dozens of manufacturers in the u.s. and canada alone. cost is no excuse, as The shirt is union made, cheaper than many other T-shirts in the bookstore and still makes money for charity funds. only if union manufacturers are exhausted should we contract with nonunion factories, and only those that pay decent wages. This may include some chinese manufacturers. 
For the enforcement of this clause, i suggest a commis­sion headed by non-administrative faculty. some faculties 
— such as those affiliated with the higgins labor studies program — are natural choices, but all have a stake in university operations. in the spirit of worker participation, the faculty should choose this commission from its own ranks. campus workers, students, priests and local labor activists should also be incorporated into the commission, to assure maximal consideration for the rights and dignity of affected workers. 
unions bring workers more control, more safety and more dignity. They raise wages and lower abuse. labor unions save lives. The university has understood this in the past and must expand that to all its dealings. we’re not there yet, but we’re on the right path. so with the policy change coming soon, email and call the office of the executive vice president and tell the administration to follow the better angels of our nature — keep notre dame union made. 
Billy McMahon is a senior studying Latin American history and is active in the labor movement. He welcomes all comments at wmcmahon@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



Politics across the Atlantic 
Tim Scanlan 
pardon the prose 

greece, like many european countries, is gov­erned by a multiparty system revolving around the parliament. european elections can rival the electoral college in complexity, but are of­ten more frequent and result in greater swings in control than their american counterparts. This was evident when syriza, a self-described radical left-wing party, took control of the greek government a few short days ago. They are a newer political party, with little experi­ence governing and even less with international diplomacy, but will be leading greece in the face of some of its most important decisions since joining the european union. Their prima­ry message was to halt the austerity measures put in place for greece to service their massive amount of debt. This is a radical break from the past and from the rest of europe, where coun­tries unable to pay their sovereign debts have had to implement strict austerity measures 
— mandatory programs that cut spending and attempt to raise revenue — in order to pay back other european countries. The full repercus­sions of the election are not known yet, but could have major implications across europe and the world. 
in recent u.s. political news, mitt romney and Jeb bush met in utah, presumably to dis­cuss their competing intentions to run for president in 2016. both romney— the 2012 republican presidential nominee, former gov­ernor of massachusetts and son of a former massachusetts governor — and bush — the former governor of Florida, brother to former us president george w. bush and son of former us president george h.w. bush — have publicly stated they are “seriously considering” a presi­dential bid. if either is successful in obtain­ing the republican nomination, they will most likely face another known quantity from the democrats — hillary clinton, the wife of for­mer u.s. president bill clinton, former senator from new york and former secretary of state. at the very least, americans will recognize some of the names when they step into the voting booth in 2016. 
one driver of greece’s radical shift is the dire nature of the country’s current circumstance 
— within the month they may be unable to pay their debt or even remain a part of the euro. by contrast, the united states has been recovering more rapidly from the recession by the month. could this alone explain the difference in polit­ical actors? perhaps. however, when the presi­dential campaign fell in the middle of the worst financial crash since the great depression, the country selected an “outsider” who came from one of two primary political parties, and whose policies have echoed the same priorities as his predecessors. president obama’s 2008 victory is nothing like the syriza seizing greece after be­ing only a marginal player until 2012. 
The contrast between the familiar faces and policies of american politics and the rapid shifts seen in greece just days ago is stark. a key difference between the two political sys­tems is greece’s reliance on multiple parties forming coalitions as opposed to the two-party system found in the united states. This, along with other factors, contributes to the pros and cons of each system. when it comes to these two systems, it means the ability to react radi­cally to a popular movement versus the stability that comes with fairly consistent governing. 
how should americans view the difference between their governing and that of europeans and greeks? it is incredibly important to first know the difference exists. other coun­tries have broader discussions about their government than simply republicans versus democrats. This freedom comes with sacrifices (such as italy averaging a new government ev­ery year since world war ii), but provides an alternative to well worn narratives heard from america’s political parties. This may come as a relief to those tired of the apparent collu­sion from republicans and manifest destiny of the democrats. The benefits of the american system — stability, institutional knowledge, consistency, etc. — are incredible, and have contributed to the success of the nation. That being said, no operation improves without new inputs and information. at the very least, americans need to know that they have more options than choosing from the same few last names every four years. 
Tim Scanlan is a senior finance major with a minor in public service. He is a former resident of Morrissey Manor. He encourages debate on his columns and can be reached with any comments or questions at tscanlan@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

don’t just start over, forgive yourself 
Haleigh McGill 
The rocky mountain collegian 

as the second month of the new year ap­proaches, i want to remind you, whether you are going strong with your 2015 resolutions or have already messed up one or two of them, that you can start over anytime. new begin­nings are not, and should not, be exclusively celebrated and embarked upon at the beginning of each new year. 
one of the most incredible things about hu­mans is that until we find ourselves six feet un­der a graveyard, we are not finished products. we are dynamic, metamorphic beings who, with the right dose of willpower, have the potential to take this world by storm and make an unfor­gettable impact. however, before anyone can do that, they must learn to find empowerment in the setback, hope in the midst of despair, strength in the hardships and joy in the big-picture journey. sometimes we set goals that we don’t reach, and there’s an inherent sense of disappointment and anger that settles into our minds. when you stray from your goals, it’s easy to say “i’m just not meant to be that kind of person or accomplish that specific thing.” it’s easy to settle for average. but is settling for average, which in this case counts as giving up on yourself, easy to accept? of course not. we are our own greatest motivator, biggest fan and cruelest critic and no one ever wants to feel dis­appointed in themselves. in order to move on and grow from that disappointment, one must learn the art of forgiving yourself and letting go of the failure. 
i think we forget sometimes that messing up truly is not the end of the world and that there will always, always be another opportunity. Failure doesn’t mean that you cease to exist to everyone else, that you are a bad person, that you are weak or that you aren’t good enough. make the decision to start over. don’t waste time wishing you could change the past, keep looking forward and move along with your head up. if you are at peace with yourself, it’s both easier to imagine new ways to meet a previously unsuccessful goal as well as to make the deci­sion to try one more time. 
if the stars in your vast sky of resolution aren’t aligning, find a way to rearrange them yourself.  do not allow yourself to be defined by failure; let it go, find a reason and do something that intimidates you. do something that a year from now would make you say “i’m so glad i did that,” no matter how difficult and trying it may be. do something that you would be proud of yourself for. 
at the end of the day, if you aren’t failing every once in a while then you aren’t trying hard enough. it’s that simple. do not let your failures leave you in ruins of a goal or resolu­tion that you no longer believe in. give yourself permission to start over and try again, but more importantly, forgive yourself for your past and what went wrong. you can’t carry on if you let who you were yesterday get the best of who you could be tomorrow. you are the captain of your adventure, so remember us navy captain James lawrence‘s famous last words when the going gets rough: “don’t give up the ship. ” 
Opinion columnist Haleigh McGill enjoys aggressive games of Catch Phrase and perusing crop circles for signs of alien life forms and The Rocky Mountain Collegian is the student newspaper serving Colorado State University’s community. Please send comments to letters@collegian.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 




By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 

after reading “gone girl,” i hardly had any desire to re­turn to that world. amy frightened me; nick angered me. gillian Flynn could write, i could respect that and i didn’t need to know anymore. 
For some reason, this reaction didn’t stop me from see­ing the movie when it came to notre dame last week. i went and once again discovered the complicated machi­nations of amy and nick’s relationship. i was still dis­turbed, but instead of shying away from the emotions, i wanted to delve into this type of storyline further. as much as i hated her, i wanted more amy. 
it was with this frame of mind i picked up paula hawkins’ “The girl on the Train.” it had been hailed as the new “gone girl” (along with harriet lane’s “her”) and i was curious. was it possible that hawkins could create the same sense of disturbed horror and grudging respect i felt upon finishing “gone girl?" 
it should be said that expecting a novel to give you this type of feeling sets itself up for failure — i immediately distrusted every character that was introduced and was constantly waiting for one of them to reveal themselves 
By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
scene editor 

i’ll never forget where i was when i read the news. sitting on my couch with a cup of coffee in one hand and my phone, open to Twitter, in the other, i read that skymall, the beautiful brookstone of the sky, may be no longer. 
last Friday, skymall announced its parent company is filing for bankruptcy. Though this doesn’t guarantee the death of the famous in-flight catalogue, talk of skymall’s ultimate demise has been abuzz. so forgive me for pre­senting what may be a premature eulogy, but i need to say a few words to commemorate the ginger ale-stained, endlessly entertaining magazine. 
at age 25, just a few years older than me, skymall has been an unwavering presence in the lives of air travelers. nestled between the airsickness bag and the “in case of emergency” card on the back of airplane seats, its goods have been overpriced and unrealistic through thick and thin, recession and recovery. 
no matter what may lie ahead — a delay on the tar­mac, a screaming baby or an aggressive seat-recliner as the crazed psychopath. it takes away the sense of real surprise and betrayal i felt upon reading amy elliott dunne’s confession the first time. 
still, if i step away from gillian Flynn comparisons, hawkins’ novel is quite good. she’s not nearly as good as Flynn at probing the sociopathic tendencies of the “bad guy,” but her characters have other strengths. They aren’t likable, but they are human. 
rachel, the so-called “girl on the train,” is a struggling alcoholic whose only joy in life seems to be creating a perfect marriage and life for a couple she sees every day on her way into london. as a narrator, she is frustrating because of her inability to recall everything accurately (or at all) — the reader, at times, wants to reach in and shake her until she puts down the wine. still, she’s lik­able. hawkins gives you what Flynn denies — someone to root for. 
The other two narrators, megan and anna, are less de­veloped. Their story lines are almost peripheral, except for the moments when they cross paths with rachel. megan is particularly frustrating, prone to continually talking about a vague “him” whose identity seems as though it could shift throughout the novel. it’s necessary, yes, for hawkins’ eventual conclusion, but it remains one 
— frequent flyers could always take comfort in perus­ing the pages of skymall, ogling over “lord of the rings” memorabilia and outdoor speakers that look like rocks. 
where will we go now if we want to buy a dog raincoat and a glow-in-the-dark toilet seat in one fell swoop? how will we spend $5,000 if not on our own “Fire burning portable hot Tub” after three glasses of american airlines nondescript white wine? in an age of still unreli­able in-flight wi-Fi, how else will we pass the time once our iphones die? will we be forced to actually watch the in-flight safety demonstration? 
These are questions we’ll have to answer with the trag­ic loss of skymall. until then, we’ll remember it not just as a collection of insane pool gadgets, yard ornaments and pet accessories, but as a symbol of the american dream. Forget the white picket fence — nothing says “i made it” more than soaring at 30,000 feet in a steel vessel, sipping tomato juice and deciding to treat yourself to a remote-controlled, infrared reflexology foot massager. 
as a child, i remember imagining my dream home and filling it with skymall’s wonders. Flipping through the catalogue, i’d make a mental checklist of all of the house’s amenities — a castle for my cat, a floating island cup of her weakest attempts at creating tension. 
anna, on the other hand, seems entirely unnecessary. her point of view rarely serves to move the story along, and i think the book would have been stronger had this aspect either been developed more or dropped entirely. as they stand, her chapters vacillate between providing almost interesting insight into a character who could be easily demonized and simply distracting from the main storyline. 
hawkins’ strong point lies in rachel’s voice. she is the heart of the novel, and her chapters and her struggles are what motivate the reader to continue on. at times, even the main driving plot of the novel seems like it could be dropped if only rachel would move on with her life and finally let go of the alcohol. 
in the end, i’m not quite sure “The girl on the Train” lives up to its hype as the new “gone girl.” but i’m also not sure it should — to me, the name seems like a bit of a misnomer. hawkins isn’t trying to be gillian Flynn, and none of her female voices are meant to be amy. her aim is quite different, and i think i would have enjoyed the book better had i remembered that from the beginning. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 
holder for my outdoor pool and various kinds of hang­ing chairs to furnish each room. The house would have a room wallpapered with the world’s largest maps and crosswords, and the backyard would be filled with wacky statues and elaborate sprinkler systems. gel pen in hand, i’d circle all the goods that would some day be mine. 
my interest in interior decorating has since waned, but i’ll still miss the comfort of leafing through the beloved catalogue. even if you can’t hope or dream to own any­thing in the catalogue, you can scan though its pages with awe and wonder, like the world’s Fair is sitting on your lap. skymall is the embodiment of the scene in “willy wonka and the chocolate Factory” when gene wilder sings “pure imagination”: elaborate, bedazzling and just a little scary. 
whether we’re building a dream home, buying the bests gifts or simply browsing, skymall has seen it all from a seat pocket. now, after what its website describes as “25 years of cool stuff,” the sky-high staple may close its pages on us and go away to the great airplane in the sky. if so, we’ll miss you, skymall. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 

ERIN RICE | The Observer 




By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 

The dodos’ arsenal is small, yet their ambition is huge. adventurous songwriting and exquisite musicianship have kept them rolling for the past 10 years, stretch­ing their lone guitar, drum set and pair of voices into a plethora of shapes and sizes. The decade has seen them ramble from acoustic sing-alongs (“walking”) to mas­sive anthems (“black night”) to noisey surf-tinged rock­ers (“confidence”). a healthy dose of friendly melodies woven into the tricky rhythms and complex song struc­tures has helped the dodos receive a decent amount of blog love without losing their experimental edge. 
Their new album “individ” finds the dodos sticking pretty closely to their previous strategies. drums and guitars remain at the heart of each track as vocal melo­dies pop in and out of the mix. each song is alternately flooded with noise and pared down to its most acces­sible ingredients, giving each song a propelling push­and-pull dynamic. 
however, “individ” seems to find the dodos stretch­ing their limits even more than usual. shoegaze-esque guitar waves flow through the album, adding to the noisy side of the duo’s compositions. such crushing guitar lines appear in different forms throughout the record, sometimes groove-dominating and relentless 
(“precipitation”), while other times psychedelic and  “individ” is in many ways nothing new for the dodos.  
gentle (“bubble”).  it is the product of a unique band that continues to im- 
The backbone of the album is formed by a set of songs  prove slowly but surely, creating new works from old  
that seem to race themselves to the finish. “individ” is  materials while never employing predictable songwrit­ 
performed with extreme precision, making its speed  ing tactics. in a world which places four out of four hip- 
intriguing and accessible despite the record’s often  hop beats on pedestals for their production values and  
distorted production. lead single “competition” show- often pushes experimental artists away from conven­ 
cases this with a profound ease. The track is pinned  tional instruments, the dodos fill a much-needed role  
down by a guitar riff, beginning each measure in a  in the world of music. Their time-signatures are crazy;  
jackhammer strum and ending by rapidly sliding into  their production is unabashedly rough, yet they anchor  
a higher chord which then leads to the next measure.  their compositions with good old riffs and choruses that  
meanwhile, simple melodies complement the driving  can still get stuck in your head. “individ” finds the group  
rhythms, allowing the band to make the most of a pair  very alive and well, playing to their strengths while si­ 
of ideas which many other groups would be unable to  multaneously improving upon them.  
reconcile.  
at the same time, many songs boast a stretch of  Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu  
relative quiet where the song’s melodies or lyrics are  
granted the space they truly deserve. “darkness” as­ “Individ”  
sembles a crescendo from acoustic guitar arpeggios  The Dodos  
and beachy drum rhythms, eventually climaxing in a  
driving groove. however, the dodos then brilliantly cut  Label: Polyvinyl  
out to a beautiful harp-like, finger-picked, acoustic fall­ 
ing guitar riff, augmenting the sense of calm with soft  Tracks: “Bubble,” “Competition,” “Darkness”  
overlaid choral harmonies. “bastard," the penultimate  If you like: The Books, Tokyo Police Club  
track, jettisons the band’s signature breakbeat tempos  
for a gospel-like stomp, pushing its unusual yet satisfy­ 
 
ing chord progression to the forefront.  


ERIN RICE | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

In appreciation of non-football fans 

Samantha Zuba 
assistant managing editor 
The best parts of the super bowl-watching experience are all the people watching who really don’t care about football at all. 
They’re at the game watch­es for the buffalo chicken dip, halftime show and hysterical commercials, not so much the game. most of all, they’re there for the company. That is, unless you really, really like chips and dip. 
These non-football types are great to have around dur­ing the super bowl for several reasons. 
This first one is a bit selfih, but you can’t deny that non-football fans provide a wel­come distraction for your know-it-all friends. 
you know, the friends who are the best thing that could happen to football if they actually played football. They know things about football and want everyone to know they know. They throw bet­ter than peyton manning, catch more reliably than rob gronkowski and tackle harder than clay matthews. 
with authority (read: a loud voice), they will correct coaching decisions and claim they “could have caught that pass.” you know, the one that sailed two feet over calvin Johnson’s head. 
“do you know how many yards bart starr threw for in super bowl iii?” they’ll ask. “no? pssh, well you’re dumb.” 
everyone has at least one of those friends. never mind that those friends probably won’t actually tell you how many yards bart starr threw for in super bowl iii, because they probably don’t actu­ally know — they just like to pretend. and definitely never mind that bart starr did not even play in super bowl iii. 
you love those friends but don’t always want to give your undivided attention to their lectures. with non-football fans at your party, you don’t have to. know-it-alls can smell lack of football knowl­edge a mile away and will key in on the person with the least as soon as they arrive. 
another advantage for you: non-football fans likely will ask the questions you’re too embarrassed to ask. 
in fact, many others in the room probably want to ask the same questions but just won’t, for fear of falling into the hands of the know-it-alls. 
Questions like: what is an out route? who’s playing to­day? why does bill belichick’s sweatshirt not have sleeves? 
all this knowledge and more is at your fingertips when you have brave non-football fans in your midst — or google. 
but none of those expla­nations is the best reason to have non-football fans around at your super bowl game watch. 
when i studied abroad, i was asked if the super bowl was a national holiday in the united states. i said it wasn’t but then thought a moment about how to describe it. i didn’t want to make the super bowl seem more important than it is, but it comes pretty close functioning like a holi­day when you consider how much people drop whatever they’re doing to watch the big game. 
a lot stops for the super bowl, and that’s pretty cool, not because we need to pay homage to the game and its players — we could probably do a bit less of that as a soci­ety — but because people get together for it. 
how often do you see your entire group of busy friends together in one place? hopefully, that’ll happen on super bowl sunday. The day does not celebrate an im­portant person or historical event, but if any day can slow a busy group of people down, it earns importance points in my book. 
i’m a firm believer that any happy excuse to gather with family and friends is a good one. The super bowl gives me that excuse, and i get to watch a good game to boot. 
as for all the people watch­ing who don’t care about football? having them around reminds you they’re really there for the people they’re watching with. 
either that or the dip and halftime show. 
Contact Samantha at szuba@nd.edu
 The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL | vcu 72, george washingTon 48 
VCU remains undefeated in Atlantic 10 play 
Associated Press 

richmond, virginia — Freshman Terry larrier scored 15 points and no. 14 vcu pulled away with a 16-2 run early in the second half to beat george washington 72-48 on Tuesday night for its 12th con­secutive victory. 
larrier’s point total was his highest since conference play began for the rams (17-3, 7-0 atlantic 10), and it came on a night when vcu scoring lead­er Treveon graham managed just seven points on a still-ten­der left ankle and struggling melvin Johnson continued to do so, scoring eight on 4 of 10 shooting. 
kethan savage scored 18 to lead george washington (16-5, 6-2) and Joe mcdonald had 11. 
The colonials went behind for good when vcu scored 12 of the last 14 points of the first half to lead 29-21 at the intermission. after george washington used a 6-2 burst to get within 31-27 early in the second half, the rams turned up their defensive pressure and turned the contest into a runaway. 
The game was the rams’ first at home in 17 days, and once their pressure started gtting to the colonials, leading to run-out baskets and a fast-growing lead, the outcome was quickly determined. 
The colonials’ inability to make shots from close range also was a huge factor. They made just one field goal in the final 10:50 of the first half, and were 2 for 21 until the game’s final minutes. 
vcu, meantime, pulled ahead getting points from al­most everybody. 
mo alie-cox, who finished with 10 points and eight re­bounds, scored their first bas­ket after halftime, and after two free throws by savage, graham, Justin Tillman, larrier, JeQuan lewis, briante weber and Johnson also con­tributed as the run whipped the crowd into a welcome back frenzy. 
The game was a back-and­forth affair until late in the first half. 
Trailing 19-17, the rams tied it on a layup by lewis, spark­ing a 12-2 run to end the half. sx of the points came from larrier, and the last four from alie-cox on an inside basket and two free throws. 
The colonials managed just five points after yuta watanabe’s layup with 10:51 left in the half. 
Tip-ins: 
george washington: The colonials made 12 3-pointers in their previous game, a 74­59 victory against duquesne. 
it  was  the  most  3s  they  
have made  in  a  game  since  
november 2008.  

vcu: The latest rpi rat­ing from the ncaa list vcu’s non-conference schedule as the toughest in the nation and its ovberal schedule as the second-toughest, trailing only kansas. 
up neXT: 
george washington: plays at rhode island on saturday. 
vcu: hosts city and a-10 ri­val richmond in the first of two meetings saturday. 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL | wesT virginia 65, kansas sTaTe 59 
Mountaineers hold on, prevent upset 
Associated Press 
manhaTTan, kansas — 

Tarik phillip matched a ca-reer-high 12 points and west virginia, relying on its high-pressure defense, shut down kansas state for a 65-59 victory Tuesday night. 
in a game marred by fouls and poor play, the mountaineers (17-3, 5-2 big 12) forced the wildcats (12-9, 5-3) into 25 turnovers while hold­ing them to 36 percent shoot­ing from the field. 
west virginia’s leading scorer, Juwan staten, had just 11 points while dealing with foul trouble all night. second-leading scorer devin williams had eight points and nine rebounds. 
The wildcats played most of the way without nino williams, who had been averaging 21 points his last two games. The senior forward appeared to be dealing with a left knee injury, spending time on a stationary bike and then wrapping it in ice during the second half. 

marcus Foster led the wildcats with 15 points, but also committed six turn­overs. wesley iwundu added 12 points, yet missed a cru­cial free throw in the closing minutes. 
in fact, the foul line proved to be nearly as good defensively as the mountaineers. kansas state was just 20 of 35 from the stripe, including a 2-for-7 effort from Jevon Thomas. 
considering the teams are two of the scrappiest in the big 12, it was hardly a surprise that the game was played at a slogging pace that prevent­ed either from gaining any momentum. 
The teams combined for 27 turnovers in the first half alone, kansas state getting whistled for a 5-second call on four occasions. They also combined for 25 fouls and shot 26 free throws. 
Those are ugly numbers for a game, let alone a half. 
by the time west virginia turned the ball over with 20 seconds left, and kansas state turned it right back just before the buzzer, the mountaineers had forged a 26-24 halftime lead. 
west virginia extended its lead to 49-41 midway through the second half, finally put­ting together a couple of solid offensive possessions. phillip was the surprising catalyst, following up a three-point play with another bucket with 
8:31 remaining to keep kansas state at bay. 
as the mountaineers got into foul trouble — Jonathan holton and Jaysean paige had each picked up their fourth by that point — the wildcats tried to make one last run. 
Foster’s first free throw with 
2:04 left made it 55-50, but the all-big 12 guard missed the second of them. another missed opportunity by kansas state in a night full of them.
 The mountaineers were still leading 63-57 after Foster’s 3-pointer with 24 seconds left, but staten made the first of two free throws at the other end to put the game away. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2015 | The observer 

NHL | penguins 5, JeTs 3 

penguins defeat winnipeg with late power-play rally 
Associated Press 
piTTsburgh — david perron and brandon sutter scored power-play goals less than 4 minutes apart in the third period and the pittsburgh penguins ral­lied for a 5-3 win over the winnipeg Jets on Tuesday night. 
nick spaling, steve downie and patric hornqvist also scored for the penguins. kris letang had a career-high five assists as pittsburgh ended a four-game losing streak despite playing without in­jured stars sidney crosby and evgeni malkin. Thomas greiss stopped 19 shots. 
adam lowry, Jacob Trouba and chris Thorburn scored for the Jets, who saw their five-game winning streak snapped when they couldn’t protect a third-period lead. ondrej pavelec made 25 saves but was sloppy in the third period. 
lowry gave winnipeg the lead 59 seconds into the third before perron and sutter de­livered on pittsburgh’s patch­work power play. 
The penguins limped into the all-star break with their longest losing streak of the season and began the second half without their two un­questioned leaders. crosby received an injection last Thursday to treat a lower-body injury suffered against montreal earlier this month and missed the all-star game. while crosby could return on wednesday in washington, malkin is not skating at the moment and could miss a week or more. 

For a night anyway, pittsburgh survived without them. 
The penguins moved to 9-0-1 in games when they’ve been without both crosby and malkin since 2011. having the blossoming perron in place certainly helped. buried on the third line in edmonton, perron has become the kind of scoring threat pittsburgh needed to take some of the pressure off crosby. 
perron has six goals in nine games with pittsburgh af­ter having just five in 38 with the oilers. he jabbed a shot between pavelec’s legs 4:23 into the third to tie the game and sutter followed with the winner 7:52 into the third. hornqvist chipped in an empty-net goal with 27 sec­onds remaining as pittsburgh improved to 9-2-1 against the western conference. 
spaling gave the penguins a 1-0 lead 7:09 into the game following a pretty sequence in which letang hit perron with a long stretch pass. perron, who has blossomed since arriving in a trade from edmonton on Jan. 2, drew two defenders — and pavelec — as he streaked down the right side. perron’s centering pass landed right on spaling’s blade and he flipped it into a wide-open net for his seventh of the season. 
winnipeg responded with two goals in the second pe­riod. Thorburn made a pret­ty deflection off a feed from adam lowry 2:13 into the second and Trouba followed with a heavy slap shot from the point that made its way through a sea of sticks and over greiss’ glove. 
The penguins tied it late in the period after a heady play by downie. with the clock ticking down, downie moved in on the left side. rather than force a shot he waited for letang to hop on the ice and sent a crossing pass letang’s way. letang’s slap shot smacked off pavelec’s right pad to downie, who pounced on it to make it 2-2 with just 
4.6 seconds left. 


paid adverTisemenT 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Notre Dame turns to Turner 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
The irish made alan Turner’s first notre dame invitational as head coach a memorable one this week­end, winning four events and performing well in the mid­dle distances. 
The meet also marked a milestone in notre dame’s transition of head coaches. For the last forty years, Joe piane helmed the irish, but after his retirement this summer, the team turned to Turner, who coached 18 all­american irish sprinters and jumpers as an associate head coach and assistant coach. as a track athlete at indiana, Turner was a three-time all­american, won the long jump indoor national title in 1991 and led the hoosiers to five straight big Ten titles. 
Turner said he is indebted to piane for his mentorship and the program’s founda­tion of success. 

“i’ve learned a lot from Joe [piane],” Turner said. “probably the main thing i’ve learned from him are the subtleties of a coach ... know­ing when to push an ath­lete very hard and when to back off. many times in this sport, we’re on a high-wire act with how hard we push somebody.” 
piane also left Turner with a successful, winning cul­ture, Turner said. because of this, Turner said he doesn’t think he needs to change the identity of the team. 
“i definitely want to put my imprint on the program,” Turner said. “but we have a great identity, and people know that when you run against the irish, you have to bring it. i want the program to be top three in the acc and top 20 in all our sports — that’s cross country, indoor track and outdoor track.” 
in addition to the coaching change, notre dame is still adjusting to a shift to the acc, Turner said. 
“The big east only had about three or four really competitive teams, whereas in the acc, there’s a lot more depth,” Turner said. “it’s a lot harder to get people in the finals. Trying to hang with Florida state is a formi­dable task [because] they’ve been a dominant team not only in the acc, but also nationwide.” 
The new conference will require Turner to change his recruiting habits, he said, due to the different events run in the acc. 
“There [were] a lot of mid-distance events and relays [in the big east] where we needed more 800-meter run­ners and more mile run­ners,” Turner said. “That’s not necessarily the case in the acc. we can’t skew the team with distance runners, because in the acc there’s no 500-meters [and] there’s no 1,000-meter.” 
despite these challenges, Turner said he is cautiously optimistic about the irish’s chances this year. 
“our women this year should do pretty well in the acc,” Turner said. “our men’s team — we’re going to have to really show up that day if we want to crack the top three. we have some work to do. we’ve been up and down, but i want to get it where we’re consistently a top-20 program. we’re going to get there. it’ll take some years, but we’re definitely go­ing to get there.” 
notre dame will split into two squads for its next meet Jan. 30, travel­ing to the indiana relays in bloomington, indiana, and the razorback invitational in Fayetteville, arkansas. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish rely on doubles play early in season 
By CHRISTINE MAYUGA 
sports writer 
hosting three of the top teams in the nation in one the most competitive pods of the iTa kick-off weekend, no. 14 notre dame anticipated a series of close matches this past weekend at eck Tennis pavilion. 
although the irish walked away with the 4-3 victory over no. 24 oklahoma state in the first round, they just missed the mark in the final match of the weekend, falling to no. 16 columbia, 4-2, on sunday. 
This wasn’t the first time the irish competed in matches de­cided by razor-thin margins. earlier this season, the irish earned a 4-3 win over no. 18 kentucky, mounting a come­back in the singles round. 
notre dame is the only team in the nation to have two dou­bles pairs ranked in the top 10: no. 8 junior alex lawson and senior billy pecor, and no. 9 sophomores Josh hagar and eddy covalschi. The irish have captured the doubles point in two of three matches so far this year, but the squad has had a tough time keeping that lead in singles play, where it is has compiled an 8-9 record. 
so far, the irish have man­aged to come out on top in a majority of these showdowns, but more consistency under pressure is a skill the team is working on as it moves forward, irish coach ryan sachire said. 
“i talk [about this] with the team a lot,” sachire said. “[i] know we will be in a lot of competitive matches, but we can’t get too high or too low through our results, good or bad.” 
against oklahoma state, the irish displayed some of the poise sachire want­ed, securing a 4-3 win on a third-set tiebreaker of the final singles match. Junior eric schnurrenberger rallied from a 2-5 third-set deficit to cowboys freshman Tristan meraut and managed a long return on the serve for match point and the eventual 6-2, 5-7, 7-6 (8) win. 
“i thought we did a good job playing and competing this weekend,” sachire said. “we had an absolutely knockdown, drag-out battle against oklahoma state and came out on top. against columbia, we just came up a little short.” 
The loss to the lions, how­ever, was close all the way through. The outranked pecor and lawson came from be­hind to beat the no. 6 senior duo of max schnur and ashok narayana in a 7-6 (3) upset. but hagar and covalschi had a surprising loss to junior mike vermeer and senior winston lin. The latter duo came back from a 1-5 deficit to secure the win. 
in singles play, the irish struggled early, losing four of six first sets. only pecor bounced back to take the final two. 
“[we have] one of the tough­est schedules in the country,” sachire said. “as long as we are competing with the right mindset and put ourselves in the position to win, we will be successful this year.” 
notre dame stays at eck Tennis pavilion to take on northwestern on Jan. 30. 
Contact Christine Mayuga at cmayuga@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 





Carson 
conTinued From page 16 
anything that resembles a second rivalry in the league. 
and just take a look at the notre dame roster. an as­tounding 17 players come from the midwest. how many come from new england? one. That would be junior goaltender nick stasack, who has yet to see the ice in his first season as a walk-on. 
if you aren’t in new england, don’t have many players from new england and don’t have rivals in new england, what made anyone think this arrangement would work? 
on wsbT radio’s sportsbeat broadcast monday, Jackson told host darin pritchett that he was concerned the irish were still treated as an “out­sider” in the league and that there was a “double standard” in play against the team. and he’s absolutely right in that assessment. because the irish are outsiders. 
we have been seeing it on the ice now, too, specifi­cally from the guys wearing the white-and-black striped shirts. The irish were denied an opportunity at overtime Friday when northeastern directly benefitted from a 
Ivey 
conTinued From page 16 
irish guards melissa] lechlitner and Tulyah [gaines] did,” ivey said. “so many points guards have gone through this program, so it’s a blessing to be in this role.” 
before she was in that role, ivey was a freshman guard, sitting on the bench and redshirting her first season after suffering a tear in her knee. 
but she calls even that in­jury a “blessing in disguise” because it allowed her to come back for a fifth season with the irish in 2001. by that time, she had grown into a finalist for the nancy lieberman award as the country’s top point guard and helped the team to a national championship in her hometown of st. louis. 
“That was hard for me because that was my first injury, so for my first injury to cause me to be side­lined, that was really something that i had never experienced,” she said. “but in hindsight, my senior year, i found out [the Final Four] was in st. louis, so that was a goal of mine. it was kind of mo­tivation for me to get back home my senior year, so it definitely was a huge blessing in disguise.” 
after that, ivey played for five seasons in the wnba before in­terning under current ohio state coach kevin mcguff, then at Xavier. 
Two years later, she received a call from mcgraw that had her packing her bags and heading back to south bend. 
“it’s been amazing, as a player, being able to help build the pro­gram as a point guard, win the national championship and then 

ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2015 | The observer 

missed slashing call in the final two minutes of the game. This non-call came on the heels of a conference game earlier this year when the irish were denied a win against umass lowell after officials failed to review a missed offside call. Jackson asked for a review, the correct process in this situation, but none happened. add these incidents to the growing list of referees’ decisions that have baffled the irish coach over the past two seasons, and it’s not hard to see a trend developing. 
of course, as with anything, the element of money is in­volved. when notre dame joined hockey east, it did it alongside the announcement of an agreement to air irish home games on nbc sports network. That agreement got underway last year — notre dame’s first in the league — and puts the irish on national television as much as any oth­er college hockey program. 
does that happen if notre dame went independent or joined the national collegiate hockey conference (nchc), the other league the irish considered? 
probably not. had the irish gone independent, it is likely that they would have struggled to find quality op­ponents late in the season. This weekend, vermont and penn state are the only teams playing a non-conference con­test. The following week, it’s just northern michigan and minnesota-duluth. with such uncertainty in scheduling, it’s easy to see why nbc might not have been interested in such an arrangement. 

as for the nchc? it’s hard to say. at face value, nbc might have preferred the hockey east teams to a slate head­lined by miami (ohio) and north dakota. besides, it’s difficult to say if the confer­ence would have let the irish negotiate their own Tv con­tract because it already has an agreement with cbs sports network. 
so, yeah, if a television con­tract is the most important thing to swarbrick and the program, they probably made the right call. 
but it’s left them in a confer­ence where they’re outsiders in almost every way. and i’m not sure that will ever change. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Observer File Photo 

Former Irish guard Niele Ivey celebrates after Notre Dame’s 68-66 win over Purdue in the NCAA championship April 2, 2001. 
come back,” ivey said. “For me, it’s what i love. it’s my passion, notre dame, and to be able to have my first job to be back here under coach mcgraw, a hall of Fame coach, to me has been a dream come true.” 
coming from a family that enforced the value of education, ivey said her decision to come to notre dame as a player was a no-brainer. now, almost 15 years after ivey’s graduation from the university, mcgraw said the choice to bring her back as a coach was just as simple. 
“it was the best and easiest de­cision i’ve ever made,” mcgraw said. “i think that she was ex­actly what i wanted and needed because she had such great ex­perience as a player, played at the highest level. 
“… she just has the kind of personality that is charismatic and really attracts people to her, so i thought that she’d be tremendous.” 
ivey said taking the job at notre dame was the best move not only for herself, but also for Jaden, who has grown up with the program and regularly trav­els with her. 
“he’s a gym rat, so my job is something that he loves to do, so i’ve been blessed to have such an amazing son who can handle the role that i play as a coach, having to do so many things,” she said. 
although her job description entails trying to convince some of the country’s best prospects to play for the irish, she said she isn’t focused on recruiting an­other ivey to notre dame — at least not yet. 
“he’ll be 13 in a month, so i’m still looking at high schools,” ivey said with a laugh. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 



M Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
2000. duke went 26-9 over­all and 13-5 in acc play although it was upset by mercer in the second round of the ncaa tournament. 
“That may have been the highlight of our season last year, beating duke,” brey said in his weekly acc con­ference call monday. “after that, we didn’t have much of an identity in the league. we were competitive but couldn’t finish them, cer­tainly not like we’re finish­ing them this year.” 
That has been one area of improvement for the irish this year — notre dame is 6-2 in games decided by less than 10 points, including 2-0 in overtime. The team is also off to its best start since 1973-1974, the year it snapped ucla’s 88-game winning streak and and fin­ished with a 26-3 record. 
duke features a talented young lineup, notably fresh­man center Jahlil okafor. averaging 18.9 points per game and 9.4 rebounds per game, the potential number-one pick in this year’s nba draft combines with fresh­men guard Tyus Jones and forward Justise winslow and senior guard Quinn cook to power the blue devil offense. 
“They’re really talented,” brey said. “i was just read­ing today about all the first-round picks they’ve got on their roster. so we’ve got our hands full.” 
The irish have thrived off guard play this season, us­ing four smaller guards and forwards around junior for­ward Zach auguste inside on the offensive end. however, the blue devils’ size inside, with the six-foot-11 okafor and seven-foot junior center marshall plumlee will test notre dame physically, brey said. 
“That’s something we’ve got to make a decision on. … what do you do with okafor?” brey said. “a lot of people have [double-teamed] him. … we really haven’t done that much, but that’s something we’ve got to digest a little bit.” 
still, brey said his team is confident and ready for the challenge. 
“i like the way we’ve been playing, and our group be­lieves they can get it done against just about anybody,” brey said. 
Tonight will mark the second game between top­10 teams at purcell pavilion since 1980, and the first such matchup since Feb. 9, 2003, when no. 10 notre dame up­set no. 4 pittsburgh, 66-64. 




while krzyzewski achieved his milestone sunday at madison square garden, tonight could po­tentially be significant for notre dame. senior guard Jerian grant, who leads the irish in scoring (17.1 points per game) and assists (6.2 per game), will make his 100th career start in an irish uniform, and a win would be the 600th irish victory at purcell pavilion, where the team has played since the 1968-1969 season. 
notre dame will aim to make its own history tonight when it hosts duke at 7:30 p.m.. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2015 | The observer 


CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 

DOME NUTS | aleXandria wellman SUDOKU | The mepham group 



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to: 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: you will have the wherewithal to jump into action and get things done. your ability to take on additional responsibility will position you well for advancement. emotional matters are likely to build if you don’t take care of them swiftly. love and romance are highlighted, and an attentive, nurturing display of emotions will lead to domestic and personal improvements. your numbers are 3, 11, 21, 27, 33, 36, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Think big, but budget wisely. keeping things in perspective will make any gains you accomplish sweeter. romance is on the rise, and a positive change in your current living arrangement is apparent. a commitment can be made. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): share your thoughts and do your best to help others. keep a close watch on the changes going on around you, but don’t let the temptation to follow suit get the better of you. Too much of anything will set you back. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): romantic relationships will suffer if you don’t address your concerns honestly. sorrow will result if you let anyone limit your freedom. Think twice before you make a promise you will live to regret. a personal move will be beneficial. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): get into something that you have wanted to pursue for some time. a creative venture that allows you to use your imagination will turn out well. romance is on the upswing, and sharing your feelings will bring you closer to someone special. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Travel will open up new possibilities through the experiences you have or the people you encounter. consider signing up for a seminar that will help you expand an interest or skill you’d like to learn to enhance your marketability. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): use your attributes wisely. don’t let anyone put demands on you that will infringe on your ability to be and do your best, allowing you to reach your set goals. put yourself first. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): keep your conversations with others light and playful. you will face difficulties if you address issues that you know aren’t favored by others. use your intelligence to identify those you would like to work with. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): say little and do a lot. it’s how you handle situations that will count in the end. if you pontificate without following through, your reputation will be jeopardized. Take an innovative but serious approach and you will advance. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Focus on what you have accomplished in the past and you will bring about positive changes at home and at work. expect someone to challenge you, and be ready to question the facts being offered to make you appear incompetent. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): go over unexpected alterations being made by others. look for obscure solutions and implement what you feel will protect you, your family and your current lifestyle. don’t be afraid to take action even if you are forced to do so alone. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you will get the push you need to make self-improvements. added discipline and greater opportunity are heading in your direction. keep emotions steady and refrain from getting into conversations with anyone who appears unstable. love is highlighted. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): make an honest assessment regarding who you are and what you have to offer. look back at past experiences and correct the mistakes you’ve made before you move forward. get the credentials you need to reach your goals. 


Birthday Baby: you are determined, unstoppable and proactive. you are smart and imaginative. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 

The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 
address 

city      state Zip 

MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Top-10 throwdown 
No. 8 Irish to face No. 4 Blue Devils in home ACC matchup for second straight year 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports writer 
while “1k” has already been secured, no. 8 notre dame still has a chance to make history tonight at 7:30 
p.m. when it welcomes no. 4 duke to purcell pavilion. 
The blue devils (17-2, 4-2 acc) mounted a come­back late in the second half sunday against st. John’s, 77-68, to earn coach mike krzyzewski his 1,000th win as a head coach. so in­stead of a chance to keep krzyzewski in triple digits for a few more days, the irish (19-2, 7-1 acc) will have to settle for the opportunity to do what no other team has done before — beat a coach with 1,000 wins. 
“obviously [1,000 wins] is an unbelievable milestone,” irish coach mike brey said after his team survived an overtime thriller with north carolina state, 81-78, on sunday. “i don’t know if any­body else is going to be able to get that.” 
if anyone at notre dame knows about the blue devils, it’s brey. a former assistant under krzyzewski at duke from 1987-1995, brey became the first of krzyzewski’s for­mer assistants to ever beat him as an opposing head coach. The irish pulled off their biggest win of last sea­son by shocking the then-no. 7 blue devils, 79-77, on Jan. 4 2014, at purcell pavilion. brey said he has good memo­ries of his time in durham, north carolina. 
“i had great years with him, and i owe a lot of what i’m doing now to his men­torship,” brey said. “i’m just honored to have played a very small part in that.” 
The victory last season came in notre dame’s first acc game ever and snapped duke’s streak of six con­secutive wins in conference openers. The programs went separate directions after that though. 
notre dame limped to a 6-12 record in acc play and finished 15-17 overall, brey’s first losing season since tak­ing over as head coach in 
see m bball PAGE 14 


CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 

Irish junior forward Zach Auguste slams down a dunk during Notre Dame’s 83-63 win over Florida State on Dec. 13 at Purcell Pavilion. Auguste led all scorers in the game with 26 points. 
WAKING THE ECHOES | niele ivey 
Ivey ‘blessed’ to mentor new guards at alma mater 
By MARY GREEN 
sports editor 
ask niele ivey about anything 
— her time as point guard under irish coach muffet mcgraw, her current role as irish women’s basketball recruiting coordina­tor and assistant coach or her 12-year-old son, Jaden — and one word will keep coming up. 
“blessed.” 
it’s difficult to become an all-american and groom play­ers like former irish guard and current wnba all-star skylar diggins without talent, hard work and a keen understanding of the game. 
“she was always one of the hardest workers in the gym,” mcgraw said of ivey’s career with the irish. “she was always the person that could be com­pletely intense on the court, and the minute she stepped in the locker room, be kind of the life of the party and the one that made everyone laugh and kept everybody loose.” 
however, ivey dishes out credit for her success just like she used to dish out assists for notre dame. 

in her eight-year run as an as­sistant coach, ivey has worked specifically with the point guards, overseeing the develop­ment of players such as diggins and current sophomore lindsay 

HOCKEY 
nd left on outside in hockey east 

Alex Carson 
sports writer 

when conference realign­ment came to the college hockey world a few years ago, notre dame had a decision to make. The conference the irish had been a member of for the better part of 20 years, the ccha, was folding at the end of the 2013 season due to the impending departures of michigan, michigan state and ohio state to the newly-established big Ten hockey conference. 
The ccha was, in many ways, a great league for the irish. They had natural, cross-sport rivals in the wolverines and spartans and developed strong on-ice duels with teams like western michigan and miami (ohio). but unfor­tunately, that had to come to an end. 
on oct. 5, 2011, notre dame officially joined hockey east. it was touted as a great move for the irish program — i surely heard the phrase “the nation’s premier hockey conference” thrown around enough by the athletics de­partment — and one that would put the team’s influ­ence at a national level. but despite athletic director Jack swarbrick’s reassurances that notre dame fit well in the conference, it was clear from the start that the irish were going to be outsiders in this new league. 
it all starts with geography and goes from there. notre dame is the only school in the conference not located in new england. every time the irish play a road conference game, a somewhat lengthy plane ride awaits them. when the irish joined hockey east, boston college was the only school against which they really had any sort of competitive sports history, and in the 18 months since, they’ve yet to establish 
see carson PAGE 13 
allen, a freshman all-american last season. 
“For me, i’m kind of a proud mom, sitting back, seeing the success, seeing the work ethic, seeing what skylar’s done after she’s graduated, what [former 
see ivey PAGE 13 




